Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2011 Annual Report Connected Possibilities Connected anytime, anywhere Today’s broadband challenges are in effect nothing less than opportunities to create a better world by connecting enterprises, people and devices around our planet. Building a connected world Huawei is committed to connecting the world. To connect families and friends. To connect all people separated by distance and time. We believe the right technologies at the right time can bring everyone closer together, create new business opportunities, improve operating efficiency, and spur development. Above all else, connectivity lets us share experiences to enrich and improve the lives of everyone. Connection creates limitless opportunities and possibilities As the world becomes more connected, individuals seize and conceive endless opportunities to understand more deeply, learn more broadly, and explore more completely. At the same time businesses grow more intelligent and engage more openly on wider bases. This shrinking world is enabling knowledge and business platforms to expand, to create new values, and to harvest new rewards. Huawei imagines a future that is bountiful and exciting, where connections between people and businesses will be seamless, helping everyone to communicate and to collaborate from all over the world. Joining hands to create the future We join hands with our customers and partners in working towards a connected world. We will continue to be dedicated to serving our customers. We look forward to sharing, listening, collaborating, and facing both new opportunities and new challenges together. Huawei Nanjing R&D Center / 2 Contents 01 Letter from the CEO 03 Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO 05 Business Highlights in 2011 06 Five-Year Financial Highlights 07 Letter from the Chairwoman 09 Vision, Mission, and Core Values 10 Management Discussion and Analysis 27 Market Trends 31 Independent Auditor’s Report 32 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 61 Company Information 67 Risk Factors 69 Corporate Governance Report 85 Corporate Social Responsibility 95 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates 01 / Letter from the CEO Letter from the CEO Clarifying the rotating CEO system under the leadership of the Board of Directors We live in a fast changing world. Amazing changes have The rotational period for each emperor lasted several taken place over the past two decades. In the past, decades. Some companies in traditional industries China was quite a poor country; yet today we see a lot rotated their CEOs every seven or eight years, and of automobiles, high-speed rail lines, and splendid cities these CEOs experienced some prosperous times in their along with high prices. The changes in the electronics industries. Today, tides rise and surge; companies are industry are even more remarkable, as evidenced by the springing up all over the place while others are quickly telecom industry's evolution from the voice era into the being swept away. Huawei hasn't found a way to adapt broadband and ultra-broadband era. These tremendous well to a rapidly changing society. Time will tell if the changes have made many people happy while a few rotating CEO system is the right move or not. others have been left distressed. We don't know what tomorrow will be like. I have said that information pipes Under conventional shareholder capitalism, the Board will have a diameter as wide as the Pacific Ocean. What of Directors (BOD) represents the strength of capital would it look like? It's hard for us to imagine, just as it is and aims to continuously and effectively increase the for children in kindergarten. Some telecom equipment value of capital. In consideration of the rights and vendors who once possessed remarkable technological responsibilities derived from capital as well as the longstrengths and took the lead globally have disappeared in term stability of the capital structure, BODs are inclined a market that has such a huge demand for information to be conservative when making decisions as part of technologies. Does Huawei have some sort of magical corporate governance. The CEO accountability system powers protecting it from collapse? Do you think we are under the leadership of the BOD is universally applicable. unique and will rise while many others decline? CEOs are a group of moving professional executives who have profound knowledge, a global view, and an A rotating system for leaders is nothing new. In times open mind while staying abreast of the latest changes when social changes were not so dramatic, emperors to technologies and business. It might be practical for could reign for several decades and create periods an enterprise that has resources and privileges to select of peace and prosperity. Such prosperous periods one CEO from among the exceptional individuals to run existed in the Tang, Song, Ming, and Qing dynasties. the company for a long time. Letter from the CEO / 02 Huawei is a technology-centric company that possesses shift their mission or responsibilities. On the contrary, nothing except knowledge and customer recognition. they participate in collective decision making and get Due to technological dynamics and market fluctuations, even better prepared for their next terms as rotating Huawei has adopted a rotating CEO system in which and acting CEOs. a small group of executives take turns to fulfill CEO duties. Compared to one single CEO who is expected to After their rotation is over, the non-acting rotating handle multiple affairs each day, have in-depth insights, CEOs are still part of the company nucleus. By adopting and set the right direction, a group of rotating and this system, we avoid a situation similar to what the acting CEOs should be more effective. Solidarity may be Chinese saying Every emperor has a cabinet composed more of a challenge though. Huawei's BOD has made of his own favorites describes. This rotating system it clear that it will not make maximizing the interests ensures that outstanding employees continue to work of shareholders or stakeholders (including employees, for Huawei under the leadership of different rotating governments, and suppliers) its goal. Rather, it holds and acting CEOs. Some outstanding employees will on to the core corporate values that are centered on not be inappropriately deployed because managerial customer interests and encourage employee dedication. deployments are based on collective decision making On this foundation, Huawei builds possibilities for its during the rotational periods and these employees survival. By authorizing a group of bright minds to act will not be replaced randomly. This practice helps our as rotating and acting CEOs, the company allows them company maintain sustainable development. Subject to to make decisions within certain boundaries while they the demands of capital and held in check by the BOD, the face a constantly changing world. This is our rotating company will not develop blindly, and this might be the CEO system. right way for us to succeed. Even if we fail, we will not regret our choice because we have blazed a new trail. Traditionally, one person was authorized to act as a company CEO, and the fate of the company rested We must not be too critical of our rotating CEO system. with this single person. Such a practice echoes the Leniency will help them succeed. Chinese saying, Success or failure rests with Xiao He*. History has proven time and again that this practice poses greater risks. To meet shareholder expectations * Xiao He was a Chinese statesman who lived during the early and to achieve quarterly and annual operating results, Han Dynasty. In the beginning of the Han Dynasty, Xiao traditionally, CEOs were extremely busy with multiple He recommended that Han Xin become a general. Later, affairs, didn't have any time for further study or to think however, Xiao He helped Empress Lü Zhi to have Han Xin about the future, and were fully occupied each and killed. This phrase has been used ever since as a metaphor every day. How could they succeed in such situations? to describe a situation in which the success or failure of an Huawei's rotating and acting CEOs are comprised of a endeavor is derived from the same person or thing. group of executives. As they seek harmony in diversity, they can help the company adapt quickly to changes in the environment. They make decisions collectively, which avoids corporate rigidity caused by any particular individual being too obstinate and also avoids the uncertainties caused by unexpected risks to company operations. The rotating and acting CEOs take turns leading the company for six months. After the rotational period is over, the non-acting rotating CEOs are still part of the company's decision-making nucleus. They have considerable authority in making business decisions and in deploying managers and experts. The rotating CEO system is an organizational arrangement of positional rights and obligations, not a rotation of the mission and responsibilities of the rotating CEOs in the company. Ren Zhengfei When they are not acting, the rotating CEOs do not Chief Executive Officer 03 / Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO Huawei basically achieved the expected business results. Through the dedicated efforts of all our employees, our sales revenue reached CNY203.9 billion and net profits amounted to CNY11.6 billion in 2011. The downward spiral in the global economy, combined 150 million units, an annual increase of over 30%. We with other factors like political turmoil in some regions and also launched a series of flagship devices that received exchange rate fluctuations, has impacted our company outstanding feedbacks from the market. this past year. In spite of these difficulties, Huawei basically achieved the expected business results. Through the The ICT industry is now in a new stage of development. dedicated efforts of all our employees, our sales revenue User experience characterized by zero wait time, superb reached CNY203.9 billion and net profits amounted quality, and simplicity has become the key factor that drives to CNY11.6 billion in 2011. We increased our business the development of this industry. Cloud computing will be investments and recruited nearly 30,000 additional employees. used more widely and will change many of the business In addition, we adopted risk prevention initiatives to improve models in the CT and IT industries. In the next five years, the quality of our contracts and to resolve transactional issues. the number of mobile broadband subscribers is expected to These initiatives have laid a solid foundation for our continued exceed five billion and network traffic is projected to grow a growth over the next couple of years. hundredfold. Smart devices will become increasingly popular and will be an integral part of people's daily lives. Our carrier network business has been growing steadily. We maintained a leading position in wireless LTE networks While capitalizing on these unprecedented opportunities, and experienced rapid growth in the area of professional we also face numerous challenges. From a macroeconomic services and national broadband. In carrier software and perspective, the global economy remains stagnant. Factors core networks, Huawei provides end-to-end solutions and such as inflation and exchange rate fluctuations have services for more than 310 carrier customers worldwide. increased our operating costs and exposed us to greater In the enterprise business area, Huawei has become a operational risks. Weak global demand, the burst of the mainstream supplier of information and communication asset bubble, and financial deleveraging are likely to occur technologies (ICT) solutions for enterprises in China. The simultaneously, which has increased the degree of uncertainty establishment of the IT Product Line and the acquisition of about the future of the global economy. Our capabilities Symantec's shares in Huawei Symantec have strengthened in selecting and executing strategies are being tested as our leading position in providing cloud computing data we face new scenarios and difficulties. To clearly define center solutions and improved our capabilities in providing the decision-making structure, streamline processes and ICT solutions for enterprise customers. Sales revenue from organizations, and improve operational efficiency, we have our consumer business was CNY44.6 billion, an increase adopted a management mechanism that is geared towards of 44% year-on-year. Device shipments reached nearly operating multiple business groups (BGs) rather than the Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO / 04 single carrier network business. We need to further explore We will accelerate our globalization drive and establish this management mechanism, improve our organizational a globalized corporate management structure. To help capabilities, constantly energize our operations, and develop with this drive, we need to develop and promote a large Huawei into a truly glocalized company. team of managers who have a sense of mission, can think strategically, have a global view, are competent at business Looking forward, we will focus on effective growth and operations, and can confidently take on bold initiatives. We continuously innovate to improve our capabilities of creating will further optimize our compensation incentive mechanism value for customers in the ICT field. We will accelerate our to share the results of our business success with our pace in developing managers and optimizing our incentive dedicated employees and motivate them to achieve even systems to strengthen organizational capabilities and boost better performance. organizational vitality. We strive to build a harmonious business ecosystem to help our company thrive globally. We will build a solid foundation for our company to succeed as we expand our business into new areas around the We will deepen our insights into market trends, leverage world. In terms of investments and corporate culture, we the opportunities brought by industry transformations, will effectively deploy talent around the world; we will share confidently increase investments, and seize strategic our expertise, experiences, and resources globally; and we opportunities. Keeping effective growth in mind, we will will establish extensive partnerships. At Huawei, improving strengthen our strategic focus and lay a foundation for our the business ecosystem is a top priority. We will improve All our businesses must stay on course and remain in sync with major trends, increase forward-looking strategic investments, continue to augment technological advantages, and deepen our insights into customer needs in order to support industry developments. company's long-term growth and success. All our businesses our relations with governments, the media, and industry must stay on course and remain in sync with major trends, partners in countries across the globe as we deepen our increase forward-looking strategic investments, continue commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen who to augment technological advantages, and deepen our contributes to all the communities in which we operate. In insights into customer needs in order to support industry addition, we will develop and implement a reliable end-todevelopments. Many of our initiatives are aimed at end global cyber security assurance system. improving the quality of our operations and promoting effective growth. To maintain our momentum, we must The rapidly changing business ecosystem and the constantly better align our business objectives and closed-loop evolving business models mean Huawei is presented performance management with the strategic demands of with both opportunities and challenges. We would like the company. We should strengthen risk management, to express our sincere gratitude to all our customers and consolidate standardized operations, and remain calm in the partners for their continuing trust and support. Our thanks face of all the uncertainties in the global economy. also goes to the 140,000 hardworking employees who strive to create more value for our customers every day. We are constantly optimizing our corporate governance Looking forward, we will remain customer-centric and structure and clearly defining the delegation and committed to dedication. We will continue to work with governance mechanisms for each BG. These action points our customers and partners to enrich people's lives through will ensure that BGs do not deviate from the company's communication. overall strategy or operational guidelines as they move forward. We are improving our appraisal and incentive mechanisms to better motivate each BG to expand properly and ensure effective growth for the company. The architecture of multiple BGs requires us to establish effective self-motivation and self-discipline mechanisms that feature a closed-loop management approach. These management mechanisms will cover all segments from strategy to execution and from budgeting to accounting, and will encompass all rewards and disciplinary measures tied to objectives responsibilities, authority, and benefits Ken Hu will all be well aligned. Rotating and Acting CEO 05 / Business Highlights in 2011 Business Highlights in 2011 Launching leading solutions to accommodate Driving innovation massive amounts of data Huawei integrated several departments and functions In response to rapid developments in mobile broadband to establish the 2012 Laboratories, the innovation, services, high-definition video services, and other related research, and platform development arm of the technologies, Huawei unveiled the GigaSite solution company. This newly integrated organization will and ubiquitous ultra-broadband network architecture be the company's foundation for developing future (U2Net). These solutions help telecom carriers to technologies and enhancing R&D capabilities. prepare for the age of mass information and capitalize on new opportunities. Transforming cloud computing technologies into Providing leading professional services commercial applications We launched the HUAWEI SmartCare service solution, Huawei built cloud-based IT solutions and joined with over an industry-leading offering that enables telecom 300 partners to accelerate the commercial application of carriers to precisely manage user experiences on an cloud computing technologies across various industries. aggregated Per Service Per User basis. We provide By the end of 2011, we had helped customers around the managed services for 115 networks in 60 countries to world build 20 cloud computing data centers. help customers achieve operational excellence. Delivering a superior smartphone user experience Bringing together high-quality resources from In 2011, Huawei launched a series of sleek smartphones around the world in an effort to deliver the ultimate user experience. Huawei built Centers of Expertise (COEs) around the Huawei shipped approximately 20 million smartphones world to integrate competent resources from all locales throughout the course of the year. in order to serve customers more effectively. Enhancing capabilities in ICT solutions Huawei acquired Symantec's shares in Huawei Symantec (a Huawei and Symantec joint venture) at US$530 million. The acquisition will enhance the company's ability to deliver end-to-end ICT solutions. Five-Year Financial Highlights / 06 Five-Year Financial Highlights CNY Million 2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 (USD Million)* 2007 Revenue 32,396 203,929 182,548 146,607 123,080 92,155 Operating proﬁt 2,952 18,582 30,676 22,241 17,076 9,270 Operating margin 9.1% 9.1% 16.8% 15.2% 13.9% 10.1% Net proﬁt 1,850 11,647 24,716 19,001 7,891 12,641 Cash ﬂow from 2,832 17,826 31,555 24,188 4,561 5,197 operating activities Cash and short term 38,214 24,133 19,023 9,904 62,342 55,458 investments Working capital 9,004 56,681 60,899 43,286 25,921 28,228 Total assets 30,705 193,283 178,984 148,968 119,286 89,562 Total borrowings 3,229 20,327 12,959 16,115 17,148 5,700 Owner's equity 10,521 66,228 69,400 52,741 37,886 36,639 Liability Ratio 65.7% 65.7% 61.2% 64.6% 68.2% 59.1% * Translated into US dollars using the closing rate as at December 31, 2011 of US$1.00 = CNY6.2949 CNY Million CAGR: 22% CNY Million CAGR: 19% CNY Million CAGR: 36% 250,000 35,000 35,000 31,555 30,676 203,929 30,000 30,000 200,000 182,548 25,000 25,000 24,188 22,241 150,000 146,607 20,000 18,582 20,000 17,826 123,080 17,076 15,000 15,000 100,000 92,155 10,000 9,270 10,000 50,000 5,197 5,000 5,000 4,561 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year 07 / Letter from the Chairwoman Letter from the Chairwoman Huawei will fulfill user expectations for the ultimate experience by leveraging its strengths in information and communications technologies that feature ultrabroadband, zero wait time, and ubiquitous access. We will enhance the interconnectivity between individuals, enterprises, organizations, and society as we create bigger and better opportunities that inspire infinite possibilities in people's work and life. The external environment remained tough throughout global cyber security challenges caused by ubiquitous 2011. Thanks to the unwavering diligence of the Board access and cloud computing, we have established of Directors (BOD) and all employees, we explored new a reliable future-oriented cyber security assurance business opportunities and made strategic investments system, which covers policies, organizations, processes, while creating more business value for our customers. management, technology, and standards. We are Because of these efforts, we basically fulfilled all our working closely with governments, customers, and business objectives and achieved steady growth. industry partners from different countries in addressing cyber security challenges. Today, we are gearing up to welcome a more prosperous information era. To keep up with the sweeping trend The new BOD started to convene in 2011. We further of ICT convergence and to better serve our customers, optimized the corporate governance architecture and Huawei will fulfill user expectations for the ultimate improved the operational mechanism that drives experience by leveraging its strengths in ICT that collaboration across the BOD, its executive committee, feature ultra-broadband, zero wait time, and ubiquitous and its professional committees. We implemented the access. We will enhance the interconnectivity between rotating CEO system and agreed on a set of resolutions on individuals, enterprises, institutions, and society as the company's strategic directions and major investment we create bigger and better opportunities that inspire decisions. Centered on the restructuring of our carrier infinite possibilities in people's work and life. network, enterprise, and consumer businesses, we formulated and released the operational regulations on As a leading global ICT solution provider, we are the newly-established business groups, designed the highcommitted to providing reliable and secure networks level organizational structure for each BG, and appointed for our customers. For Huawei, the stable and safe the Executive Management Team (EMT) members for each operation of customers' networks always outweighs our BG. This business restructuring enables Huawei to better own commercial interests. This is our commitment to understand customer needs and market opportunities customers as well as our social responsibility. To address as we extend development well into the future. We also Letter from the Chairwoman / 08 By focusing on initiatives related to bridging the digital divide, conserving energy and protecting the environment, managing suppliers' CSR, caring for employees, and contributing to society, we strive to fulfill our CSR strategy, proactively give back to society, and create a harmonious business ecosystem. strengthened the support, service, and monitoring roles of your consideration and support. Special thanks also go the company's functional departments. to our corporate management and our over 140,000 diligent employees worldwide. Looking forward, we We adhere to a corporate strategy of establishing a will continue to advocate customers as our focus more favorable social image and exemplifying good and dedicated employees as our foundation and do corporate citizenship everywhere we operate and everything we can to provide customers with quality incorporate corporate social responsibility (CSR) into our solutions and services. Let's spare no effort to create a business operations. By focusing on initiatives related connected world full of opportunities. to bridging the digital divide, conserving energy and protecting the environment, managing suppliers' CSR, caring for employees, and contributing to society, we strive to fulfill our CSR strategy, proactively give back to society, and create a harmonious business ecosystem. As a member of the United Nations' Broadband Commission for Digital Development, we continued to help bridge the broadband divide and facilitated economic development, energy conservation, and efficiency improvement across all the regions in which we operate. Huawei has always treated dedicated employees as its foundation and has attached great importance to the growth, health, and well-being of its employees. In closing, we would like to thank all our customers Sun Yafang along with our partners and the entire industry for Chairwoman of the Board 09 / Vision, Mission and Core Values Vision, Mission and Core Values Vision To enrich life through communication. Mission To focus on our customers' market challenges and needs by providing excellent ICT solutions and services in order to consistently create maximum value for our customers. Core Values Our core values are deeply rooted in every aspect of our business. They are the internal driving force for the company and are our commitments to the ecosystem. These values enable us to provide effective services to our customers and to achieve our vision of enriching life through communication . Customers First Openness & Initiative Huawei exists to serve customers, whose demands Driven by customer needs, we passionately pursue are the driving forces behind our development. We customer-centric innovations in an open manner. We continuously create long-term value for customers by believe that business success is the ultimate measure being responsive to their needs and requirements. We of the value of any technology, product, solution or measure our work against how much value we bring to process improvement. customers, because we can only succeed through our customers' success. Dedication Integrity We win customers' respect and trust primarily through Integrity is our most valuable asset. It drives us to dedication. This includes every effort we make to create value behave honestly and keep our promises, ultimately for customers and to improve our capabilities. We value winning our customers' trust and respect. employees' contributions and reward them accordingly. Continuous Improvement Teamwork Continuous improvement is required for us to become We can only succeed through teamwork. By working better partners for our customers, improve our company closely in both good times and bad, we lay the foundation and grow as individuals. This process requires that we for successful cross-cultural collaboration, streamlined actively listen and learn in order to improve. inter-departmental cooperation and efficient processes. Management Discussion and Analysis / 10 Management Discussion and Analysis Strategy To adapt to the revolutionary changes that are taking place in the information industry, Huawei is making strategic adjustments to better serve its customers. Huawei has extended the reach of its innovative offerings from the telecom carrier network field to the enterprise and consumer fields. To this end, we have coordinated the development of the cloud-pipe-device business and put considerable resources towards providing large capacity and intelligent information networks, a variety of smart devices, as well as new-generation business platforms and applications to offer users an efficient, environmentally friendly, and innovative information-based experience. Huawei will remain focused on customer needs as we continue to innovate, openly cooperate with partners, and deepen our commitment to providing telecom carriers, enterprises, and consumers with integrated solutions, products, and services. We will also continue to enhance the user experience, create maximum value for our customers, enrich life through communication, and improve work efficiency. Enriching life through communication Coordinated development of cloud-pipe-device : large capacity and intelligent information networks, a variety of smart devices, as well as new-generation business platforms and applications Carrier Network Enterprise Business Consumer Business Single Cloud platforms Smart devices Large traffic capacity ICT convergence Cloud applications with no blockages Enterprise/Industry informatization Variety Intelligent networks Partnerships Ecosystem Cloud computing Professional services Continuous customer-centric innovation and win-win cooperation Carrier Network Business their communication, work, and production systems while Huawei provides telecom carriers with unified platforms, reducing their operating costs. consistent experiences, and flexible Single solutions. These solutions support the transmission and exchange of data Consumer Business traffic over carrier networks, help carriers simplify networks, Huawei will continue to focus on consumers and fully utilize our achieve smooth evolutions, and implement end-to-end carrier, distributor, and e-commerce channels to build Huawei integrations while enabling rapid deployments, streamlining into one of the most influential global brands for devices. operations, and reducing network CAPEX and OPEX. We strive to bring consumers a simple and enjoyable user experience through mobile Internet applications. Moreover, Huawei fully aligns its professional service solutions with Huawei customizes and manufactures devices according to the carrier strategies, in a move to better position carriers to specific needs of telecom carriers to help them develop their complete seamless evolutions, improve user experiences, business and achieve success. boost operating efficiency, increase revenue, and ultimately achieve excellent business results. In addition, Huawei will leverage its expertise in networks, cloud computing, and future-oriented converged solutions Enterprise Business for personal and household applications and apply that With its focus on ICT infrastructures, Huawei continuously knowledge to the production of a full range of devices. We drives innovations based on requirements raised by customers will continue our commitment to openness, cooperation, from finance, energy, power, transportation, governments, and innovation as we build solid and cooperative public utilities, and other industries. By providing ICT products relationships with operating system providers, chip suppliers, and solutions that can be easily integrated by our partners, content providers, and other partners to form a complete Huawei helps enterprise customers improve the efficiency of and sound device ecosystem. 11 / Management Discussion and Analysis Business Review 2011 Sales Revenue CNY Million Huawei's well-balanced presence around the world 2011 2010 YOY (%) helped the company achieve healthy growth in the carrier network, enterprise, and consumer businesses. Annual China 65,565 62,143 5.5% sales revenue amounted to CNY203,929 million, an Overseas 138,364 120,405 14.9% 11.7% increase over the previous year. Total 203,929 182,548 11.7% Sales revenue from the Chinese market was CNY65,565 million, an increase of 5.5% year-on-year. Despite slower growth due to reduced investments by major CNY Million telecom carriers, Huawei was able to further consolidate 2011 2010 YOY (%) its position in the marketplace. Carrier Network 150,145 145,800 3.0% Sales revenue from overseas markets amounted to Enterprise Business 9,164 5,834 57.1% CNY138,364 million, up 14.9% from the previous year. Huawei continued to achieve rapid growth in Europe, Consumer Business 44,620 30,914 44.3% America, and the Commonwealth of Independent Total 203,929 182,548 11.7% States (CIS). Professional services in Europe grew more than 60%, and the consumer area of the US market exceeded 100% growth for the second year in a row. We maintained momentum in the Asia-Pacific region thanks to growth in Hong Kong, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and other APAC markets. Carrier network and consumer businesses showed strong growth in Latin America. There were also steady increases in the Middle East and North Africa, and the market for broadband products in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and other countries witnessed burgeoning growth. Management Discussion and Analysis / 12 Carrier Network Business Wireless Networks Over the past year, Huawei maintained its leading In 2011, Huawei's Wireless Networks business achieved position in the carrier network field with sales revenue a sales revenue of CNY45,911 million. of CNY150,145 million, an increase of 3.0% year-onyear. Adjusted for the effects of exchange rates, sales The popularity of smartphones and totally revamped revenue increased by 5.2% year-on-year. applications are creating a strong momentum for mobile data services and transforming peoples' lifestyles with In this ICT era, networks are the foundation, operation regard to mobile communications. Over the past decade, and maintenance (O&M) provides the support, and mobile subscribers have soared from 880 million to 5.8 business transformations bring opportunities. By billion while devices have evolved from gray screens to leveraging Gigabit networks, fast-speed experience, and multi-touch HD screens, not to mention the evolving O&M synergy, we help carriers seize opportunities and applications from mainly voice services and messaging surmount challenges by providing them with end-tointo huge amounts of video data and applications. During end solutions from mobile broadband (MBB), to fixed these developments, we also witnessed the exponential broadband (FBB), carrier software, and integrated O&M growth of mobile network traffic from the kilobyte age of capabilities. GSM to the megabyte era (1000K) of UMTS and onto the gigabyte age (1000M) based on LTE, LTE-Advanced, and Coupled with the predominant trend of ICT convergence, other leading wireless access technologies. the telecom industry will transcend its own boundaries as it produces new business models and expands To accommodate developments in the industry, Huawei its development through continued innovation in released the GigaSite solution based on advancements technologies and applications. We will do everything to in the SingleRAN solution in 2011 and combined the encourage a virtuous circle in the industry chain, lead GigaSite solution with our SingleEPC solution to better steady and sustainable development in the industry, and meet the ever-increasing capacity demands of carrier remain committed to being the best strategic partner networks during the MBB era. This GigaSite solution for all customers while consolidating our position as an incorporates a series of key telecommunications industry leader. technologies and supports multi-band, multi-mode, multi-sector, and multiple transmit/multiple receive to improve amplifier efficiency, enhance network capacity, and leverage spectrum and site resources. Moreover, Carrier Software Fixed Huawei delivered the data monetization solution, & Core Networks which sets a new direction for MBB developments. Networks This innovative solution provides carriers with varied Global Services business models for their data-based operations while increasing their service revenues. Huawei also released the industry's first multi-standard Self-Organizing Network (SON) solution SingleSON. This solution delivers automated management control capabilities that can Wireless Networks 31% handle multi-standard and multi-layered networks while enhancing the effectiveness of O&M, ensuring a superior end-user experience, and supporting smooth evolutions that pave the way for future-oriented networks. CNY Million As of the end of 2011, Huawei's wireless networks products and solutions had been deployed by more than Wireless Networks 45,911 500 carriers worldwide. Over the past years, Huawei Fixed Networks 49,761 has shipped over two million base transceiver stations, serving more than 1.5 billion mobile subscribers. We Global Services 34,705 have deployed more than 150 SingleRAN commercial Carrier Software & Core Networks 19,768 networks worldwide, all of which are LTE-capable. Of 13 / Management Discussion and Analysis the 49 LTE commercial networks that are deployed Fixed Networks globally, 23 use the SingleRAN LTE solution. In 2011, Huawei was awarded six top LTE awards from around Sales revenue in our Fixed Networks Unit was CNY49,761 the globe, which affirmed the industry's recognition million in 2011. of Huawei's continued investment and significant contributions in this field. Huawei has also deployed 31 Rapid developments in cloud computing and over-the-top EPC commercial networks across the world. According (OTT) video services are driving application developers to to GSA reports, Huawei had deployed 50% of the migrate to the cloud as per capita bandwidth consumption HSPA+ commercial networks and 57% of the 42Mbps is on an upward swing. Ubiquitous broadband networks Dual Carrier HSPA+ networks globally as of October 28, keep massive numbers of individuals, families, and 2011. enterprises connected. In this manner, broadband has become a foundation for social development. We have successfully applied world-leading information and communication technologies to energy systems, In 2011, Huawei unveiled the ubiquitous ultra-broadband which can efficiently convert and utilize energy. By network (U2Net) architecture that supports OTT and offering excellent site energy and equipment room cloud applications. Following Huawei's Triple Play energy solutions for global customers in the ICT field, (voice, video, and data) services, the U2Net architecture we are helping telecom carriers and global enterprise is another groundbreaking innovation that moves customers save energy and reduce emissions. telecom network technology forward. In the FTTx access network field, the U2Net architecture leverages In 2011, global sales for Huawei's power supply services innovative optical access technologies and copperand solutions skyrocketed. These solutions serve many based network acceleration technologies to help ensure of the world's leading carriers, and Huawei is quickly ultra-broadband access and wide coverage while becoming a recognized specialist in energy efficiency delivering affordable fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) access management. and simplifying network deployment and maintenance. In the ODN field, Huawei launched the industry's first In rural areas, Huawei has provided innovative hybrid intelligent ODN (iODN) solution. This solution resolved energy solutions, which fully utilize clean wind and solar the difficulties in managing optical infrastructure energy to power communications sites, reducing carbon networks, realized the precise and effective management emissions by 60%. To date, Huawei has deployed over of optical fiber resources, and significantly improved the 20,000 hybrid energy-powered sites around the world. O&M efficiency for optical infrastructure networks. In We have introduced the concept of modularization in the the mobile bearer network field, the U2Net architecture power supply design. In urban areas, Huawei provides allows any base transceiver station to provide one high-efficiency power supply modules (efficiency=96.8%; gigabit per second or faster access through any media, density=41W/inch3), which can be used for a series such as copper wires, optical fibers, and microwave. of products in the 5 to 20,000 ampere range. These This architecture supports smooth evolutions from GSM/ power supply modules satisfy customer requirements for UMTS bearer networks to LTE networks. In the field large-capacity power supplies in centralized equipment of broadband metropolitan area networks, the U2Net rooms, energy-efficient power supplies for indoor sites, architecture combines the strengths of IP and optical and power supplies for a wide range of outdoor site networks to increase the bandwidth of metropolitan scenarios. To date, Huawei has deployed over 800,000 of area networks by as much as a hundredfold. Also, the these power supply modules around the world. Huawei U2Net architecture brings together the advantages of IP has launched the all-in-one outdoor site solution, Mininetworks and content delivery networks (CDNs) to ease shelter, to help customers overcome difficulties with site the pressure from huge volumes of video-rich traffic. In acquisition, high energy consumption, high costs of site the backbone network field, the U2Net architecture is construction and maintenance, limited space for housing able to deliver a zero-wait service experience because it large amounts of equipment, and other deployment supports end-to-end 100G ultra-broadband backbone complexities. Over 60,000 Mini-shelter units have been networks that are built on the OTN-based WDM system deployed worldwide, making Huawei a global leader in and core cluster routers with the largest capacity in the green site construction. industry. Putting it all together, the U2Net architecture / 14 15 / Management Discussion and Analysis can collectively manage access networks, metropolitan Global Services area networks, and backbone networks to provide fast service provisioning, precise fault location, and improved In the services field, Huawei continuously helps customers O&M efficiency. The U2Net architecture provides carriers achieve business success by listening attentively to with the ubiquitous ultra broadband networks that are customers, thoroughly understanding their business easy to operate and manage. operational processes, stepping up investment and development initiatives for professional service solutions, In 2011, Huawei continued to maintain its leadership and improving end-to-end delivery capabilities. In 2011, position in the fixed-line network field, consolidated revenue from Global Services amounted to CNY34,705 its superiority in the optical access and transport million. network markets, and rapidly strengthened its position in the carrier IP and microwave network markets. The fast-moving information society challenges and In the FTTx access network field, Huawei launched reshapes the traditional approaches for network planning, a giga digital subscriber line (DSL) prototype and network construction, and O&M. Traditional network a 40G passive optical network (PON) prototype. construction and O&M systems, which simply focus on Huawei was the first company to provide site-specific KPIs of network equipment, are being transformed into vectoring solutions around the globe. In the ODN systems which focus on services, applications, and user field, Huawei innovated continuously and effectively experiences, and which support integration as well as the resolved the difficulties in deployments and O&M of operations of end-to-end networks and services. Through optical networks. Huawei has deployed more than 60 close strategic collaboration with customers in completing iODN commercial networks around the world. In the seamless evolutions, improving user experiences, achieving carrier IP network field, Huawei has entered into deals operational excellence, and increasing revenue, Huawei with and provided services for over 20 mainstream provides efficient, innovative service solutions and European carriers, occupying a large proportion of new business models to assist customers in optimizing the market share in the global carrier network market. their end-to-end operations and ensuring sustainable Huawei unveiled the world's first 200G high-speed line business success. Notably in O&M and user experience card for routers, which was awarded the Broadband solution development, we have been more innovative Innovation of the Year Award by InfoVision in 2011. and strengthened cooperation with industry standards Huawei also released a distributed router operating organizations such as TM Forum and achieves service system and a cluster router with a capacity of 25 Tbit/ innovations. Our cooperation efforts are evidenced by s to satisfy emerging demands in the era of video our Managed Services Unified Platform (MSUP) being and cloud computing. These offerings are the most certified and recognized by TM Forum. Our SmartCare advanced core router technologies in the IP field. service solution that delivers the ability of service quality In the field of optical transport networks (OTNs), management on an aggregated Per Service Per User (PSPU) Huawei deployed 100G OTN solutions for large-scale basis helps carriers manage and improve user experiences. commercial use and secured 15 commercial contracts In 2011, Huawei was awarded the Global Growth and for the same solution. Furthering its momentum, Innovation in Telecom Managed Services of the Year Huawei deployed more than 300 metropolitan OTNs in Award and the Excellence in Customer Perception of over 200 cities around the globe. Huawei dominates Service Quality Award from Frost & Sullivan. the global microwave network market and continues to set the pace in IP microwave networks. Huawei is Following thorough research on the relationships also leveraging its core competencies in convergence between user experiences, service quality, and network and visibility in O&M to bolster transformations and quality, we provide the HUAWEI SmartCare service innovations in All-Service Operations in the All-IP era. solution. Based on an aggregated Per Service Per User As of the end of 2011, Huawei had been awarded experience improvement capabilities, this solution aims eight national broadband project contracts globally, to help carriers focus on innovation to build a customerfurther attesting to its strong capabilities in end-to-end centric management practice, ensure excellent user solutions. These projects will provide users with richer experiences and operating efficiency, and increase ultra-broadband services than ever before. business value. Management Discussion and Analysis / 16 Thanks to its rich hands-on experience and continued In the BSS field, Huawei expanded its presence in the innovative efforts in managed services, Huawei has European market. Our CBS solution was well-received by superior capabilities to provide end-to-end managed Vodafone Group and is now being used by its Spanish services solutions that help our customers boost operating sub-network. Moreover, our NGBSS solution is being efficiency, improve user experiences, and increase used by e-Plus, KPNI's largest sub-network in Germany. In operating revenue. Through a range of initiatives, Huawei the consumer field, Huawei maintained solid momentum can provide managed services for improving networks, with regards to growth. In the cloud computing field, we services, user experiences, and furthering ICT convergence. saw burgeoning growth, as evidenced by our successful These initiatives include consolidating global network participation in China Mobile's projects for bases in the operations centers (GNOCs), introducing innovations to north and south of China. We launched high-density ensure visible O&M based on process KPIs, and developing and modular data center energy solutions, which apply field maintenance service systems based on intelligent to equipment rooms in both container data centers and scheduling. modular data centers. These data center energy solutions allow small, medium, and large-sized enterprises to In 2011, Huawei improved its global delivery capabilities deploy and expand data centers on demand. Compared by developing specialized and globalized delivery teams. to traditional data center energy solutions, our data Huawei delivered wireless products to 390,000 sites center energy solutions conserve energy by more than and network products to 690,000 sites, and migrated 30%, reduce the space for housing equipment by 30wireless networks at 100,000 sites. In terms of managed 60%, and shorten the deployment time by 50%. In services, Huawei maintained and operated 115 customer addition, we gained customers' acknowledgement for our networks, an increase of 53% over the previous year, or next-generation, mediumto high-end storage products. a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of more than Our storage systems have served a large number of 70% over a six year period. As a result, Huawei gained world-leading carriers to back up data in their OSS and differentiated advantages in anywhere, any scenario, core billing systems, including billing applications, which any technology, and end-to-end ICT solution delivery . are chosen by KPN; cloud-based storage systems, which are chosen by Vodafone and MegaFon; and data backCarrier Software & Core Networks up solutions, which are chosen by Telefonica, Vodafone, Telecom Italia, Indonesian NTS, and Brazilian VIVO/TELESP. Sales revenue in Huawei's carrier software and core networks business was CNY19,768 million in 2011. The Converged communications experienced rapid growth company focused on converged communications, such in Europe, Latin America, and other regions. Amidst all as fixed mobile convergence (FMC), operation support these developments, Huawei consolidated its leading systems/business support systems (OSS/BSS), telecom positions and gained wider recognition from the business solutions, and telecom IT solutions, as we entire industry. In 2011, Informa honored Huawei and furthered our dedication to serving telecom carriers. MegaFon, a leading carrier in Russia, with the Award Huawei collaborates extensively with its customers for Most Innovative Service Launch Enabled by Traffic by addressing the different types of difficulties they Management for our cooperative efforts in MBB VGS face, such as fluxes in user behavior, changes in the deployments. environment, and challenges facing Internet service providers. Huawei takes this collaborative approach to help carriers transform their business models, IT & CT network resources, and operations. Based on these integrated communications capabilities, our carrier customers can maintain their prominent position in the value chain. 17 / Management Discussion and Analysis Enterprise Business In 2011, Huawei's enterprise business experienced which adopts open standards, promotes multi-network rapid growth, with its sales revenue reaching synergy, and supports package service offerings. CNY9,164 million, a year-on-year increase of 57.1%. Sales increased 60.8% year-on-year when adjusted In the UC&C field, Huawei is expanding its business by for currency exchange rate effects. This growth was combining cloud applications (application platforms) attributable mainly to expanded offerings in Huawei's with cloud devices to provide customers with UC&C overseas markets. Revenue generated from the products and solutions that feature mobility, integrated company's China Region increased steadily, and business video capabilities, and collaboration with clouds. In for channel partners developed rapidly. 2011, Huawei released Telepresence 2.0, eSpace Virtual Teller Machine (VTM), eSpace Cloud Contact Center (CC), The models that enterprises informatize are experiencing eSpace intelligent video monitoring systems, and other tremendous changes following the rise in cloud innovative solutions. Today, these solutions serve various computing and mobile informatization. The boundaries industries and enterprise customers worldwide. between enterprise networks and personal information applications are becoming indistinguishable. In 2011, In the cloud computing and data center field, Huawei the adoption of cloud computing into new IT systems servers, storage devices/solutions, and other products has become a mainstream trend while cloud computing are selling extremely well across the globe. Huawei data center solutions have started to evolve from small successfully deployed the world's largest desktop cloud applications to scaled deployments. internally before it offered its cloud computing solutions on the market. Today, Huawei is partnering with 85 Economic globalization has raised the bar for organizations in 33 countries and has commercially communications and collaboration within and between launched medical clouds, education clouds, and other enterprises. The application of video communications at cloud-based solutions. By the end of 2011, Huawei had work, mobile offices, and enterprise social networking helped customers around the world set up 210 data requires integrated transmissions of voice, video, centers, including 20 cloud computing data centers. and data to achieve the One World, One Office objective. Such requirements have promoted the rapid In vertical industries, Huawei provides integrated ICT development of the unified communications and solutions to finance, transportation, power, energy, collaboration (UC&C) field. ISPs, governments, public utilities, and other industries. Huawei has made considerable progress in these In 2011, Huawei set up the Enterprise BG. To leverage sectors. With the support of the four core capabilities the historic opportunities offered by the growth in (Single mini-platforms, wireless frequency directing, cloud computing and the convergence in the ICT rapid customization, and diversified devices), three of industry, the Enterprise BG provides comprehensive our most prominent enterprise wireless platforms (eWBB, and highly efficient ICT solutions and services for eWSE, and eWEN) have been widely applied in civil finance, transportation, power, energy, enterprises, aviation, railways, e-government, and other fields. ISPs, governments, public utilities, and other industries across the world. These solutions and services include Huawei's Enterprise BG is openly cooperating with enterprise networks, UC&C, cloud computing, data partners in the enterprise business field, especially in cloud centers, and applications in vertical industries. computing, with a focus on ICT solutions and continuous customer-centric innovations. This BG is dedicated to Huawei released a full-range of products and solutions seeking mutual development and helping its partners designed for enterprise networks in 2011. These achieve success. The Enterprise BG plans its products in offerings performed well in the global market. In a centralized manner. Products designed under these response to this trend, Huawei launched eSight, the business models are easy to integrate, easy to sell, easy to industry's first unified enterprise O&M system that install and maintain, and allow for secondary development. simultaneously manages data communications products, In the area of cooperation with channel partners, we are IT equipment, and wireless equipment. Huawei also building up a channel ecosystem to promote the rapid introduced the enterprise network One Net solution, development of our enterprise business. Management Discussion and Analysis / 18 Consumer Business With the rapid development of mobile Internet, the Huawei mobile phones have comprehensively appealed smart device industry is quickly becoming a part of to the high-end, mid-range, and low-end markets. Our life in a whole new way. The consumer market is in a smartphones are emerging as a new force, while the period of transformation. The mobile broadband trend data card business remains a global leader. Huawei’s has created great opportunities for personal handinnovative products are now market leaders. In 2011, the held electronic devices. Huawei has established the Huawei C8650, Sonic+, and T8300 smartphones were well Consumer BG based on its in-depth insight into industry received. Global sales for the Sonic model alone totaled trends and is dedicated to providing excellent products, over 10 million units. Our midand high-end smartphones experiences, and services for global consumers. Vision, Honor, and Spark, were highly popular, along with MediaPad, the world's first 7-inch tablet powered In 2011, Huawei's consumer business increased rapidly, by Android 3.2. High-end LTE smartphones obtained earning a global sales revenue of CNY44,620 million, an recognition in markets such as Japan, the US, and Europe, increase of 44.3% year-on-year. Adjusted for the effects successfully establishing a high-end brand image. MBB of exchange rates, sales revenue achieved an increase of and home devices continued to be leaders in the global 46.4% year-on-year. The overall annual shipment totaled marketplace. The first plug and play data card in the world, nearly 150 million units, including 55 million mobile the HiLinkE353, was officially commercialized. Other phones, resulting in an increase of 30% year-on-year. products that were commercialized include the B593 (the Huawei had China's leading market share of CDMA world's first LTE TDD wireless broadband router), the E392 smartphones. Smartphone shipments rapidly increased, (the world's first LTE TDD/UMTS/GSM/CDMA multi-mode with Huawei shipping nearly 20 million smartphones, an data card), and the E369 (the world's smallest PA+ data increase of over 500% year-on-year. In the field of MBB card). Our continuous breakthroughs of being the first and home devices, Huawei continuously consolidated in the world solidified Huawei's leading position in the its global leadership position. In 2011, Huawei shipped global MBB market. over 60 million MBB devices globally, ranking at the top in the global market. Huawei also shipped over Huawei has gradually established device sales channels 30 million home devices, with fixed access and fixed and is constantly expanding into areas such as social wireless terminals consolidating their leading positions networking and e-commerce, as a means to diversify in the global market. In addition, we continuously and complement its carrier channels. The influence that maintained rapid growth in key markets, such as the Huawei's device products and brands have on consumers US, Europe, Japan, and China, and enhanced our brand is rapidly growing due to the development of online and influence. offline diversified sales channels. Huawei continuously strives to achieve its goal of As we look to the future of smart devices, the Internet of becoming the most influential device brand in the People and ubiquity of the Internet of Things will further world. Based on Huawei's overall strategy of cloudintegrate the real world with the virtual world. By 2020, pipe-device , we focus on our consumers, innovate the effective interactions between people, things, people/ and change our products, channels, and marketing things, and the environment are expected to result in in an all-encompassing manner, and comprehensively over 10 billion smart devices and 50 billion connection improve user experience. In the meantime, our requirements. Loaded with integrated sensory components product competitiveness is rapidly strengthened and and functions like GPS, accelerators, compasses, cameras, our core competencies are being built. Our products microphones, and near field communications (NFC), and services are deployed in over 140 countries and smartphones have become an important vehicle to regions worldwide. We are steadily moving toward perceive the virtual world and the real world and also accomplishing our strategic goal of becoming the the most important portal for mobile Internet. This trend world's leading mobile phone brand within the next towards increased connectivity is sure to inspire countless three years. innovative applications and create completely new business opportunities and models, all of which will give Huawei's consumer business even more room for growth. 19 / Management Discussion and Analysis Results of operations CNY Million 2011 2010 YOY(%) Revenue 203,929 182,548 11.7% Gross profit 76,448 80,353 -4.9% Gross margin 37.5% 44.0% -6.5% Total operating expenses and other income 57,866 49,677 16.5% as % of revenue 28.4% 27.2% 1.2% Operating profit 18,582 30,676 -39.4% Operating margin 9.1% 16.8% -7.7% Net finance expense 5,897 2,118 178.4% Income tax expense 810 3,832 -78.9% Net profit 11,647 24,716 -52.9% Sales revenue for 2011 amounted to CNY203,929 In 2011, Huawei embarked on new business ventures million, an increase of 11.7% year-on-year. Net profit as the company increased investment in the enterprise totaled CNY11,647 million, a decrease of 52.9% yearand consumer business segments. In the carrier network on-year. The decline in net profit was largely attributable field, telecom carriers controlled their capital expenditure to an exchange loss of CNY4,876 million in 2011 in response to the volatile macroeconomic conditions, (compared to CNY1,367 million in 2010) due to the which resulted in increased price competition and constant appreciation of the Renminbi. Adjusted for the declining profits. effects of exchange rates, net profit declined by 36.6% year-on-year, which is in line with expectations. Management Discussion and Analysis / 20 Total operating expenses and other income CNY Million 2011 2010 YOY(%) Research and development expenses 23,696 17,653 34.2% as % of revenue 11.6% 9.7% 1.9% Selling, general and administrative expenses 33,770 31,439 7.4% as % of revenue 16.6% 17.2% -0.6% Other operating expenses / (income) 400 585 -31.6% as % of revenue 0.2% 0.3% -0.1% Total operating expenses and other income 57,866 49,677 16.5% as % of revenue 28.4% 27.2% 1.2% In 2011, the company expanded its investment in the increase in the R&D expense ratio and was partially offset by consumer and enterprise business segments. Total expense declines in the SG&A expense ratio and the other operating ratio increased by 1.2 percentage points year-on-year. This expense ratio, which decreased by 0.6 percentage points and increase was mainly attributable to a 1.9 percentage points 0.1 percentage points, respectively. Net finance expense CNY Million 2011 2010 YOY(%) Exchange loss 4,876 1,367 256.7% Other net finance expense 1,021 751 36.0% Total net finance expense 5,897 2,118 178.4% Net finance expense in 2011 amounted to CNY5,897 year-on-year, which amounted to CNY3,509 million. In million, an increase of CNY3,779 million from 2010. This addition, other net finance expense increased by CNY270 was primarily attributable to the increased exchange loss million from 2010. 21 / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial position CNY Million 2011 2010 YOY(%) Non-current assets 33,668 26,976 24.8% Current assets 159,615 152,008 5.0% Among which: Cash and short term investments 62,342 55,458 12.4% Trade receivables 55,359 48,047 15.2% Inventory 25,873 27,568 -6.1% Total Assets 193,283 178,984 8.0% Non-current liabilities 24,121 18,474 30.6% Among which: Long-term borrowings 13,270 10,264 29.3% Current liabilities 102,934 91,110 13.0% Among which: Short-term borrowings 7,057 2,695 161.9% Trade payables 27,039 28,604 -5.5% Owner’s equity 66,228 69,400 -4.6% Total liabilities and equity 193,283 178,984 8.0% Cash and short term investments as of December 31, delivery plans, and increased operational efficiency. These 2011 amounted to CNY62,342 million, an increase of initiatives helped reduce the overall inventory balances and 12.4% year-on-year. The cash to revenue ratio was 30.6% improved the efficiency of inventory turnover. at the end of 2011 compared to 30.4% at the end of 2010, an increase of 0.2 percentage points. Trade payables decreased by 5.5% year-on-year. The days payable outstanding (DPO) of 76 days was 25 days lower Trade receivables increased by 15.2% year-on-year. The than that of 101 days in 2010. company maintained its refined management of trade receivables and improved its collection efficiency as sales Total long-term and short-term borrowings as of revenue grows steadily. The days sales outstanding (DSO) December 31, 2011 amounted to CNY20,327 million, of 98 days in 2011 was a 3-day increase compared to that an increase of 56.9% compared to that of CNY12,959 of 95 days in 2010. million on December 31, 2010. The percentage of longterm borrowings amounted to 65.3% at the end of 2011, Inventory decreased by 6.1% year-on-year. The inventory versus 79.2% at the end of 2010, a decrease of 13.9 turnover days (ITO) of 73 days represented a 24-day percentage points. improvement from 97 days in 2010. The progress was due to improvements in contract quality, integration of project Management Discussion and Analysis / 22 Cash Flow from Operating Activities CNY Million 2011 2010 YOY(%) Net profit 11,647 24,716 -52.9% Depreciation, amortization and non-operating loss / (income) 7,900 3,893 102.9% Cash flow before change in operating assets and liabilities 19,547 28,609 -31.7% Change in operating assets and liabilities -1,721 2,946 -158.4% Cash flow from operating activities 17,826 31,555 -43.5% The net cash flow from operating activities in 2011 operating activities increased by CNY4,007 million amounted to CNY17,826 million, a decrease of 43.5% compared to that of 2010 mainly due to exchange year-on-year. This decrease was mainly attributable to: loss or gain. ■ Lower profitability: net profit decreased by 52.9% ■ Changes in working capital: the total balance of net year-on-year. operating assets and liabilities as of December 31, ■ The impact of depreciation, amortization, and 2011 increased by CNY1,721 million compared to non-operating loss or income: the cash flow from that of December 31, 2010. Financial Risk Management In 2011, Huawei further amended and improved its financial Liquidity Trends risk management policies and processes to enhance the company's ability to withstand financial risks and better CNY Million 2011 2010 YOY (%) strategize to achieve business development goals. Cash flow from 17,826 31,555 -43.5% operating activities Liquidity Risk Cash and short term 62,342 55,458 12.4% investments Huawei has a well functioning cash flow planning, budgeting, and forecasting system to evaluate its shortTotal borrowings 20,327 12,959 56.9% term liquidity needs. The company has implemented a variety of sound financial measures to fulfill its overall liquidity requirements, including centralizing cash Currency risk management, maintaining a reasonable level of funds, and gaining access to adequate and committed credit As the company's reporting currency is CNY, the exchange facilities to enhance its liquidity management. In 2011, rate fluctuation between CNY and other currencies will cash and short term investments increased by 12.4% impact its financial results. year-on-year to CNY62,342 million. An adequate capital reserve and consistent cash flow from operating The company has established a currency exposure activities has enabled Huawei to manage its liquidity management system and mitigated currency risk by adopting and borrowing risks, thus ensuring financial stability for various forex hedging measures. These measures include: ■ Matching the transaction currency between procurement the company. and sales. ■ Balancing the cash inflows and outflows of foreign currencies. ■ Selecting the appropriate financial hedging measures which are in line with the company's risk management strategies. 23 / Management Discussion and Analysis Interest Rate Risk Research and Development Huawei's interest rate risk arises from the company's We have over 62,000 product and solution R&D interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities; employees, which comprise more than 44% of Huawei's consequently, interest rate fluctuations affect its interest total employees worldwide. We have set up 23 research income and interest expense. Through the quantification centers in Germany, Sweden, the UK, France, Italy, and analysis of its interest rate exposures, the company Russia, India, China, and other countries. In addition, uses a combination of fixed-rate and variable-rate bank we have established 34 joint innovation centers with loans to manage its interest rate risks. top carriers to transform leading technologies into competitive advantages and business success for our Credit Risk customers. The company has established and implemented standard As of 2011, Huawei had filed 36,344 patent applications credit management policies, institutions, processes, IT in China, 10,650 under the Patent Cooperation Treaty systems, and credit risk evaluation models. In addition, (PCT), and 10,978 patent applications overseas. We dedicated credit management functions have been have been awarded 23,522 patent licenses, 90% of established across all regions and business units. The which are invention patents. With regard to cloud company uses the credit risk evaluation models to computing technologies, Huawei possesses 685 patents determine customer credit ratings and credit limits, and has in China, 226 in Europe, and 107 in the US. Huawei implemented various risk control points over key processes has played a major role in standards development in along the end-to-end sales cycle. The company's Credit cloud computing and is one of the DMTF's 14 board Management Department regularly evaluates global credit members. In addition, Huawei led the establishment risk exposures, estimates potential losses, and allocates bad of the ARDM work group in the cloud computing/data debt provisions as appropriate. In the event that the credit center sector for the IEFT and has served as the chair for risk for a specific customer or outstanding trade receivable the group. Huawei also extensively participates in cloud becomes inappropriately high, a special handling process is computing standards organizations. initiated to mitigate the risk. Huawei supports mainstream international standards Sales financing and contributes to the formulation of such standards. By the end of 2011, Huawei had joined 130 industry The company has established a global sales financing standards organizations, such as the 3GPP, IETF, ITU, team committed to understanding our customers' OMA, ETSI, IEEE, and 3GPP2. In total, Huawei submitted financing needs and to providing customized financing more than 28,000 proposals to these standards solutions. At the same time, Huawei has set up related organizations and has served as a board member operational policies, processes, systems, and standards for OMA, CCSA, ETSI, ATIS, and numerous other to manage its overall financing business process and to authoritative organizations in which it holds more than control the inherent risks. 180 positions. In 2011, Huawei was awarded six top LTE awards from around the globe which served as the industry's affirmation of our continued investment and significant contributions to the research and development of LTE technology, commercial practices, standard patents, integration of the industry chain, and other areas. Huawei's R&D expenses totaled CNY23,696 million in 2011, and the company has spent accumulatively over CNY100 billion on R&D over the last decade. Management Discussion and Analysis / 24 Cyber Security commissioned local third-party testing institutes to independently examine our products for security risks Against the backdrop of the exponential development and certify them for release. At the invitation of the of information and communications technologies, cyber British Foreign & Commonwealth Office, Huawei security has emerged as a global issue and a global attended the London Conference on Cyberspace in challenge. At Huawei, establishing and implementing November 2011 and participated in active dialogue on an end-to-end global cyber security assurance system cyber security with industry peers. is an integral part of our development strategy. Huawei is always ready to cooperate extensively with Critical Accounting Estimates governments, customers, and industry peers to address cyber security threats and challenges all over the world. The consolidated financial statements on which this management discussion and analysis was based were In 2011, Huawei released the Statement on Establishing a prepared in compliance with International Financial Global Cyber Security Assurance System. This statement, Reporting Standards (IFRSs), see note 1(a) to the which has been approved by Huawei’s CEO, Mr. Ren Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Zhengfei, underscores the strategic importance of cyber for details. security to Huawei. The Global Cyber Security Committee – the highest level cyber security management body at The application of IFRSs requires the company to make Huawei – held four meetings in 2011 to decide on and judgments, estimates and assumptions that directly approve Huawei's overall cyber security strategy. During affect its reported financial position and operation the same year, Mr. John Suffolk was appointed Huawei's results. The accounting estimates and assumptions Global Cyber Security Officer. Mr. Suffolk reports directly discussed in this section are those that the management to the CEO and is tasked with formulating strategies for considers to be the most critical to the company's the cyber security assurance system as well as managing consolidated financial statements. and overseeing the implementation of the system. This cyber security assurance system encompasses all business Revenue Recognition domains and departments at Huawei, including R&D, supply chain, marketing, sales, engineering delivery, and Application of the accounting principles related to the technical services. measurement and recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates. Even for Over the course of 2011, Huawei identified seven the same product, the company often has to interpret strategic priorities in cyber security assurance: open and contract terms to determine the appropriate accounting transparent cooperation, compliance with rules and treatments. When services, installation and training regulations on security and privacy, end-to-end proactive etc., are rendered with product sales, the company prevention, security verification by internationally determines whether the deliverables should be treated recognized bodies, traceability, anti-backdoor & antias separate units of accounting. When there are tampering, and emergency responses. Notably, Huawei multiple transactions with the same customer, significant leveraged quality management methodologies to judgments should be made whether separate contracts enhance cyber security requirements in our process are considered as part of one arrangement according to management system, business decision-making system, the contracts terms and conditions. When the installed and even to our employee business conduct guidelines. equipment is accepted by customer in different periods, the company should determine whether the completed Huawei has always been open and transparent in its project is able to be used by customer, whether collaboration with all parties involved in addressing the receivable is collectible and whether revenue is the global issue of cyber security, and work with these recognized by stages. partners through a variety of platforms, organizations, and channels. Leading global carriers have fully Revenue recognition is also impacted by various factors, acknowledged Huawei’s contributions in minimizing including the credit-worthiness of the customer. security risks to their existing networks as a result of Estimates of these factors are evaluated periodically to close cooperation in responding to security emergencies. assess the adequacy of the estimates. If the estimates In countries such as the US, Italy, and Spain, Huawei were changed, revenue would be impacted. 25 / Management Discussion and Analysis For a construction contract, revenue is recognized using Inventories Write-down the percentage of completion (POC) method, measured by reference to the percentage of contract costs The company's inventory balance was CNY25,873 million incurred to date to the estimated total contract costs for and CNY27,568 million as of December 31, 2011 and the contract. If at any time these estimates indicate the December 31, 2010 respectively. Inventories are carried POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Inventory loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded write downs are measured as the difference between immediately as a cost. the cost of the inventory and net realizable value, and are charged to the provision for inventory. Net realizable Allowance for Doubtful Accounts value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and The company's gross accounts receivable balance the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Factors was CNY58,907 million and CNY52,193 million as that shall be considered at the recognition of net realizable of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 value include: purpose for the inventories held, aging respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts of inventories and percentage of inventory utilization, was CNY3,548 million, or 6.0% of the gross accounts category and condition of the inventories, subsequent receivable balance, as of December 31, 2011, and events that have a material influence to inventories. CNY4,147 million, or 7.9% of the gross accounts Inventory provisions are reviewed periodically to ensure receivable balance, as of December 31, 2010. The accuracy and reasonableness. allowance is based on the company's assessment of the collectability of customer accounts. The company The company's total provision for inventory charged to regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors the income statement was CNY549 million and CNY998 such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of million for fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and the accounts receivable balances, and current economic December 31, 2010 respectively. conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. The company's provision for doubtful accounts was CNY1,481 million and CNY2,929 million for fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 respectively. If a major customer's credit worthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than the historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, the estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to the company could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on the company's profit. Management Discussion and Analysis / 26 Warranty Provision Income Tax The liability for product warranties was CNY1,962 The company is subject to income taxes in China and million as of December 31, 2011, compared with numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is CNY1,556 million as of December 31, 2010. The required in determining the consolidated provision for Company's products are generally covered by a warranty income taxes. for 12 months. The company accrues for warranty costs as part of cost of sales based on associated material During the ordinary course of business, there are many costs, technical support labor costs, and associated transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax overheads. determination is uncertain. The company recognizes tax liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates The provision for product warranties issued for fiscal of whether additional taxes will eventually be due. years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities 2010 was CNY2,449 million and CNY1,962 million are adequate for all open audit years based on its respectively. assessment of many factors including past experiences and interpretations of tax law. Deferred tax assets are If the company experiences an increase in warranty recognized to the extent that the assets can be utilized claims compared with the historical experience, or if based on the assessment of future taxable income. the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, the company's gross margin could be Since the tax assessment relies on estimates and adversely affected. assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events, where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions for the period in which such decision is made. 27 / Market Trends Market Trends User Experience Leads to a New and Flourishing Quality that counts: Ensuring the availability of Information Era video and other media presentation forms powered by augmented reality technologies Over the past twenty years, the information age has The development of the Internet has witnessed the developed at a rapid pace, and various technological transformation of web content from text, images and transformations and applications have grown in both sounds into high-definition videos and other nextscope and variety. Today, the exponential growth of generation forms of media presentation, such as 3D digitized information, combined with the skyrocketing technologies, ultra high-definition technologies, and popularity of mobile networks, has led to a surge in the augmented reality technologies. These vivid media sheer volume of digital content. At the same time, as presentation forms will become more widely available and the digital divide has become smaller, people around will increasingly be used across various applications such as the world are now able to freely share information and e-commerce, social networking, and broadcast media. communicate with each other thanks to fewer barriers. Freedom that counts: Access the ubiquitous Internet This new digital era is marked by an important new easily and instantaneously factor: user experience. Users have the ultimate say in It took twenty years to bring the number of fixed steering the development of the industry so it is vitally Internet users to two billion, but only five years to bring important that they are equipped with the means with the number of mobile Internet users to one billion, which to quickly and easily access mobile networks. This two times faster than the fixed Internet. Thanks to the in turn drives current and future industry development, rapid development of mobile Internet, people can be which will result in a flourishing information age. online anywhere and anytime. The popularization of smartphones are setting users free from fixed lines and User experience drives industry development giving them more freedom for Internet access. In today's world, millions of services and applications are Similarly, à la carte services will continue to be provided close at hand, enabling a constant, 24-hour online digital on-demand, television programming in particular, life. While the underlying network infrastructure is at because people will have the ability to watch programs the heart of this ubiquitous connectivity, user experience at any time much more freely than they do today. Key to is limited to a few points of interface. Because user this provision of on-demand services is a freely available experience and the demand for continuous service drive mobile Internet, which will enable users to easily access technological development, it is of utmost importance services and applications around the clock and from any to provide users with optimal experiences. The following location. factors best illustrate what comprises an optimal user experience. Simplicity that counts: Optimal ergonomic function The history of man-machine interaction, during which Speed that counts: Zero wait time redefines network the input method has transformed from keyboard speed and mouse to touchpad to motion sensing input, In the telecom industry, increases in speed are often demonstrates a return from complicated input devices measured exponentially. Due to rapidly advancing to intuitive and natural ones that tap into natural technologies that have taken us from dial-up to fiber human function and form. In the future, even more to the home (FTTH), it has taken a mere 20 years to natural ergonomics will further the user experience increase bandwidth by more than 1,000 times. Despite by leveraging people's natural abilities like speaking, this extraordinary pace of development, people are still making gestures, and conveying emotions. clamoring for additional bandwidth. Sharing that counts: Community-like experiences Despite the current fixation on bandwidth, in the elevate the user experience future, network speed will no longer be measured by Google introduced mathematical logic to its search the bandwidth a service needs, but determined instead services, providing improved access to massive amounts by the wait time experienced by users waiting for of information. Google does this merely at the tool networks to respond. Zero wait time for users is the layer, while Facebook transcends the tool layer and deals new paradigm that will shape Internet development. with the social nature of humans. By emphasizing the / 28 29 / Market Trends Ten Key Issues That Influence the Development of the Telecom Industry social aspects of the Internet, Facebook addresses users' User experience and progress in network technologies emotional needs to some extent as well as satisfying are inextricably linked: User experience drives network their desire for sharing. The Facebook phenomenon development, and progress in network technologies indicates that a community-like experience will be a guides improvements in user experience. As an basic feature for both consumer-oriented services and improved user experience coincides with cutting-edge enterprise-targeted applications. mobile networks, a new round of opportunities avails itself to the telecom industry. The pursuit of a better user experience is a major driver in the further development of the telecom industry. The telecom industry as a whole needs to closely adhere A better user experience equates to higher speed, to the following ten key issues to take full advantage of better quality, more freedom, greater simplicity, and this round of opportunities. easier sharing in some ways, these factors reflect our fundamental human nature. 1. The mobile network enters the Gigabit Era it's time to build ubiquitous broadband networks The biggest bottleneck for current mobile networks is insufficient bandwidth capacity. Compared with fixed networks, mobile networks still have a long way to go in terms of user experience, and it is only through building mobile broadband networks with traffic at a gigabit level that user experience can improve. In this scenario, innovations in architecture and continuous cost reductions for networks will support the sustainable development of mobile broadband services provided by carriers. 2. Implement intelligent optical network management and embrace the advent of all optical access In the telecom industry, copper wires have been managed manually for over 100 years. Since copper wires are highly inefficient in operational terms, managing them is the most expensive part of network maintenance. As the industry begins to evolve toward optical access, enhanced cable deployment, maintenance and troubleshooting, fault correction, and intelligent optical network management are all core measures that can be used to promote optical network development. 3. The telecom industry needs to further its transformation toward All-IP networks and enter an all packet phase Over the past two decades, IP technologies have developed at unprecedented speeds. Telecom networks today are a hybrid of time division multiplexing (TDM), asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), and Internet Protocol (IP). In the future, Single networks based on All-IP will be the inevitable trend. The telecom industry needs to further its transformation toward All-IP and complete service migration, network convergence, network interconnectivity, and changes in operation and maintenance to lead the industry into an all packet phase. Market Trends / 30 4. IT infrastructure based on cloud computing is the needs. In addition, the provision of on-demand services prerequisite for building networks based on data will improve network efficiency and utilization while centralization and data centers reducing network costs. Data has replaced voice as the main type of network traffic, enabling data centers to replace voice switching. 8. Integrate digital media content, and build digital This development adds new meaning to flattening, distribution channels across various platforms which is an ongoing topic in network development. New As digital content flourishes and networks serve as technologies, such as virtual and distributed storage as channels on which digital media is distributed, traditional well as parallel computing based on cloud computing, content delivery channels are disrupted. Integrating digital make it possible to build exabyte computing and storage media content and achieving a cross-platform (mobile capacities. In addition, IT infrastructure based on cloud phone/PC/TV/Pad) on-demand user experience will be computing is the prerequisite for building networks based a future trend for media content providers, presenting on data centralization and data centers. them with a significant strategic opportunity. 5. Operations support systems/business support 9. Integrate the IT supply chain and harness the impact systems (OSS/BSS) must be modernized to adapt to of cloud computing on the existing IT business model an open environment in the industry chain and the to transform ICT on-demand operational model Cloud computing has completely transformed the User requirements have transformed the telecom business model of the IT industry, shifting the focus industry priority from cost efficiency to value creation, from selling products to selling services. The ongoing which in turn changed the telecom industry from a popularity of broadband networks is a prerequisite for completely closed system to a completely open system. cloud computing services. Based on innate advantages The modernization and renovation of carriers' IT such as localized services, network assurance, security, systems means that there is a need to focus on creating and trustworthiness, carriers take great efforts value for users and building an open industry chain to integrate IT applications and communication to support the end-to-end process of product design capabilities. This enables end-to-end ICT solutions, and development, product market entry, and value which can provide ICT services to enterprises, especially distribution. These systems need to support packages smalland medium-sized enterprises. In addition, this designed by users as well as package and bandwidth integration allows small-sized enterprises to experience selection to provide users with the maximum amount of the ICT capabilities of large enterprises. freedom and power to control these systems. 10. Provide trustworthy information services to 6. Provide insights into customer needs and build ensure cyber security and privacy protection adaptable enterprises based on big data analysis Open IP networks and cloud computing models have In the open Internet age, user requirements are elevated the importance of information security and privacy individualized and dynamic. Under the All-IP architecture, protection. In light of this, carriers need to build end-to-end automation and statistical multiplexing have been security architectures, including the basic architecture, data achieved in networks, and both network quality and protection, application protection, and legal compliance, to Quality of Service (QoS) assurances are dynamic. By provide security solutions that fully protect user information analyzing big data , carriers can provide insights and privacy for both users and enterprises. into networks and user requirements, build adaptable enterprises, offer better user experiences and services, Although the concept of an information society has and explore more business opportunities. been bandied about for years, actual information-based development has just begun. The ongoing pursuit of better 7. Build resilient and intelligent networks, and user experiences will continuously drive the transformation support on-demand bandwidth operations of information services. The development of telecom Network and bandwidth are the bases for carriers' networks and technologies will also enter a new business operations, with networks becoming more development phase. The combination of optimizing user intelligent and resilient. This trend bodes well for onexperiences and network technologies will undoubtedly demand user experiences, which enable users to freely drive information services into stronger synergies and select bandwidth and services based on their own promote new applications and technologies. 31 / Independent Auditor’s Report Independent auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements summary to the Board of Directors of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. We are the auditor of Huawei Investment & Holding Management’s responsibility for the consolidated Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”). We have financial statements summary audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group prepared in accordance with International Management is responsible for the preparation of a Financial Reporting Standards (the “audited consolidated consolidated financial statements summary on the basis financial statements”) for the financial year ended described in Note 1(a). December 31, 2011. We have issued an unqualified audit report dated March 12, 2012 on the audited Auditor’s responsibility consolidated financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended December 31, 2011. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements summary based on our Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. is not a public procedures, which were conducted in accordance with company and is not required to publish its audited International Standard on Auditing 810, “Engagements consolidated financial statements under the Company to Report on Summary Financial Statements”. Our work Law of the People’s Republic of China. included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the consistency of the amounts and disclosures in the The Group publishes a consolidated financial statements consolidated financial statements summary to the audited summary set out on pages 32 to 60 comprising the consolidated financial statements of the Group. We have not consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2011, performed an audit on the consolidated financial statements the consolidated income statement, the consolidated summary, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. statement of cash flow for the year then ended, and an accounting policy summary and other explanatory Opinion notes, which is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group. The audited In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements summary consolidated financial statements and the consolidated derived from the audited consolidated financial statements financial statements summary do not reflect the effects of the Group for the year ended December 31, 2011 are of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our consistent, in all material respects, with those consolidated report on the audited consolidated financial statements. financial statements, on the basis described in Note 1(a). The consolidated financial statements summary does not contain all the disclosures required by International KPMG Huazhen Financial Reporting Standards in the preparation of the Certified Public Accountants audited consolidated financial statements of the Group, 9th Floor, China Resources Building and that reading the consolidated financial statements 5001 Shennan East Road summary is not a substitute for reading the audited Shenzhen 518001, China consolidated financial statements of the Group. March 28, 2012 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 32 Consolidated Income Statement Note 2011 2010 CNY'million CNY'million Revenue 2 203,929 182,548 Cost of sales 127,481 102,195 Gross profit 76,448 80,353 Research and development expenses 23,696 17,653 Selling, general and administrative expenses 33,770 31,439 Other operating expenses, net 400 585 Operating profit before financing costs 18,582 30,676 Net finance expenses 4 5,897 2,118 Share of losses of associates / jointly controlled entities 228 10 Profit before income tax 12,457 28,548 Income tax 5 810 3,832 Profit for the year 11,647 24,716 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 11,736 24,714 Non-controlling interests (89) 2 Profit for the year 11,647 24,716 33 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Consolidated Balance Sheet Note 2011 2010 CNY'million CNY'million Assets Property, plant and equipment 7 18,631 16,008 Intangible assets and goodwill 8 1,378 719 Trade and other receivables 14 29 116 Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities 683 509 Available-for-sale equity investments 9 454 67 Loans receivable 10 17 18 Deferred tax assets 11 9,095 7,210 Other non-current assets 3,381 2,329 Non-current assets 33,668 26,976 Inventories 13 25,873 27,568 Trade and other receivables 14 70,832 68,734 Financial assets held for trading 12 5,150 13,957 Loans receivable 10 568 248 Cash and cash equivalents 15 57,192 41,501 Current assets 159,615 152,008 Total assets 193,283 178,984 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 66,274 69,381 Non-controlling interests (46) 19 Total equity 66,228 69,400 Liabilities Borrowings 16 13,270 10,264 Defined benefit post-employment obligations 8,392 6,266 Deferred government grants 1,857 1,354 Deferred tax liabilities 11 602 590 Non-current liabilities 24,121 18,474 Borrowings 16 7,057 2,695 Income tax payable 2,323 4,203 Trade and other payables 17 91,592 82,656 Provisions for warranties 19 1,962 1,556 Current liabilities 102,934 91,110 Total liabilities 127,055 109,584 Total equity and liabilities 193,283 178,984 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 34 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow Note 2011 2010 CNY'million CNY'million Cash flows from operating activities Cash receipts from customers 253,847 228,865 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (233,092) (194,205) Other operating cash flows (2,929) (3,105) Net cash from operating activities 17,826 31,555 Net cash generated from / (used in) 3,421 (14,708) investing activities Net cash used in financing activities (4,774) (10,152) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 16,473 6,695 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 15 41,501 35,213 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (782) (407) Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 15 57,192 41,501 35 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Summary 1. Basis of preparation of consolidated financial foreign exchange rates at that date. Exchange statements summary and significant accounting gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. policies of the Group Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are (a) Basis of preparation measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the foreign Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (formerly exchange rates ruling at the transaction dates. Shenzhen Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated Ltd. , the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (the in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value “Group”) have prepared a full set of consolidated are translated using the foreign exchange rates financial statements (“consolidated financial ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. statements”) for the year ended December 31, 2011 in accordance with International ii) Foreign operations Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), which The results of foreign operations, except collective term includes all applicable individual for foreign operations in hyperinflationary IFRSs, International Accounting Standards and economies, are translated into Chinese Yuan at Interpretations issued by the International the exchange rates approximating the foreign Accounting Standards Board. exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Balance sheet items are translated This consolidated financial statements summary into Chinese Yuan at the closing foreign has been prepared and presented based on exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The the audited consolidated financial statements resulting exchange differences are recognised in for the year ended December 31, 2011 by other comprehensive income and accumulated means of disclosing operational and financial separately in equity in the exchange reserve. information of material nature. The intended However, if the operation is a non-wholly-owned users of the consolidated financial statements subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share summary can obtain access to the audited of the translation difference is allocated to the consolidated financial statements for the year non-controlling interest. ended December 31, 2011 upon consent of the Group’s Management through the email address, The results of foreign operations in hyperinflationary information@huawei.com. economies are translated to Chinese Yuan at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. (b) Functional and presentation currency Prior to translating the financial statements of foreign operations in hyperinflationary All financial information in the consolidated financial economies, their financial statements for the statements summary is presented in Chinese Yuan, current year are restated to account for changes which is the Company’s functional currency. All in the general purchasing power of the local financial information presented in Chinese Yuan has currency. The restatement is based on relevant been rounded to the nearest million. price indices at the balance sheet date. (c) Translation of foreign currencies When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control i) Foreign currency transactions is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation Transactions in foreign currency during the reserve related to that foreign operation is year are translated to the respective functional reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or currencies of group entities at the foreign loss on disposal. exchange rates ruling at the transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated When the Group disposes of only part of its in foreign currencies at the reporting date are interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign translated to the functional currency at the operation while retaining control, the relevant Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 36 proportion of the cumulative amount is (e) Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests reattributed to non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only part of its investment in an Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. associate or joint venture that includes a foreign Control exists when the Group has the power to operation while retaining significant influence govern the financial and operating policies of an or joint control, the relevant proportion of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss. In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account. (d) Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the An investment in a subsidiary is consolidated acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which into the consolidated financial statements from is the date on which control is transferred to the the date that control commences until the date Group. Control is the power to govern the financial that control ceases. Intra-group balances and and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain transactions and any unrealised profits arising benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the from intra-group transactions are eliminated in full Group takes into consideration potential voting in preparing the consolidated financial statements. rights that currently are exercisable. Unrealised losses resulting from intra-group transactions are eliminated in the same way as The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition unrealised gains but only to the extent that there date as: is no evidence of impairment. ■ the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus ■ the recognised amount of any non-controlling Non-controlling interests represent the equity in interests in the acquiree; plus a subsidiary not attributable directly or indirectly ■ if the business combination is achieved in stages, to the Company, and in respect of which the the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in Group has not agreed any additional terms with the acquiree; less the holders of those interests which would result ■ the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the in the Group as a whole having a contractual identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. obligation in respect of those interests that meets the definition of a financial liability. For each When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase business combination, the Group can elect to gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. measure any non-controlling interests either at fair value or at their proportionate share of the The consideration transferred does not include subsidiary’s net identifiable assets. amounts related to the settlement of preexisting relationships. Such amounts generally are Non-controlling interests are presented in recognised in profit or loss. the consolidated balance sheet within equity, separately from equity attributable to the equity Transactions costs, such as finder’s fee, legal holders of the Company. Non-controlling interests fees, due diligence fees, and other professional in the results of the Group are presented on the and consulting fees, that the Group incurs in face of the consolidated income statement and connection with a business combination are the consolidated statement of comprehensive expensed as incurred. income as an allocation of the total profit or loss and total comprehensive income for the year Any contingent consideration payable is measured between non-controlling interests and the equity at fair value at the acquisition date. If the holders of the Company. contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted Changes in the Group’s interests in a subsidiary for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes that do not result in a loss of control are accounted in the fair value of the contingent consideration are for as equity transactions, whereby adjustments recognised in profit or loss. are made to the amounts of controlling and non37 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes controlling interests within consolidated equity When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its to reflect the change in relative interests, but no interest in the associate or the jointly controlled adjustments are made to goodwill and no gain or entity, the Group’s interest is reduced to Nil and loss is recognised. recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, it is or constructive obligations or made payments accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest in on behalf of the investee. For this purpose, the that subsidiary, with a resulting gain or loss being Group’s interest is the carrying amount of the recognised in profit or loss. Any interest retained investment under the equity method together in that former subsidiary at the date when control with the Group’s long-term interests that in is lost is recognised at fair value and this amount is substance form part of the Group’s net investment regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of in the associate or the jointly controlled entity. a financial asset or, when appropriate, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate Unrealised profits and losses resulting from or jointly controlled entity (see note 1(f)). transactions between the Group and its associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee, except (f) Associates and jointly controlled entities where unrealised losses provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case An associate is an entity in which the Group has they are recognised immediately in profit or loss. significant influence, but not control or joint control, over its management, including participation in the When the Group ceases to have significant financial and operating policy decisions. influence over an associate or joint control over a jointly controlled entity, it is accounted for as a A jointly controlled entity is an entity which disposal of the entire interest in that investee, with operates under a contractual arrangement between a resulting gain or loss being recognised in profit or the Group and other parties, where the contractual loss. Any interest retained in that former investee at arrangement establishes that the Group and one or the date when significant influence or joint control more of the other parties share joint control over is lost is recognised at fair value and this amount is the economic activity of the entity. regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of a financial asset or, when appropriate, the cost on An investment in an associate or a jointly controlled initial recognition of an investment in an associate. entity is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements under the equity method. Under the (g) Investment properties equity method, the investment is initially recorded at cost, adjusted for any excess of the Group’s Investment properties are buildings which are share of the acquisition-date fair values of the owned to earn rental income and /or for capital investee’s identifiable net assets over the cost of appreciation. the investment (if any). Thereafter, the investment is adjusted for the post acquisition change in the Investment properties are stated in the Group’s share of the investee’s net assets and any consolidated balance sheet at cost less impairment loss relating to the investment (see depreciation and impairment losses (see note note 1(k)). Any acquisition-date excess over cost, 1(k)). Rental income from investment properties is the Group’s share of the post-acquisition, post-tax accounted for as described in note 1(u)(iv). results of the investees and any impairment losses for the year are recognised in the consolidated Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of income statement, whereas the Group’s share of buildings, less their estimated residual value (5%), the post-acquisition post-tax items of the investees’ using the straight line method over their estimated other comprehensive income is recognised in the useful life of 20 years. consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 38 (h) Other property, plant and equipment Estimated Estimated rate of useful lives residual value i) Recognition and measurement Items of property, plant and equipment are Freehold land is not depreciated measured in the consolidated balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) Buildings 20 years 5% and impairment losses (see note 1(k)). Cost Machinery, electronic includes expenditures that are directly attributable equipment and other 3 ~ 10 years 5% to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of equipment self-constructed items of property, plant and Motor vehicles 5 years 5% equipment includes the cost of materials, direct labour, the initial estimate, where relevant, of Decoration and leasehold 2 ~ 5 years Nil improvements the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located, and an appropriate proportion of production Both the useful life of an item of property, plant overheads and borrowing costs (see note 1(v)). and equipment and its residual value, if any, are reviewed annually. Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, the cost (i) Intangible assets is allocated on a reasonable basis between the parts and each part is depreciated separately. i) Goodwill Goodwill that arises on the acquisition of Gains or losses arising from the retirement subsidiaries is presented with intangible assets. or disposal of an item of property, plant and For the measurement of goodwill at initial equipment, are determined as the difference recognition, see note 1(d). between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item and are recognised in Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less profit or loss on the date of retirement or disposal. accumulated impairment losses (see note 1(k)). In respect of equity-accounted investees, the carrying Construction in progress is transferred to other amount of goodwill is included in the carrying property, plant and equipment when it is ready amount of the investment, and any impairment for its intended use. No depreciation is provided loss is allocated to the carrying amount of the against construction in progress. equity-accounted investee as a whole. ii) Subsequent costs ii) Research and development The cost of replacing part of an item of property, Research and development costs comprise all plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying costs that are directly attributable to research amount of the item if it is probable that the future and development activities or that can be economic benefits embodied within the part will allocated on a reasonable basis to such activities. flow to the Group and its cost can be measured Because of the nature of the Group’s research reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part and development activities, the criteria for the is de-recognised. The costs of the day-to-day recognition of such costs as assets are generally servicing of property, plant and equipment are not met until late in the development stage of recognised in profit or loss as incurred. the project when the remaining development costs are immaterial. Hence both research costs iii) Depreciation and development costs are generally recognised Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost as expenses in profit or loss in the period in of items of property, plant and equipment, less which they are incurred. their estimated residual value, if any, using the straight line method over their estimated useful iii) Other intangible assets lives as follows: Other intangible assets that are acquired by the 39 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Group are stated in the consolidated balance transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation rewards of ownership are classified as being held (where the estimated useful life is finite) and under finance leases. Leases which do not transfer impairment losses (see note 1(k)). substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as operating leases. iv) Amortisation Amortisation of intangible assets with finite ii) Operating lease charges useful lives is charged to profit or loss on a Where the Group has the use of assets held straight-line basis over the asssets’ estimated under operating leases, payments made under useful lives. The following intangible assets with the leases are charged to profit or loss in equal finite useful lives are amosrtised from the date instalments over the accounting periods covered they are available for use and their estimated by the lease term, except where an alternative useful lives are as follows: basis is more representative of the pattern of benefits to be derived from the leased asset. Software 3 years Lease incentives received are recognised in profit or loss as an integral part of the aggregate Patents 3 to 22 years net lease payments made. Contingent rentals are charged to profit or loss in the accounting Trademark 10 years period in which they are incurred. Both the period and method of amortisation are (k) Impairment of assets reviewed annually. i) Impairment of investments in debt and equity Intangible assets are not amortised while their securities and others receivables useful lives are assessed to be indefinite. Any Investments in debt and equity securities and conclusion that the useful life of an intangible other current and non-current receivables that are asset is indefinite is reviewed annually to stated at cost or amortised cost or are classified as determine whether events and circumstances available-for-sale securities are reviewed at each continue to support the indefinite useful life balance sheet date to determine whether there assessment for that asset. If they do not, the is objective evidence of impairment. Objective change in the useful life assessment from evidence of impairment includes observable data indefinite to finite is accounted for prospectively that comes to the attention of the Group about from the date of change and in accordance with one or more of the following loss events: the policy for amortisation of intangible assets ■ significant financial difficulty of the debtor; with finite lives as set out above. The group has ■ a breach of contract, such as a default or no intangible assets with indefinite useful life. delinquency in interest or principal payments; ■ it becoming probable that the debtor will enter (j) Leased assets bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; ■ significant changes in the technological, An arrangement, comprising a transaction or a market, economic or legal environment that series of transactions, is or contains a lease if the have an adverse effect on the debtor; and Group determines that the arrangement conveys ■ a significant or prolonged decline in the fair a right to use a specific asset or assets for an value of an investment in an equity instrument agreed period of time in return for a payment below its cost. or a series of payments. Such a determination is made based on an evaluation of the substance of If any such evidence exists, any impairment loss the arrangement and is regardless of whether the is determined and recognised as follows: arrangement takes the legal form of a lease. ■ For investments in associates and jointly controlled entities recognised using the equity i) Classification of assets leased to the Group method (see note 1(f)), the impairment loss Assets that are held by the Group under leases which is measured by comparing the recoverable Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 40 amount of the investment as a whole with its recorded using an allowance account. When the carrying amount in accordance with note 1(k) Group is satisfied that recovery is remote, the (ii). The impairment loss is reversed if there amount considered irrecoverable is written off has been a favourable change in the estimates against trade debtors and bills receivable directly used to determine the recoverable amount in and any amounts held in the allowance account accordance with note 1(k)(ii). relating to that debt are reversed. Subsequent ■ For unquoted equity securities carried at cost, the recoveries of amounts previously charged to impairment loss is measured as the difference the allowance account are reversed against between the carrying amount of the financial the allowance account. Other changes in the asset and present value of estimated future cash allowance account and subsequent recoveries flows, discounted at the current market rate of amounts previously written off directly are of return for a similar financial asset where the recognised in profit or loss. effect of discounting is material. Impairment losses for equity securities are not reversed. ii) Impairment of other assets ■ For trade and other current receivables and Internal and external sources of information other financial assets carried at amortised are reviewed at each balance sheet date to cost, the impairment loss is measured as the identify indications that the following assets may difference between the asset’s carrying amount be impaired or an impairment loss previously and the present value of estimated future recognised no longer exists or may have decreased: cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s ■ property, plant and equipment; original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective ■ long term leasehold prepayments; interest rate computed at initial recognition of ■ other long term deferred assets; and these assets), where the effect of discounting ■ intangible assets and goodwill is material. This assessment is made collectively where financial assets carried at amortised If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable cost share similar risk characteristics, such as amount is estimated. In addition, for intangible similar past due status, and have not been assets that are not yet available for use, goodwill individually assessed as impaired. Future cash and intangible assets that have indefinite useful flows for financial assets which are assessed for lives, the recoverable amount is estimated impairment collectively are based on historical annually whether or not there is any indication of loss experience for assets with credit risk impairment. characteristics similar to the collective group. ■ Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of an asset is the If in a subsequent period the amount of an greater of its fair value less costs to sell and impairment loss decreases and the decrease value in use. In assessing value in use, the can be linked objectively to an event occurring estimated future cash flows are discounted to after the impairment loss was recognised, the their present value using a pre-tax discount impairment loss is reversed through profit or rate that reflects current market assessments loss. A reversal of an impairment loss shall not of time value of money and the risks specific to result in the asset’s carrying amount exceeding the asset. Where an asset does not generate that which would have been determined had cash inflows largely independent of those no impairment loss been recognised in prior from other assets, the recoverable amount is years. determined for the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows independently (i.e. Impairment losses are written off against a cash-generating unit).Goodwill acquired in the corresponding assets directly, except for a business combination is allocated to groups impairment losses recognised in respect of trade of cash generating units that are expected to debtors and bills receivable included within benefit from the synergies of the combination. trade and other receivables, whose recovery is considered doubtful but not remote. In this case, ■ Recognition of impairment loss the impairment losses for doubtful debts are An impairment loss is recognised in profit 41 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes or loss if the carrying amount of an asset, or The amount of any write-down of inventories to the cash-generating unit to which it belongs, net realisable value and all losses of inventories are exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment recognised as an expense in the period the writelosses recognised in respect of cash-generating down or loss occurs. The amount of any reversal units are allocated first to reduce the carrying of any write-down of inventories is recognised as a amount of any goodwill allocated to the cashreduction in the amount of inventories recognised as generating unit (or group of units) and then, to an expense in the period in which the reversal occurs. reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group of units) on a pro rata basis, (m) Construction contracts except that the carrying value of an asset will not be reduced below its individual fair value less Construction contracts are contracts specifically costs to sell, or value in use, if determinable. negotiated with a customer for the construction of an asset or a group of assets, where the ■ Reversals of impairment losses customer is able to specify the major structural An impairment loss is reversed if there has elements of the design. The accounting policy for been a favourable change in the estimates contract revenue is set out in note 1(u)(ii). When used to determine the recoverable amount. the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract costs are recognised An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is as an expense by reference to the stage of not reversed. For other assets, a reversal of an completion of the contract at the balance sheet impairment loss is limited to the asset’s carrying date. When it is probable that total contract costs amount that would have been determined will exceed total contract revenue, the expected had no impairment loss been recognised in loss is recognised as an expense immediately. prior years. Reversals of impairment losses are When the outcome of a construction contract credited to profit or loss in the year in which cannot be estimated reliably, contract costs are the reversals are recognised. recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. (l) Inventories Construction contracts in progress at the balance Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net sheet date are recorded in the consolidated realisable value. balance sheet at the net amount of costs incurred plus recognised profit less recognised losses Cost is calculated using the standard cost method and progress billings, and are presented in the with periodical adjustments of cost variance to consolidated balance sheet as the “Gross amount arrive at the actual cost, which approximates due from customers for contract work” (as an actual cost on a first-in first-out basis. The cost asset) or the “Gross amount due to customers of inventories includes expenditure incurred in for contract work” (as a liability), as applicable. acquiring the inventories and bringing them to Progress billings not yet paid by the customer are their existing location and condition. In the case included in the consolidated balance sheet under of manufactured inventories and work in progress, “Trade and other receivables”. Amounts received cost includes an appropriate share of overheads before the related work is performed are included based on normal operating capacity. in the consolidated balance sheet, as a liability, as “Trade and other payables”. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated (n) Trade and other receivables costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and thereafter stated at amortised When inventories are sold, the carrying amount of cost less impairment losses for bad and doubtful those inventories is recognised as an expense in the debts (see note 1(k)), except where the receivables period in which the related revenue is recognised. are interest-free loans made to related parties Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 42 without any fixed repayment terms or the effect service in the current and prior periods; that of discounting would be immaterial. In such cases, benefit is discounted to determine the present the receivables are stated at cost less impairment value and the fair value of any plan assets is losses for bad and doubtful debts. deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate (o) Interest-bearing borrowings bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. The Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially calculation is performed by management using at fair value less attributable transaction costs. the projected unit credit method. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any When the benefits of a plan are improved, the difference between the amount initially recognised portion of the increased benefit relating to past and redemption value being recognised in the service by employees is recognised as an expense consolidated income statement over the period in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the of the borrowings, together with any interest and average period until the benefits become vested. fees payable, using the effective interest method. If the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in profit or loss. (p) Trade and other payables In calculating the Group’s obligation in respect Trade and other payables are initially recognised of a plan, any actuarial gain or loss is recognised at fair value and thereafter stated at amortised in profit or loss immediately. cost unless the effect of discounting would be immaterial, in which case they are stated at cost. (s) Provisions and contingent liabilities (q) Cash and cash equivalents i) Provision for product warranties The Group provides warranty on its products for Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at a period typically covers 12 to 24 months. The bank and on hand and call deposits with banks. warranty generally includes parts, labour and Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand service centre support. The Group estimates the and form an integral part of the Group’s cash costs that may be incurred under its warranty management are also included as a component of obligations and records a liability in the amount cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the of such costs at the time revenue is recognised. consolidated cash flow statement. Factors that affect the Group’s warranty liability include the number of installed units, historical (r) Employee benefits and anticipated rates of warranty claims. The Group periodically assesses the adequacy of i) Short term employee benefits and contributions its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts the to defined contribution retirement plans amounts as necessary. Salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and contributions to defined contribution retirement ii) Other provisions and contingent liabilities plans are accrued in the year in which the Provisions are recognised for other liabilities of associated services are rendered by employees. uncertain timing or amount when the Group has Where payment or settlement is deferred and a legal or constructive obligation arising as a result the effect would be material, these amounts are of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of stated at their present values. economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made. ii) Defined benefit plan obligations Where the time value of money is material, The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined provisions are stated at the present value of the benefit plans is calculated separately for each expenditure expected to settle the obligation. plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic 43 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be deductible temporary difference or in periods into estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow can be carried back or forward. The same criteria are of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations, adopted when determining whether existing taxable whose existence will only be confirmed by the temporary differences support the recognition of occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses events are also disclosed as contingent liabilities and credits, that is, those differences are taken into unless the probability of outflow of economic account if they relate to the same taxation authority benefits is remote. and the same taxable entity, and are expected to reverse in a period, or periods, in which the tax loss (t) Income tax or credit can be utilised. Income tax for the year comprises current tax The amount of deferred tax recognised is measured and movements in deferred tax assets and based on the expected manner of realisation or liabilities. Current tax and movements in deferred settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and tax assets and liabilities are recognised in profit liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively or loss except to the extent that they relate to enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax a business combination or items recognised in assets and liabilities are not discounted. other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the relevant amounts of tax are The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is recognised in other comprehensive income or reviewed at each balance sheet date and is reduced directly in equity, respectively. to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow the Current tax is the expected tax payable on the related tax benefit to be utilised. Any such reduction taxable income for the year, using tax rates is reversed to the extent that it becomes probable enacted or substantively enacted at the balance that sufficient taxable profits will be available. sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Current tax balances and deferred tax balances, and movements therein, are presented separately Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from from each other and are not offset. Current tax deductible and taxable temporary differences assets are offset against current tax liabilities, and respectively, being the differences between the deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities, if carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for the Group has the legally enforceable right to set financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. off current tax assets against current tax liabilities Deferred tax assets also arise from unused tax and the following additional conditions are met: losses and unused tax credits. ■ in the case of current tax assets and liabilities, the Group intends either to settle on a net basis, All deferred tax liabilities, and all deferred tax or to realise the asset and settle the liability assets to the extent that it is probable that future simultaneously; or taxable profits will be available against which ■ in the case of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the asset can be utilised, are recognised. Future if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxable profits that may support the recognition taxation authority on either: of deferred tax assets arising from deductible ■ the same taxable entity; or temporary differences include those that will arise ■ different taxable entities, which, in each future from the reversal of existing taxable temporary period in which significant amounts of deferred differences, provided those differences relate tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled to the same taxation authority and the same or recovered, intend to realise the current tax taxable entity, and are expected to reverse either assets and settle the current tax liabilities on a in the same period as the expected reversal of the net basis or realise and settle simultaneously. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 44 (u) Revenue recognition iv) Rental income from operating leases Rental income receivable under operating Revenue is measured at the fair value of the leases is recognised in profit or loss in equal consideration received or receivable. Provided instalments over the periods covered by the it is probable that the economic benefits will lease term, except where an alternative basis is flow to the Group and the revenue and costs, if more representative of the pattern of benefits applicable, can be measured reliably, revenue is to be derived from the use of the leased asset. recognised in profit or loss as follows: Lease incentives granted are recognised in profit or loss as an integral part of the aggregate net i) Sale of goods and services rendered lease payments receivable. Contingent rentals Revenue from sales of goods is recognised are recognised as income in the accounting when the significant risks and rewards of period in which they are earned. ownership of goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue from provision of services (v) Finance income and expenses is recognised at the time when the services are provided. No revenue is recognised if there are Finance income comprises dividend and interest significant uncertainties regarding the recovery income on funds invested (including availableof the consideration due, associated costs or for-sale financial assets), gains on the disposal of the possible return of goods. Revenue excludes available-for-sale financial assets, and changes in the value added tax or other sales taxes and is after fair value of financial assets held for trading. Interest deduction of any trade discounts. income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method. Dividend income from unlisted ii) Contract revenue investments is recognised when the equity holder’s When the outcome of a construction contract right to receive payment is established; dividend can be estimated reliably, revenue from a fixed income from listed investments is recognised when price contract is recognised using the percentage the share price of the investment goes ex-dividend. of completion method, measured by reference to the percentage of contract costs incurred to Finance costs comprise interest expense on date to estimated total contract costs for the borrowings, unwinding of the discount on contract. provisions and impairment losses recognised on financial assets. Borrowing costs that are directly When the outcome of a construction contract attributable to the acquisition, construction or cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is production of a qualifying asset which necessarily recognised only to the extent of contract costs takes a substantial period of time to get ready for incurred that it is probable will be recoverable. its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are iii) Government grants expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Government grants are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet initially when The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of there is reasonable assurance that they will be the cost of a qualifying asset commences when received and that the Group will comply with expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing the conditions attaching to them. Grants that costs are being incurred and activities that are compensate the Group for expenses incurred necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or are recognised as revenue in profit or loss sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs on a systematic basis in the same periods in is suspended or ceases when substantially all the which the expenses are incurred. Grants that activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are its intended use or sale are interrupted or complete. recognised as deferred income and consequently are effectively recognised in profit or loss on a Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on systematic basis over the useful life of the asset. a net basis. 45 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (w) Factoring without recourse Factoring without recourse constitutes transfer In a factoring without recourse, trade receivables of trade receivables. The Group transfers its trade transferred are derecognised from the consolidated receivables to banks or financial institutes; the bank balance sheet. Excess of carrying amount of trade or the financial institute fully bears the collection receivables over cash received from the banks or risk without the right to receive payments from financial institutes arising from factoring without the Group in the event a loss occurs due to the recourse is included in the “Other operating non-collectibility of the receivables transferred. expenses” of the consolidated income statement. The Group’s customers make payments of the receivables transferred directly to the bank or the financial institute. 2. Revenue 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Sales of goods and services 203,732 182,368 Rental income 197 180 203,929 182,548 3. Personnel expenses 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Expenses recognised in respect of defined benefit plan 2,426 2,994 Contributions to defined contribution plans 4,322 2,848 Total post-employment plan cost 6,748 5,842 Salaries, wages and other benefits 32,619 25,512 39,367 31,354 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 46 4. Net finance expenses 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Interest income (376) (514) Dividend income (2) Net realised and unrealised gains on ﬁnancial assets held for trading (391) (121) Net gain on disposal of available-for-sale equity investments (4) Finance income (771) (637) Interest expense 1,398 1,035 Net foreign exchange loss 4,876 1,367 Impairment of available-for-sale securities 1 21 Bank charges 393 332 Finance expenses 6,668 2,755 Net ﬁnance expenses 5,897 2,118 47 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 5. Income tax in the consolidated income statement Taxation in the consolidated income statement represents: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Current tax PRC enterprise income tax current year 1,984 4,142 (over) / under-provision in respect of prior years (522) 117 Overseas tax current year 1,490 1,630 -over-provision in respect of prior years (113) (76) 2,839 5,813 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,029) (1,981) 810 3,832 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 48 6. Segment reporting The Group has two reportable geographical segments, Revenue information in respect of geographical segments which are China and Overseas. The Group divides its business into three operating segments in accordance 2011 2010 with the types of products and services provided: CNY 'million CNY 'million ■ Carrier Network China 65,565 62,143 Develops and manufactures a wide range of wireless Overseas 138,364 120,405 networks, fixed networks, telecom software & core networks, as well as services solutions to telecommunications Total 203,929 182,548 operators. ■ Enterprise Business Revenue information in respect of business segments Develops integratable information and communications technology ( ICT ) products and solutions including 2011 2010 enterprise network infrastructure, cloud-based CNY 'million CNY 'million green data centers, enterprise information security and unified communication & collaboration, and Carrier Network 150,145 145,800 delivers these solutions to vertical industries such as governments, public utilities, enterprises, energy, Enterprise Business 9,164 5,834 power, transportation and finance. Consumer Business 44,620 30,914 ■ Consumer Business Total 203,929 182,548 Develops and manufactures mobile broadband devices, home devices, smartphones, as well as the applications on these devices, and delivers them to consumers and businesses. Both the geographical and business segments are determined based on the Group's organization structure, management requirement and reporting system. Each reportable segment is managed separately because each requires different technology and marketing strategies. The financial information of the different segments is regularly reviewed by the Group's management to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance. 49 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 7. Property, plant and equipment Machinery, electronic Decoration equipment Construction and Land and and other Motor in Investment leasehold Buildings equipment vehicles progress properties improvements Total CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million Cost: At January 1, 2010 5,468 11,103 452 4,618 567 2,460 24,668 Exchange adjustment (8) (113) (21) (4) (13) (159) Additions 50 2,011 92 2,558 213 4,924 Transfer from 1,918 1,206 (4,548) 1,424 construction in progress Disposals (2) (1,491) (49) (28) (1,570) At December 31, 2010 7,426 12,716 474 2,624 567 4,056 27,863 At January 1, 2011 7,426 12,716 474 2,624 567 4,056 27,863 Exchange adjustment (26) (257) (18) (18) (42) (361) Additions 7 2,710 75 2,744 260 5,796 Transfer from 21 (46) 25 construction in progress Disposals (767) (44) (26) (837) At December 31, 2011 7,407 14,423 487 5,304 567 4,273 32,461 Depreciation: At January 1, 2010 1,171 6,882 258 230 1,959 10,500 Exchange adjustment (1) (44) (10) (4) (59) Depreciation charge for 318 1,642 73 30 399 2,462 the year Disposals (985) (40) (23) (1,048) At December 31, 2010 1,488 7,495 281 260 2,331 11,855 At January 1, 2011 1,488 7,495 281 260 2,331 11,855 Exchange adjustment (1) (133) (11) (28) (173) Depreciation charge for 358 1,728 75 29 523 2,713 the year Disposals (511) (39) (15) (565) At December 31, 2011 1,845 8,579 306 289 2,811 13,830 Carrying amounts: At December 31, 2010 5,938 5,221 193 2,624 307 1,725 16,008 At December 31, 2011 5,562 5,844 181 5,304 278 1,462 18,631 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 50 Investment properties The Group is engaged in the manufacturing, sales and 2011 is estimated by the directors to be CNY478,684,000 marketing of telecommunications equipment and the (2010: CNY493,913,000). The fair value is calculated by provision of related services. The Group leased certain management based on the discounted cash flow analysis. buildings to an ex-subsidiary, an ex-associate and other third parties. Such buildings are classified as investment properties. The fair value of investment property is determined by the Group internally by reference to market conditions and The carrying value of investment properties as of 31 discounted cash flow forecasts. The Group's current lease December 2011 is CNY278,153,000 (2010: CNY306,931,000). agreements, which were entered into on an arm's-length The fair value of investment properties as of 31 December basis, were taken into account. 8. Intangible assets and goodwill Goodwill Software Patents Trademark Total CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million CNY'million Cost: At January 1, 2010 706 607 25 1,338 Additions 278 147 425 Disposals (4) (1) (5) At December 31, 2010 980 753 25 1,758 At January 1, 2011 980 753 25 1,758 Additions 215 443 223 52 933 Disposals (14) (14) At December 31, 2011 215 1,409 976 77 2,677 Amortisation and impairment loss: At January 1, 2010 354 403 21 778 Amortisation of the year 236 28 1 265 Disposals (4) (4) At December 31, 2010 586 431 22 1,039 At January 1, 2011 586 431 22 1,039 Amortisation of the year 232 37 2 271 Disposals (11) (11) At December 31, 2011 807 468 24 1,299 Carrying amounts: At December 31, 2010 394 322 3 719 At December 31, 2011 215 602 508 53 1,378 51 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 9. Available-for-sale equity investments 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Available for sale equity securities: unlisted stated at cost 454 67 Cost of individually impaired available-for-sale equity securities unlisted 44 50 As at 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group's availablewhich indicated that the cost of the Group's investment in for-sale equity securities were individually determined to them may not be recovered. Impairment losses on these be impaired on the basis of a material decline and adverse investments were recognized in the consolidated income changes in the market in which these investees operated statement in accordance with the policy set out in note 1(k). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 52 10. Loans receivable The terms and repayment schedules of these loans receivable are summarised as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Within 1 year Loans receivable due from related parties (i) 41 30 Other loans receivable 577 272 618 302 1 to 3 years Loans receivable due from related parties Other loans receivable (ii) 17 17 17 17 Over 3 years Other loans receivable (ii) 1 1 Loans receivable, gross 635 320 Less: Provision (50) (54) Loans receivable, net 585 266 (i) Loans receivable due from related parties have an At 31 December 2011, all the Group’s loans receivable annual interest rate of 3% and mature within one year. are not due except for those were individually impaired (ii) Long-term loans receivable consist of loans made to (see below): customers principally to support their operations. The movement of provison in respect of other loans receivable during the year is as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million At 1 January 54 59 Exchange difference (4) (5) At 31 December 50 54 At 31 December 2011, the Group's other loan receivable of loans receivable are two-year past due and management CNY50,044,000 (2010: CNY53,640,000) were individually assessed that the receivable is likely irrecovable. The Group determined to be fully impaired. The individually impaired does not hold any collateral over these balances. 53 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 11. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Accrual and provision 4,563 3,756 Property, plant and equipment 259 185 Impairment 695 796 Unrealised proﬁt 2,979 2,267 Tax losses 170 76 Undistributed proﬁts of subsidiaries (369) (465) Other deductible differences 429 130 Other taxable differences (233) (125) Total 8,493 6,620 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Deductible temporary differences 463 425 Tax losses 2,666 1,817 3,129 2,242 The tax losses are not expected to be utilised before they Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect expire. Management did not recognise any deferred tax of certain inventory provision and bad debt provision assets in this regard. for accounts receivable, because management believes that these provisions are unlikely to be allowed for tax deduction by the tax authorities. 12. Financial assets held for trading Financial assets held for trading mainly comprise investments in wealth management products issued by banks. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 54 13. Inventories 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Raw materials 5,896 6,473 Work in progress 2,664 2,697 Finished goods 6,137 5,725 Goods delivered but not completely installed 11,176 12,673 25,873 27,568 The analysis of amount of inventories recognised as an expense and included in consolidated income statement is as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Carrying amount of inventories sold 99,013 78,977 Write down of inventories 549 998 99,562 79,975 14. Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Trade receivables due from related parties 613 982 Other trade receivables 54,746 47,065 Gross amount due from customers for contract work 3,075 7,004 Non-trade receivables due from related parties 21 44 Other non-trade receivables 11,060 12,298 Pledged deposit 1,346 1,457 70,861 68,850 Non-current 29 116 Current 70,832 68,734 70,861 68,850 55 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Impairment of other trade receivables Impairment losses in respect of other trade receivables other trade receivables directly (see note 1(k)). are recorded using an allowance account unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of the amount is remote, The movement in the allowance for impairment losses in in which case the impairment loss is written off against respect of other trade receivables during the year is as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million At January 1 4,147 4,343 Impairment loss recognised and reversed during the year 1,481 2,929 Uncollectible amounts written off (2,080) (3,125) At December 31 3,548 4,147 15. Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Fixed deposits with banks 2,671 5,685 Cash and bank balances 54,521 35,816 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated cash ﬂow statement 57,192 41,501 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 56 16. Borrowings 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 1,783 2,059 Intra-group guaranteed bank loans 11,487 8,205 13,270 10,264 Current liabilities Unsecured short-term bank loans 253 330 Intra-group guaranteed bank loans 1,978 1,064 Current portion of unsecured long-term bank loans 419 310 Current portion of intra-group guaranteed long-term bank loans 4,407 991 7,057 2,695 57 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: Total 1 year or less 1 to 5 years CNY 'million CNY 'million CNY 'million Intra group guaranteed bank loans: EUR – variable at 1.83% ~ 2.81% 2,358 2,358 USD – variable at 1.69% ~ 1.8% 10,701 4,406 6,295 BDT – variable at 13% 49 49 ZAR – variable at 14% ETB variable at 2.81% 1 1 DZD – ﬁxed at 5.25% 131 131 USD ﬁxed at 4.33% 2,833 2,833 INR ﬁxed at 11.86% 1,799 1,799 17,872 6,385 11,487 Unsecured bank loans: CNY variable at 6.12% ~ 6.35% 2,202 419 1,783 BDT variable at 2.12% ~ 13.5% 156 156 VEF ﬁxed at 18% ~ 20% 97 97 2,455 672 1,783 20,327 7,057 13,270 The carrying amount of the above loans and borrowings sheet ratios, as are commonly found in lending agreements approximates to their fair value. with banks. If the Group were to breach the covenants, the draw down facilities would become payable on demand. All of the Group’s bank facilities are subject to the fulfilment As at 31 December 2011, none of the covenants relating to of covenants relating to certain of the Group’s balance draw down facilities had been breached (2010: Nil). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 58 17. Trade and other payables 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Trade payables due to related parties 894 1,274 Other trade payables 26,145 27,330 Bills payable and letter of credit payables 8,685 10,720 Gross amount due to customers for contract work 2,325 2,023 Non-trade payables due to related parties 5 15 Other non-trade payables and accrued expenses 53,538 41,294 91,592 82,656 All of the trade and other payables are expected to be settled within one year or are repayable on demand. 18. Construction contracts The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus customers for contract work at 31 December 2011, is recognised profits less recognised losses to date for CNY27,053,171,000 (2010: CNY46,008,688,000). the Group, included in the gross amount due from/to 19. Provisions and contingencies (a) Provision for warranties 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Balance at January 1 1,556 1,175 Provision made during the year 2,449 1,962 Provision used during the year (2,043) (1,581) Balance at December 31 1,962 1,556 The provision for warranties relates primarily to services and anticipated rates of warranty claims for its equipment sold during the year. The provision is products. The Group expects to settle majority of the determined based on estimates made from historical liability within the next twelve months. warranty data associated with similar products and 59 / Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (b) Litigation (i) In December 2007, two overseas subsidiaries of prevent Motorola from illegally transferring Huawei the Company had filed a legal claim against a foreign Tech's confidential information to NSN. On 13 April customer in respect of the foreign customer's failure to 2011, Motorola and Huawei Tech have entered into honor payment of a contract; while in return, the foreign an agreement to settle all pending litigation between customer had launched a counter claim against the two parties which Motorola paid a fee to Huawei Tech subsidiaries in January 2008 for failure in honoring the for transferring the commercial agreements between contract. In December 2009, the subsidiaries entered into Motorola and Huawei Tech to NSN and allows NSN to a Memorandum of Understanding for Dispute Settlement receive and use Huawei Tech's confidential information. with the foreign customer to partially withdraw the claim which was approved by the court in Thailand. (iii) On 22 February 2012, Creative Technology Ltd. During the financial year, the court read its judgment in and its subsidiary, Qmax Communications Pte. Ltd. favor of the Group and accordingly these claims were ( Creative ) filed a lawsuit against Huawei International resolved without a material adverse effect on the Group's Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company consolidated financial performance, consolidated cash and asserted a claim for misrepresentation and breach flows or consolidated financial position. of contract for about CNY120 million. This case is at preliminary stage, but the Group believes the claim is (ii) On 16 July 2010, Motorola, Inc. ( Motorola ) filed a without merit and will defend this action vigorously. lawsuit and alleged that Huawei Technology Co., Ltd., The Group is unable, however, to predict the outcome ( Huawei Tech ) one of the subsidiaries of the Company of this case, or reasonably estimate a range of possible has misappropriated Motorola's trade secret. On 24 loss, if any, given the current status of the litigation. January 2011, Huawei Tech filed a lawsuit against No accrual has been recorded by the Group as at 31 Motorola and Nokia Siemens Networks ( NSN ) to December 2011 in respect of this case. 20. Operating leases (a) Leases as lessee Non-cancellable operating lease rental are payable as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Less than one year 364 319 Between one and ﬁve years 410 233 Above ﬁve years 1 774 553 The Group leases a number of warehouses, factory facilities, During the year ended 31 December 2011, CNY2,052,028,000 office premises and staff apartments under operating leases. was recognized as an expense in the consolidated The leases typically run for an initial period of between one income statement in respect of operating leases (2010: and five years. None of the leases includes contingent rentals. CNY1,903,979,000). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes / 60 (b) Leases as lessor The Group leases out certain of its properties under operating leases (see note 2). Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are receivable as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Less than one year 46 49 Between one and ﬁve years 47 69 Above ﬁve years 93 118 During the year ended 31 December 2011, CNY196,819,000 was recognised as rental income in the consolidated income statement (2010: CNY179,505,000). 21. Capital commitments (a) Acquisition and construction of buildings Capital commitments of the Group in respect of acquisition and construction of buildings are summarised as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Contracted for 2,152 3,726 Authorised but not contracted for 5,257 2,113 7,409 5,839 (b) Other capital commitments Other capital commitments contracted by the Group are summarised as follows: 2011 2010 CNY 'million CNY 'million Acquisition of joint venture interests 3,336 Establishment of joint venture 40 Purchase of equity investments 462 Purchase of debt securities 137 3,838 137 61 / Company Information Company Information Corporate Profile Products, Solutions and Services Huawei is a leading global ICT solutions provider. Through Carrier Network BG our dedication to customer-centric innovation and strong partnerships, we have established end-to-end ■ Wireless Networks: capabilities and strengths across the carrier networks, SingleRAN, LTE, GSM, WCDMA, CDMA, TD-SCDMA, enterprise, consumer, and cloud computing fields. We WiMAX, OSS, antenna, site energy, PS core, and EPC are committed to creating maximum value for telecom carriers, enterprises and consumers by providing competitive ICT solutions and services. Our products and ■ Fixed Networks: solutions have been deployed in over 140 countries, FTTx, DSL, ODN, WDM/OTN, MSTP/Hybrid MSTP, serving more than one third of the world's population. microwave, core routers, routers, switches, and network security gateways Huawei's vision is to enrich life through communication. By leveraging our experience and expertise in the ICT sector, we help bridge the digital divide by ■ Global Services: providing opportunities to enjoy broadband services, □ Consulting services: business consultations, regardless of geographic location. Contributing to network consultations, and O&M consultations the sustainable development of society, the economy, □ Managed services: NOC O&M services, network and the environment, Huawei creates green solutions performance managed services, IT managed that enable customers to reduce power consumption, services, and business process outsourcing (BPO) carbon emissions, and resource costs. services □ Quality enhancement and assurance services: Huawei SmartCare service □ System integration services: network integration services, OSS integration services, data center integration services, and site integration services □ Energy retroﬁt services: site energy retroﬁt services and green energy services □ Customer support services: network operation assurance services □ Learning and capability development services: knowledge transfer services, Huawei certiﬁcation services, and Huawei education services ■ Carrier software & core networks: BSS & OSS, service delivery platform (SDP), digital home, mobile broadband value growth solutions (MBB VGSs), cloud computing, RCS-e/RCS, unified communications, mobile office, IP contact center business process outsourcing (IPCC BPO), convergent conference, SmartCare solution, SmartPCC, and SingleSDB Company Information / 62 Enterprise BG Consumer BG ■ IT: ■ Handsets: Media networks, desktop clouds, servers, storage Smartphones and feature phones products, data centers, and cloud management platforms ■ Mobile broadband devices: Data cards, wireless routers, and modules ■ Enterprise networks: Access routers (ARs), NE core routers, campus ■ Home convergence devices: switches, data center switches, WLAN, transport networks, access networks, and network Fixed/wireless access devices, set-top boxes, digital management photo frames, and tablets ■ UC&C: Intelligent video surveillance, unified communications, contact centers, converged conference, telepresence and videoconferencing systems, IP communications devices, industry-specific TVs, enterprise IMS/NGN, enterprise information security, digital TVs, and industry-specific billing ■ Security: Secure routing gateways, firewall and united threat management, VPN gateways, intrusion detection and prevention, anti-DDoS attack, and security management software ■ Enterprise wireless and auxiliary products ■ Industry-specific solutions: Solutions for the power, energy, transportation, government, finance, ISP, and other industries 63 / Company Information Awards and Honors ■ In 2011, Huawei won six TOP LTE awards. The awards ■ In October 2011, Huawei was awarded Best New include the Best LTE Commercial Performance Award Network Infrastructure Solution for its worldand the Best LTE Network Elements Award received leading Small Cell solution at 4G World held in North at the LTE World Summit 2011, the Best Contribution America. This award signified that the Huawei Small to LTE R&D Award and the Best Contribution to LTE Cell solution had gained acceptance from the industry Standards Award at the LTE North America Awards and helped further consolidate Huawei's leading 2011, the LTE Network Infrastructure Innovation position in the field of wireless broadband. Award received at the Global Telecoms Business Innovation Awards 2011, and the Most Innovative ■ On October 18, 2011, Huawei was presented the Mobile Broadband Deployment Award received Most Innovative Mobile Broadband Deployment from RCR Wireless News. All these awards are in Award at the award ceremony of the 2011 RCR recognition of Huawei's dedicated efforts to promote Wireless News Innovation Awards for deploying the a thriving and prosperous LTE ecosystem. world's first LTE DD800 commercial network solution, a SingleRAN-based solution for Vodafone. ■ On December 13, 2011, Huawei received three awards at the Telecom Asia 4th Annual Reader Choice ■ On September 29, 2011, Huawei earned three Awards. These awards included Best Telecom Vendor InfoVision awards at the Broadband World Forum, of the Year, Wireless Network Vendor of the Year, and making it the winner of the most awards. The awards Broadband Network Vendor of the Year. recognized Huawei's outstanding performance and contributions to the telecom industry with its 200G ■ On November 23, 2011, Huawei was awarded the Supplier high-speed line card for routers, intelligent ODN of the Year in Information-based Software & Hardware for (iODN) solutions, and IPTV solutions. The 200G line Urban and Rural Housing Construction at the 6th China card won the most coveted Broadband Innovation of Digital City Construction Technology & Equipment Expo. the Year Award. The iODN solution won the award This award recognized the outstanding contributions for Broadband Network and Services Management Huawei made in the urban informatization field. and Operations, and the IPTV solution won the award for Content, Entertainment, Applications, and ■ On November 15, 2011, Informa honored Huawei Services. and MegaFon, a leading carrier in Russia, with the Award for Most Innovative Service Launch Enabled ■ On September 28, 2011, Huawei was awarded the by Traffic Management for our cooperative efforts in 2011 Service Provider of the Year Award for Financial MBB VGS deployments. The award was presented at Call Centers in China at the 5th Annual Summit for the Broadband Traffic Management (BBTM) Global Financial Industry Call Center Development in China Congress 2011 held in London and hosted by Informa for its outstanding contributions to the financial Telecoms & Media. customer service sector. ■ On November 8, 2011, Frost & Sullivan granted Huawei ■ On September 28, 2011, Huawei was awarded the the Global Growth and Innovation in Telecom Managed 2011 Best Technology Solution in Customer Contact Services Award at the Global Community of Growth, Centers at the 2011 China Best Customer Contact Innovation and Leadership 2011 held in Shanghai. This Center and CRM award ceremony. The award is the only award that the research firm granted in the recognized Huawei's excellent achievements in the area of managed services in 2011. Huawei was also the field of customer contact centers and customer only company to receive the Excellence in Customer relationship management (CRM) as well as its Perception of Service Quality Award from Frost & Sullivan contributions to the development of the entire for its SmartCare professional service solution. These customer contact center and customer service awards from prestigious organizations in the industry industry. further acknowledged Huawei's leadership position and solution competitiveness in managed services. Company Information / 64 ■ On September 7, 2011, Huawei received the Annual ■ On June 17, 2011, Huawei accepted two highlyBest Service Award and the Special Recognition coveted 2011 CDG Industry Achievement Awards Award from the Organizing Committee at the award from the CDMA Development Group (CDG). These ceremony of the 2011 China International Financial awards recognized Huawei's continuous innovation Expo. and outstanding contributions to the CDMA field. The company was recognized in the Innovation in ■ On August 1, 2011, Huawei was included in the list Network Technology and Innovation in Mobile for the Global Green Fortune (China) 100 companies Application categories. This is the second time at the 2nd Global Green Economy and Wealth Forum. Huawei has been recognized by the industry for its The list, compiled by the International Green Economy innovations in CDMA technology and applications. Association, is the world's first assessment system that equally emphasizes environmental responsibility with ■ On June 9, 2011, Huawei received the LTE Network the ability to create social wealth. The list is designed Infrastructure Innovation Award at the annual award to recognize enterprises that have made outstanding ceremony of the Innovation Awards sponsored by contributions to the global environment and have Global Telecom Business, an internationally recognized significantly influenced the sustainable development telecom industry media outlet, for the deployment of of the global economy. These enterprises serve as role the LTE commercial networks for Aero2 and Vodafone models in driving new tracks for building wealth. using its SingleRAN LTE solution. ■ On July 8, 2011, Huawei was awarded China's Best ■ On May 24, 2011, Huawei received the Industry Customer Service Solution Supplier Award at the Leadership Award, the most sought-after award at the selection and award ceremony of the 6th Annual annual summit of the TM Forum held in Dublin, Ireland. Best Customer Service Awards in China. Huawei's Enterprise BG was also honored with an Honorary ■ On March 23, 2011, Huawei received the Best Award for Outstanding Contribution to Customer Service Delivery Platform for IPTV Award at the IP&TV Service in China. World Forum 2011 in London. Huawei was the only manufacturer from Asia to receive the award, which ■ On June 24, 2011, Huawei was named the winner is also the most prestigious award presented by the of the 2011 Femtocell Industry Award for Progress global IPTV industry. in Commercial Deployment. The Femtocell Industry Awards are held every year by the Femto Forum, ■ On December 9, 2010, Huawei received the “FTTx the most widely-recognized organization in the Vendor of The Year” award by Telecom Asia. femtocell industry. This award recognizes outstanding contributions in the commercial deployment of ■ On November 12, 2010, Huawei won the Best femtocells over the past year. Contribution to R&D for LTE in North America award at LTE North America 2010. ■ On June 20, 2011, Huawei was awarded the Excellence in Standards Development Award by ■ On October 28, 2010, Huawei's industry-leading the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers SingleRAN@Broad solution won the InfoVision Award (IEEE). This award recognized Huawei's outstanding in the category of Broadband Access Network contributions to the IEEE 802.1AS standard. Technologies and Services at the Broadband World Forum 2010 in Paris. 65 / Company Information ■ On October 19, 2010, Frost & Sullivan recognized ■ On May 27, 2010, Huawei won the Solution Excellence Huawei's contributions to the contact center application Award at the TM Forum. market with the 2010 Asia Pacific Growth Strategy Leadership Award. ■ On May 7, 2010, World Vendor Awards honored Huawei with the Outstanding Vendor of the Year ■ On October 1, 2010, Huawei received the Red Dot award. Design Award for its PIVIT Optical Distribution Network Access Terminal Box. ■ On February 16, 2010, GSM Association recognized Huawei's contributions with the Best Service Delivery ■ On September 30, 2010, Frost & Sullivan recognized Platform Award. Huawei as the 2010 SDM Equipment Vendor of the Year. ■ On December 11, 2009, Telecom Who's Who in Asia Pacific chose Huawei as the sole telecom vendor to ■ On July 29, 2010, Huawei received the Best in Class receive triple accolades in Telecom Asia's 2009 Readers' 21CN Solution Maturity, Value, Service and Innovation Choice Award. Award from British Telecom for its innovation and contribution in the 21CN and Next Generation Access ■ On December 7, 2009, Huawei received the 2009 project. Corporate Award from the IEEE Standards Association. ■ On July 5, 2010, Huawei's Access Terminal Box and FTTx ■ On November 23, 2009, Huawei received Light Optical Network Terminal products won the Red Dot Reading's 2009 Top Picks Award for its transport and Design Award. router products. ■ On June 30, 2010, Huawei received the Lewa Trophy ■ On November 18 and 19, 2009, Grameenphone Ltd., for the Highest Corporate Fundraiser in the Safaricom jointly with Huawei, won the Green Mobile Award at Marathon 2010. the GSMA Mobile Awards 2009. ■ On June 28, 2010, Huawei won the Femtocell Design ■ On November 18, 2009, Frost & Sullivan recognized and Technology Innovation Award at the 2010 Femtocell Huawei's contributions with three best practice awards, World Summit. including 2009 Digital City Solution Innovation of the Year, 2009 Unified Communications Solution Innovation ■ On June 25, 2010, Huawei received the Messaging of the Year, and 2009 Multimedia Contact Center Application: Consumer award for its Mobile Newspaper Solution of the Year at the Frost & Sullivan Enterprise Service (MNS) at the 2010 Global Messaging award Communication Summit and Award Ceremony 2009 in ceremony. Shanghai, China. ■ On June 10, 2010, Huawei received three honors at the ■ On November 4, 2009, R&D Magazine announced Global Telecom Business Innovation Awards, including its R&D 100 Awards and recognized Huawei for its the Green Base Station Innovation , Wholesale advanced Optix OSN 6800/OSN 3800 wavelength Network Innovation and Consumer Voting Innovation division multiplexer. This award is widely recognized in awards along with Vodafone, BT and TalkTalk, the technology and innovation fields, and is dubbed the respectively. Oscars of Invention . ■ On June 3, 2010, the CDMA Development Group (CDG) ■ On July 8, 2009, Huawei's Femtocell and optical recognized Huawei's contributions with the 2010 3G transponder products won the Red Dot Design Award. CDMA Industry Achievement Award at the 2010 CDMA World Forum. Company Information / 66 ■ On June 17, 2009, Huawei was recognized for its contribution to the industry at Global Telecoms Business Innovation Awards 2009. ■ On June 5, 2009, Huawei received three prestigious Asia Pacific telecom awards including 2009 Wireless Infrastructure Vendor of the Year, Broadband Equipment Vendor of the Year, and Vendor of the Year by Frost & Sullivan. ■ On March 20, 2009, Huawei's contributions were recognized by the Financial Times with an award for Innovation and Leadership in Emerging Markets. ■ On January 19, 2009, Huawei received the iF Design Award for its Femtocell products. 67 / Risk Factors Risk Factors Based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of Strategic Risks the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework and in line with our organizational structure and operating model, Intense competition: The markets Huawei operates in Huawei designed and implemented an enterprise risk are intensely competitive in terms of price, functionality, management (ERM) system with a corresponding ERM and service quality as well as the timing of new product policy. Huawei also established the ERM Department and service development. In certain geographical and an operational mechanism. The company ensures markets, our main competitors may offer more attractive the continuity of our business operations by taking prices, products, services, or other incentives. The rapid risks into account when making strategic decisions and development of science and technology, and changes planning, while also preemptively controlling risks in our in alternative technologies or industry standards will business plans and execution. lead to shorter product lifecycles and may also increase the number of entrants into the markets in which we All risk factors mentioned in this Annual Report, operate. particularly those outlined in this section, refer to key future uncertainties that could have a material effect on In this market context, the ability to fully understand and the company's business objectives. They were identified satisfy customer needs is a prerequisite as technologies from the company's strategic planning, business model, change rapidly and competition intensifies. To stay external environment, and financial system. Major risk competitive and protect our operating results, we must factors are events that will significantly impact the constantly introduce new products and functionalities company's competitive landscape, reputation, financial into the market while reducing the cost of new and condition, operating results, and long-term prospects existing products. within the next 18-month. Hereinafter, all risk factors refer to major risk factors. External Risks ■ Economic environment: The global economic downturn could cause telecom carriers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting measures to improve their financial position. These factors could result in reduced demand for network infrastructure and services, which would in turn affect Huawei's operating results. ■ Country-specific risks: Huawei conducts business in more than 140 countries. Operating in these counties involves certain risks, such as civil unrest, economic and political instability, trade protection, imposition of exchange controls, nationalization of private assets, and debts. All these risks require Huawei to have a high aptitude for risk management. In addition, there may be uncertainties in the legal environment in certain regions. Although we strive to comply with all such laws and regulations, unintentional violations could have material adverse effects on our business. ■ Natural disasters: Earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters may slow down or even prevent delivery and impact the company's supply chain operations. Risk Factors / 68 Operational Risks Financial Risks ■ Business continuity: Although Huawei strives to For further information on financial risks, see Financial avoid single-source supplier solutions, it is not always Risk Management on pages 22 to 23 of this Annual possible. To find an alternative supplier or to re-design Report. products may take significant time. As such, supply and delivery of our products to our customers could be disrupted if any of our single-source suppliers were to meet with difficulties. To mitigate this risk, we periodically evaluate and conduct audits on our suppliers, and initiate product replacements or redesign to reduce the risk of obsolescence. ■ Rising labor costs: Increasing labor costs in China may offset the company's efforts to reduce our product cost and ultimately affect our profitability. ■ Information security: While Huawei has judiciously adopted information security measures to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be adequate to prevent infringement or improper use of our information, patents, or licensing. Misappropriations of this nature will cause losses to Huawei even though we may be protected to some extent by intellectual property law. 69 / Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Structure Shareholders At Huawei, we advocate customers as our focus and Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the company dedicated employees as our foundation. We will continue or Huawei ) is a private company wholly owned by its to improve our organizational structure, processes, and employees. appraisal systems to achieve effective growth. Through the Union, the company implements an Employee Shareholding Scheme (the “Scheme”), which involves 65,596 employees as of December 31, 2011. They are represented by and exercise their rights through the elected representatives (the Representatives ). The Scheme effectively aligns employee contributions with the company's long-term development, fostering Huawei's continued success. Shareholders' Meeting Board of Directors Independent Auditor Supervisory Board Executive Committee Human Resources Finance Strategy & Development Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee CEO/EVPs Group Functions Financial HR Finance Corporate Strategy BP&IT Cyber Investment Development Marketing Security Ethics & Service BG Management JCR PR&GR Legal Affairs Internal Audit Compliance (SBG) Platform 2012 Laboratories Huawei Machine Carrier Enterprise Consumer Emerging Integrated Network Business Services (IBS) BG BG Businesses BG Huawei University Huawei Internal Services Regional Organizations Corporate Governance Report / 70 Board of Directors and Committees The BOD is the decision-making body for corporate In 2011, the BOD held 12 meetings, reviewed, and strategy and management. The BOD guides and released a series of documents related to the overall oversees the overall business operations and makes corporate governance architecture, operating principles decisions on significant strategic issues. The BOD and mechanisms for corporate governance, and the established the Executive Committee, which acts as the operational regulations of the Executive Committee. executive body of the BOD while the BOD is adjourned. Throughout the year, the BOD also reviewed and The BOD has also established the Human Resources approved the annual business plan and budget, quarterly Committee, the Finance Committee, the Strategy & operational performance reports, the strategic direction Development Committee, and the Audit Committee to and organizational setup for new businesses, investment assist the BOD in overseeing the company's operations. and merger & acquisition projects, appointments and compensation policies for senior management, and other The key roles and responsibilities of the BOD include: major HR and financial policies. The BOD also agreed on a set of resolutions on the company's strategic directions, ■ Deciding on the company's strategic directions; major investment decisions, and financing arrangements. approving its medium-to-long-term business plan; monitoring the execution of the plan. The BOD is comprised of 13 members, who were elected by all the Representatives. The members of the BOD are ■ Providing advice and guidance to management Chairwoman Ms. Sun Yafang, Deputy Chairmen Mr. Guo regarding significant issues, including major risks and Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. Ren Zhengfei, market changes. Executive Directors Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding ■ Reviewing the company's business operations and Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, and Directors Ms. Chen organizational processes; approving major organizational Lifang, Mr. Wan Biao, Mr. Zhang Ping'an, and Mr. Yu restructurings, business transformations, and process Chengdong. transformations. ■ Approving the company's major financial policies, financial arrangements, and business transactions. ■ Approving the company's operational and financial results; approving the company's financial statements. ■ Establishing the company's monitoring mechanisms and overseeing their execution. ■ Establishing the company's governance structure and organizing its optimization and deployment. ■ Deciding on the selection, appraisal, and compensation of the Chief Executive Officer; approving the appointment and compensation of other members of senior management. ■ Approving the corporate-level HR planning and major HR policies. 71 / Corporate Governance Report Human Resources Committee mechanism for headcount budgeting, improving the overall capability of HR, updating the HR policy framework, The Human Resources Committee manages and setting policies, and supervising policy execution. improves organizational capabilities such as organization, talent, and culture. This committee establishes key HR The Human Resources Committee is comprised of 19 management policies under the authorization of the members, including BOD members, senior business BOD and oversees the execution of these policies. To executives, and senior HR experts. The Chairman of the support the company's business development, the committee is Mr. Hu Houkun. The members include Mr. committee ensures that HR policies reflect the company's Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. HR management philosophy while also considering the Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Li Jian, Mr. Zha Jun, business characteristics and management models of Ms. He Tingbo, Mr. Zhang Ping'an, Mr. Yu Chengdong, regions, BGs, and functional departments. Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Wan Biao, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Li Shanlin, and Mr. Peng Bo. The key roles and responsibilities of the Human Resources Committee include: Finance Committee ■ Managing the succession plans, allocation schemes, The Finance Committee is positioned as the overall and matters related to managerial appointments or enterprise value integrator of the company. Under removals, performance appraisals, compensation, the authorization of the BOD, the Finance Committee and incentives for key managers and talent under the exercises macro-control over the company's business authorization of the BOD. operations, investment activities, and enterprise risks to ■ Managing overall incentive policies, policies related to help strike a dynamic balance between opportunities social security benefits, the compensation structure, and resources. This facilitates the company in achieving and job matching. effective growth. ■ Managing policies for organizational development The key roles and responsibilities of the Finance Committee and optimization; managing the HR budget and include: headcount planning for each budgetary unit. ■ Managing the policies and providing guidance for ■ Aligning resources with business needs based on employee learning and development at all levels. the company's resources and resource acquisition ■ Setting policies related to employee compliance capabilities. with internal regulatory requirements and managing ■ Setting financial objectives for the growth and disciplinary actions against major violations. investment projects of the company and responsibility ■ Providing routine guidance on policies related to the centers; determining the standards, structure, and occupational health and safety of employees. pace for resource investments. ■ Managing the strategic plans and key HR transformation ■ Measuring the monetary value of key strategies, activities. conducting forward-looking forecasts and analysis, and submitting proposals to the BOD. The Human Resources Committee meets on a monthly ■ Reviewing the company's annual budgeting plan, basis and convenes special sessions whenever needed. approving the annual budget for each responsibility At the request of the committee, business executives and center, and ensuring closed-loop management of field-specific experts may attend its meetings as nonthe corporate-level plan, budget, accounting, and voting participants. Based on business needs, requests performance appraisals. of the BOD, and activities aimed at governance structure ■ Reviewing the capital structure plan; making proposals optimization and business restructuring, the Human Resources Committee held 14 meetings in 2011. The for major financing activities, the asset structure, and topics of these meetings included such items as monitoring profit distribution. manager selection and succession plans for key positions, ■ Reviewing the company's key financial policies, annual organizational restructuring, optimizing the compensation financial statements, and issues related to information and incentive structure, developing the governance disclosure. Corporate Governance Report / 72 ■ Reviewing capital operations and strategic cooperation and characteristics, as well as the publicity strategy projects, submitting proposals to the BOD, and and direction of the company. periodically assessing the execution of such projects. ■ Managing the company's strategy for strategic ■ Reviewing the company's risk management framework, partnerships and alliances, as well as the selection of advising on trade compliance issues, and establishing a strategic partners and allies. business continuity management system. ■ Managing the company's business portfolios and scope. The Finance Committee meets on a monthly basis ■ Managing the company's pricing policies, commercial and convenes special sessions whenever needed. authorization principles, and actual pricing of key Based on business needs and requests of the BOD, the strategic products. Finance Committee held 12 meetings in 2011. At the ■ Managing the company's medium-to-long-term meetings, the committee reviewed such items as the company's medium-to-long-term business plan, annual technology development plan, standards and patent budgeting plan, operational management, capital strategy, and major technology investments. operations projects, the capital structure, enterprise ■ Managing the company's medium-to-long-term risk management, and subsidiary and joint venture business transformation strategy, process and management. The Finance Committee discussed and management system structure, and quality policies. established relevant financial policies and systems, ■ Reviewing the company's business portfolios reviewed and decided on relevant activities, and frequently to ensure investments are made in the monitored the execution of these activities. strategic domains. The Finance Committee is comprised of 21 members, The SDC started to convene officially in 2012. In 2011, including BOD members and financial experts. The the Investment Review Board (IRB) was responsible for Chairman of the committee is Mr. Guo Ping. The the company's strategic planning, product investment members include Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. Xu decisions, and other related matters. After the SDC is Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, established, the IRB will be dissolved at the corporate level. Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Wan Biao, Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. However, each BG will set up its own IRB, which will be Tian Feng, Mr. Fang Weiyi, Mr. Song Liuping, Mr. Yao responsible for product investment decisions and lifecycle Fuhai, Mr. Jiang Xisheng, Mr. Li Jin'ge, Mr. Peng Qiu'en, management within their operational authority. Mr. Yi Xiang, Mr. Yang Yuefeng, Mr. Qiao Nengdong, and Ms. Zheng Liying. The company's IRB meets on a monthly basis and convenes special sessions whenever needed. At the Strategy & Development Committee request of the IRB, business executives and field-specific experts attended its meetings as non-voting participants. The Strategy & Development Committee (SDC) The IRB, which held 12 meetings in 2011 in total, made considers, sets, and executes the company's strategic decisions on product investments based on customer directions. The SDC gains insight into major trends needs and promoted collaboration across Marketing, concerning the industry, market, and customers; and R&D, Procurement Qualification, Supply Chain, Sales, identifies opportunities and paths for the company's Service, and other departments to have these decisions development. Through macro-management of markets, implemented under the guidance of the overall strategic businesses, and technological development, the SDC direction formulated by the BOD. In addition, the IRB ensures that the company continues to make concerted discussed related business strategies, reviewed decisions, efforts to achieve effective growth. oversaw their fulfillment, and released relevant regulations. The key roles and responsibilities of the SDC include: The SDC is comprised of 23 members, including BOD members, senior business executives, and field-specific ■ Managing the company's medium-to-long-term senior experts. The Chairman of the SDC is Mr. Xu Zhijun. strategic plan, significant annual targets, and the top The members include Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. priorities of the year. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, ■ Managing the company's brand strategy, architecture, Mr. Hou Jinlong, Mr. Zhang Ping'an, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. He 73 / Corporate Governance Report Gang, Mr. Zha Jun, Mr. Tang Qibing, Mr. Zhang Xinyu, Mr. Supervisory Board Peng Bo, Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Yu Chengdong, Mr. Wang Tao, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Zheng Yelai, Mr. Wu Qinming, Ms. Pursuant to the requirements of the Company Law of He Tingbo, and Mr. Peng Zhongyang. the People's Republic of China, Huawei has established a Supervisory Board. The key roles and responsibilities of Audit Committee the Supervisory Board include overseeing the company's financial and operational performance; monitoring the The key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: performance of BOD members, the Chief Executive Officer, and other senior management; and attending ■ Reviewing the company's internal audit plan, monitoring BOD meetings as non-voting participants. its execution, and discussing internal control policies. In 2011, the Supervisory Board held two meetings and ■ Approving the company's internal control framework its members attended 12 meetings of the BOD as nonand milestone plan, overseeing internal controls across voting participants. The Supervisory Board reviewed the company, driving closed-loop issue management, and assessed the financial performance of the company and promoting management improvements. and the performance of senior management. The ■ Monitoring the effectiveness of Huawei's ethics and Supervisory Board also discussed how it could operate compliance environment, and driving employees' more effectively as an important part of the corporate compliance with Huawei's Business Conduct Guidelines governance structure. (BCG). ■ Selecting the independent auditor along with the The Supervisory Board is comprised of five members. BOD, approving related expenses, and reviewing the Each member is elected by all the Representatives. The performance of the independent auditor. members of the Supervisory Board are Chairman Mr. Liang Hua, and members Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Ren The Audit Committee meets on a quarterly basis and Shulu, Mr. Tian Feng, and Mr. Deng Biao. convenes special sessions whenever needed. At the request of the Audit Committee, business executives and field-specific experts may attend its meetings as non-voting participants. The Audit Committee held three meetings in 2011. Focusing on topics such as risk management and internal control frameworks, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the annual internal audit planning and the three-year roadmap for developing global process controls and reviewed the internal control maturity reports, semi-annual control assessment (SACA) reports, and the control improvement work reports presented by Global Process Owners (GPOs). The Audit Committee also improved employee compliance with the BCG by sharing major audit findings and non-compliance cases. In addition, the Audit Committee discussed the management improvement proposal with the independent auditor. The Audit Committee is comprised of nine members, including members of the Supervisory Board, BOD members, and field-specific experts. The Chairman of the committee is Mr. Liang Hua. The members include Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Chen Zhaohui, Mr. Peng Zhijun, Mr. Hui Chun, and Mr. Zhou Daiqi. Corporate Governance Report / 74 Members of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board, and the BOD Committees Members of the Board of Directors From the left in the first row: Mr. Hu Houkun, Ms. Sun Yafang, Mr. Guo Ping, Ms. Chen Lifang, Mr. Xu Wenwei From the left in the second row: Mr. Zhang Ping'an, Mr. Yu Chengdong, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Ren Zhengfei, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Wan Biao 75 / Corporate Governance Report Director Biographies Ms. Sun Yafang Mr. Ren Zhengfei Ms. Sun joined Huawei in 1989, and had served as an Born on October 25, 1944 into a rural family where engineer of the Marketing & Sales Dept, Director of both parents were school teachers, Mr. Ren Zhengfei the Training Center, President of the Procurement Dept, spent his primary and middle school years in a remote General Manager of Wuhan Office, President of the mountainous town in Guizhou Province. In 1963, he Marketing & Sales Dept, Chair of the Human Resources studied at the Chongqing Institute of Civil Engineering Committee, Chair of the Business Transformation and Architecture. After graduation, he was employed Executive Steering Committee (BT-ESC), Chair of the in the civil engineering industry until 1974 when he Strategy and Customer Standing Committee, and joined the military's Engineering Corps as a soldier President of Huawei University. Since 1999, Ms. Sun has tasked to establish the Liao Yang Chemical Fiber been the Chairwoman of the Board. Factory. Subsequently, Mr. Ren had taken positions as a Technician, an Engineer, and was lastly promoted as a Prior to joining Huawei, Ms. Sun worked as a technician Deputy Director, which was a professional role equivalent at the state-owned Xinxiang Liaoyuan Radio Factory in to a Deputy Regimental Chief, but without military rank. 1982, a teacher at China Research Institute of Radio Because of his outstanding performance, Mr. Ren was Wave Propagation in 1983, and an engineer at Beijing invited to attend the National Science Conference in Research Institute of Information Technology in 1985. 1978 and the 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China in 1982. Mr. Ren retired from the army in Ms. Sun was born in 1955, and graduated in 1982 1983 when the Chinese government disbanded the entire with a bachelor's degree from Chengdu University of Engineering Corps. He then worked in the logistics service Electronic Science and Technology. base of the Shenzhen South Sea Oil Corporation. As he was dissatisfied with his job, he decided to establish Mr. Guo Ping Huawei with a capital of CNY21,000 in 1987. He became Born in 1966, Mr. Guo holds a master's degree from the CEO of Huawei in 1988 and has held the title ever Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Mr. since. Guo joined Huawei in 1988 and has served as an R&D project manager, General Manager of Supply Mr. Xu Wenwei (William Xu) Chain, Director of Huawei Executive Office, Chief Legal Born in 1963, Mr. Xu holds a master's degree from Officer, President of the Business Process & IT Mgmt Southeast University. Mr. Xu joined Huawei in 1991 and Dept, President of the Corporate Development Dept, has served as President of the International Technical Chairman and President of Huawei Device, Corporate Sales & Marketing Dept, President of the European EVP, and Chairman of the Finance Committee. Area, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, Chief Sales & Service Officer, President of the Joint Committee of Mr. Xu Zhijun (Eric Xu) Regions, and CEO of the Enterprise BG. Born in 1967, Mr. Xu holds a doctorate degree from Nanjing University of Science & Technology. Mr. Xu joined Mr. Li Jie (Jason Li) Huawei in 1993 and has served as President of the Wireless Born in 1967, Mr. Li holds a master's degree from Xi'an Product Line, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, Chief Jiaotong University. Mr. Li joined Huawei in 1992 and Products & Solutions Officer, Chairman of the Investment has served as Regional President, President of the Global Review Board, Corporate EVP, and Chairman of the SDC. Technical Service Dept, President of the Human Resource Mgmt Dept, and President of the Joint Committee of Mr. Hu Houkun (Ken Hu) Regions. Born in 1967, Mr. Hu holds a bachelor's degree from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Mr. Hu Mr. Ding Yun (Ryan Ding) joined Huawei in 1990 and has served as President of the Born in 1969, Mr. Ding holds a master's degree from Marketing & Sales Dept in China, President of the Latin Southeast University. Mr. Ding joined Huawei in 1996 America Region, President of the Global Sales Dept, Chief and has served as Product Line President, President of Sales & Service Officer, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, the Global Solution Sales Dept, President of the Global Chairman of the Corporate Global Cyber Security Committee, Marketing Dept, Chief Products & Solutions Officer, and Chairman of the BOD of Huawei USA, Corporate EVP, and CEO of the Carrier Network BG. Chairman of the Human Resources Committee. Corporate Governance Report / 76 Ms. Meng Wanzhou (Cathy Meng) Born in 1972, Ms. Meng holds a master's degree from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Ms. Meng joined Huawei in 1993. She obtained her M.A. in 1998. Ms. Meng has served as Director of the International Accounting Dept, CFO of Huawei Hong Kong, President of the Accounting Mgmt Dept, President of the Sales Financing & Treasury Mgmt Dept, and currently, CFO of Huawei. Ms. Chen Lifang Born in 1971, Ms. Chen graduated from Northwest University. Ms. Chen joined Huawei in 1995 and has served as Chief Representative of the Beijing Representative Office, Vice President of the International Marketing Dept, Deputy Director of the Domestic Marketing Management Office, President of the Public Affairs and Communications Dept, and Corporate Senior Vice President. Mr. Wan Biao Born in 1972, Mr. Wan holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Science and Technology of China. Mr. Wan joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as Director for the UMTS RAN System, President of the UMTS Product Line, President of the Wireless Product Line, and President of Huawei Device. Mr. Zhang Ping'an (Alex Zhang) Born in 1972, Mr. Zhang holds a master's degree from Zhejiang University. Mr. Zhang joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as Product Line President, Senior Vice President, Vice President of Strategy & Marketing, Regional Vice President, Vice President of the Global Technical Service Dept, and CEO of Huawei Symantec. Mr. Yu Chengdong (Richard Yu) Born in 1969, Mr. Yu holds a master's degree from Tsinghua University. Mr. Yu joined Huawei in 1993 and has served as 3G Product Director, Vice President of the Wireless Technical Sales Dept, President of the Wireless Product Line, President of the European Area, and Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer. 77 / Corporate Governance Report Members of the Supervisory Board From the left: Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Peng Zhiping Supervisory Board Member Biographies Mr. Liang Hua Mr. Tian Feng Born in 1964, Mr. Liang holds a doctorate degree from Born in 1969, Mr. Tian holds a bachelor's degree from Wuhan University of Technology. Mr. Liang joined Xidian University. Mr. Tian joined Huawei in 1995 and Huawei in 1995 and has served as President of Supply has served as EVP of the Middle East and Northern Chain, CFO of Huawei, President of the Business Process Africa Area, President of the Middle East Region, & IT Mgmt Dept, President of the Global Technical President of the China Region, and CEO of Huawei Service Dept, and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Agisson. Mr. Peng Zhiping (Benjamin Peng) Mr. Deng Biao (Alex Deng) Born in 1967, Mr. Peng holds a master's degree from Born in 1971, Mr. Deng holds a bachelor's degree from Fudan University. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1996 and Jiangxi University. Mr. Deng joined Huawei in 1996 has served as President of the Terminal Product Line, and has served as President of the Access Network President of the Optical Network Product Line, President Product Line, President of the Network Product Line, of the Supply Chain Mgmt Dept, President of the and President of the Carrier Software & Core Network Procurement Qualification Mgmt Dept, and currently, Business Unit. Chief Operations & Delivery Officer. Mr. Ren Shulu (Steven Ren) Born in 1956, Mr. Ren holds a bachelor's degree from Yunnan University. Mr. Ren joined Huawei in 1992 and has served as President of Shenzhen Smartcom Business Co., Limited, Chairman of the Capital Construction Investment Management Committee, and currently, President of the Internal Service Mgmt Dept. Corporate Governance Report / 78 Committee Member Biographies Only the biographies of committee members not listed in Director Biographies or Supervisory Board Member Biographies are included in this section. (The order in which the biographies are provided is based on the number of strokes needed to complete the Chinese character that corresponds to the member's surname.) Mr. Fang Weiyi Mr. Li Shanlin Born in 1965, Mr. Fang holds a master's degree from the Born in 1968, Mr. Li holds a master's degree from Aeronautics Computing Technique Research Institute. Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Mr. Mr. Fang joined Huawei in 1995 and has served as an Li joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as an R&D engineer, Director of the Intelligent Network Product Line, project manager, Department Manager at Huawei Director of the Strategy and Planning Dept, President of Technologies India Private Limited, Deputy Chief of the the Finance Mgmt Dept, President of the Sales & Delivery Beijing Research Center, Director of the R&D Dept of the Finance Mgmt Dept, and currently, CFO of the Carrier Data Communications Product Line, Deputy Director of Network BG and member of the Finance Committee. the HR Branch of Products & Solutions, Vice President of the Human Resource Mgmt Dept, and member of the Mr. Jiang Xisheng Human Resources Committee. Born in 1966, Mr. Jiang holds a bachelor's degree from Xidian University. Mr. Jiang joined Huawei in 1989 and Mr. Li Jin'ge has served as Vice President of the Marketing & Sales Born in 1968, Mr. Li holds a bachelor's degree from Dept, General Manager of the General Procurement Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. Mr. Dept, Vice President and CFO of Huawei Electric, Li joined Huawei in 1992 and has served as Regional Director of the Investment Mgmt Dept, Vice President Vice President, Regional President, President of the of the Finance Dept, Chief Secretary of the BOD, and Global Technical Sales Dept, President of the Sub-Sahara member of the Finance Committee. Area, member of the Joint Committee of Regions, and member of the Finance Committee. Mr. Tang Qibing Born in 1970, Mr. Tang holds a master's degree from Mr. Li Yingtao the University of Electronic Science and Technology of Born in 1969, Mr. Li holds a doctorate degree from China. Mr. Tang joined Huawei in 1996 and has served Harbin Institute of Technology. Mr. Li joined Huawei in as Vice President of the Global Technical Sales Dept, 1997 and has served as Chief of the Sweden Research Vice President of the Middle East and Northern Africa Center, Director of the Product Mgmt Dept of Wireless Area, General Manager of the Turkey Representative Marketing, Director of the Research Dept of Products Office, President of the Central Asia Region, President & Solutions, Director of the General Technology Office of the Global Sales Dept under the Enterprise BG, and of Products & Solutions, President of the Central member of the SDC. Research & Development Unit, President of the 2012 Laboratories, Director of the Integrated Technology Mr. Li Jian (James Lee) Management Team, member of the Human Resources Born in 1973, Mr. Li holds a master's degree from Committee, and member of the SDC. Xidian University. Mr. Li joined Huawei in 2001 and has served as General Manager of the Nigeria Mr. Yang Yuefeng Representative Office, President of the Western Africa Born in 1971, Mr. Yang holds a master's degree from Region, Special Assistant to Chief Sales & Service Officer, Huazhong University of Science and Technology. President of the Accounts and Regions Business Mgmt Mr. Yang joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as Dept, President of the CEE & Nordic Region, President an engineer in the Hardware Dept, Director of the of the Latin America Area, and member of the Human Multimedia Product Line, President of the Fixed Terminal Resources Committee. Product Line, Vice President & CFO of Huawei Device, and member of the Finance Committee. 79 / Corporate Governance Report Mr. Wu Qinming Mr. Song Liuping Born in 1972, Mr. Wu holds a bachelor's degree from Born in 1966, Mr. Song completed his postdoctoral Peking University. Mr. Wu joined Huawei in 1996 and research at Beijing Institute of Technology. Mr. Song has served as General Manager of the Router Product joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as Manager of Line, General Manager of the Software Dept at the the Product Strategy Planning Office, Director of the Beijing Research Center, Director of the Enterprise Intellectual Property Rights Dept, Director of the External Product Line, Deputy Director of the Marketing Dept Cooperation Dept, President of the Legal Affairs Dept, of the Optical Network Product Line, Director of Chief Legal Officer, ST member of Products & Solutions, the Strategic Development Dept, and currently, Vice AT Deputy Director of the Standard & Patent Dept under President of the Corporate Development Dept and the Research Dept, Chairman of the Patent Review member of the SDC. Board, and member of the Finance Committee. Mr. He Gang Mr. Zhang Xinyu (Bill Zhang) Born in 1973, Mr. He holds a master's degree from Born in 1972, Mr. Zhang holds a master's degree from Xidian University. Mr. He joined Huawei in 1998 and has Nanjing University. Mr. Zhang joined Huawei in 1997 served as a GSM hardware engineer, President of the and has served as Director of the Marketing Dept GSM Product Line, President of the GSM&UMTS Product under the Core Network Product Line, Director of the Line, Director of the Global Wireless Solution Sales Dept, Marketing Dept in the Asia-Pacific Region, Vice President President of the Handset Product Line of Huawei Device, of the Northern Latin America Region, Vice President of and member of the SDC. the Carrier Network BG, and member of the SDC. Ms. He Tingbo (Teresa He) Mr. Chen Zhaohui (Edward Chen) Born in 1969, Ms. He holds a master's degree from Born in 1967, Mr. Chen holds a master's degree at Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. She China Institute of Atomic Energy in Beijing. Mr. Chen joined Huawei in 1996 and has since served as ASIC joined Huawei in 1994 and has served as General engineer/senior engineer/chief engineer, Director of the Manager of the UK Representative Office, President of Shanghai ASIC Design Branch, Director of ASIC Design Huawei Device, Chairman of the CSR Committee, Vice Center (Fundamental R&D Dept), R&D Director of President of the Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, and Hisilicon, Executive Vice President of Hisilicon, President member of the Audit Committee. of Hisilicon, Vice President of the 2012 Laboratories, member of the Human Resources Committee, and Mr. Yi Xiang (Steven Yi) member of the Strategy & Development Committee. Born in 1975, Mr. Yi holds a bachelor's degree from Wuhan University. Mr. Yi joined Huawei in 1998 and Mr. Wang Tao (David Wang) has served as Director of the Sales Mgmt Dept in the Born in 1972, Mr. Wang holds a master's degree from Asia-Pacific Area, General Manager of the Pakistan Xi'an Jiaotong University. Mr. Wang joined Huawei in Representative Office, President of the Middle East 1997 and has served as PDT Manager of the PS Core Region, President of the Sales & Delivery Finance Mgmt Network Product Line, Chief Engineer in the UMTS Dept, and member of the Finance Committee. Technical Sales Dept, Director of the Wireless Product Line in the European Area, Director of the Technical Mr. Zhou Daiqi Sales Dept in the European Area, General Manager of Born in 1947, Mr. Zhou graduated from Xidian the subsidiaries in Italy/Switzerland, President of the University. Mr. Zhou joined Huawei in 1994 and has Wireless Network Business Dept, and member of the served as an ATM product manager, Chief Engineer and SDC. General Manager at the Multimedia Dept, Director of the Hardware Dept, Chief of the Xi'an Research Center, Director of the HR Branch of Products & Solutions, and currently, Director of the Corporate Committee of Ethics and Compliance, and member of the Audit Committee. Corporate Governance Report / 80 Mr. Zheng Yelai (Leif Zheng) Mr. Peng Bo (Vincent Peng) Born in 1973, Mr. Zheng holds a master's degree from Born in 1976, Mr. Peng holds a bachelor's degree Northwestern Polytechnical University. Mr. Zheng joined from Harbin Institute of Technology. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1999 and has served as Product Manager Huawei in 1999 and has served as an account manager of the Wireless Product Line, OM SPDT Director of of the Customer Relationship Mgmt Dept, an account the Wireless Product Line, President of the Wireless manager of the Hong Kong Office, Director of the OSS&Service Product Line, President of the IT Product Vodafone Account Dept, Vice President of the Western Line, and member of the SDC. European Region, President of the Global Sales and Key Accounts Dept, President of the Global Sales Dept of Ms. Zheng Liying (Helen Zheng) the Carrier Network BG, member of the EMT for the Born in 1973, Ms. Zheng holds a Juris Doctor degree Carrier Network BG, member of the Human Resources from Jilin University. Ms. Zheng joined Huawei in 2000 Committee, and member of the SDC. and has served as Director of the Contract Mgmt Dept under the Legal Affairs Dept, Director of the Project Mr. Peng Zhongyang Execution Dept under the Corporate Development Born in 1968, Mr. Peng holds a bachelor's degree Dept, Vice President of the Investment Mgmt Dept, and from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. member of the Finance Committee. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1997 and has served as a transmission product engineer in the Technical Service Mr. Zha Jun Dept in the South China Area, Transmission Product Born in 1971, Mr. Zha holds a master's degree from Project Manager and a business expansion engineer at Zhejiang University. Mr. Zha joined Huawei in 1997 and the Russia Representative Office, Transmission Product has served as an R&D product manager, Director of the Project Manager at the Yemen Representative Office, IMS Product Line, President of the Router and Network Account Manager at the Yemen Representative Office, Security Product Line, President of the Network Product General Manager of the Yemen Representative Office, Line, member of the Human Resources Committee, and President of the North Africa Region, President of the member of the SDC. China Region, and member of the SDC. Mr. Hou Jinlong Mr. Peng Zhijun (Peter Peng) Born in 1970, Mr. Hou holds a bachelor's degree from Born in 1969, Mr. Peng holds a master's degree from Shanghai Jiaotong University. Mr. Hou joined Huawei Shanghai University of Finance and Economics. Mr. Peng in 1996 and has served as an R&D project manager, joined Huawei in 1997 and has served as Director of Director of the Wireless Technical Sales Dept, Vice the Investment Mgmt Dept, CFO of the Latin America President of the Marketing Dept, Director of the Wireless Area, Director of the Tax Mgmt Dept, Vice President of Marketing Dept, CEO of TD Tech Ltd., President of the the Finance Mgmt Dept, and currently, Deputy Director Energy & Infrastructure Product Line, and member of of the Business Control and Enterprise Risk Mgmt Dept, the SDC. and member of the Audit Committee. Mr. Yao Fuhai Mr. Peng Qiu'en (Ted Peng) Born in 1968, Mr. Yao holds a bachelor's degree from Born in 1971, Mr. Peng holds a master's degree from the University of Electronic Science and Technology of Zhongnan University of Economics and Law. Mr. Peng China. Mr. Yao joined Huawei in 1997 and has served joined Huawei in 1997 and has served as Director of as Director of the Pricing Center, Vice President of the the Budget & Cost Mgmt Dept, Director of the Financial Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the Planning & Analysis Dept, Vice President of the Sales & Strategy Cooperation Dept, Vice President of the Global Delivery Finance Mgmt Dept, CFO of the India Region, Technical Sales Dept, President of the Global Technical President of the Finance Mgmt Dept, and member of Service Dept, President of the Procurement Qualification the Finance Committee. Mgmt Dept, and member of the Finance Committee. 81 / Corporate Governance Report Mr. Hui Chun (Clark Hui) Independent Auditor Born in 1963, Mr. Hui holds a master's degree from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Mr. An independent auditor is responsible for auditing a Hui joined Huawei in 1989 and has served as President company's annual financial statements. In accordance of the Procurement Qualification Mgmt Dept, Vice with applicable accounting standards and audit President of Finance & President of the Business Control procedures, the independent auditor expresses an opinion Dept, Vice President of the Business Process & IT as to whether the financial statements are true and fair. Mgmt Dept, and currently, Director of the Engineering Inspection Dept and member of the Audit Committee. The scope of the financial audit and the annual audit results are subject to review by the Audit Committee. Mr. Qiao Nengdong (Joe Qiao) Any relationship or service that may potentially affect Born in 1973, Mr. Qiao holds a master's degree from the objectivity and independence of the independent Nankai University. Mr. Qiao joined Huawei in 1998 and auditor can be discussed with the Audit Committee. The has served as Vice President of the Accounting Mgmt independent auditor may discuss any issues identified Dept, CFO of the Northern Africa Region, CFO of the or any difficulties encountered during the course of the Enterprise BG, and member of the Finance Committee. financial audits with the Audit Committee. KPMG has been Huawei's independent auditor since 2000. Business Structure The company has established three BGs: the Carrier Network BG, the Enterprise BG, and the Consumer BG. The company is also engaged in emerging businesses. Each BG is a responsibility center for the end-to-end operations in a particular customer domain. BGs are the main driving force behind Huawei's operations. Each BG is responsible for ensuring effective growth and improving efficiency for the company as well as achieving business objectives and ensuring customer satisfaction for its business domain. Each BG has established an executive management team (EMT) to manage its operations. The CEO of each BG is also the Director of that BG's EMT. ■ The CEO and EMT Director for the Carrier Network BG is Mr. Ding Yun. The core members of the EMT include Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Zha Jun, Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Fang Weiyi, Mr. Peng Bo, and Mr. Wang Tao. ■ The CEO and EMT Director for the Enterprise BG is Mr. Xu Wenwei. The COO and Deputy EMT Director is Mr. Zhang Ping'an. The core members of the EMT include Mr. Zhang Shunmao, Mr. Tang Qibing, Mr. Chen Jun, Mr. Qiao Nengdong, Mr. Zheng Yelai, Mr. He Liyang, Mr. Chen Yiquan, and Mr. Liu Shaowei. ■ The CEO for the Consumer BG is Mr. Yu Chengdong. The EMT for the BG has yet to be established. Corporate Governance Report / 82 Service BGs (SBGs) are responsibility centers that ■ Continuous improvements to the IPD process: provide end-to-end support and services for BGs. Through layered process metrics, agile deployment, SBGs continuously increase efficiency and reduce and product information architecture optimization, operating costs. Huawei has established five SBGs: the and newly established IPD processes for services and 2012 Laboratories, Huawei Machine, Supply Chain mobile phones, Huawei continuously optimizes its Management Services, Huawei University, and Huawei IPD process to support the development of multiple Internal Services. businesses, continuously improve efficiency and quality, and better satisfy customer needs. The Group Functions provide BGs with support, ■ Improvements to the company's quality and services and supervision. They are positioned to offer operations system: Huawei carries out ongoing accurate, timely, and effective services to field offices initiative in Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS), and strengthen supervision while delegating sufficient CSR, and other areas to reduce operational risks and authority to field offices. support sustainable growth. Huawei optimizes its supply chain quality management systems, including The Financial Investment Management Platform is the Electronic Manufacturing Services (EMS) and responsible for the profits and losses of financial supply centers, and implements ongoing activities, investments. This platform oversees finance and such as Six Sigma and lean production improvements, business operations. to achieve more efficient, higher-quality production. ■ Widespread adoption of shared services centers Continuous Improvement of Management Systems across the company: Following the establishment of the Accounting Shared Services Center (SSC), In order to better meet customer needs, Huawei carried the Translation Services Center (TSC), the Service out ongoing management transformations in 2011 to Procurement Fulfillment SSC, and the Service Delivery build a continuously evolving global process architecture; Resource SSC, the HR SSC (China Region) went live for establish a GPO system; build core competencies in a trial run on October 31, 2011. The construction of terms of strategy, customer requirement management, an IT SSC is being planned. Through the core values of quality operations, and IT management; and enhance consolidating resources, reducing costs, enhancing process-based effective management systems. These governance, and improving efficiency , Huawei's transformations include: shared services centers lay a solid foundation for the company to achieve operational excellence. ■ Cu s t o m e r R e l a t i o n s h i p M a n a g e m e n t ( C R M ) Transformation: Huawei develops customer-centric marketing, sales, and service strategies to ensure that the company always focuses on customer expectations/requirements, improves efficiency, and reduces costs while creating the maximum value for customers to enable customer success and eventually Huawei's success. ■ Issue to Resolution (ITR) Process Transformation: Huawei adopts a customer-centric approach in providing customers with support and service. This approach ensures that Huawei remains attentive to customer issues and complaints and provides timely resolutions to improve customer satisfaction. ■ Integrated Financial Services (IFS) Transformation: Huawei is building a global financial management system that covers all of the key financial fields to facilitate sustainable growth through detailed process management. 83 / Corporate Governance Report Alignment with Corporate Strategy Establishment of Internal Control System Huawei utilizes balanced scorecards to manage its Huawei has designed and implemented an internal control organizational performance. Corporate strategic goals system based on its organizational architecture and are broken down into organizational performance goals operational model. The internal control framework and at all levels to drive balanced development of customers, its related management system apply to all business and internal operations, learning and development, and financial processes of the company and its subsidiaries financial management. The assignment of strategic and business units. This internal control system is based goals enables different types of organizations to take on on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the differentiated responsibilities in achieving the company's Treadway Commission (COSO) model, which consists of short-, medium-, and long-term objectives. five components: Control Environment, Risk Assessment, Control Activities, Information & Communication, and The balanced scorecards for organizations at all levels Monitoring. It also includes internal controls for financial are updated on an annual basis to align with the statements to ensure that the financial statements are annual business plan and budget. In addition, work true, complete, and accurate. reports are conducted level-by-level, personal business commitments (PBCs) are managed for employees, Control Environment and the applications of organizational and individual performance results are strengthened. These approaches A control environment is the foundation for an internal ensure that organizational and individual objectives are control system. Huawei is dedicated to maintaining a aligned with the goals of the company and that the corporate culture of integrity, placing a high value on company's strategic goals are effectively understood business ethics, and strictly complying with laws and and implemented throughout the organization. regulations. Huawei has established its BCG to define the company's standards for acceptable conduct. Huawei also provides training programs for all employees, requires employees to acknowledge their understanding of and commitment to complying with the BCG, and asks all employees to sign the BCG on a regular basis. Huawei has a well-established governance structure with clear authorizations and accountability of responsibilities. The governance structure is comprised of the BOD, its professional committees, Group Functions, and multilevel administrative teams. Huawei has clearly defined roles and responsibilities for its teams to ensure checks and balances. In addition, Huawei has established a Business Control Dept to help process owners establish and improve their internal control systems. The Internal Audit Dept performs independent monitoring and assessment of the internal control effectiveness for all operational activities. Corporate Governance Report / 84 Risk Assessment different departments to help them with operational issues and ensure that management decisions are effectively Huawei has established a dedicated risk management implemented. All business policies and processes are department to regularly perform risk assessments on all available on the company's intranet. Managers and business processes across the company. This department process owners regularly organize training programs on identifies, manages, and monitors the significant risks to business processes and internal controls to ensure that which the company is exposed, forecasts potential risks all employees know the most current information. The to the company caused by changes in both the internal company has established a mechanism for process owners and external environments, and submits risk management at all levels to regularly communicate with one another, strategies along with mitigating measures to corporate review the executional effectiveness of internal controls, management for decision making. and follow up on resolving internal control issues. All process owners are responsible for identifying, Monitoring assessing, and managing different types of risks and related internal control measures. Risk assessment factors include The company has established an internal complaint the likelihood of a risk occurring and its potential impact. channel, an investigation mechanism, and an accountability system. We have clearly defined Control Activities guidelines in the Agreement on Honesty and Integrity which the company signs with its suppliers. Suppliers Huawei has established the Global Process Management can report any improper conduct concerning Huawei System (GPMS) and the Business Transformation employees through the channels provided in the Management System (BTMS), released the global Business agreement. This helps Huawei monitor the integrity of Process Architecture (BPA), and appointed GPOs who its employees. take charge of process and internal control building based on the BPA. The GPOs identify Key Control Points (KCPs) The Internal Audit Dept independently assesses the and the Separation of Duties Matrix for each process and internal control effectiveness of the company and apply them to all regions, subsidiaries, and business units. investigates any potential violations of the BCG. The The GPOs organize monthly compliance tests on the Internal Audit Dept submits the audit and investigation KCPs to continuously monitor the effectiveness of internal results to the Audit Committee and senior management. controls and publish test reports. In addition, the GPOs perform Semi-Annual Control Assessments (SACAs) to Huawei has established an internal control appraisal and assess the effectiveness of the overall process design and accountability system for GPOs and regional managers. executional effectiveness of each business unit. The GPOs The Audit Committee regularly reviews the internal then publish assessment reports and submit the results to control effectiveness of the company and considers the Audit Committee. reports on action plans for internal control issues and the progress of plan execution. The Audit Committee Information & Communication has the authority to request that the GPOs or top management of each business unit provide explanations The company has established information and for identified internal control issues and, if necessary, communication channels to ensure our information is the take corrective actions. The Audit Committee may also most current, such as customer and supplier information. suggest that the Human Resources Committee take Huawei has established an online forum that provides a disciplinary action when necessary. channel for employees to communicate with each other. The top management holds regular meetings with 85 / Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility As a leading ICT solutions provider, Huawei has the ■ Continuously focusing on supplier CSR management, vision of enriching life through communication. safe operations, social contributions, caring for We offer our expertise, experiences, and innovative employees, and stakeholder communication. In terms technologies in ICT while focusing on CSR through the of sustainable development, Huawei will actively have following approaches: greater impact on the industry by implementing and executing its CSR strategies, operating with integrity, ■ Bridging the digital divide by ensuring that all promoting a harmonious business environment, and people can experience basic communications and benefiting society. information services. We adhere to a corporate strategy of establishing a ■ Protecting the environment is a core strategy of more favorable social image and exemplifying good Huawei that focuses on providing the most competitive corporate citizenship everywhere we operate and and efficient end-to-end green ICT solutions. incorporate CSR into our business operations. Corporate Social Responsibility / 86 Vision To bridge the digital divide and promote the harmonious and sustainable development of the economy, society, and the environment Mission To establish an excellent CSR management system, operate with integrity, promote a harmonious business ecosystem, ensure sustainable development, and contribute to our customers and society Strategy Bridging the Digital Divide Social Contribution Huawei provides customized ICT solutions to enable people Huawei always believes in giving back to society. We in different regions to access information conveniently and insist on local operations, contributing to the local takes the initiative to help underdeveloped regions nurture welfare, education, and disaster relief efforts, and being ICT talent, form effective education systems in the field of an ethical corporate citizen. communications, and to improve regional technology to promote communications. Caring for Employees Supply Chain CSR Management Huawei attaches importance to employees' growth, Huawei improves its CSR awareness and capabilities and health, and safety. Huawei values employees' its supply chain to achieve sustainable development. We contributions and makes every effort to ensure that have established close ties with our suppliers to strengthen employees' personal growth is realized alongside the CSR management to gain our customers' trust, enable us company's success. to take appropriate actions to ensure CSR compliance, and improve the CSR risk control for suppliers. Fair Operations Stakeholder Communication Huawei abides by ethical business practices, operates Huawei continuously improves communication with with integrity, and strictly observes Huawei's BCG. Huawei stakeholders, increases customer satisfaction, and promotes fair operations; strictly implements transparent enhances user experience management based on industry procurement and transparent sales ; and opposes standards and corporate strategies. bribery, corrupt activities, dumping, and monopolies so as to build a harmonious business environment. Environmental Protection Safe Operations Huawei actively communicates with customers on energy During the operations of the company, Huawei adheres conservation and environmental protection. Huawei closely to the principle of Safety First, Prevention First , collaborates with enterprises across the value chain to build systematically identifies sources of potential hazards, environmentally friendly networks and promotes sustainable assesses risks, and implements risk control measures to development of the industry in order to achieve our objective: ensure the sustainable development of enterprises and Green Communications, Green Huawei, and Green World . society. 87 / Corporate Social Responsibility Bridging the Digital Divide Aim: CIC initiative ■ To enable more people to access information by providing The carrier partnered with the local units and proprietors in customized ICT solutions establishing CICs, which were owned and independently ■ To support and develop telecom networks at regional operated by the proprietors. The CICs functioned as and national levels customer service centers to provide services such as pay ■ phone access, e-recharging, printing, scanning, and To nurture and support education in telecom technologies copying. The CICs also served as information centers to in underdeveloped regions provide useful information, including prices of farm goods, government website information, and job information. This Through our Bridging the Digital Divide strategy, Huawei aims enabled people in remote areas to benefit from a normal to better allocate information resources in developing effective economy, find jobs, obtain information on farm goods, communications networks in underdeveloped regions that and increase their income. would enable more people to have access to communications and information systems. To achieve this goal, Huawei is Huawei's Participation consistently expanding the coverage of communications Huawei, as the carrier's strategic partner, provided network networks in underdeveloped regions and providing training support for the implementation of the projects. In addition opportunities for local technicians and talent. to providing network equipment, Huawei actively provided customized services based on the business features of the To sustain communication services and help bridge the project. The entire network is now integrated with green digital divide, Huawei focuses its activities on three main technology solutions in rural areas where the power supply elements: technology, funds, and knowledge transfer, is unreliable, helping promote sustainable business growth. which foster mutual support and improvement. Impacts and Benefits of the Phone Lady Initiative Case: The Phone Lady Initiative in Bangladesh The Phone Lady initiative was a success. The carrier has received a sound business return on its mobile services. The In remote areas of Bangladesh where information Phone Lady initiative has employed more than 280,000 access is lacking, Huawei partnered with the largest people. The proprietors are earning an income three local carrier to initiate the Phone Lady solution and in times higher than the average income in Bangladesh. This establishing the Communication Information Centers initiative increased employment and improved livelihood in (CICs). The goal of the initiative was to provide people rural areas, and created in-depth social effects as a result of in rural areas with telephone and information access having access to communication and information services. services and enable them to benefit from economic and social success, thereby increasing their income. Phone Lady initiative The carrier helped many local proprietors, most of whom were female, by arranging for loans from the local bank so that they could own mobile phone devices. The carrier also provided them with training on the operation and billing of their services. The initiative was created to overcome the difficulty of providing Universal Access Service (UAS) to people in rural areas to allow them to communicate with their relatives, friends, and business partners. The Phone Lady initiative succeeded in overcoming the communication barrier through the provision of mobile services. Building on this success, the carrier and Huawei extended the UAS to information services by providing the local people with internet and information services through the CICs. Corporate Social Responsibility / 88 Caring for Employees Aim: Case: Employee Assistance Program ■ To ensure employees' health and welfare ■ To develop the individual values of employees The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is an initiative that requires managers at all levels to focus on the ■ To enhance the well-being of employees mental health of their employees and take precautionary measures whenever they notice unusual behavior. Huawei focuses on enhancing employees' ethic awareness and compliance. We attach much importance to employee Huawei worked with a famous enterprise management health and welfare by creating a sound work environment consulting firm to conduct a series of EAP-related and climate. We also ensure that dedicated employees training programs for its employees from March 2011 receive reasonable and timely rewards. As the company through March 2012. The EAP consists of four trainings: continues to grow, we care about employees' career development by offering different paths to diversified and 1. Identification of and Assistance for Psychological Crises local employees to realize their personal value. 2. Fulfilling Work – Enhancing Mental Competencies 3. Energy Management – Being Efficient in Work and Life Case: Talent Management 4. Management of Generation Y Employees Huawei motivates employees to contribute to the Huawei employees appreciated the EAP program and company by clearly defining their career development acknowledged it is of great help to them. path and designating their positions and responsibilities. We select and appoint managers who demonstrate high performance, solid adherence to moral principles, and outstanding leadership capabilities. Managerial Technical Personnel Professionals Senior-level Senior Experts Managers Mid-level Experts Managers Junior-level Core Key Managers Employees Key Employees Junior-level Employees Career development model for Huawei employees 89 / Corporate Social Responsibility Fair Operations Aim: Case: Huawei's BCG ■ To ensure compliance with the legislation and national standards for fair and ethical practices in our Huawei's BCG provides the foundational principles business operations for our general business conduct, which we expect ■ all employees to follow. The BCG was developed by To comply with regulations for intellectual property analyzing situations that occurred in our company and rights the global environment in which we operate, as well as the regulations with which our employees must comply Huawei has established ethical compliance organizations while conducting business activities. The BCG provides to strengthen employees' legal awareness, integrity, and guidance and assistance for Huawei to comply with moral character. We have created a good environment laws and ethical standards. for ethical compliance, which helps our employees consciously comply with laws and regulations as well as New Huawei employees are required to learn and sign the company's ethical guidelines. We have put in place a the BCG. Each year, all employees are required to learn supervisory mechanism that features points, lines, and the BCG based on their specific positions, take online sites to ensure that fairness and ethical behavior are examinations, and sign a letter of commitment. incorporated into our business operations. During the process of producing and utilizing products and services, Case: Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery we ensure that we comply with intellectual property laws and regulations, grow with our peers together, and Huawei believes that corruption activities like business create a benign environment for development. bribery severely destroy the legal system, impair free and fair competition, and have negative effects on the Huawei firmly believes that operations should be based development of society, the economy, and enterprises. on business ethics. Huawei defines bribery, corruption, Huawei believes that by employing an efficient and intellectual property violations, and other similar behavior transparent anti-corruption and anti-bribery control as major risks in business. Any behavior that violates system, it can win trust from its partners and customers the rules for fair play will have a negative impact on the to guarantee its sustainable development. Huawei company. Therefore, Huawei has introduced procedures strongly prohibits bribery in business situations. Huawei to incorporate anti-bribery and anti-corruption principles will abide by business ethics, perform all operations into its operations. The IPR risks Huawei is exposed to with integrity, adopt active and effective systems and include protection of its own IPR and respecting other measures, and oppose and prevent bribery and other companies' IPR. Huawei will continue to adopt similar corrupt activities. Huawei stresses that employees shall initiatives to ensure that the company complies with be active and effective in all business situations, abide international intellectual property laws and regulations. by all laws, and conduct themselves ethically. The BCG and legal documents state that: ■ Employees must not give or accept gifts or business amenities that exceed normal value. ■ Employees are strongly forbidden to perform illegal actions, such as bribery, in business situations. ■ Employees must comply with all government laws and regulations when conducting business. Corporate Social Responsibility / 90 Environmental Protection Aim: Case: Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction ■ To practice the Green Communications, Green Measures Huawei, Green World strategy The energy consumption of the R&D Center and manufacturing ■ To design and provide green solutions base in Huawei's China Region is primarily related to the power ■ To respond actively to climate change by implementing consumption of manufacturing, R&D equipment, central airenergy conservation and emissions reduction measures conditioning, and lighting systems; the diesel consumption of generators; the gas consumption of service cars; and the natural The ICT sector is an energy-intensive industry with gas consumption of canteens and heating. further user and traffic growth leading to greater energy consumption. Huawei realizes the importance Huawei strictly implements regulations on air-conditioning of providing energy-efficient solutions. To address and lighting for indoor heating, strictly controls environmental this issue, Huawei has implemented the Green temperatures, adjusts the on-and-off time of its systems in Communications, Green Huawei, Green World strategy a timely manner, and reduces the consumption of diesel in its operations, products, and services. and gas by maintaining generators and establishing fuel consumption per hundred kilometers for cars. Huawei fully considers the need for environmental protection and evaluates its impact on resource and In 2011, Huawei's Shenzhen and Dongguan bases energy consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, implemented energy conservation audits and strategies and waste handling procedures for its products, based on the 12th Five Year Energy Conservation Plan. The services, and business activities. This understanding major production facilities in the China Region saved a total of allows us to develop innovative solutions that minimize 14.13 million kWh through management and technology. negative environmental effects and maximize our active influence in facilitating the development of a lowCase: Green Base Station carbon economy. Additionally, Huawei hopes to spread our environmental protection practices, such as energy Our research has shown that carbon emissions occur mostly conservation and emissions reduction, throughout in products used for base stations in mobile networks and society to achieve our goal of Green Communication, broadband access in fixed networks. Based on our analysis of our Green Huawei, and Green World . customers' energy consumption, we are focusing on the need for a more energy-efficient design of our networks: primarily our access network, core equipment room, and transport network. In 2011, Huawei reduced its power consumption by implementing various measures and developing energy-conservation soft features during the operation of its base station. The reduction in our power consumption has also led to a reduction in carbon Green Communications dioxide emissions and air pollution. Dedicated to Providing Leading Green Power consumption per carrier (W) ICT Solutions Green Green Huawei World Actively Promoting Contributing to Energy Saving, Building a Emissions Reduction, Green World and Clean Manufacturing Methods Year Consumption Trend of Radio Access Equipment 91 / Corporate Social Responsibility Social Contribution Aim: ■ To be a responsible corporate citizen ■ To contribute to the development of the communities where we operate ■ To contribute to positive economic, environmental, and social changes The UK France 1.Huawei launched the 1. A Chinese Spring Festival undergraduate work Concert was held locally experience program for the to promote cross-cultural students from Royal Holloway communication. University and the University 2. Huawei started the work of Southampton. experience training program 2. Huawei organized a for excellent students from Canada the Ecole Polytechnique Prince's Charities Foundation Huawei sponsored a charity event held in Toronto concert in the UK and which enables them to do an and donated money to the local community mental donated the money raised internship in Huawei. health center. to the Prince's Charities Foundation. Italy The US Huawei sponsored the China 1. Huawei donated to Children's Medical Center Disabled Art performance in at Legacy in Plano to improve community medical Rome and promoted crossservices. cultural exchanges between 2. Huawei supported the charitable activities of the two countries. the North Texas Food Bank through donations and employee volunteer services. Venezuela Colombia Huawei worked with local Huawei donated money to charities CAJA MAGICA to Colombia to support the visit children in poor areas and government's efforts in dealing donated toys. with the floods. Morocco Guinea Ghana Huawei launched a network Huawei Guinea contributed to 1. Huawei donated a complete package of technology institute to promote the Guinean Government's policy facilities to help the university of Cape Coast to IP technology and develop ICT on Youngsters Employment , build a new ICT laboratory, provided training talent by cooperating with the donated telephone booths and courses, and developed ICT talent for local State University of Posts and tools for repairing mobile phones, enterprises, research institutes, and government. Telecommunications in Morocco. and provided training to create job 2. Huawei donated equipment to the local opportunities for young people. hospital to improve medical conditions and healthcare technologies. Mali Nigeria Kenya Huawei cared for women and Huawei worked with the Nigeria Huawei donated money to the children of the community and Charity Foundation organizations Kenya Red Cross Society for relief donated to the local foundation to organize the Happy of the biggest drought in 60 for women and children. Children's Day charity activity in years as part of the Kenyans for Abuja, the capital. Kenya initiative. Corporate Social Responsibility / 92 Huawei believes that the power of information The following provides an overview of Huawei's major communications can transcend the boundary of economies, social contribution activities in 2011: society, and regions. We are committed to popularizing communications technologies, increasing educational opportunities, and developing ICT talent. We actively join our partners, promote sustainable development, contribute to local communities, and enrich life through communication. Russia Huawei donated communications Poland Hungary equipment to Russia's St. Petersburg State University of Telecommunications. Huawei participated in Huawei cooperated with Hungary's fundraising activities to Economics University and Technology Kazakhstan support youth education University and provided scholarships to and organized volunteers the students. Huawei provided scholarships to to care for orphans and the Kazakhstan International IT University to poor. develop local ICT talent. Belarus Latvia Japan Huawei set up a training center in Huawei donated the National Institute of Advanced Huawei employees offered disaster relief telepresence systems to Communication (VGKS) in Belarus and assistance in response to the earthquake improve medical services. is establishing a fund to encourage and and tsunami, deploying equipment and support outstanding students. emergency solutions to help restore communication networks. China 1. Huawei cooperated with 45 universities in China and continued to provide scholarships and faculty fellowships to support academic development. 2. Huawei made donations to the earthquake-stricken area of Yingjiang, Yunnan. 3. Huawei supported the activities of the Care Association for charitable donations. Thailand Malaysia Huawei contributed cash, goods, Huawei launched a program to develop and equipment to assist the Thai and train 10,000 ICT professionals in government in resolving the flood cooperation with the government of situation in many regions. Malaysia over the next five years. Laos Indonesia India Huawei donated computers and office The STEI/ITB/Huawei datacom Huawei continued the E-Hope initiative facilities to the local government IP advanced training center was to enable students from underdeveloped to improve school conditions in completed and inaugurated as a regions to gain equal access to the latest developing regions in northern Laos. technical development base oriented information and knowledge. toward school and society, and was Cambodia dedicated to the development of local communications talent. 1. Huawei made cash donations to the Cambodian Red Cross to Australia support education programs for the community and to assist the poor. Huawei sponsored local foundations 2. Huawei donated equipment committed to cancer prevention and and materials to the Cambodian research to support local community government as part of rebuilding healthcare careers. efforts after the flood. 93 / Corporate Social Responsibility Supply Chain CSR Management Aim: Case: 3rd Annual Huawei Supplier CSR Conference ■ To work with suppliers to promote sustainable development and social responsibility in the supply chain In 2011, Huawei held its 3rd Annual Supplier CSR Conference with the theme of Commitment and ■ To establish Huawei's social responsibility in the supply Innovation – strengthening suppliers' commitment chain and boost the confidence of global customers to sustainable development and behavioral change ■ To integrate CSR standards into the whole procurement through innovative thinking. The conference was process and supplier lifecycle management attended by 360 people from our six key customers ■ To cooperate with industry peers to solve supplier CSR and 174 suppliers, including senior executives from issues via innovative thinking Telenor, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, British Telecom, France Telecom, and China Mobile. Huawei's Chief To enable the sustainable development of the supply Operation & Delivery Officer delivered a speech entitled chain, Huawei works hand-in-hand with its suppliers to CSR, Foundation for Sustainable Development . There fulfill social responsibilities. We pay close attention to were extensive exchanges between the participating our suppliers' performance in the areas of ethics, the members, including Huawei CSR experts and environment, health, safety, and labor. Issues with our representatives from our customers and suppliers, on suppliers may affect our businesses, such as production issues such as Huawei's CSR management process, losses and damages to our brand value. As suppliers approaches and ideas for innovatively resolving are an integral part of our company's value chain, a CSR issues, international CSR trends, principles for risk to a supplier is also a risk to our company and our sustainable procurement, as well as experience in customers. Based on the belief that our supply chain is creatively resolving CSR issues. All representatives as strong as its weakest link, Huawei requires CSR to be attending the conference signed their commitment on a extended to all parties in its supply chain. CSR board. Corporate Social Responsibility / 94 Stakeholder Communication Safe Operations Aim: Aim: ■ To strengthen the management of stakeholder ■ To comply with the Safety First, Prevention First inclusiveness through consultation and communication principle relating to occupational health & safety ■ To incorporate stakeholders' viewpoints into our ■ To systematically identify hazards, assess risks, and business approaches and activities implement control measures to ensure sustainable ■ To enhance perception management and continue to development improve customer satisfaction Huawei develops its management processes and A new focus of our CSR strategy is to regard stakeholder operation guides and implements its occupational communication as a critical factor in all of our operations. health and safety management system to prevent Our goal is to continuously engage with our internal and accidents in many areas, such as manufacturing, project external stakeholders to understand their views and delivery, infrastructure, firefighting, vehicle security, and address them by incorporating the issues raised into food safety. our business strategy and operations. In the future, we will be expanding the scope and scale of stakeholder Case: Manufacturing Safety communication, highlighting stakeholders' participation in our business. In 2011, Huawei promoted its I Want Safety management concept throughout its manufacturing Case: Communication with Customers departments. This strategy involved establishing a multilevel safe manufacturing inspection model in multiple For years, Huawei has been putting customers first. We locations and implementing regulations and policies. In strive to provide high-quality products and responsive 2011, only four minor accidents occurred. There were services while driving down operating costs. Satisfying no serious accidents. The injury rate in 2011 was 0.15 customer needs is our top priority. We help customers per million labor hours. Over the past three years, the enhance their competitiveness and profitability. In accident occurrence rate has been significantly reduced. addition, we will continue to take steps to establish a global customer satisfaction management system. Huawei has set up regions and representative offices in major countries across all continents. We listen attentively to customers and better understand their needs by establishing multi-layer customer-facing organizations and lines of communication, as well as through activities such as open discussions, annual meetings, third-party satisfaction surveys, service hotlines, receptions for customers who come to audit Huawei, summits, and routine visits. Safety awareness training at manufacturing site For more information about Huawei's CSR, see the 2011 Huawei Corporate Sustainability Report. 95 / Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Abbreviations Abbreviations Full name ARPU Average Revenue Per User ATIS The Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode BSS Business Support System CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDN Content Delivery Network CRM Customer Relationship Management CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CT Communication Technology CTIA Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association DSL Digital Subscriber Line EDGE Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EMT Executive Management Team EPC Evolved Packet Core ERM Enterprise Risk Management ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute EV-DO Evolution-Data Optimized EVPs Executive Vice presidents FBB Fixed Broadband FTTH Fiber To The Home GDP Gross Domestic Product GPON Gigabit-Capable Passive Optical Network GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile communications GSMA GSM Association HSPA High-Speed Packet Access ICT Information and Communications Technology IDC Internet Data Center IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem IP Internet Protocol Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates / 96 Abbreviations Full name IPTV IP Television IPv6 Internet protocol version 6 IT Information Technology ITR Issue To Resolution ITU International Telecommunication Union LTE Long Term Evolution MBB Mobile Broad Band NFC Near Field Communication NOC Network Operation Center ODN Optical Distribution Network OMA Open Mobile Alliance OSS operations Support System OTN Optical Transport Network OTT Optical Transmission Technology PBX Private Branch Exchange PCT Patent Cooperation Treaty R&D Research and Development RAN Radio Access Network SAN Storage Area Network SDB Service Database SDM Service Data Management SDP Service Delivery Platforms SON Self-Organizing Network TCO Total Cost of Ownership TDM Time Division Multiplexing TD-SCDMA Time Division-Spatial Code Division Multiple Access TVO Total Value of Ownership U2Net Ubiquitous Ultra-broadband Network Architecture UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access Wi-Fi Wireless Fidelity WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access 97 / Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Financial Terminology Exchange rates Operating profit Exchange rates used in consolidation of financial Gross profit less research and development expenses, statements: selling, general and administrative expenses, plus other operating income, less other operating expenses CNY/USD 2011 2010 Cash and short term investments Average rate 6.4487 6.7629 Cash and cash equivalents plus financial assets held for Closing rate 6.2949 6.6070 trading Working capital Current assets less current liabilities Liability ratio Liability expressed as a percentage of total assets Days of sales outstanding (DSO) Trade receivables at the end of the year divided by revenue, and multiplied by 360 days Inventory turnover days (ITO) Inventories at the end of the year divided by cost of sales, and multiplied by 360 days Days of payables outstanding (DPO) Trade payables at the end of the year divided by cost of sales, and multiplied by 360 days Cash flow before change in operating assets and liabilities Net profit plus depreciation, amortization, unrealized exchange loss, interest expense, loss on disposal of fixed and intangible assets, and other non-operating expense, less unrealized exchange gain, interest income, investment income, gain on disposal of fixed and intangible assets, and other non-operating income. Copyright © 2012 HUAWEI INVESTMENT & HOLDING CO., LTD. All Rights Reserved. GENERAL DISCLAIMER THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, STATEMENTS REGARDING THE FUTURE FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESULTS, FUTURE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO, NEW TECHNOLOGY, ETC. THERE ARE A NUMBER OF FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED IN THE PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS. THEREFORE, SUCH INFORMATION IS PROVIDED FOR REFERENCE PURPOSE ONLY AND CONSTITUTES NEITHER AN OFFER NOR AN ACCEPTANCE. HUAWEI MAY CHANGE THE INFORMATION AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE. HUAWEI INVESTMENT & HOLDING CO., LTD.
