Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Mammut A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Mammut’s operations in Denmark are mainly administrative and as such we focussed on mapping our suppliers regarding human rights, labour, environment and anti corruption. The main focus of our CSR work last year has been on the environmental aspects related to our fabric and accessories suppliers. Locally, Mammut has joined a CSR network that is organised by the Danish fashion and textile association, where we and other members meet a number of times per year to discuss CSR issues Sincerely yours, Michael Graversen Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Mammut A/S complies with the universal declaration of human rights Implementation We have procedures regarding illness, stress, health, pregnancy etc. Measurement of outcomes We have a short meeting every morning where employees have the opportunity to discuss all relevant topics freely as well as a longer meeting once a week consisting of management and employees Labour Assessment, policy and goals Work environment and conditions for our employees has always been a high priority at Mammut and we have introduced many different measures to achieve a comfortable working environment Implementation In the offices, we have replaced all old desks with modern ergonomic office desks that can be adjusted up or down as needed as well as proper lighting and heat. For breaks, we provided facilities with refrigerator, stove,etc. where workers can sit in comfortable environment. In the strage area, we have upgraded to modern machines (fork lifts etc.) . We also introduced a flexible time schedule. Measurement of outcomes Workers are encouraged to discuss any work conditions topics at the daily/weekly meetings Environment Assessment, policy and goals Due to the nature of our business, (Mammut is a producer of work wear), the main environmental impacts are related to our suppliers and transport. Environmental impacts internally relate to energy use and waste. Implementation During 2010, Mammut started a project regarding the environmental aspects of the company on a LCA basis. This meant that we had to look at our suppliers (which is where most of the pollution occurs). The first part of the project involved the preparation of Mammut’s environmental requirements throughout the life cycle of the products. This paper includes chemical and substances use, waste water disposal, emissions to air etc.. We also prepared lists of banned chemicals and substances/dyes. We them made a questionnaire which we sent to our suppliers to fill in and sign. The environmental requirements and lists were attached as reference for our suppliers and all suppliers have to adhere to the banned lists of chemicals and dyes/substances. Measurement of outcomes We have been able to get a view of our suppliers environmental situation from the answers received and it gives us the opportunity of supplier selection when possible. Our evaluation is based on EU Ecolabel criteria and we try to select the company that is either certified or adheres with most of the criteria. Monitoring is done through the documentation received such as certifications that suppliers hold and the signed questionnaire. Anti – Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Mammut A/S adheres to the anti corruption principles and is kept up to date with developments such as UKs anti bribery act etc. through the CSR network participation. Moreover all elements of Mammut’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. Implementation Employees are informed of the importance of Mammut’s stand on ant corruption Measurement of outcomes Mammut has a policy that states: corruption will not be tolerated.
