Creating and sharing long-term sustainability Responsible stewardship Building strong relationships Adding and sharing value Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 Introduction This is Vedanta Group’s fourth Sustainable Development Report. As we did last year, we have aligned our Sustainability Reporting Calendar with our Financial Calendar and future reports will continue to be published annually with the Annual Report. We have used the Global Reporting Initiatives G3.1 Sustainability Guidelines to develop this year’s report and the GRI G3.1 supplement on Metal and Mining Industries. In addition to the G3.1 guidelines ‘A+’ application level, our report is aligned to the International Finance Corporation’s Guidelines and Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability for the Metals and Mining Sector and the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This report covers Vedanta Group subsidiary companies as though they were 100% wholly owned (i.e. figures are 100% regardless of actual ownership percentage). This report does not include data from the assets purchased from Cairn Plc as this transaction was completed in December 2011, giving Vedanta only three months of ownership in the reporting period – accordingly information on Cairn assets will be included in the 2012-13 report, as will information on the Iron Ore resources we purchased in Liberia in 2011. In this year’s report, we have included data from our Zinc International assets (purchased in 2010-11) and Sterlite Energy Ltd. assets (commissioned in the last quarter of 2010-11). We have again appointed DNV as our assurance provider for this Sustainable Development Report, and in that capacity they selected the following businesses to visit: Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. (VAL), Bharat Aluminium Co. Ltd. (BALCO), Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZL), Sterlite India Industries Ltd (SIIL), Sesa Goa and Zinc International. Quick find Overview Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Adding and Understand how and See the specific Relationships Sharing Value where we operate and our management systems Learn how we establish and See the management strategy and approach to that we have in place to maintain close, responsive systems we have in place to sustainable development manage our operations links with our stakeholders create and share value to the and to minimise risks in our sustainability journey benefit of our stakeholders p02 p20 p44 p54 01 Contents In 2011, Vedanta further evolved its Overview sustainability strategy and we have structured our report to reflect this. In About Vedanta 02 this year’s report we provide an overview Chairman’s Statement 06 of our performance, our progress and our Our Strategy and Approach 08 sustainable development initiatives based Performance 16 on our three pillared sustainability framework – Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value. Responsible Stewardship Strategy and Management 22 Sustainable Management in Practice 24 Health and Safety 26 Environment 34 Building Strong Relationships Stakeholder Engagement 46 Human Rights 50 Community Consultation and Resettlement 52 Adding and Sharing Value Adding Value to our Stakeholders 56 Our Employees 58 Our Communities 62 Our Industry 69 Our Governments 70 Our Broader Stakeholders 71 Assurance Scott Wilson Report 74 GRI Index 78 UNGC 83 Millennium Development Goals 84 Assurance Statement by DNV 86 Glossary 88 vedantaresources.com 02 About Vedanta Our business model is based on growth, value creation and continuous improvement in all aspects of our operations No business can be sustainable if the planet or society fails. vulnerable groups. India has a fully Vedanta’s vision is to be a world class, diversified and sustainable developed legislature and judiciary which is the hallmark of its highly natural resources company providing superior returns to our evolved democratic process. India shareholders with high-quality assets, cost efficient operations is also an active participant in every and exposure and proximity to emerging markets. It is important major discussion on sustainable to us to implement internationally recognised performance development, environment and standards; accordingly we embed sustainable development into economic development. all aspects of what we do and work to support the communities Vedanta’s roots are in India, where our where we operate, contributing to the development of society resources business traces its heritage. where we can. India has provided both a platform for Vedanta’s global expansion and the invaluable experience of operating About Vedanta are working hard to embed them in an emerging economy that we Vedanta Resources plc is a Londonthroughout the business. can bring to our operations across listed FTSE 100 diversified natural the world. resources group headquartered Our journey of continuous in London, with extensive interests improvement includes the further in aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, alignment of Vedanta’s operations silver, iron ore, power and, more with international best practice and recently, in oil and gas. Our business standards. We have used the 2012 encompasses eight countries IFC performance standards, which A sustainable business through several dozen operations, underpin the Equator Principles, must be capable of adapting with a particular focus on India and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) sustainable and evolving in conjunction Africa where we hold the majority of our operating assets. development framework and the with the significant transition UNGC principles as the basis for that the world as a whole Our business model is based on our sustainability framework. is experiencing. growth, value creation and continuous Implementation of our framework improvement in all aspects of our is expected at all businesses within operations including our safety, social the Group and covers the entire life Despite India’s status as an emerging and environmental programmes cycle of our operations. economic super power, it is still a and practices. society with numerous socio-political The Indian experience and economic challenges. As we We have strived to continuously India, for centuries, has been driven by partner with India’s growth story, improve our means of engagement its rich diversity. This diverse sociowhere GDP is expected to grow by and the assessment of our work in this cultural fabric of the country has been about 6.9% during FY 2012-13, we regard. During the past year, we have nurtured through a robust democracy also understand the importance introduced a significant number of that believes in upholding secular of Public-Private-Partnership. Our new and amended policies and values and guaranteeing the same experience of working closely with the standards to support this and we rights to every citizen, including government and non-governmental Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 03 Overview P02-19 bodies has been a rewarding and our shareholders and lenders. 23% enriching experience. We believe Without engaging with them and that for a business to succeed in fully understanding their changing India, it must be capable of adapting to its evolution process. interests and concerns, our business’s long-term future cannot be assured. + Although it can appear that these US$14 billion Revenue FY 2012 Vedanta has been successful in stakeholders have widely divergent +13% India and other countries by using interests, at a fundamental level we advanced technology, highly all share a common interest in automated systems, robust creating a business that is safe governance and cost-efficient and economically robust that production methods. A sustainable contributes to the development US$4 billion EBITDA FY 2012 business must be capable of adapting of society through its products, and evolving in conjunction with the employment and broader economic significant transition that the world and social activities, while minimising >> World-class diversified as a whole is experiencing. Vedanta’s our environmental footprint. portfolio of large, sustainability journey reflects this structurally low-cost ongoing evolution. Proactively and positively working with the governments and assets with long mine‑life. Working in developing economies communities in the countries in which >> Strong cash flow growth Our growth and success could not we operate takes many different forms – from recruiting the majority of our driven by substantially have occurred without our business activities being closely aligned with workforce locally and developing local invested projects. the development agenda of India. Our suppliers to the payment of royalties >> Recent acquisitions own Indian heritage provides us with and taxes. provide additional a deep understanding of this agenda and has allowed us to make a broad The Vedanta commitment growth options. contribution to India’s social and With our success as a world-class, >> Scalable assets in economic advancement. We bring diversified resources company built this deep knowledge and experience from many years’ experience in India, close proximity to of working in a developing economy our origins in the developing world high‑growth markets. to our operations in Africa, where significantly differentiate us from the a deep understanding of local majority of our peers. We are aware challenges is a key component of the impact we can make on the of our success in Zambia, Namibia lives of the individuals who work with and South Africa. us – as employees, contractors and suppliers – as well as on those families Our work in developing economies and communities that are touched has included developing transport, by our presence. In addition, our sanitation and health infrastructure activities do provide significant and services as well as educational economic benefits to our host programmes through schools and countries, as well as contributing to community groups. We have also broader development goals. At the initiated and supported programmes broadest level, we do this by – as at focused on developing sustainable March 2012 – directly employing over livelihoods in remote rural 30,000 people, and contracting over Economic Value Generated and Distributed (US$m) communities. We have successfully 69,000 more, with the majority drawn developed partnerships with from the surrounding communities 149 different non-governmental of each of our operations, as well organisations with whom we as contributing to the countries we work actively to support our operate in through the payment of host communities. our tax obligations – we contributed US$4.7 billion to our host governments Critical to Vedanta’s ongoing success through direct and indirect taxes and is to listen and engage with all our key royalties. In addition we spent over stakeholders – who we have identified US$10.9 billion in operating costs, over ∞ Operating costs 78.15% (US$10,945) as our employees, our neighbouring US$500 million in wages and benefits ∞ Wages and benefits 3.87% (US$543) communities, members of our and some US$38 million in ∞ Payments to providers of capital 6.27% (US$879) industry, our host governments, community investments. ∞ Payments to government Income Tax 3.69% (US$517) ∞ Community investments 0.27% (US$38) civil society (including NGOs), ∞ Economic value retained 7.75% (US$1,085) vedantaresources.com 04 About Vedanta continued A globally diversified natural resources group Our operations Zinc-Lead/Silver Iron Ore Copper We are the world’s largest integrated We have iron ore mining operations Our copper business has operations zinc-lead producer. In India, we have in India, in the states of Goa and across Zambia, India and Australia. multiple mines and smelters – our Karnataka. We are the largest private In Zambia we have integrated copper Agucha mine is the largest in the sector producer-exporter in India. Our mining and smelting operations. In world and with silver-rich ore from planned capacity expansion and new India, we have facilities for custom the Sindesar Khurd mine, we are also acquisition in West Africa will position copper smelting and production of on track to become one of the world’s us as one of the major iron ore copper rods. In Australia, we have top silver producers. Following the producers in the world. copper mines. acquisition of Anglo American’s zinc assets, we now have mines in Namibia, South Africa and Ireland. These include the 186 MT Gamsberg deposit in South Africa, which is one of the world’s largest undeveloped zinc deposits. Total revenue by division (million) Total revenue by division (million) Total revenue by division (million) US$3,207 US$1,691 US$5,915 Aluminium Power Oil & Gas Our aluminium operation is supported India has an acute need to add to its We are one of the largest private by captive power plants located in power generation capacity to meet sector crude oil producers in India, India, in the states of Chhattisgarh and its growing power requirement. contributing about 20% of Indian Orissa. These include our one million production. Our current operating tonne refinery in Orissa which sources We have power generation facilities rate is about 200,000 barrels per its bauxite feed partly from our mines in India, including thermal and wind day and we have a potential to raise in Chhattisgarh and partly from power facilities. Our power sales are production from our Rajasthan block external sources in India, and two supplemented by sales of surplus to 300,000 barrels per day from the alumina smelters. Orissa has abundant power from our captive power plants. existing 175,000. Recent successful untapped bauxite resources. We have just completed a 2400 MW exploration in Sri Lanka has enhanced power project at Jharsuguda, Orissa Vedanta’s strong and diversified and our 1980 MW power plant at growth pipeline. Talwandi, Punjab is in an advanced stage of construction. We also have 273 MW of wind power within our Hindustan Zinc business. Total revenue by division (million) Total revenue by division (million) Total revenue by division (million) US$1,874 US$458 US$882 – (post acquisition) Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 05 Overview P02-19 India 1 Debari smelter 2 Chanderiya smelters 3 Rampura-Agucha mine 4 Rajpura Dariba mine and smelters and Sindesar Khurd mine 5 Zawar mine 13 4 3 6 Silvassa refinery 2 13 1 7 Sesa Goa operations 5 8 Tuticorin smelter Ireland 12 12 12 11 11 9 MALCO power plant 11 1 Lisheen mine 19 10 Lanjigarh alumina refinery 19 6 10 11 Jharsuguda smelters and power plants FTE 377 14 12 Korba smelters and power plants CE 25 21 14 20 7 16 15 13 Rajasthan block 17 7 14 Ravva PKGM(1) block 1 18 15 KG-DWN-98/2 block 9 16 KG-ONN-2003/1 block 17 KG-OSN-2009/3 block 8 22 18 PR-OSN-2004/1 block 8 19 Cambay (CB/052) block 20 KK-DWN-2004/1 block Africa 21 MB-DWN-2009/1 block 22 SL 2007-01-001 block FTE 19,625 CE 54,730 4 1 1 1 Konkola and Nchanga copper mines and Nchanga smelter 2 Skorpion Mine Australia 3 Black Mountain Mine 4 Liberia Iron Ore project 2 3 South Africa – Black Mountain Mine FTE 715 CE 628 1 Mt. Lyell mine Namibia – Skorpion Mine 1 FTE 733 FTE 103 CE 658 CE 234 Zambia – Konkola Copper Mine FTE 8,689 CE 13,217 Aluminium FTE Full time employees Copper CE Contract employees Iron Ore Zinc/Lead/Silver 30,242 Power Total full time employees Oil & Gas 69,492 Projects under development Total contractor employees Captive power plant vedantaresources.com 06 Chairman’s Statement >> New Sustainability Framework rolled out. >> LTIFR reduced by 10% over last year. >> Doubled water recycling across the Group to 55.72 million cubic metres from 27.91 million cubic metres last year. >> Community programmes covering 3.1 million people. Embracing challenges, creating long-term sustainability The big five the following five 1 Em be d su st ai nable deve hat we do. lopment in to every Last year I set this report illustrates aspect of w ance fety perform priorit ie s, and e ur he alth and sa we have mad ve o 2 Impro r, more secure the progress . agains t th em for a safe ent. r environm priorities to pr ovide and healthie rgeted I expect these our successful in a more ta ute further and a clear path tosustainable future, 3 C ont rib es. growth and access and growth l communiti way to loca ur where our su sitive outcomes for minimise o to m anage and will deliver po rs. inue 4  Cont n air, water and land. our stakeholde impact o to help akeholders alogue with st help 5 Maint r understand what is ne antoet. ain a di ed ed us furthe ciety and pl stainable so support a su Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 07 Overview P02-19 I am very pleased to introduce our Strengthening our Approach I do regret to report that we have had 2011-12 Sustainable Development to Sustainable Development an unacceptably high rate of fatalities Report, detailing our approach to I am very happy with the progress this year – reducing this number sustainability. The Vedanta values we have made this year in advancing and the continuous improvement have always reflected my desire for our sustainability strategy. The of our health and safety processes sustainability to be a foundation of prime driver of our strategy is our is my overarching concern. our business strategy and I subscribe Sustainability Committee – chaired to the notion that business will by Senior Independent Director Building Strong Relationships succeed when society also thrives. Mr Naresh Chandra. During the I am pleased to report continued year, the committee has overseen active engagement with our Key to sustainability is understanding the development of our Sustainable external stakeholders, including people’s needs and aspirations. It is Development Model and Sustainability our neighbouring communities, important that we understand what Framework as well as approving a government representatives, noneach of our stakeholder groups suite of new policies. We signed the government organisations and our values and deliver the same in a spirit UN Global Compact in March 2012. providers of capital. I have personally of mutual trust. This provides a clear We have also made significant undertaken numerous workshops path to a sustainable future, where progress in implementing all of with many different groups of our success and growth will deliver the recommendations made in the our talented employees giving me positive outcomes for our Scott Wilson report of 2010, with all additional insight into the successes stakeholders. We have aligned our expected to be met this year, except and challenges our business and governance and stewardship as per for those subject to external factors our employees face on a daily basis. the international standards related beyond our control. I am proud of our workforce and to environmental, economic and their achievements. social impacts of all business decisions and processes. Adding Value I am happy that Vedanta has As our businesses are primarily continued to make a difference to located in the developing economies the lives of over three million people of India, Zambia, South Africa, Liberia through our numerous community and Namibia, where people still face Key to sustainability is development programmes, which you challenges due to a lack of access understanding people’s can read about further in this report. to modern healthcare, education needs and aspirations. I personally support the community and other social infrastructure, our investments we make in the countries adherence to sustainable practices in which we operate and work to makes a significant impact. We are I am sure that you will agree after ensure we leave a positive contribution. partnering with governments and examining this report that Vedanta NGOs to create projects that will is positioning itself to be a successful The Future deliver solutions to help fight resources company. The three core In the coming year, I look forward malnutrition, improve education pillars supporting our sustainability to continuing our sustainability and healthcare and develop skills strategy are responsible stewardship, journey and, by implementing our within communities that will help building strong relationships and sustainability model and framework, create a robust local economy. adding and sharing value. I expect Vedanta to demonstrate Our goal is to be recognised sustainability in practice. We work with natural resources internally and externally as the which are the foundation of modern global benchmark company Anil Agarwal life – without them the world as in sustainability performance. Chairman we know it today could not function. To extract these essential, finite Responsible Stewardship commodities efficiently requires Key to our sustainable development a robust sustainability strategy, journey – and for a company whose technical skill, an excellent workforce core business is the development and positive engagement with the of natural resources – responsible governments and communities stewardship is the foundation on that host our activities, as well which we build our business. We as with our other key stakeholders. subscribe to continuous improvement and have seen positive developments within the Group in water and energy use. vedantaresources.com 08 Our Strategy and Approach CEO Introduction Vedanta Resources plc’s business model is to find, develop and invest in natural resource production where there is an opportunity to create significant shareholder value while adhering to sustainable development standards. Our policies and standards are aligned to international best practices. In addition, we contribute to the debate and appreciate global trends through our membership of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, whose Vision 2050 is for business to lay out a pathway to a world in which nine billion people can live well, and within the planet’s resources, by 2050. As a responsible parent company, we have always been process oriented, underpinning our rigour with a spirit of entrepreneurship. Our subsidiaries have invested in the best technology and we see sustainable development as a natural way to strategically improve the value of our business Embedding by managing risk and improving our operating standards. Our approach to sustainability mirrors our prevailing business ethos of focusing on sustainability excellence in our processes and outcomes. With this perspective in mind, we in all we do are following a structured process that began when we reviewed and revised our Vision, Values and Code of Conduct last year to further reinforce our commitment to Sustainable Development. Embedding Sustainability This year, under the guidance and leadership of the Sustainability Committee, we have taken further steps to embed sustainability in all we do by improving our processes across the Group to implement new technical standards aligned to international best practices. We have mapped the Vedanta sustainability framework of policies and standards against international standards and are satisfied that we have reflected them in our internal organisation. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 09 Overview P02-19 Sustainability Sub-committee Management Update In November 2011, we formed the ExCo Sustainability Sub-committee Sesa Goa Ltd – which I chair – to manage the In 2011-12, the Indian iron ore mining industry has been affected by a decision day-to-day implementation of the to suspend all iron ore mining in Karnataka, made by the Honourable Supreme sustainability framework across Court of India. The issues relate to regulation, policy and other environmental the Company. This committee is concerns and this state-wide suspension of iron ore mining has affected Sesa formed by the senior leaders of all Goa and the mining at the A. Narraine mine in Karnataka has been halted. Group companies and provides an Following the submission of the Central Empowered Committee’s report executive forum to drive continuous to the Supreme Court in February 2012, the Company expects a positive improvement and implementation. resolution to this matter in the near term. The sub-committee’s focus since formation has been health and safety On 16 July 2011, due to excess rainfall there was an increase in the pit water and the review of our standards and level at one of our mining pits resulting in an overflow causing erosion and practices. I do deeply regret that we breach of bund wall and the rainwater flowing into nearby fields. We have have suffered fatalities in our business compensated those affected and taken multiple actions to ensure this does this year. All of us at Vedanta feel great not recur. sympathy for the families, friends and colleagues who have been impacted Vedanta Aluminium Limited – Lanjigarh by these losses. I am committed In Orissa, India we have built one of the most modern alumina refineries in the to eliminate unsafe conditions and world. We are continuing to work with state and national governments and behaviour across our sites and I will regulators towards approval for an expansion project. not be satisfied until we reach our goal of zero fatalities. Red mud waste from our alumina refinery is stored in a red mud pond with sloping dyke walls. It was alleged that some red mud waste overflowed We are seeing the early signs of the dyke during a heavy monsoon rainstorm. This was not the case as the a reduction in injury rates and the Ministry of Environment and Forests high level technical committee issued hands-on leadership of Group a report confirming this following their visit to Lanjigarh on 25 April 2011 company CEOs will be central to (available on their website moef.nic.in/downloads/public-information/ achieving our goals around health rpt-vedanta-07-06-2011.pdf). and safety. Over the past five years we have reduced our Lost Time Through Sterlite Industries India Ltd – Tuticorin Injury Frequency Rate from 1.91 to The Honourable Supreme Court ordered that an independent assessment 0.99, with our target for this coming of the present situation and condition of the unit and its effect with year below 0.8. reference to environmental pollution is to be carried out by the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). We have agreed All our policies and supporting to implement the recommendations – which are improvements beyond technical standards are focused accepted norms – and expect them all to be implemented by August 2012. on ensuring we manage responsibly across our business. To date, over 1,000 people have received training in the new Sustainability Framework and its implementation will continue throughout 2012. The future of Vedanta is dependent The Future upon us reaching and maintaining To measure our success in embedding and enhancing our sustainability world-class standards in our approach processes, we have set ourselves the following targets: to and execution of our sustainability Measure 2012-13 Target processes, a path I am committed Safety – LTIFR <0.80 to following. Safety – TRIFR <1.0 MS Mehta Water Savings – Million Cubic Metres of water 18.72 Chief Executive Officer Energy Savings – Million GJ 3.90 >> Stakeholder Engagement Plan (SEPs) – All sites to have SEPs by 2013. >> All sites to have Biodiversity Action Plans (BAP) by 2015. >> 25% women representation at the Vedanta Resources plc Board level by 2015, although all appointments will be made on merit. vedantaresources.com 10 Our Strategy and Approach continued Our sustainability model Our Strategy Implementing Vedanta’s sustainability Our vision business model and supporting Vedanta’s vision is to be a world class, diversified resources company framework provides us with a robust, providing superior returns to our shareholders with high-quality assets, overarching strategy to inform all our low-cost operations, and sustainable development. activities and drive our future growth. It is based on our fundamental belief Group strategy that a business cannot be sustainable To deliver growth, long-term value and sustainable development in a planet and society that fails, and through our diversified portfolio of large, long-life, low cost natural that we can mine and process metals resources assets. in a sustainable way by undertaking a range of activities which have the dual purpose of strengthening our business Responsible stewardship is the foundation on which we build and positively influencing the world 1. Responsible around us. Of course it can be argued stewardship our business – the way in which we respond to, and manage, our business. This includes; how we manage our employees that mining, in removing a finite and their health and safety, the management of our land and our resource, is inherently unsustainable; environmental impact and our supporting business processes. however, through a systematic and targeted sustainability strategy we believe that there are overall benefits to society beyond the mine and our 2. Building We work hard to engage with our stakeholders to understand active engagements can provide for strong their key concerns and expectations of our business and the long-term well-being of our host practices. Proactive engagement also enables us to identify relationships opportunities and mitigate risks by understanding and communities. Our efforts can enable a responding to issues rather than reacting to them. positive feedback loop where we meet societies’ need for materials and advance both our business outcomes and those of the people, communities 3. Adding and We seek to add and share value through everything that we and environment that surround us. sharing value do. As a business we make a considerable economic impact; through employment, the payment of taxes, royalties and other Our customers and our stakeholders contributions to local, state and national governments. We also expect us to maintain the highest build local infrastructure that benefits local communities in the ethical standards, fulfil our form of roads, schools and healthcare centres. commitments and to act with complete integrity, where our actions and policies meet the highest level Shareholders Industry of business ethics and personal The returns that we are able to Our value chain encompasses all integrity. Our code of business provide to our investors as we of the key steps we engage in to grow our business will always be create value – with a particular conduct and ethics informs our management’s focus. focus on our network of suppliers approach to sustainability and how and customers. we conduct ourselves day to day – with each other, our customers, our shareholders, our competitors, Lenders Government our neighbouring communities Commercial banks and financial We work with Governments of all institutions across the world. levels – local, state and national. and our suppliers. Our sustainability model comprises Employees Civil society the three pillars of responsible At the end of 2011-12 we We engage with a wide range stewardship, building strong employed over 30,000 people of organisations, including relationships and adding and sharing across the world, and worked with NGOs, academic institutions value, each designed to support our some 69,000 contract personnel. and charitable bodies long-term sustainability as a worldclass diversified natural resources Communities company providing superior returns We work to support the to our shareholders. These three pillars communities where we operate, capture the steps we must take across contributing to the development our business to ensure our future. of society where we can. We apply our model to our seven stakeholder groups – our employees, Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 11 Overview P02-19 Vedanta’s sustainability framework supporting the sustainability model Responsible Stewardship Building Adding and Strong Relationships Sharing Value Policies Policies Policies >> HSE Policy >> Social Policy >> HIV/Aids policy >> Biodiversity Policy >> Supplier and Contractor Technical Standards >> Water Management Policy Management Policy >> HIV/Aids Management >> Energy and Carbon Management Policy >> Human Rights Policy >> Site Closure Technical Standards Technical Standards >> Health Management >> Cultural Heritage >> Safety Management >> Supplier and Contractor Management >> Environmental Management >> Employee Consultation & Participation >> Conducting ESIA to International >> Stakeholder Engagement Standards includes EMPs >> Social Investment Management >> Waste Management >> Grievance Mechanisms >> Biodiversity Management (EMPs) >> Water Management >> Energy and Carbon Management >> Land and Resettlement Management >> Security Management >> Emergency and Crisis Management >> Transport and Logistics Management Management Standards Global Management Processes Policy Management Standards >> New Projects, Planning Processes & Site Closure >> Compliance and Other Requirements >> Stakeholder Materiality and Risk Management >> Leadership Responsibility and Resources >> Performance Monitoring, Data Management and Reporting >> Objectives, Targets and Performance Improvement >> Incident Reporting and Investigation >> Competency, Training and Awareness >> Management of Change >> Management Review and Continual Improvement >> Documentation & Records Management >> Corrective & Preventative Action Management >> Auditing and Assurance >> Acquisitions, Divestment and Joint Venture Due Diligence neighbouring communities, members accordingly we are working to ensure business processes – the core of our industry, our host governments, we have the people and processes in of which is risk management, the civil society and those that finance our place to manage and maintain these management of our land and business – our shareholders and our relationships, using tailored and our environmental impact. For lender groups. Appropriate and responsive communication. stewardship of our assets we aim effective engagement with each of to be a technically and systemically these groups is key to our long-term Responsible Stewardship advanced producer of natural success as each group of stakeholders Responsible Stewardship of all the resources for use worldwide. To has been identified as capable of assets we manage is our primary achieve this aim, good process making a significant contribution goal. This includes our employees control is vital, accordingly we are to how we carry out our business; and their health and safety, our constantly seeking to improve vedantaresources.com 12 Our Strategy and Approach continued Shareholder engagement meetings (in numbers) of appropriate engagement, may negatively impact on our employees, Village meetings conducted 2,553 stakeholders and business. Each Panchayat meetings attended 106 stakeholder has their own unique Meetings with Government Officials 247 point of view – it is important that Meetings with NGOs 294 we work to ensure we have robust processes in place that enable Number of Public Hearings Conducted 6 appropriate, tailored engagement. our systems and operations. We use our Risk Management Compliance with local laws is not Committee to collate all major Group sufficient – we work to meet the risks within this committee and we levels set by internationally accepted formulate strategic plans to reduce standards. Where gaps exist we and manage them. develop improvement processes In order to set out our that we expect will raise the Adding and Sharing Value priorities, we continuously performance of our business across The third pillar in our model is Adding examine the material the sustainability spectrum from and Sharing Value. At its most basic level, we add value by the direct indicators for our business. health and safety, through emissions economic impact we make, by management to the efficient use of water and energy and environmental investing in people through and biodiversity management. employment, building infrastructure, developing technology and the This effort is not without its payment of taxes, royalties and other challenges as we operate in many payments to local, state and national developing countries, and creating governments. We add further value a culture of excellence takes sustained by turning the knowledge and ideas management leadership and oversight. created by our engagements with We remain focused on the task. our stakeholders into specific projects. Building Strong Relationships We believe that through adherence Building a reputation for compliance to our sustainability model and and good management enables the having strong relationships, we can second pillar of our model – Building maximise the value we create for our Strong Relationships. Engaging with shareholders, more effectively grow people and organisations that are the business and locate and create interested in our business can lead to positive outcomes to the benefit of the identification of new areas where all our other stakeholders. we can find and unlock additional value. Concurrently we are better Our Approach equipped to foresee and appropriately Our approach to delivering our manage challenges. The stronger our sustainability strategy is to evolve relationships the better equipped we and align our policies and standards are to capture material issues and with both the company’s vision and strategic opportunities, accordingly global best practices and to ensure its ensuring we have in place a systematic seamless implementation across our approach to relationship management operations. This includes engagement is important – with regard to our with unit teams and advancing the employees, our suppliers and partners management systems within the and those external to our business. Group that are already certified to ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS An awareness of trends and issues 18001 to further align them to our is a key factor in ensuring our business Sustainability Framework, which continues to operate at a world-class corresponds to international standard and, equally, is positioned principles and guidelines. to capture value as and when new opportunities arise. In addition, strong For example, to embed our strategy relationships ensure that we have and approach we ran an extensive appropriate and open channels sustainability training programme to deal with issues that, in the absence across the businesses, with over Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 13 Overview P02-19 Materiality mapping Our material issues are highlighted in the materiality mapping diagram 1. Responsible stewardship and addressed throughout this report. >> Risk mitigation >> Competitive and >> Supplier and Sustainability Management >> Compliance ethical behaviour contractor This year, in addition to the strategic with international >> Occupational management focus of the Sustainability Committee standards health & safety >> Climate change (see page 14) and the technical >> Accessing >> Environmental >> Land use management focus provided by the corporate and managing management and control sustainability team, we have natural resources >> Responsible closure also strengthened our management >> Product stewardship by forming an ExCo Sustainability Sub-committee. This sub-committee is charged with driving key sustainability 2. Building strong relationships issues and processes through the business, and is chaired by the >> Host government relations >> Resettlement Group CEO. Over the last year it >> Community consultation and rehabilitation had a particular focus on safety. >> Land acquisition >> Human rights management All our subsidiary businesses have their own boards of directors and management staff. They have their own committee structures and management and technical specialists who are responsible for operational performance and compliance, and 3. Adding and sharing value are guided by both the Sustainability Committee and the ExCo >> Compensation >> Direct and indirect local employment Sustainability Sub-committee. >> Attracting people and retaining opportunities Our corporate sustainability team skilled workforce >> Community development is responsible for the rollout of the approved sustainability policies, and supporting technical standards with a structured training programme which includes all unit CEOs, key operation and project manager and sustainability experts. Sustainability 1,000 employees attending this Group to efficiently deal with issues experts in these training programmes training in 2011/12. This included all that are of highest relevance, as well were further trained as trainers to business CEOs, 30 operations and as enabling clear identification of train other employees in their own project managers and 67 sustainability Group companies. core stakeholder concerns. specialists. In 2012-13, our target Global Trends is to train over 2,000 managers Our materiality identification process We search for developing trends and and supervisors. has continued to evolve over the years our goal is to advance by embracing and will continue to do so, ensuring any changes to major international Materiality that our key stakeholders are engaged standards which guide our industry, In order to set out our priorities, we in the process. To determine our such as the recently introduced UK continuously examine the material material issues we have consulted Bribery Act, where we have updated indicators for our business. We key personnel across the business, our code of conduct to incorporate interact with a range of stakeholders including Group and unit senior its introduction and have completed including local community members management, and our CSR, HR, over 18,000 hours of training. at our operations, employees Investor relations, Finance and HSE and contractors, communities, departments, giving us a holistic view our industry – including customers of materiality and the issues affecting and suppliers, host governments, civil our specific stakeholders. When society, investors and shareholders. material issues have been identified, This not only helps us to identify the these have been prioritised which material issues but also enables the helps us drive our programmes. vedantaresources.com 14 Our Strategy and Approach continued Sustainability Committee Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nomination Executive committee committee committee committee committee Naresh Chandra MS Mehta Jeyakumar Janakaraj Tony Henshaw Committee Chairman Committee Member Committee Member Committee Secretary Senior Independent Director, Vedanta Chief Executive Officer, Vedanta Chief Executive Officer, KCM Chief Sustainability Officer, Vedanta The Vedanta Board is responsible for all aspects of As noted in the Sustainability Committee Report in sustainability across the Group. To carry out its duties our Annual Report (see www.vedantaresources.com/ it has appointed a Sustainability Committee chaired by investor-relations.aspx) over the last year the Committee the senior independent director, Mr Naresh Chandra, oversaw the following programmes: and is composed of Mr MS Mehta, CEO Vedanta and Mr J Janakaraj, CEO KCM. The Vedanta Chief Sustainability >> Accident reduction and the prevention of harm Officer, Mr T Henshaw, acts as the secretary while all other to employees and contractors subsidiary company CEOs have a standing invitation. The >> Water use reduction committee oversees and reviews sustainability performance and the Committee Chairman regularly updates the Board >> Energy and carbon use reduction on progress. >> Clean development mechanism programmes The Committee’s mandate covers all aspects >> Implementation of Scott Wilson report of sustainable development including policies, recommendations commitments and the approval of this report. In >> Waste management addition, it reviews compliance with the law and expected international standards of governance In addition the committee approved seven new and outlines initiatives required to institutionalise sustainability policies and amended our HSE policy: a sustainability culture through the involvement of employees at every level of the business. It is also >> Biodiversity integral to corporate risk assessment and management >> Water and advises the Board on performance. The Committee has also approved Group sustainability policies and >> Energy and Carbon monitors the implementation of the management >> Supplier and Contractor Management framework. The Chief Sustainability Officer provides >> Social information and updates to the Committee on international standards and best practice and >> Human Rights industry benchmarks. >> HIV/Aids Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 15 Overview P02-19 Scott Wilson of three mining sites and we have >> Reducing our Together, the Sustainability received the environmental licence Environmental Footprint. Committee, corporate sustainability for exploration activities from the >> Implementation of annual internal team and operating management Environmental Protection Agency sustainability audit programme to have overseen the implementation (EPA), Government of Liberia, for confirm compliance across the of the framework, strategy and all three sites. The ESIA process was Group and its subsidiaries, the recommendations of the 2010 initiated in January 2012 and, as part by the head of assurance Scott Wilson Report, and we have of the process, a Screening Report within the Group’s corporate made excellent progress against of Environmental and Social Risk and sustainability team. their recommendations across the Opportunity was completed in March three areas addressed in the report 2012. We are also conducting >> New Project Development – Corporate, Group Companies supplementary assessment work and the implementation of and our Lanjigarh operations. at our Taraimar coal block, located our Site Closure process in Raigarh district, Chhattisgarh State, across the business. Our progress is discussed in detail India (the project comprises some >> Increased focus on on our sustainability website at 211 million tonnes of coal reserves). Biodiversity initiatives. www.vedantaresources.com/ Environmental Clearance as per the sustainability/scottwilson, with Ministry of Environment and Forests >> Complete the implementation of details also contained in the last (MOEF) requirement has been the Scott Wilson recommendations. section of this report (see pages 74-77). obtained. The ESIA study was We have successfully implemented commenced in July 2011 with Building Strong Relationships their recommendations surrounding consultants appointed to study the >> Further development of our advancing our sustainability gaps in the existing EIA and SIA studies Stakeholder Engagement plans governance and framework as with respect to international standards. and embedding our Stakeholder well as further enhancing the Engagement standard. robustness of our approach to Looking Ahead >> Further implementation of embedding a sustainability culture We expect the Sustainability our Human Rights policy. throughout the business, with a full Committee to maintain its focus external audit of our implementation >> Continue to evolve community on the topics highlighted on page development programmes anticipated to be undertaken in 14 and to approve the medium-term mid-2013. across Group companies. Sustainability targets and Stakeholder Engagement Plan. Further, we >> Roll out our Grievance Environmental and Social expect to oversee human rights Mechanism process across Impact Assessments due diligence, while confirming all Group companies. As a part of our new project our methodology for materiality, development process, commissioning, developing our sustainability risk Adding Value implementing and managing profile and beginning a programme >> Develop and implement the Environmental and Social Impact of supply chain audits. Extractive Industries Transparency Assessments (ESIAs) in order to ensure Initiative (EITI) IT programme that we meet international standards Over the short, medium and in Zambia. is compulsory across the business and long term, using our Sustainability >> Continue training employees on applies to the entire operation lifecycle model we aim to demonstrate clearly our sustainability policies, standards – including exploration and planning, why we should grow and prosper – and guidance notes. evaluation, operation and closure. we will achieve this by focusing on both increasing our financial and >> Continuing Strategic Community An ESIA aims to predict and evaluate non-financial value, and objectively development initiatives across the the significance of positive and measuring our success. group companies: negative impacts to the environment >> Social Investment – Health, and people from a proposed project. Using the three pillars of our Education, Livelihood, Bio This supports good decision-making sustainability model, we have Investment – Water Harvesting, and management of the project, identified our key activities over Agriculture & Social Forestry. its operation, decommissioning the coming year and beyond: and closure. In the past year, we >> Integrated Village commenced a new ESIA for the Responsible Stewardship Development programme. Western Cluster Project, Liberia >> Improving our safety (a project to develop a resource of performance, with a core approximately one billion tonnes of focus on fatality reduction. iron ore deposits). There are a total vedantaresources.com 16 Performance At Vedanta, improving, refining and enhancing our sustainable development performance, targets and strategy is a priority. The application of advanced technology, continuous focus on achieving best practice and our strong corporate governance and stakeholder engagement will help us to embed world-class sustainability practices in our business. Responsible Stewardship human resource strategy is designed capacity to 273 MW – making us 2011-12 saw us take significant further to recruit, develop and retain the one of the largest wind power steps in advancing our aim of being people who run our businesses – we producers in India. a responsible steward of people and have a committed workforce of over >> We have to date registered five the environment. 30,000 full time employees and more Clean Development Mechanism than 69,000 contractor employees. (CDM) projects, which have accrued Our Sustainability framework – Employee Turnover & Attrition the Group 335,000 Certified including sustainability policies, During the year, employee turnover Emissions Reductions (CER). technical and management standards – was rolled out across (including retirements but excluding Energy Consumption Group companies. VRS) stood at 10.7% and attrition at 5.5%. >> We achieved significant reduction Training Hours in specific energy consumption in Health & Safety During the year, across the HZL mines (5%), SIIL (7%) and VAL–J In 2011-12, we achieved 0.99 LTIFR, Group we managed 1.65 million (1%) from a large range of energy down from 1.10 in 2010-11, and are man hours of structured training efficiency improvement initiatives, targeting less than 0.80 in 2012-13 programmes, which focus on policies, including the installation of Variable and less than 0.50 in 2015-16. On standards and practices to give our Frequency Drivers (VFD) to allow page 17 the LTIFR graph shows the employees in-depth knowledge and optimisation of the speed of pumps declining trend for the past five years, understanding of our businesses. and blowers, interlocking conveyors where we have achieved a 48% to minimise idle time, avoiding the reduction in our LTIFR (per million Environment use of dedicated cooling towers for man hours worked, employees and Environmental management systems compressors, reduction of dead pot contractors) across our operations. >> 38 of our 44 major plants voltage and lighting automation. We suffered 22 fatalities in 2011-12 – are ISO14001 and OHSAS >> Our energy saving target in 2012-13 our target was, and remains, zero. We 18001 certified. is 3.90 million GJ, equivalent to one strongly believe that our employees’ years’ operation of a 120 MW and contractors’ attitude to safety is a >> Our plant in Lanjigarh is the first in thermal power station. major determinant of safety outcomes. our industry to receive ISO50001. Ensuring their attitudes and behaviours Waste Management encompass best practice standards is Water Consumption >> More than 70% of generated key, accordingly our different businesses >> Significant specific water non-hazardous waste is have introduced a behavioural safety consumption improvements were constructively utilised. programme, focusing on identifying made in HZL Mines (9%), BALCO (45%), CMT (6%) and VAL–J (28%) >> 3.6 million metric tons of fly and reinforcing safe behaviours and ash was used in cement and brick reducing unsafe behaviours to improve through a combination of process innovations and opportunities manufacturing and in the raising safety performance. In addition, we also of ash pond dyke height. have structured programmes to review identified through a water audit and investigate unsafe conditions and programme and an increase in >> 2.2 million metric tons of risks and strict investigation procedures rainwater collection capacities. slag was utilised in various to determine the cause of serious applications (road construction, >> Our water savings target for 2012-13 incidents (fatalities and other recordable land levelling, abrasive and is 18.72 Million Cubic Metres (MCM) injuries) including robust root-cause cement industries). – equivalent to filling over 7,000 analysis and a detailed report into Olympic swimming pools. >> 0.8 million metric tons of the incident, making recommended gypsum was utilised in cement actions, the updating of existing >> Doubled water recycling across and fertiliser industries and standard operating procedures at the Group to 55.72 million cubic brick manufacturing. the plant and improved contractor metres from 27.91 million cubic management standards. metres last year. >> We recycled over 64,000 tons of carbon block butts Employees Climate Change and lead secondary back into We attribute our growth and >> Hindustan Zinc added another 102 our operations at our aluminium success to our employees. Our MW of wind power, taking the total and zinc businesses. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 17 Overview P02-19 Safety LTIFR 2.0 1.91 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 1.67 1.5 1.52 Fatalities 18 19 67 26 22 1.10 0.99 1.0 LTIFR 1.91 1.67 1.52 1.10 0.99 0.80 0.5 0.50 0.0 Employees 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2016 Full Time Employee Contract Employees From 2011-12 LTIFR is calculated as per ICMM 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 definitions and includes operations only India 20,318 19,625 40,073 54,730 (Year in graph denotes financial year ending) Zambia 9,362 8,689 3,324 13,217 No. of Fatalities FY 2011-12 (Quarter wise) Australia 102 103 185 234 8 8 Namibia NA 733 NA 658 7 6 Ireland NA 377 NA 25 5 4 South Africa NA 715 NA 628 2 2 Total 29,782 30,242 43,582 69,492 0 For 2010-11 – Manpower details are inclusive of subsidiaries within the scope of the Sustainability Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Report and are exclusive of the assets purchased from Anglo Zinc in the latter part of the year. Women workforce (%) For 2011-12 – Manpower details are inclusive of subsidiaries within the scope of the Sustainability Report – exclusive of Cairn. 10 8 8.5 8.16 8 7.6 Employee Breakdown by Gender 6 Male Female 4 2 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 0 India 18,760 18,122 1,558 1,503 2009 2010 2011 2012 Zambia 8,609 7,973 753 716 CSR footprint (million beneficiaries) Australia 84 94 18 9 3.1 3 Zinc International NA 1,584 NA 241 2.5 2.7 2.7 Total 27,453 27,773 2,329 2,469 2 1 Employee Turnover & Attrition 0 % of Total Full Time Employees 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Employee turnover including retirements but excluding VRS 10.9% 12% 10.6% 10.7% Total Attrition 3.7% 4% 5.4% 5.5% Employee Turnover = Employee who left the organisation in the FY 2011-12 excluding people who took Voluntary Retirement/Total Manpower Total Attrition = Employee Initiated Separation/Total Manpower Training Hours Total Training Hours Average Man-hours (in thousands) per employee 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 Group Consolidated 1,676 1,651 53.78 54.82 vedantaresources.com 18 Performance continued >> We have in place 61 MW >> As part of the strengthening of of power generating capacity our Stakeholder engagement plans, from waste heat at our operations we have significantly increased the at Sesa Goa, Hindustan Zinc and number of villages we work with Sustainability grievances Sterlite Copper. over 1,000 in FY 2011-12 across India and Africa. related to all Group Building Strong Relationships companies can be Proactive stakeholder engagement >> Partnerships with 147 NGOs, enables our operations – including government bodies, academic registered on our institutions and hospitals. all operational sites – to effectively sustainability@vedanta.co.in manage their social risks and email address responsibilities and foster positive >> Our Sesa Goa company has been relationships and trust. certified for SA8000. >> We successfully piloted our Adding and Sharing Value grievance mechanism at Lanjigarh We add value through our capital and and are now strengthening our project investments, employment and grievance mechanisms process work opportunities to approximately at our other operations. 100,000 people, along with the support we provide to the communities who >> Sustainability grievances host our operations, including through related to all Group companies carefully managed project creation can be registered on our and implementation. We spent sustainability@vedanta.co.in US$542.7 million on employee email address. In 2011-12 we wages and benefits in 2011-12. received 310 emails to this address, see detailed breakdown on page 19. We have grown the overall >> Over 3,200 Stakeholder economic value we have distributed engagements including formal from US$6.3 billion in 2006-07 to meetings, group forums and some US$12.9 billion in 2011-12. individual consultations, including This includes through: meetings with village panchayat (councils) in India, NGOs and >> Operating costs, government representatives. >> Employee compensation, >> Accepted as a member of >> Donations and other the World Business Council community investments, for Sustainable Development. >> Retained earnings; and >> Payments to capital providers and governments. BuildinognSshtroipnsg The total payment to exchequers from Vedanta and Group companies for FY 2011-12 was US$4.7 billion. Relati Key components were: >> Royalties US$1.1 billion, >> Petroleum profits US$1.2 billion, ment goals, o lder engage >> Direct taxes US$0.8 billion, f o ur stak eh rds during In support o a number of new standa >> Customs duty US$0.7 billion; and du ce d we intro uding: the year, incl >> Other taxes and duties US$0.9 billion. t Standard ak eh o ld er Engagemen 1 St Standard ne ra bl e So cial Groups 2V ul cal Standard ultu ral H eritage Techni 3C nical Standa rd 4 Grievance Tech Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 19 Overview P02-19 Emails to sustainabilities@vedanta.co.in Request for Sustainability Information Employment seeking Reply Sent or Action Taken / Closed 51 67 No Reply Needed / No Action Taken 0 2 Total 51 69 US$ 14,005m US$14,005 million economic value generated Revenues Marketing Offers / Offer of services 36 80 116 144m Seminar Attendance / Speaker Request 9 23 32 Others (survey, int. mail, spam) All Mails 16 179 26 131 42 310 US$ US$144 million dividend paid Community spend per country (US$) US$38m CSR expenses (Livelihood, Infrastructure, Spent on Spent on Community Company Company Country Development etc.) run school run hospital Total US$38 million community investments India 14,868,827 1,359,962 2,877,981 19,106,769 Zambia 2,295,750 13,372,173 1,038,981 16,706,904 US$517m Namibia 773,868 – – 773,868 Ireland 290,733 – – 290,733 Australia 167,438 – – 167,438 South Africa 1,069,313 – – 1,069,313 US$517 million payment to government US$543m 19,465,929 14,732,135 3,916,962 38,115,025 During the year we invested over US$38 million, approximately half in India with the majority of the remaining funds in Zambia, where we run a comprehensive school programme. US$543 million employee wages and benefits Economic Value Generated and Distributed (in US$m) FY 2007-08 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 Economic value generated 8,204 6,579 7,931 11,427 14,005 Revenues 8,204 6,579 7,931 11,427 14,005 Economic value distributed 6,303 5,797 6,537 9,523 12,921 Operating costs 5,267 5,065 5,800 8,388 10,983 Employee wages and benefits 345 407 465 505 543 Payments to providers of capital -67 45 -58 -19 879 – Net finance cost (including Other Gain/Loss) -171 -7 -176 -149 735 – Dividend paid 104 119 118 130 144 Payments to government – Income Tax 758 281 330 650 517 Community investments (Including Donations) – Already included in operating cost 24 27 40 40 38 Economic value retained (calculated as Economic value generated less economic value distributed) 1,901 781.7 1,393 1,904 1,085 vedantaresources.com Responsible Stewardship How we manage sustainability issues within our direct control In this section we discuss the specific management systems that we have in place to manage our operations to minimise the risk of harm to people and the environment throughout the lifecycle of our projects. This includes our health and safety management systems, environmental management systems, risk assessment and regulatory compliance and our Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) and our performance against international standards of sustainability. Strategy and Management 22 Sustainable Management in Practice 24 Health and Safety 26 Environment 34 22 Strategy and Management A strong culture of good governance and compliance Introduction to improve them to align with Officer (CRO) is being created to Responsible Stewardship is the first international standards. heighten awareness of the risk pillar of our sustainability framework. management framework at senior It is how we manage risk and Risk Management management level. The CRO will demonstrate compliance with legal Vedanta’s businesses are in the help the organisation to enhance its requirements and best practice. It mining and resources industry, which risk management process and ensure is a vital part of all the phases of our raises particular risks that need to be that the risk management framework project lifecycle – the way we identified, evaluated, mitigated and evolves and grows in parallel with conduct environmental and social monitored – any significant incident the organisation. impact assessments, our regulatory at our operations could result in compliance and risk management, injury, environmental or reputational Currently, a consistently applied the operation of our health, safety damage, litigation or statutory methodology using the Turnbull and environmental management penalties and a subsequent matrix is used to identify risk at the systems, the way we manage water threat to our licence to operate. individual company level, covering and energy use, our carbon footprint operations and projects. All the risks and our work on biodiversity We are committed to a robust related to our businesses are identified management planning. It also system of risk identification, and the top 20 risks are reviewed. Risk incorporates our approach to land backed by a robust risk management management is undertaken through a management, waste management framework. Our risk management series of meetings at Group company and air quality management. framework acts as an effective tool level and at key stages of projects. in mitigating the various risks which An update is performed periodically Strategy our businesses are exposed to in the through the internal management Through our code of conduct and course of their operations as well assurance process. policy framework the Board requires as in their strategic actions. We us to work to achieve zero harm. Once identified, the risk evaluation is have a continuous process to identify, undertaken using a matrix to establish We aim to have a continuous analyse, evaluate and respond to financial and non-financial impacts reduction in our health, safety and possible future events or risks that and the likelihood of occurrence. environmental footprint, by applying might impact the achievement of The current controls to mitigate advanced technology and rigorous our businesses’ objectives. In order the risk are then reviewed to enable standards in support of our aim to to minimise the risk, we respect the the development of a prioritised manage it responsibly. This is critical precautionary principle. risk management plan. A committee for maintaining our licence to operate. comprising the Group Chief Executive All the businesses in the Vedanta We are planning to set up a Risk Officer, Group Chief Financial Group have management systems in Management Committee (RMC) Officer (CFO) and the Director of place. 38 of our 44 major plants are to be chaired by the Group Chief Management Assurance then reviews certified to ISO 9001, 14001 and Executive Officer (CEO). The RMC the risk matrix. The committee reviews OHSAS 18001 standards. Our plant at will meet quarterly to review risks as the risks, changes in the nature and Lanjigarh is the first in our industry in well as progress against the planned extent of the major risks since the last India to receive ISO 50001 and one of actions. Risk officers will be nominated assessment, controls and action plans. our companies, Sesa Goa, has certified both at Vedanta as well as at the for SA8000. Our strategy is to build on operating company level. The RMC Many of the mitigation measures these management systems, measure will be briefed every quarter on risk stated in the risk matrix relate to our performance and constantly work management. The role of Chief Risk Group policies, the audit process Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 23 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 and the audit plan to cover the Ethics Sub-Committee Whistleblowing policy key risks identified through the We have a dedicated Ethics SubOur Whistleblowing policy, risk management programme. Committee (ESC) in place, currently overseen by the Board appointed The risk mitigation measures are chaired by the Managing Director of Audit Committee, governs the closely reviewed by the operating our Iron Ore Business. The role of the confidential receipt, investigation management teams to ensure ESC is to bring uniformity, speed and and treatment of complaints in areas their effectiveness. consistency in the decision-making concerning suspected fraud, violation process around ethical investigations of Group accounting rules and The principal risks confronting our and also to ensure that, after such violations of ethical business business and mitigating those risks investigations, appropriate decisions practices. Emails sent to are discussed in the Principal Risks are taken in a reasonable period of whistleblower@vedanta.co.in section of our Annual Report. time. The committee meets monthly. directly reach the Head of Management Assurance, who is independent of operating and business management. Ninety Board Review and Oversight whistleblowing complaints were received between January and December 2011 and 39 were Audit upheld, resulting in appropriate Committee Executive disciplinary actions. Committee Review Assurance Board Bribery and Anti-Corruption Our code of conduct was updated Executive Risk Reporting during the year to comply with the UK Bribery Act, which prohibits payment and receipt of bribes directly or indirectly through associated External Strategic persons. During the year, our business units were reviewed for risks related to corruption and employees were trained in our anti-corruption policies Identificatio and procedures. A comprehensive n Anti-Bribery Programme was implemented across the Group. Going forward, it will be the remit of the Audit Committee to ensure the robustness of our anti-bribery and Monito corruption programmes. The Bribery ring Act programme includes engaging professional assistance, amending existing policies, developing a training pack, carrying out awareness sessions Evaluati for employees and implementing new on procedures such as a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. Mitigati Mitigation on Financial Operational vedantaresources.com 24 Sustainable Management in Practice Our incorporation and proactive use of our sustainability practices commences at Board level To underpin our sustainability alternative solutions) and meet the A new project or project expansion framework, robust processes are requirements of the Leadership, is expected to go through a number now in place to support its execution Responsibility and Resources of decision ‘gates’ such as project in all new business ventures. The key Management Standard; definition, pre-feasibility, feasibility, standard that dictates our activities concept, design and procurement. and behaviours is the Management 5. Sustainability matters are Sustainability is integrated into each Standard – New Projects, Planning considered for the full lifecycle of the decision gate and taken fully into Processes and Site Closure. Additional project, including post-closure and account, along with a full sustainability standards supporting this approach rehabilitation, and design decisions risk assessment. If an identified include the Acquisitions, Divestment shall be taken accordingly; sustainability risk is regarded as being and Joint Ventures Due Diligence potentially significant to the success technical standard. 6. Consultation and feedback are of the project, further analysis obtained from stakeholders at is undertaken. Applying the Standard is mandatory for the earliest opportunity on how all new projects and it prescribes that: sustainability issues associated with The sustainability risk assessment the project are being considered process shall identify, analyse 1. Any new project complies with and prioritised; and evaluate current and future Vedanta Group Sustainability sustainability scenarios, as far as programmes and national, regional 7. Sustainability good practices/lessons practical, and identify critical risks and local regulatory requirements; learnt are sought and identified to Vedanta and the project, using from previous projects, within the both Vedanta staff and external 2. Sustainability-related matters Vedanta Group, and applied to the experts. The issues considered can are given equal priority to other proposed project such that impacts include: resettlement, indigenous business functions when can be eliminated/mitigated people (vulnerable groups), significant considering new projects; by design. loss of cultural heritage, human rights, 3. A commitment to continual Our sustainability standards ensure biodiversity loss including protected improvement is adopted as that as part of the Planning/Feasibility land and endangered species, part of the project concept, that stage, sustainability due diligence is transboundary issues and overall takes into account positive and integrated into the wider due diligence environmental impact. negative impacts and direct and around new projects and where indirect impacts; we are contemplating an acquisition Conducting ESIAs to (including commercial, financial and International Standards 4. Assigned committees and legal). The New Projects Standard Conducting an Environmental senior management are engaged begins with the requirement for a and Social Impact Assessment in considering all sustainability sustainability risk screening exercise to international standards is a aspects of new projects (including as part of the Planning process. core step – undertaking an ESIA Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 25 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 on greenfield projects or expansion activities enables assessment of the environmental, social and health impacts throughout the project’s lifecycle. Site Closure As observed globally, poor mine and operations closure practices – where there is a lack of planning in equipping communities and the environment for life after the operational phase – have a negative impact on stakeholder perceptions of the resources industry. This in turn can lead to mistrust, threatening a resource business’ ability to commence new projects. Progressive Reclamation – Vedanta’s Site Closure Standard Lisheen Mine Tailings Facility obliges us to consider sustainability issues before, during and after site closure, working to achieve a sustainable community and The Need Glacial till is essentially silts, sands and The Lisheen Mine is an underground lead and rocks deposited by glaciers (large ice sheets) environment post-closure. Our zinc mine located in north Tipperary, Ireland. during the last ice age across much of Ireland approach is compliant with the Construction commenced in 1997 and the mine including Lisheen. It forms a layer that sits has been in production since 1999. The mine is between bedrock and the surface soil. standards set down by the IFC currently expected to close in late 2013 or early Performance Standards and their 2014. The Lisheen Tailings Management Facility When the Lisheen Wind Farm was constructed in 2009 the turbine foundations were sited EHS guidelines. The purpose is (TMF) is located on soft ground (peat) adjacent to within the glacial till. The displaced material to identify, minimise or mitigate the site. It is lined with a geotextile membrane and was stockpiled and mixed with peat to form and manage risks (environmental, has an internal area of around 64 hectares. Upon a soil for TMF rehabilitation purposes. closure the facility will contain over 10 million socio-economic, reputational tonnes of tailings. Lisheen Mine tailings have a This is an important innovative feature of the and health and safety) associated significant net acid generating potential – this Lisheen progressive rehabilitation programme. with site closure. potential risk must be managed appropriately. By re-using material sourced from the Lisheen site such as peat (which is too organic in its own right to support extensive vegetation) The Solution with glacial till (which is inorganic and does The management of the mine tailings has been not support vegetation) a successful soil cover the subject of considerable geochemical and can be formed. geophysical test work and this has supported the development of a practical strategy for residual In July 2010, Lisheen initiated a livestock trial liability management through progressive programme by introducing 10 cattle onto rehabilitation of the TMF. the rehabilitated area. This trial is ongoing. In January 2008, a progressive rehabilitation The objective of the project is to rehabilitate programme on the Lisheen Mine TMF was the facility such that it is secure, sustainable commenced. This involved depositing tailings and can be used for the widest possible range using conventional high density plastic discharge of potential after uses. pipes placed on the dam wall, to progressively form an even distribution of tailings with a shallow The Outcome surface slope (referred to as beaches). These To date, approximately nine hectares of the beaches are then capped by firstly placing a facility have been rehabilitated and extensive geotextile membrane directly on the tailings, monitoring data is being collected. Lisheen followed by a 700 mm deep layer of local topping intends to continue to rehabilitate the TMF and then a 400 mm deep layer of soil forming over the coming years in the same manner with material. This soil forming material is produced regular validation through on-going sampling by mixing peat with glacial till in a ratio of 1:1. and monitoring and compliance with emission The peat is sourced from the initial construction limit values, as prescribed in the Lisheen Mine of the TMF, where peat was excavated from under Integrated Pollution Prevention Control the wall footprint and stockpiled. The glacial till Licence (IPPCL). was sourced from the Lisheen Wind Farm; an 18 turbine 36MW project completed in 2009. Irish regulatory authorities and their retained The cap is then seeded with native grassland, experts have independently validated and herb and wildflower species. approved the project. vedantaresources.com 26 Health and Safety Vedanta is committed to providing a safe, injury free and healthy place to work – the health and safety of our employees and contract workers and those communities that adjoin our operations is a key priority. 48% The high risk nature of the metal comprising 375 HSE personnel, mining and resource industry of whom 36 are health specialists, makes occupational health and 195 are safety specialists and 144 safety a material concern to the are environment specialists. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Group – Vedanta continuously reduced by 48% over the last five years works to reduce total accidents As part of our continuous and minimise health risks. We pursue improvement programme we conduct 38 this by adherence to our standards, periodic audits across our businesses promoting safe practices and by our qualified HSE professionals. major plants the promotion of a positive safety culture on the shop floor with We strive to encourage and build a safe and healthy working environment 38 of our 44 major plants are safety behaviour ownership. where all employees and contractors accredited to OHSAS 18001 demonstrate this belief in their Our approach towards managing behaviour and actions. We drive Rolling out and controlling the risks associated with our operations begins with this message through: Rolling out of new and updated technical a hazard identification and risk >> Before entering into operation and management standards assessment. Following this, locations, a safety induction is management systems are designed to mandatory for each new employee, identify and remove unsafe conditions, contract worker and visitor. train our people in safe practices and >> Periodic safety re-trainings to all ensure correct behaviour through employees and contract workers. management leadership. Our goal is a consistent safety culture across >> Specific training for high all our businesses. risk activities. >> Adherence to appropriate Our Role PPE at work areas. We have developed and >> Display of required safety signage/ implemented health and safety posters/captions pertaining to management systems aligned hazards at work locations. with our commitments and beliefs, and consistent with world-class standards. 38 of our 44 operations Safety are certified to the OHSAS The safety of our employees and any 18000 standard. other person who may be impacted by our operation is of paramount To meet our target and expectations, importance and our aim is zero harm we have a capable organisation to people. As part of our process of continuous improvement we have Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 27 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 introduced new and updated management and technical standards across our businesses, including: >> Safety, >> Emergency Crisis Management, >> Security, and >> Incident Reporting. As part of our comprehensive sustainability training programme, over 1,000 employees have undertaken a training programme to reinforce the practices mandated by our safety standards. At the senior management level, the Sustainability Committee and our ExCo Sustainability Sub-committee review safety performance and the implementation of safety management systems across the business. Safety performance is a part of the reward structure of senior managers at all our units. To promote a safe work environment, our Group CEO is leading our Elimination of Unsafe Conditions Programme, which requires all our companies to review and to report on their safety compliance on a monthly basis, including inspection of equipment and related activities identified as high risk, including machine guarding, welding machines, conveyors, electrics, ladders and pressurised equipment. Safety committees take place at all units, with representation from Ms. A. Sumathi management and unions attending HSE head – Sterlite-Tuticorin plant (where applicable) which will cover the entire workforce at the site. The strength of management and union workforce vary significantly based on the operations and are generally Ms. A. Sumathi joined the company from with the Group sustainability team, she is leading specified in collective contractual college in 1997. Starting her career as a Graduate the Unsafe Condition Elimination Programme Engineer Trainee with the electrical department for Sterlite Copper. From the implementation of agreements. The safety committee she progressed to become the HSE head of management systems to initiating and successfully meets on a regular basis to provide our Tuticorin plant and is also a certified lead completing numerous projects with respect to advice on occupational health and auditor for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS health, safety and environment, she has made safety improvements. 18001. In coordination a major contribution to the Group. vedantaresources.com 28 Health and Safety continued Our management standards emphasise the training of both employees and contractors based on role, risk, and responsibilities and use different learning methods to cater for differing needs. The future programme includes a review of Lock Out Tag Out (LOTO) capability and emergency warning equipment. These reviews will be built into the preventative maintenance schedules over time. Our management standards emphasise the training of both employees and contractors based on role, risk, and responsibilities and use different learning methods to cater for differing needs – for example Zone Owner Concept videos and classroom training. It is an ongoing and iterative process. HZL – Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelter Retraining also takes place at regular intervals. We also ensure that, prior to induction training, all employees and contract workers have passed the The Need The zone owner is accountable for: required medical exam. Our A new approach was sought to embed a safe >>Ensuring high standards of housekeeping employees have a safety-training working environment and practices at our lead in his zone. zinc smelter complex in Chanderiya, Rajasthan, calendar where pre-selected safety India to reduce safety incidents and near misses. >>Ensuring safe execution of activities in topics are covered on a regular basis his zone which includes permit to work, in accordance with the employee’s hazard identification, near miss reporting training plan. During the past year over The Solution and implementation of corrective and It was determined that the best approach preventive actions. 134,000 man hours of safety training to safety was to ensure personal responsibility was imparted. through management and employee ownership >>Ensuring regular checking of key features of the issue. of the workplace to ensure that appropriate risk controls are in place. A particular focus has been to work The ‘Zone Ownership’ concept was introduced with our contractors to ensure our to Hindustan Zinc’s Lead Zinc Smelting Complex >>Carrying out necessary inspection and record at Chanderiya, in Rajasthan in March 2012. The non-conformities and hazardous situations standards are enforced and adhered complex was divided into 46 zones and a zone based on checklists. to by all the individuals who contribute owner was nominated for each zone. Zone Zone owners submit their findings to the Zone to our business. For example, at owners were selected based upon their Vedanta Aluminium Ltd – Lanjigarh Observer (operational head of the respective experience and knowledge. The owner’s information, including a large photograph, zone) and also ensure that a corrective action a safety induction video consisting plan is developed along with target dates for of plant hazards, PPE usage, is displayed at prominent locations in the zone. compliance. This promotes effective control of hazardous implementation of work permits and work activities by fixing accountability at an emergency and evacuation procedures individual manager level. The Outcome The zone owner system helps in better control is mandatory for all visitors and and effective supervision on all hazardous work activities and improves employee participation in various safety activities. We will report on the success of the programme in our next report as it is rolled out across the Group. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 29 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 contractors and a visitor safety Safety handbook is distributed in both Performance FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 English and the local language. Fatalities (numbers) 18 19 67 26 22 Embedding our safety standards LTIFR 1.91 1.67 1.52 1.10 0.99 is an on-going programme and will be supported by compliance auditing and the use of both leading and workplace. In each case an accident past five years there has been a lagging indicators. investigation was carried out and 48% reduction in LTIFR, which corrective actions were implemented demonstrates our progress so far, Our Safety Challenge across the Group where appropriate. and we are striving for even greater Due to the continued rapid expansion The Sustainability committee reductions in the future. Our LTIFR in the natural resource industry, there reviewed each accident and oversaw target for 2012/13 is less than 0.80 is a high degree of contractor and the implementation of lessons learnt. and for 2015/16 is less than 0.50. employee turnover because of the additional opportunities available. We have initiated across the Group LTIFR by Business for the Year Accordingly we must work to ensure a full safety compliance audit of Unit Name 2010-11 2011-12 a culture of safety is embedded high-risk areas combined with an ongoing process to provide HZL 2.52 1.97 across our businesses, regardless of turnover rates. awareness, adherence to compliance Skorpion Zinc NA 0.55 and monitoring for implementation. The Lisheen Mine NA 2.13 Our business has operations in a Black Mountain Mine NA 3.93 variety of locations, many of which Details of each fatality’s cause for are isolated and rural, with contractor FY 2011-12: CMT 2.38 11.09 workforces with varying levels of SIIL 0.86 0.26 literacy and language abilities – this Type of Fatalities – FY 2011-12 KCM 0.40 0.52 requires various techniques to ensure BALCO 0.62 0.60 Fall from height 4 an awareness of expected safety Electrical 4 VAL – J 2.41 1.50 standards and compliance with safety procedures and, when required, Explosion/blasting 3 VAL – L 0.00 0.00 behavioural change. The techniques Exposed to gas 1 MALCO 1.36 1.18 we have used include: Sterlite Energy Limited NA 0.00 Material handling 2 >> Safety induction videos in Conveyor 2 SESA GOA 0.86 0.76 local languages. Traffic 2 Vedanta 1.10 0.99 >> Visitor safety handbook Fall off ground 2 In addition to continued training and >> Safety briefing at the start Horseplay 1 a focus on line management’s safety of shifts. Moving equipment 1 leadership, to achieve our 2012/13 >> A safety update in the daily Total 22 target we will have a particular focus morning departmental meetings. on those sites where the injury rate In addition to the elimination of remains unacceptably high. >> Reflective safety signage at fatalities, we measure our safety work places. Hazard Identification performance in terms of Lost Time >> Counselling on the mandatory Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) – the To make an industrial operation safe, use and benefits of wearing accepted measure of injury rates in it is essential to identify the hazards, personal protective equipment our industry, where lost time injuries to assess the associated risks and to in the workplace. per million man hours worked are bring the risks to tolerable levels measured. In 2011-12 our lost time through the intervention of risk >> Emergency drills. control measures. injury rate was 0.99, a 10% reduction Safety Performance in LTIFR from the previous year. The In 2011-12, 16 contract workers and Group suffered 8,076 Lost days in six employees lost their lives in the the last financial year. Over the vedantaresources.com 30 Health and Safety continued Hazard Identification & Risk embedding workplace safety trainers have been certified. These Assessment (HIRA) is an initiative standards and protecting our trainers have further rolled out training being piloted at our Hindustan employees and contractors from in their workplaces and 157 line Zinc business which promotes the hazards that they may potentially managers have been trained on HIRA. a pro-active approach towards be exposed to. For example, The programme is being extended identifying hazards at the workplace during the year a ‘train the trainer’ to other businesses over the by prioritising the corrective actions programme on HIRA was organised coming year. for effective safety management, for line managers at HZL and 20 Behaviour based safety training at Sesa Goa The Situation A training programme for employees and Over the past year, 28 training sessions were Sesa Goa’s Iron Ore business identified that contractors on behaviour based safety – ‘Suraksha conducted, each of 16 hours, with 752 employees human behaviour is often a key factor in safety Jagruti’ (safety awareness) – was introduced at Sesa representing 37% of our Sesa Goa Iron Ore incidents and accidents – changing behaviour Goa’s Iron Ore Division in 2011-12, with planned division. The breakdown of results at management in the worksite to ensure an observance of safety implementation across the remainder of the level was: Management 203 – Level M 3, M4 10, processes is a key factor in reducing the rates operations in 2012-13. M5 17, M6 48, M7 64, M8 16, M9 45 – and of near misses and accidents resulting in injury. Workmen 549 – including technicians, drivers, The training focused on aspects of how ‘attitude’ shop floor supervisors, welders, loader operators, leads to safe or unsafe behaviour, which in turn multi-skilled workers, supervisors, office staff. The Solution governs the extent to which work is executed safely. Traditional methods of safety management An ABC analysis – Activators/Antecedents of the By 2012-13 we intend that all employees and focusing on working environment and safe unsafe Behaviour and the Consequence of the contractors will have attended this or similar systems of work needed to be supplemented by behaviour – was used as a framework to identify training programmes across our mining and the elimination of unsafe behaviours. relevant and powerful examples. processing facilities locations. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 31 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 Occupational Health is immediately job rotated and more A total of 1,975 occupational health The industries in which we operate frequent assessments are carried out. cases, primarily musculoskeletal have potential hazards to human Over the past year over 87,000 syndrome and hearing impairment, health. We believe strongly in medical examinations of our were reported across the maintaining a healthy workforce employees and contractors were Group’s companies. by minimising the potential impacts of undertaken. These examinations exposure to these hazards. included blood lead level assessment, Preventative Health audiometries and chest X-rays: We provide preventative health We invest in technologically programmes to our employees advanced processes that reduce Medical Test performed and contractors, including seminars possible exposure levels, including Spirometries 18,648 on health and wellness management pollution control equipment, effluent and newborn care. Periodic first aid treatment and the proper storage of Audiometries 16,866 training is also conducted through hazardous chemicals. We also Chest X-rays 22,674 St John Ambulance and we also monitor and review industrial hygiene Blood lead 3,772 conduct periodic ‘health camps’ parameters such as noise levels, for check-ups and education across Blood cadmium 1,522 lighting levels, heat stress, heavy a range of health issues, targeted metal exposure and manual handling. Vision test/Colour blindness 18,187 at the main health issues we have Use of work related Personal Dental erosion 5,765 identified for that particular Protective Equipment further Total Medical Tests 87,434 workforce, such as HIV/AIDS, strengthens our ability to manage malaria and tuberculosis. occupation related illnesses. Our employees are provided with healthcare at occupational Our healthy worker concept health centres, either owned by commences at the employee entry the company or outsourced to stage, where we carry out extensive reputable hospitals. In addition, medical check-ups. Our businesses on-site doctors conduct various also carry out risk based medical health awareness sessions on first assessments for the various process aid and its importance, life style areas and the results are recorded. related health disorders such as These periodical assessments happen HIV/AIDs and diabetes, and sessions either at six monthly intervals or yearly on eye care, skin care and heart care. depending upon the assessed risk We also provide medical insurance level. Anyone found near the threshold for our full time employees. vedantaresources.com 32 Health and Safety continued VAL – Lanjigarh – Health and Wellness Programme Dr Sabita Swain is responsible for leading our Health and Wellness Programme at our aluminium operations in Lanjigarh, India (VAL). The programme provides assistance to employees, contractors and the local community. The programme has eight focus areas, which have been developed in consultation with local villagers and government agencies, reflecting the identified needs specific to the area of VAL’s operations. These focus areas are: >> Prevention of in local villages and among our >> Free treatment is given to all Vector-Borne Diseases. workforce on the regular use of those diagnosed with Filaria >> Prevention of mosquito nets, strict personal and and prophylaxis treatment Water-Borne Diseases. community hygiene to avoid water is extended to all those who logging, reduction of mosquito come to our operations from >> Safe Motherhood. population and counselling to a Filaria endemic zone. >> Childcare. report at a hospital for investigation >> Regular sessions are conducted >> Nutrition. and treatment within 24 hours at villages and worksites of fever symptoms. >> Prevention and control demonstrating the danger signs of of Sickle Cell Anaemia. >> In 2011-12, treatment for radical cure Dengue and people are counselled of Malaria was provided to 8,450 to report for treatment at the >> Health and Hygiene Awareness. cases, of which 30 complicated start of the symptoms of fever cases were referred to Tertiary Care to avoid complications. VAL’s overarching philosophy is that Centres paid for by the Group. equipping people and communities with appropriate health and wellness >> To control the mosquito Prevention of Watereducation is the best path to a long population, indoor spraying and Borne Diseases and healthy life. outdoor fogging was done over a For the control of water-borne 25km radius adjacent to our plant diseases, regular counselling sessions Vedanta’s actions in relation to each and at the two nearby towns of are held to educate the local populace of its focus areas are detailed below. Bhawanipatna and Kesinga and and our workforce in safe sanitation their peripheral tribal villages practices. In 2011-12 we provided Prevention of Vectorduring July-Sept 2011. these sessions to over 50 villages Borne Diseases and some 50,000 people. Issues >> For employees and contractors discussed included: >> Control of Malaria, Dengue who come to our operations and Filaria by providing long for the first time and have >> Compulsory hand-washing lasting insecticide impregnated had no previous contact with with soap and water after toileting mosquito nets to 50,000 people. Malaria, chemoprophylaxis is given, and before taking food or water. >> Conducting regular behaviour commencing 15 days prior to arrival. change communication sessions Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 33 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 >> The use of chlorinated tablets for >> Counselling for proper nutrition supplements, hydroxyurea and drinking water. and abstinence from alcohol methods to avoid dehydration and >> Rainy-season tube well disinfection. and tobacco. to report to a hospital at the earliest >> Counselling on institutional delivery. opportunity in case of fever or any >> Safe washing of clothes with soap other health problem. and water. >> Exclusive breastfeeding of infants >> Safe disposal of wastes, for a minimum of six months and, Children detected with the disease especially carcasses. if possible, for extended periods. are paid home visits by our Mobile >> Counselling on the benefits of Health Unit workers to detect any >> Safe cooking methods. health issues and record their child education. >> Treatment of all gastroenteritis cases. progress. They also teach the parents to detect any complications and to >> Routine immunisation for children. Childcare report as early as possible to hospital VAL works to improve child health >> Use of Oral Rehydration Solution to limit complications. These children and infant mortality rates, and these and other liquids suitable for are also provided with free folic acid activities include: use in case of diarrhoea. supplements by VAL and parents are >> Appropriate bathing techniques. encouraged to immunise the children >> Safe disposal of soiled clothes. against Influenza and Pneumococcus >> Dental screening – 1,200 children in addition to routine immunisation. Safe Motherhood were screened for cavities in We provide counselling to expectant 2011-12, and were provided All the family members of the mothers on healthy parenting with appropriate treatment Sickle Cell Anaemia carrier/patient are practices as well as antenatal and where required. screened for the disease and positive post-natal check-ups. In 2011-12 we cases are provided with medical care worked with some 600 expectant >> VAL’s 39 childcare centres provided nutritious meals and counselling. mothers and our assistance included: to over 950 children. Health and Hygiene Awareness >> Informing them of government >> Training to ASHA Workers, VAL, in conjunction with its associated sponsored programmes such Anganwadi workers and partners, conducts health and hygiene as Janani and Sishu Surakshya, childcare workers in the care awareness sessions in the plant and Pustikar Diwas and Mamta Diwas to of young children, the benefits surrounding villages. encourage a stress free pregnancy of immunisation, regular health and safe delivery. check-ups, early treatment, ASHA workers (Accredited >> Free testing at our hospital to healthy nutrition, vitamin Social Health Activists), Anganwadi detect any complication such supplementation and deworming. Workers, Auxiliary Nurse Midwives, as Diabetes, Hypertension, Health Workers, Childcare Workers, Malnutrition, Anaemia, Rh Nutrition Village coordinators, Sarpanchs, incompatibility, eclampsia, VAL works to improve dietary school teachers and students pre-eclampsia and any infectious intakes by building awareness of serve as healthcare ‘change agents’ diseases which could interfere the nutritional value of local species in the community and have been with child growth and health. and the use of appropriately stocked appropriately trained in providing ‘kitchen gardens’, supported by healthy living advice. These change >> Counselling and voluntary nutritional supplements provided agents then spread healthy living testing for HIV/AIDS (for mother at VAL childcare centres and messages among the local and father). Anganwadi centres. community, where they reside. >> Counselling to ensure immunisation against Tetanus to pregnant mothers Prevention and Control This strategy has helped to and immunisation of newborns of Sickle Cell Anemia increase healthy behaviours in the against Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertusis, To decrease the prevalence and communities in which the change Mumps, Measles, Rubella, Polio incidence of Sickle Cell Disease, agents operate by increasing villagers’ and Tuberculosis. adults detected with the disease are awareness of healthy living strategies, counselled on the beneficial impact government health programmes, >> Counselling to undergo a local hospitals and ambulance minimum of four antenatal of marriage to partners who belong to distant communities and are not services, while also providing check-ups during pregnancy. skilled local people who can carriers of the disease. assist in times of need. Affected adults are also counselled to undertake regular medical To date, VAL has trained and check-ups, to take folic acid provided 600 change agents. vedantaresources.com 34 Environment We are committed to mitigating the environmental impact of our activities, wherever possible 56.93m 29% Introduction We operate a range of mining and US$ resource processing businesses around the world, in different We will continue to invest to reduce 29% of our total water usage was countries and ecosystems. Our goal our environmental footprint. In recycled, amounting to 55.7 million is to minimise our environmental 2011-12, we spent US$56.93 million cubic metres – equivalent to filling over footprint from commencement on environmental protection. 22,000 Olympic swimming pools. of our operations to post-closure. 38 14.5m The processing of raw material into pure metal has the potential for impacts on air, including the emissions major plants of gases and particulates associated Thirty-eight of our 44 major 14.5 million cubic metres with combustion and smelting, plants are accredited to the of rainwater was collected while water consumption can affect ISO 14001 environmental in reservoirs during the year*, water tables and water quality can management standard. primarily at our Sesa Goa facilities. be impacted by the use of hazardous materials. Our presence and 102MW operations, including through the altering of land use, can also have an impact on biodiversity. 102 MW of wind power capacity To minimise our impacts and was added during the year, taking therefore run our business in a the Group’s total wind power sustainable manner, we appropriately capacity to 273 MW. manage our processes across our products’ lifecycle. We do this through the use of advanced technologies and operate in accordance with global standards in their manufacture and concurrently minimising the associated risks. Managing our business sustainably also encompasses an understanding of the outputs generated in production, including greenhouse gases, emissions and other waste products – managing our operations efficiently to deal with these outputs and keep them to a minimum is important in reducing Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 35 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 the risk of harm to people and the Key Environmental Risks Management Approach environment and makes good business sense. Water Consumption >> Measure usage >> Reduce freshwater usage through Our Approach process innovations Our role is to be aware of the key >> Act as a responsible water user, especially environmental impacts and to have in water scarce areas, balancing the needs plans in place to manage them of different users appropriately. We understand that water and energy are scarce resources >> Augment water resources through artificial recharge and, accordingly, we are focusing on and rainwater collection resource conservation by assigning water and energy reduction targets Energy Management >> Measure usage for each of our Group’s companies. including greenhouse >> Select best available technology to reduce We employ specific guidelines and gas (GHG) emissions energy consumption solutions for our copper, zinc and >> Make our operations as energy efficient aluminium production and in iron as possible ore mining. >> Reduce direct GHG emissions from our operations Our Environmental Technical Standard including exploring opportunities encapsulates our approach, where for low emissions technologies to reduce all Vedanta operations are obliged carbon emissions to avoid if possible, or otherwise minimise, adverse impacts on the Biodiversity impacts >> Assess biodiversity risks environment from our operations >> Minimise impacts on ecosystems through effective management systems and processes that work >> Avoid any loss of IUCN Red List species towards continuous improvement >> Conserve biodiversity within our operations of our environmental performance. >> Where possible, rehabilitate sites progressively Vedanta’s Sustainable Development and restore to a status similar to the conditions framework includes the following before operations commencement policies – Biodiversity management, Energy and Carbon management, Waste Management – >> Explore opportunities to minimise waste generation Health, Safety and Environment, and including tailings as well as improve waste re-use/recycling options Water Management. Together they management >> R&D initiatives to minimise waste generation, make sustainable environmental increase fly ash utilisation, slag and gypsum utilisation management practices an integral in industrial applications, explore opportunities for part of our business. recycling of hazardous waste In 2011, the Vedanta Sustainability Air emissions >> Measure emissions framework was mapped against >> Improve extraction and refining processes the International Finance to reduce particulate emissions Corporation’s sustainability standards and will be applied to the entire >> Install and maintain appropriate emission lifecycle of all our business operations control equipment worldwide. The standards ensure that sustainability issues, including Land Management >> Minimise plant footprint by optimisation of land use environmental risks, are considered and technology >> Use of barren or uncultivated land for operations in all new projects throughout their >> Explore opportunities for solid waste utilisation lifecycle, including decommissioning, closure and rehabilitation. >> Closure planning We are launching an assurance programme which will work to Artificial recharge is the harvesting of rainwater for productive use which otherwise would have *  ensure our environmental been discharged as storm water runoff management system complies with applicable legal and company requirements. In addition, to have a better understanding of the best vedantaresources.com 36 Environment continued Consumption of Raw and Associated Materials 2011-12 (MT) 70% More than 70% of generated Unit name HZL Skorpion Zinc Raw Material 8,413,955.82 1,896,638.00 Asso Material 314,016.14 77,676.00 Semi Manufactured 5,491.36 – Packaging material 725.59 – non-hazardous waste is The Lisheen Mine 1,900,135.24 – – – constructively utilised: Black Mountain Mine 1,470,666.95 566.76 – – 3.6m CMT 2,065,351.57 5,100.44 85,335.84 – SIIL 1,610,045.28 171,258.39 – 122.00 KCM 8,584,230.82 505,374.65 13,841,279.55 298.61 BALCO – 123,288.43 38,539.00 211.18 3.6 million metric tons of fly ash was used in cement and brick VAL – J – 236,127.07 842,173.82 100.93 manufacturing and in raising VAL – L 2,947,334.00 185,681.84 – – of ash pond dyke height. MALCO – – – – 2.2m Sterlite Energy Limited – – – – SESA GOA 794,143.90 54,362.72 – – Vedanta Final 29,682,501.57 16,73,452.43 14,812,819.57 1,458.31 2.2 million metric tons of slag was used in various applications including road construction, land levelling, abrasive and practices available to comply with Water cement industries. our Sustainability Standards, we plan We use water in mining, to issue guidance notes to support smelting, refining and power plant – 0.8m all our subsidiary companies. independent and captive – operations with the majority of our operations Delivery located in environments where access During the past year, we invested to water can be a challenge. Ensuring 0.8 million metric tons of gypsum US$56.93 million in various that we are able to fulfil the need was used in cement and fertiliser environmental management activities of the communities surrounding industries and brick manufacturing including improved emissions/control, our operations to have access to process water and solid waste safe and clean water and provide management. During the year, no Consumption of direct and nonfor our business requirements whilst environmental legislative or regulatory renewable material (MT) for Vedanta maintaining aquifer quality is the core financial penalties were imposed. aim driving our water policies and Liquified Petroleum Gas procedures. An inability to fulfil the (LPG) 6,653 Raw Material Consumption Raw materials consumed in our local community’s water requirements Diesel 139,769 or permanent damage to an aquifer operations include bauxite, copper Coal 20,811,745 ore/concentrate, zinc, iron and lead would seriously impact our ability Coke 8,713 ore and their associated mineral to operate. Furnace Oil 173,620 inputs, semi-manufactured and packaging material. During the year, In 2011-12 we consumed Light Density Oil 16,259 190.14 million cubic metres (MCM) 29.68 million metric tonnes (MT) Liquified Natural Gas 2,719 of raw material, 1.67 million MT of of water across all our operations. Low Sulphur Heavy associate materials, and 14.81 million As an essential component of our Stock 348 MT of semi-manufactured materials sustainability journey, we are seeking were consumed. The break down of a 9.8% reduction in water consumption Petrol 318 direct and non-renewable material by 2013 (which on a like-for-like Propane 8,084 consumption for 2011-12 is provided. production volume basis, would Unleaded Petrol 7 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 37 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 result in absolute water savings of 18.7 MCM – the equivalent to filling over 7,000 Olympic swimming pools). To ensure that our water conservation programme has rigour, we are working with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), The Energy Resources Institute (TERI) and other likeminded companies in India to design a mapping process. This is in addition to management of specific water consumption targets (including the absolute water savings target) set by individual units. Each operation has presented their management plan – including the resources (human and financial) allocated to drive the various interventions needed to reduce consumption – to the ExCo Sustainability Sub-committee. We strive to minimise the amount of freshwater we consume by re-using and recycling as much water as possible in our processes and encouraging rainwater harvesting where we can. Currently Sesa Goa is our leader in rainwater harvesting, with Sterlite Copper and Hindustan Zinc also using captured rainwater. Recovering Metal from Zinc Smelting Wastes In addition, effluent and sewage treatment plants are installed for treatment and the resulting water is re-used at all primary locations. The Issue them together in the one process. The residue left Performance While recovering zinc through hydrometallurgical after waste processing can be consumed internally Water usage process, lead and silver were separated out as in an Ausmelt furnace to recover lead and silver. The efficiency of our water use commercially poor grade Lead-Silver Concentrate The leached impurities are precipitated out in the (LGLC), which was stored as inventory. Part of existing effluent treatment facilities. The process is reported using consumption enables full treatment of LGLC stock, HGP dust the manganese present in the zinc concentrate measured as cubic metres per metric is also separated during zinc electrowinning as and part consumption of cell sludge. ton of output/product. We are pleased cell sludge, most of which is disposed safely in A pilot plant has been commissioned to treat to report that, over the past year, our special facilities. these wastes, which has successfully proven the specific water consumption at BALCO In addition, hot gas precipitator dust (HGP) business and environmental sustainability potential reduced by 45% through process in zinc pyro metallurgical operations containing of the process. innovations and opportunities high lead and silver is produced with purged out cadmium as an impurity, which restricts its The Outcome identified through the water audit recycling. This is being sold at very low metal >>Preservation of natural resources with the programme, and by 28% at VAL-J realisation. If the utilisation of these wastes can be contribution of wastes in achieving business through our water audit programme. enhanced, it would result in greater environmental targets, which is equivalent to some 30,000 MT sustainability and improved recovery of ore. mining of lead-zinc ore. >>Reduction in environment liability – as LGLC The Solution would otherwise require additional land storage. Hindustan Zinc’s Central Research & Development Laboratory developed a flowsheet for the recovery >>By treatment of 911 MT LGLC and 301 MT HGP of lead and silver from these three waste products dust along with 30 MT cell sludge, nearly 248 – LGLC, HGP dust and cell sludge – by treating MT Pb and 519 Kgs silver is produced. vedantaresources.com 38 Environment continued The table on page 39 shows our Climate Change and for our operations include fossil fuel, FY 2011-12 and 2010-11 total water Greenhouse Gas Emissions renewable energy and electricity. We usage, including the percentage of In accordance with our Energy and strive to continuously reduce specific water recycled (with respect to total Carbon policy, we acknowledge the energy consumption across our water usage) and total volume of global concern on climate change operations in support of our water recycled/reused, across each and recognise that concerted and sustainability mission. of our subsidiary companies. Water sustained global action is required sources and related habitats are not to reduce the scale of the problem Performance significantly affected by withdrawal of and adapt to its impacts. Accordingly, During the year, we saved water from our operations. we strive to adopt and maintain 160,000 GJ of energy through global best practices on carbon and various conservation initiatives During 2011-12, the Group doubled energy management and to minimise adopted during the year. These water recycling when compared to greenhouse gas emissions throughout initiatives included installation 2010-11, from 27.91 million cubic our operations. of Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) metres to 55.72 million cubic metres. to allow optimisation of the speed This has been achieved through Performance of pumps and blowers, interlocking process innovations. Although we hold no carbon conveyors to minimise idle time, liabilities across the majority of our avoiding the use of dedicated cooling With regard to our total water operations under the Kyoto Protocol, towers for compressors, reduction withdrawal by original water source, we nonetheless take the challenge of dead pot voltage and lighting it is noted that: of climate change seriously. Managing automation. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is one indirect energy consumption included >> Surface water source is the primary of the Group’s material issues. improvement in captive power use water source of the majority of our We use the WBCSD-WRI methodology across units, which in turn minimised Indian operations. for calculating our CO2 emissions. transmission losses, promotion During 2011-12, our operations of local procurement to reduce >> Groundwater is the primary source emitted approximately 32 million energy used in transportation, the of water for our KCM mines located tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which use and promotion of car pooling and in Zambia and Lisheen Mine located includes generation from both busing and an increase in conducting in Ireland. captive and independent power meetings through video/telepresence >> 14.4 MCM of rainwater was plants. We support the work of the facilities, reducing airline travel. collected in reservoirs and used Carbon Disclosure Project. Last year, at Sesa Goa – approximately 75% our report was rated 9th of the 18 On a production volume like-for-like of total water usage at Sesa Goa. metals and mining companies in the basis, we are targeting a reduction in FTSE 100 and Sesa Goa was listed Group energy consumption of 1.3% by SIIL, Sesa, VAL-Lanjigarh, MALCO, SEL, 2013 (which would result in absolute in 7th position from all companies Skorpion Zinc, Black Mountain mine energy savings of 3.9 million GJ), in CDP India. and HZL are zero effluent discharge equivalent to one year of operations plants where all treated process We have identified various of a 120 MW thermal power plant. wastewater is reused or recycled projects with a total potential carbon within the plant premises. reduction potential of 7.8 million This year, we have also added SEL tonnes. We have registered projects and Zinc International Operations The table on page 40 shows total worth 0.4 million tonnes of carbon data and the table on page 41 provides process water discharge by quantity with the UNFCCC. our direct and indirect energy and destination across Vedanta consumption for 2010-11 and 2011-12. operations. Process wastewater The CDM projects fall primarily into discharge complies with the two categories – waste heat recovery applicable regulatory limits. based power generation projects and wind power projects. During Treated wastewater is discharged the year, we accrued 335,000 CERs. from BALCO, VAL J, and CMT and KCM and our records show We have initiated monitoring of Scope that treated wastewater quality is III emissions and will report by 2015. within statutory prescribed norms as applicable and no significant Energy Use impact is envisaged due to discharge Resource extraction and production of treated wastewater. is energy intensive. Energy sources Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 39 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 Water Usage (million m3) 2010-11 2011-12 Water Water Water used recycled Percentage Water used recycled Percentage Unit (Million m3) (Million m ) 3 Recycled (Million m ) (Million m3) 3 Recycled HZL 33.26 10.73 32.27 26.75 9.97 37.27 Skorpion Zinc NA NA NA 2.80 0.54 19.37 The Lisheen Mine NA NA NA 3.10 3.08 99.28 Black Mountain Mine NA NA NA 1.44 0.21 14.57 CMT 4.92 0.82 16.67 3.31 0.00 0.00 SIIL 3.13 0.41 13.21 2.97 0.49 16.45 KCM 184.81 0.86 0.47 61.43 23.75 38.66 BALCO 40.13 6.93 17.26 28.90 6.35 21.97 VAL – J 22.15 0.53 2.37 19.35 0.60 3.09 VAL – L 4.70 1.28 27.14 4.04 1.68 41.67 MALCO 3.34 0.13 3.84 2.42 0.08 3.35 Sterlite Energy Limited NA NA NA 15.05 0.18 1.21 SESA GOA 15.76 6.22 39.47 18.56 8.78 47.33 Vedanta 312.20 27.91 8.94 190.14 55.72 29.30 Total Water Withdrawl by Source (million m3) for each business unit Surface water Ground water Rain water Water from utility Total Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 HZL 17.91 22.56 4.51 3.74 0.03 0.03 0.72 0.98 23.17 27.31 Skorpion Zinc NA 0 NA 0 NA 0 NA 2.75 0 2.75 The Lisheen Mine NA 0 NA 28.08 NA 0 NA 0 0 28.08 Black Mountain Mine NA 4.37 NA 0.01 NA 0 NA 0 0 4.38 CMT 4.1 4.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.10 4.60 SIIL 2.97 3.29 0.01 0.01 0.08 0.06 0 0 3.06 3.36 KCM 32.28 29.39 146.8 144.96 0 0 4.87 4.88 183.95 179.27 BALCO 33.15 28.84 0.06 0.06 0 0 0 0 33.21 28.90 VAL-J 3.43 19.35 0 0 0 0 0 0 3.43 19.35 VAL-L 21.63 4.04 0 0 0 0 0 0 21.63 4.04 MALCO 3.21 3.01 0 0 0 0 0 0 3.21 3.01 Sterlite Energy Limited NA 15.05 NA 0 NA 0 NA 0 0 15.05 SESA GOA 3.14 1.93 0.24 2.81 12.58 14.41 0.12 0.11 16.08 19.26 Vedanta 121.82 136.44 151.62 179.68 12.68 14.5 5.71 8.72 291.84 339.34 The significant water withdrawal at KCM and the Lisheen mine is due to mine dewatering operations vedantaresources.com 40 Environment continued Waste Water Discharged (million m3) Total waste water discharged after treatment for each business unit Unit 2010-11 Destination 2011-12 Destination HZL 0.11 Sea Zero Discharge NA Skorpion Zinc NA NA Zero Discharge NA The Lisheen Mine NA NA 0.03 River Black Mountain Mine NA NA Zero Discharge NA CMT 27.55 River and Creek 26.78 River and Creek SIIL Zero Discharge – Zero Discharge NA KCM 107.59 Streams and River 137.28 Streams and River BALCO 9.62 River 3.84 River VAL-J 1.75 River 1.41 River VAL-L Zero Discharge – Zero Discharge NA MALCO Zero Discharge – Zero Discharge NA Sterlite Energy Limited NA NA Zero Discharge NA SESA GOA Zero Discharge – Zero Discharge NA Vedanta 146.62 – 169.34 NA Total Direct and InDirect Green House Gas emissions by business units (tonnes of CO2 eq) Scope-1 Scope-2 Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 HZL 3,723,069 4,619,113 422,750 180,160 Skorpion Zinc NA 28,044 NA 649,823 The Lisheen Mine NA 4,403 NA 71,551 Black Mountain Mine NA 16,114 NA 487,098 CMT 8,903 9,069 4,780 5,156 SIIL 320,511 180,359 278,585 113,068 KCM 129,200 119,237 27,091 12,868 BALCO 8,190,469 7,622,035 589 1,462 VAL-J 15,290,068 9,112,679 0 68,193 VAL-L 1,928,645 1,135,227 3,112 1,012 MALCO 1,287,020 875,470 0 0 Sterlite Energy Limited NA 6,325,020 NA 0 SESA GOA 713,669 671,534 66,956 68,720 Vedanta 31,591,554 30,718,303 803,863 1,659,110 There was a typographical error observed for Scope-1 and Scope-2 emission values for Sesa Goa in the last year SD Report. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 41 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 Waste and recycling Amount of Hazardous and Non-Hazardous Waste Generated (MT) Our Waste Management Standard Hazardous Non-Hazardous guides the Group to work to reduce Unit Waste 2011-12 Waste 2011-12 waste generation and disposal HZL 581,960 589,267 of waste in a safe and sound way. During the year, our operations Skorpion Zinc 242 NA generated 9.3 million metric tonnes The Lisheen Mine 28 NA of non-hazardous waste including Black Mountain Mine 107,502 965 fly ash (from captive and merchant CMT 88 133 power plants), red mud (aluminium refinery waste), jarosite/jarofix, SIIL 46,219 1,425,232 gypsum, lime grit (process residues KCM 937 404,767 from smelters) and 1.1 million metric BALCO 8,470 2,295,497 tonnes of hazardous waste, including VAL-J 26,056 1,195,420 used/spent oil, waste refractories, spent pot lining and residual sludge VAL-L 8,074 1,736,323 (from smelters). MALCO 21 31,889 Sterlite Energy Limited 63 1,683,118 More than 70% of generated SESA GOA 327,542 8,910 non-hazardous waste is constructively used: Vedanta 1,107,202 9,371,521 Tailings is not reported as a part of Non-Hazardous waste. It is reported under GRI MM3 Indicator >> 3.6 million metric tonnes of fly ash were used in cement, brick Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (million GJ) manufacturing and in raising Direct Indirct of ash pond dyke height. Unit Name 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 >> 2.2 million metric tonnes of slag HZL 30.01 45.51 1,855,960 3,494,206 were used in various applications (road construction, land levelling, Skorpion Zinc NA 0.38 NA 2,436,837 abrasive and cement industries). The Lisheen Mine NA 0.06 NA 483,271 >> 0.8 million metric tonnes of gypsum Black Mountain Mine NA 0.22 NA 487,098 were used in cement and fertiliser CMT 0.12 0.12 344,170 371,247 industries and brick manufacturing. SIIL 3.47 1.96 1,091,859 1,708,117 Other non-hazardous waste materials KCM 1.71 1.57 6,772,764 6,617,778 are stored in designated land-fill BALCO 78.48 72.6 2,582 6,571 and/or are sold to local vendors. VAL – J 82.87 79.11 – 577,346 VAL – L 20.5 12.39 13,662 4,555 We have processes in place to ensure appropriate management and MALCO 13.4 9.11 – – disposal or recycling of these wastes. Sterlite Energy Limited NA 65.99 NA 103,871 SESA GOA 2.15 1.98 296,072 289,515 Hazardous wastes are stored in a secured land fill and some of them are Vedanta 232.71 291.02 10,377,068 16,580,413 sold to authorised recyclers while most of our generated overburden is Amount of overburden, tailing (MT) for each business units used in secondary construction work Company Overburden Tailings Total – for example, in raising tailing dam HZL 70,353,975 5,745,934 76,099,909 heights. Some tailings are also used Skorpion Zinc 0 1,666,893 1,666,893 for the back filling of mines. The Lisheen Mine 0 683,257 683,257 In order to combat the challenges CMT 2,155,269 2,130,957 4,286,227 inherent in alumina processing, KCM 61,237,861 14,885,890 76,123,751 our VAL-Lanjigarh unit has taken up a new Clean Development initiative BALCO 4,334,168 0 4,334,168 through a number of Research SESA GOA 47,256,913 10,836,311 58,093,224 and Development (R&D) projects Vedanta 185,338,188 35,949,242 221,287,429 in collaboration with reputable organisations including IMMT, Bhubaneswar and NIT Rourkela. vedantaresources.com 42 Environment continued The R&D projects will facilitate resulted in erosion and breach of bund to set priorities for the development the potential development of clean wall and the rainwater flowing into of Biodiversity Action Plans. As technologies in the aluminium nearby fields. This incident affected biodiversity is a specialised discipline, business. The implementation 1.30 hectares of land and impacted we plan to review the risk assessment of the successful R&D projects across the adjoining area. process, including conducting pilot the different areas of the refinery studies to validate the identified risks will ensure conversion of waste into Actions taken: through the IBAT tool. We plan to have marketable commodities as well as 1. A parapet wall was constructed a full suite of appropriate Biodiversity adopting a cost effective process to arrest the additional silt flowing Action Plans (BAP) in place at all our through the removal of critical into the next settling pond. sites by 2015. impurities from bauxite ore. 2. Erection of bund with hard laterite As part of our Environmental Performance material completed. Management programme, massive During the year, Vedanta recycled afforestation drives are organised 64,000 MT waste materials as inputs 3. Three additional pipes of 900mm under the auspices of our Green Belt into production. diameter at different levels were laid Development Programme. During and the pumping capacity of the 2011-12, we planted 5.7 million The emission of ozone depleting overflow pump was doubled. saplings. To date, the Group has substances is not a material planted more than 17.7 million trees. concern for Vedanta as none are Incident 2: Zinc International used in processes associated with (Black Mountain Mine) – Category 4 Air Emissions our operations. Date of Incident: 9 November 2011 Air emissions include both Ambient Air Quality Monitoring (AAQM) The presence of Poly-Chlorinated Brief: A diesel tanker carrying as well as stack emissions monitoring. Biphenyls (PCBs) is not a material 12,500 litres of diesel was pumping In general, as part of the EIA study, concern for Vedanta as, apart from into a workshop tank (capacity the baseline ambient air monitoring KCM Zambia, none are used in approximately 9,000 litres). The data is collected within a 10km radius our operations. At KCM, PCBs are isolation valve of workshop tank was of the plant site. The monitoring observed in some of the transformers accidently left open, resulting in a locations are selected based on the – these will be phased out during diesel spill around the area which following considerations: FY 2012-13. affected a mine water dam over a 10 square metre area. >> Meteorological conditions Significant on synoptic basis. Environmental Incidents Actions taken: >> Topography of the study area. We strive for zero environmental To prevent recurrence and as a incidents at all Vedanta operations. corrective action a lockout system >> Likely impact areas. We monitor, report and investigate was installed on the surface valve any incidents that do occur and at the main diesel storage area. Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), apply lessons learned to prevent SO2 and NOx are generally monitored recurrence of similar incidents Biodiversity as part of AAQM. The AAQM reports in future. We have developed an Our biodiversity policy commits us are regularly submitted to the internal rating system for incidents to minimise and mitigate biodiversity regulatory authorities. according to their severity (see table risks throughout our business. Inherently, mining operations can In relation to stack emissions, opposite). On a quarterly basis, the affect local ecology but we strive to particulate matter emission is legally Sustainability Committee reviews the avoid any impact on natural habitats. regulated at most of our operations Category 4 and Category 5 incident We plan to manage and use land and accordingly is being monitored. investigation reports. in our operations in a manner that We monitor SO2 and NOx and other In 2011-12, two significant spills allows biodiversity conservation to relevant emissions – lead emissions in (one Category 5 and one Category 4) be integrated through the project zinc operations, fluoride emissions in were recorded: lifecycle, including decommissioning, copper and aluminium operations and closure and rehabilitation. Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) in Incident 1: Sesa Goa (Bicholim mine) aluminium operations. We will provide – Category 5 We have recently undertaken more details of our measures a risk mapping of key biodiversity around Air Emissions in next Date of Incident: 16 July 2011 areas, extinction species and IUCN year’s Sustainability Report. at 7.00 am category areas across all our Group’s Brief: Due to excess rainfall there was operations using the IBAT mapping an increase in pit water level and tool https://www.ibatforbusiness.org/. because of a blockage in the overflow This process has led to a risk pipe an overflow occurred, which assessment which is being used Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 43 Responsible Stewardship P20-43 Internal Rating System for Incidents According to their Severity Categories Definition Criteria (Any one) Category 1 Negligible >> Inside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 1 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Outside Plant – Causing negligible, reversible environmental impact, requiring very minor or no remediation >> Complaints – Local complaints in company office (written or verbal) from external sources >> Coverage – Nil Category 2 Minor >> Inside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 1-10 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Outside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 1 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste causing minor, reversible environmental impact, requiring minor remediation >> Complaints – Receiving of multiple complaints on same topics from external sources >> Coverage – Minor/adverse local public or media attention Category 3 Moderate >> Inside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 10-100 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Outside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 1-10 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste causing moderate, reversible environmental impact with short-term effect, requiring moderate remediation >> Complaints – Receiving of multiple complaints on same topics from/to Local NGO/Govt. body >> Coverage – In Regional media – Newspaper/TV Category 4 Serious >> Inside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 100-1,000 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Outside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 10-100 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Complaints – Receiving of complaints/multiple complaints on same topics from/to National NGO >> Coverage – In National media – Newspaper/TV/Internet Category 5 Disastrous >> Inside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume more than 1,000 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Outside Plant – Toxic/Hazardous material and volume up to 100-1,000 m3 or equivalent vol. of gas emission/discharge of waste >> Complaints – Receiving of complaints/multiple complaints on same topics from/to International NGO/Central Govt. body >> Coverage – In International media – Newspaper/TV/Internet vedantaresources.com Building Strong Relationships Building Strong Relationships is the second pillar of our sustainability model. Our commitment to building strong relationships is based on the understanding that establishing and maintaining close, responsive links with our stakeholders is an essential part of our journey as a sustainable business. What’s in this section Stakeholder Engagement 46 Human Rights 50 Community Consultation and Resettlement 52 46 Stakeholder Engagement Driving effective >> Civil society (including NGOs, universities and charitable organisations). communication This year we undertook close to 3,200 community engagements, which assisted us to identify sustainability priorities and direct our efforts in facilitating a greater degree of sustainability in our programmes. Introduction in 2011 to help us in undertaking In addition, we have constructive Stakeholder engagement equips us to a high quality stakeholder identification partnerships with 149 NGOs, proactively build trust in our business, analysis by seeking to identify and government bodies, academic identify opportunities and mitigate understand those who might be institutions and private hospitals. risks by understanding and effectively directly or indirectly affected or Considering our need and desire to responding to concerns and issues. interested in Vedanta operations progress in this area, we have built a and the future of society and the We are further developing our robust organisation with over 125 planet. We aim to achieve a deep stakeholder engagement processes employees and more than 1,100 understanding of all our stakeholder – the evolution of our stakeholder community field officers who work groups. The standard requires engagement is premised on the within the communities neighbouring all projects, across their lifecycle, notion that those groups who can our plants, and through this process to undertake proactive stakeholder affect or are affected by our goals we are able to develop projects in identification, analysis and and activities should be given the partnership with local governments engagement. We are working opportunity to be consulted in the and NGOs who add tremendous value to embed the standard across development of decisions that affect and leadership to our aspirations our businesses. them, including our employees, to support development. At the the communities surrounding our As part of our developing local level and on a day-to-day basis, operations, host governments, engagement plan we have identified our local community development our industry, civil society (including seven key stakeholder groups: teams are involved in the lives of our NGOs), shareholders and lenders. local communities. A participative approach to dialogue >> Our shareholders. >> Our lenders Identifying and actively managing and responsiveness strengthens our a large number of complex business and deepens the positive (usually commercial banks). >> Our employees relationships must be a planned and impact of our activities. Further, we ongoing process with constant review have much to learn from those that (including contractor employees). >> Communities as our business grows and changes. understand the changing nature This also reflects the reality that the of the sustainability of the planet. (directly impacted by our operations). >> Our industry (including customers, external operating environment is Our stakeholder engagement technical suppliers, competitors and constantly evolving. standard is part of the sustainability representative bodies). framework and was introduced >> Host governments, and How we engage with our stakeholders Our Lenders Our Our Our Our Civil Employees Communities Industry Governments Society Our Shareholders Engagement is a two-way progress Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 47 Building Strong Relationships P44-53 The Need For issues only solvable by the Resettlement In a continuous effort to drive our sustainability and Periphery Development Advisory Committee framework in a robust manner, our Vedanta or government departments, which have been Aluminium Ltd – Lanjigarh site sought to trial the majority, a joint meeting is arranged between a more structured approach to its grievance the person bringing the issue, the district processes, to enable better resolution of issues administration and representatives from in a structured format, with more accurate Vedanta Aluminium. data gathering. Way Forward The Business Solution With the pilot’s success, Vedanta intends to A cross-functional team under the leadership use this process as a model for grievance of the head of human resources and the head of processes across the business by 2013, modified corporate social responsibility conduct ‘grievance where appropriate for local conditions. Currently open house’ each week with anyone that has a all our facilities do have in place community suggestion or grievance to discuss. liaison personnel who act as a bridge to local communities over and above the statutory The process is structured on the following basis: mechanisms available to deal with grievances – Piloting our grievance Any person having an issue or a grievance can however, we believe our trial model will further come to the regularly scheduled open house strengthen our grievance processes. mechanism process at and register that grievance. The person is invited Vedanta Aluminium Ltd to discuss their issue with a team member. The issue or grievance is processed and assessed for appropriate action with the aim to resolve and/or answer the issue within seven days. At the closure Period : April 2011 – March 2012 of the case, the person is asked to return to register completion. The process is conducted Number of Number of Total Number in the local Oriya language. grievances closed grievances open of grievances All issues are tracked and categorised, with the Community related development/ majority falling into four categories: infrastructure/livelihood 7 5 12 >>Land acquisition related matters Human Resource related include Full time and Contractor Employees 6 1 7 >>CSR and community development Land related (One time settlement) 444 1 445 >>Employment request >>Environmental related Total 457 7 464 Evaluating our future performance As we develop and embed our new stakeholder engagement plan, we will be seeking to confirm within our business that: 52 52 issues recorded in 3.1m 3.1 million people benefited through our >> We have rolled out our grievance the Village meeting. community engagements programme. redressal standard which is being 247 106 adopted by all our subsidiaries; >> Each operation has a Stakeholder Engagement Plan which includes evidence of the Stakeholder Identification and Analysis process; 247 meetings 106 panchayat >> Stakeholder Engagement Plans are with Government Officials. meetings attended. updated when there is significant 294 2,553 change to the operation, community grievance or incidents; >> Roles, responsibilities and accountabilities have been clearly defined and documented for 294 meetings with NGOs. 2,553 village meetings conducted. Stakeholder Engagement activities; 6 >> Each operation has evidence that they have sought feedback on Stakeholder Engagement processes to make improvements where possible. 6 Public Hearings conducted. vedantaresources.com 48 Stakeholder Engagement continued We seek to add and share value through everything that we do Our stakeholder groups Recruited from leading institutions and organisations, our Community Field Officers engage with our Shareholders Employees and contractors neighbouring communities through The main channels of communication In line with our Group philosophy regular visits to villages, panchayats with the investment community to foster and nurture a culture of (village councils) and public hearings. are through the Chairman, Deputy meritocracy and high performance, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, regular performance and career Chief Financial Officer, Senior development reviews are undertaken. Vice President, Investor Relations Our Performance Management and Chief Sustainability Officer. System is a key tool to measure, Our industry The Senior Independent Director reward and improve performance. Understanding the needs and and other Non-executive Directors In addition to annual reviews, forums expectations of our customers and are also available as appropriate. including Chairman’s Workshops, suppliers and the evolving trends, The Directors as a whole keep CEO meetings and other direct opportunities and threats to our abreast of shareholder sentiment employee engagement activities – business can only be achieved if we through regular detailed investor as well as liaising with employee work closely with our commercial relations reports made to the Board. representatives – work to promote a partners and industry bodies, and A detailed summary of our methods culture of trust between employees engage with our competitors. Our of engagement is discussed on and management. commercial and management team page 73 of our Annual Report and engages in constant dialogue with can also be accessed on our website. these groups and we are evolving processes to enable this constant Communities communication to be strategically We operate in many countries captured as part of our evolving that are developing rapidly and stakeholder engagement plan. Lenders We have a Corporate Finance team have unique requirements around community support. To drive our A number of our subsidiary companies which works with our lenders and are members of the following trades on their requirements and requests, community relations and programmes we have a substantial team, including and industry bodies. They actively engaging with current and potential participate at these forums: lenders around the world. Our Chief 125 community field officers, working Sustainability Officer meets with in conjunction with around 1,100 field co-ordinators. Our team works >> Federation of Indian lenders to discuss sustainability Mining Industries. related issues. to develop meaningful projects in partnership with local governments >> Confederation of Indian Industries. and local NGOs. To understand and >> India Lead Zinc manage site specific issues we have Development Association. developed grievance procedures >> Indian Institute of Metal. where issues of concern can be raised >> Federation of Indian Chambers in a non-confrontational environment. of Commerce & Industry. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 49 Building Strong Relationships P44-53 Our customers We generally sell to industrial customers with whom we usually engage directly, rather than through Governments Civil society brokers and agents. Our customers Our engagement with our host Our partnerships with local are often large organisations who governments is multifaceted and NGOs, research institutions, use our material to create their incorporates all aspects of our and other organisations are a key end products. business, from resource licensing means of sophisticated engagement rounds, contributions to debates and have enabled us to build and Our customers’ satisfaction and around the mining and resources deepen community development relationships are assessed by: industry and development planning. initiatives, as well as bring high quality expertise and skills in community >> Senior executives making frequent Vedanta has recently signed the development to our project areas, visits to customers to get direct United Nations Global Compact for the betterment of our surrounding feedback on our products and and agrees to abide by and report communities. We have set guidelines services and other related issues. on all principles of the Global in place for the selection of our civil Compact. We have also subscribed society partners – our partnerships >> Customer satisfaction surveys are to and are participating in WBCSD now number 149 with NGOs, conducted at periodic intervals (World Business Council for government bodies, academic using third parties. The feedback Sustainable Development) meetings. institutions and private hospitals. is shared in management review meetings to take appropriate We have not received any direct corrective actions and to address financial assistance from government, the requirements of customers. however, as a part of various direct tax holidays and similar exemptions, >> We have a dedicated Technical Vedanta has benefited by US$416.1 Services resource for quality million during last year. assurance and for monitoring of all physical quality parameters. For example, at HZL, we have a monthly scorecard to track quality improvement performance. Technical assistance is provided to customers by both internal and external experts in addition to frequent workshops/seminars on technical issues and product development for first use. Our Suppliers Due to the scale of our operations, we create strong requirements for products and services. We actively encourage vendors close to our operations, creating opportunities for local employment and development. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the safety of their products and we are aiming to implement a consistent level of supplier standards across the Group, while concurrently working to develop as much local sourcing as possible. vedantaresources.com 50 Human Rights We are working hard to grow our business and to support economic development Introduction committed to aligning our practices >> Be an equal opportunity employer At Vedanta, upholding people’s with international best practices. and all employees will be treated fundamental rights is core to with respect and dignity and our business. We are committed Our Approach judged solely on their performance to using international best practice Our Human Rights policy sets out irrespective of their race, religion, and our approach is guided our goals and states that Vedanta will caste, gender, age, disability, by international standards. strive to: HIV/AIDS status, and any other characteristic; We are working hard to grow our >> Be compliant with labour laws of >> Respect and preserve the business and to support economic the country we operate in. Uphold culture and heritage of the local development in the countries in human rights aligned with national communities, including socially which we operate and this cannot and international regulations vulnerable groups which are come at the expense of the human as applicable; impacted by our operations, rights of people. In support of this >> Ensure that our employees are and work towards developing approach, this year we introduced fairly and reasonably paid and our a constructive relationship with our Human Rights policy – its remuneration structure is compliant such groups and local communities, implementation and the development with statutory obligations of the seeking broad-based support for of supporting standards will provide jurisdiction we operate in. Our our operations; us with an overarching approach and structured processes to ensure operations will be based on zero >> Respect the social, economic, all our businesses and operations tolerance for any form of forced, cultural and human rights protect and respect human dignity compulsory or child labour directly of communities; and the culture and heritage of or through contracted labour. We recognise and respect employee >> Work with government local communities. agencies to develop a common rights to associate freely and to understanding and agreement The majority of our business is collective bargaining. We promote to protect human rights in the conducted in developing countries. fair working conditions as guided event of any unforeseen situations; While we are committed and obliged by international conventions to comply with local regulations wherever applicable; >> Ensure protection of our people, around human rights, we are also equipment and assets. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 51 Building Strong Relationships P44-53 In our Merger and Acquisition Vulnerable and Indigenous Peoples At a Group level we have organised Sustainability Management Standard, We recognise the inherent sensitivity training on Vedanta’s sustainability we have devised a due diligence in engaging with Indigenous and framework, including our human screening process incorporating Vulnerable Peoples. We respect rights policy, where over 3,500 hours human rights clauses and this will be their rights and endeavour to work of training were imparted by the followed for M&A activity in the future. with experts, local actors and the Vedanta corporate sustainability government to develop processes team in India and Africa. We have also developed a supplier to try to enable appropriate and contractor sustainability engagement to take place. The training programme trained management policy. All our Group 67 trainers who have further imparted companies are developing their In India, the law protecting Primitive the training to more management systems to incorporate Tribal Groups is very stringent and than 1,000 employees across these policies to meet our Vedanta broadly covers all underlying aspects the Group companies. Technical Standard. Our contract of international best practices. Our terms and conditions insist on goal is to continue to manage these At the unit level, we imparted human compliance with respect to Payment engagements in line with local laws rights training to our employees of Minimum Wages, Contract Labour and international best practice. and contractors through our Code (Regulation and Abolition) Act, of Conduct – over 18,000 hours Workmen’s Compensation Act and Our Group’s historical focus on and of training have been undertaken other relevant acts in the countries experience of social investment on the Code of Conduct. in which we operate. A number was used to launch need-based of our suppliers have endorsed our social development and infrastructure All our security guards in India and code of conduct, which includes programmes. As an example, in Zambia received specific training on clauses on human rights. This is now Orissa, under the Supreme Court human rights/security management being introduced to all suppliers in directive, we have developed the by in-house trained personnel. a phased manner. Lanjigarh Project Area Development Foundation which invests in the We have also introduced a structured Child Labour development of the area, including Grievance Mechanism Standard which We strictly prohibit the use the primitive tribal groups that has been piloted and implemented of child labour among our operations reside therein. In 2011-12, we have at our VAL-Lanjigarh operations. or those of our contractors. Whilst we not recorded any incidents of Our aim is to roll the mechanism operate in countries where the risk violation of vulnerable or indigenous out at all our other operations, with of child labour may be high, during people’s rights.* implementation across all Group the past year, no instances of child businesses planned by June 2013. labour in our operations came Delivery We have a structured system in place to the Group’s attention. In the last financial year, we have to capture social and labour related rolled out a series of sustainability Forced Labour incidences. All incidences are policies and standards across our Our Code of Conduct prescribes categorised – negligible (Category 1), Group companies. As noted above, that we will operate in compliance minor (Category 2), moderate we have also developed a Human with all laws and regulations including (Category 3), serious (Category 4), Rights policy aligned to our Code of the protection of fundamental human disastrous (Category 5). No social Conduct and international standards rights of all employees. All our and labour incidence is recorded including the IFC and UNGC. Training contracts with contractors and lasting more than one week. our employees in our Human Rights vendors include specific clauses policy has occurred as a part of the on human rights as prescribed process we have undertaken to by local law and statutes. embed our sustainability framework No instances of forced labour into our organisation. in our operations came to the Group’s attention. *T he Indian constitution does not recognise indigenous people; however, it does recognise schedule and primitive tribal groups as vulnerable groups who are given special protection under the law. The Government ensures the protection of these people by managing the process itself. We work within Indian law which leads to project permits. No direct issues pertaining to schedule and primitive tribal groups as a vulnerable group’s violation were observed during the reporting period. vedantaresources.com 52 Community Consultation and Resettlement Nurturing sustainable relationships Introduction Our community engagement at feasibility, commencing the Our efforts are directed at building programmes are an important factor construction of a new project, trust with stakeholders at the earliest in our sustainability strategy – they operation, before an expansion and possible stage of a project’s life. Our assist us in identifying community prior to closure, and in a continuous, ability to operate is dependent upon needs, and facilitate innovation and consultative basis throughout the working collaboratively as we develop effective programme implementation. lifetime of a project. and expand. Structured community engagement is a very important factor Our Approach Community Consultation in the success of our new projects. Our New Projects, Planning and Major projects Site Closure Standard stipulates that In the feasibility stage, pursuant to Our Role companies in our Group will ensure our New Projects, Planning Processes We believe that the materials we effective consultation programmes are and Site Closure Standard, our Group produce bring substantial benefits in place to obtain broad community companies are working to ensure to people across the world. However, support in relation to any new project effective consultation programmes are in bringing about those benefits we and ensure stakeholders understand in place to obtain broad community have to ensure that the impact of our the risks, impacts and opportunities support in relation to the new major mines, refineries and other plants also associated with the proposed project. projects and ensure stakeholders brings benefits to the communities in In addition, operations are required to understand the risks, impacts and which they operate. Accordingly we implement a stakeholder engagement opportunities associated with the must work hard to maximise the plan in accordance with our proposed project. Consultation positive and minimise any adverse Stakeholder Engagement Standard. programmes now include, but are impacts of our operations, including not limited to, the dissemination any community displacement. This Community Consultation is designed of information through public can only occur through close to occur at all stages of the project – hearings and community meetings, consultation and collaboration. for example, as part of our process distribution of Public Consultation Our consultation approach: building community understanding Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Outcomes Development of community need and Wider consultation Entry point activity Preliminary dialogue development plan ensuring basic amenities with the Project with the community and livelihood opportunities are as per the Affected Families consultation process. Implementation of community Approaching Baseline study Public hearing development plan as per the local needs of the community & need assessment the area resulting in improved quality of life. Continuous feedback and feed forward Isolating issues Feedback system through community grievance redressal mechanism. Consensus If fractured consensus Addressing building 2nd public hearing different views Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 53 Building Strong Relationships P44-53 and Disclosure Plans and relevant project documentation and establishing and maintaining an effective grievance procedure. Operating and Ongoing Projects Most of our operations are very well established and have a consistent and open dialogue process in place through various platforms, and building and nurturing relationships with communities near our ongoing operations will continue. We continue to work to understand the concerns of our neighbouring communities and endeavour to closely manage them. We also work to ensure that all consultations occur in a culturally sensitive manner, in local languages where possible and in a collaborative and open manner. As shown in the diagram on page 52, the process is one of continuous consultation, which is ongoing throughout the life of the project, and its closure. >> Where households need to be programmatic support to help them Resettlement physically displaced then we will restore their livelihoods and overall We firmly believe in avoiding forced ensure that such households are quality of lives to at least pre-project evictions or involuntary resettlements provided with alternative housing levels and where possible we hope whenever possible. which is culturally appropriate. it will be considerably better. While the planning and implementation We aim to find resettlement sites in suitable locations chosen in For all our projects, we use public of mitigation measures for resettlement consultation with the people to be consultation to gauge the needs and rehabilitation cannot guarantee resettled. Our goal is always to make of the communities and address complete success on each occasion, sure the housing and access to any concerns. By way of example, we are committed to minimising infrastructure and amenities will be at our VAL-Lanjigarh operation, we the negative impacts, such as stress of an improved standard compared constructed a resettlement colony generated by the land acquisition to that prior to displacement. To the for displaced families with supporting and resettlement processes, by extent possible people will be given physical infrastructure, including adopting such project design and options for resettlement. roads, drainage, electricity and new location alternatives that reduce the water supply, and social infrastructure, number of people potentially affected >> All the people that are within the including schools, childcare centres, and that minimise the severity of area of impact of our operations temples and playgrounds. We potential impacts. will be assessed for long-term undertook no resettlement in 2011-12 To guide all future resettlements rehabilitation assistance and in any of our Group companies. we have put in place a Land and Resettlement Management How we resolve issues Standard, which obliges all our operations to adhere to common Issues identified Minutes of the processes, including: Issue Village meeting and discussed meeting >> All operations shall undertake project specific social impact assessment Internal studies and, where appropriate, review within prepare a Resettlement Action Plan the company aligned with applicable national regulatory and policy framework as Action plan Consensus building well as international standards. Selection of implemented and with the community the measure issue resolved on the solution vedantaresources.com Adding and Sharing Value In this section we discuss the specific management systems that we have in place to create and share value to the benefit of each of our stakeholder groups. In pursuing this, we are cognisant of global challenges for environment protection and social development. The value we create does not only manifest itself through capital but also through the non-financial benefits that are derived from our presence. In addition, we believe that working together with our stakeholders will help us add value to the Group as a whole. What’s in this section Adding Value to our Stakeholders 56 Our Employees 58 Our Communities 62 Our Industry 69 Our Governments 70 Our Broader Stakeholders 71 56 Adding Value to our Stakeholders Introduction and We have reached out to more than 3.1 million people in our neighbouring our role communities in 2011-12. A selection of our key initiatives and activities to advance our goal of adding The third pillar in our sustainability and contracting approximately and sharing value with our model is Adding and Sharing Value 100,000 people, our direct investment – working to enhance the value we in infrastructure to support our neighbouring communities can bring to each of our stakeholder operations, the taxes and other in India and Africa includes: groups. All our commodities and our payments we make to governments energy generation provide some of and capital providers and the direct 163 the key building blocks in the modern community investments we make. world, however, our production alone When our activities are carefully linked is not a complete measure of our to our stakeholders’ aspirations, the success. We aim to add meaningful multiplier effect of the economic value to the communities in which we value we provide is very significant. 163 villages covered under operate, the lives of our employees our Integrated Village and to each of our stakeholders. Given In parallel to the value we add in pure Development Programme. that a significant percentage of our economic terms is the social value we 13,900 business has operations in sociocan and do add through our targeted economically disadvantaged regions, engagements. We play a significant we recognise that real development is needed. Vedanta has a strong Indian role in local skills development and the development of local infrastructure, including roads, + heritage, we have the majority of our more than 13,900 acres of land assets and people based in the sanitation, education and medical brought under cultivation. developing world and, accordingly, facilities. All of our activities stem from 3,558 our commitment to being a part of the our Chairman’s passionate sustainability solution is even greater. commitment to the communities where we operate and our broader At the most fundamental level, we add stakeholder base – our fundamental value to the societies in which we goal is to be a true partner by creating 3,558 youths have vocational operate through the direct economic genuine, sustainable value. training provided. impact we make – through employing + 27,000 more than 27,000 women benefiting from involvement in over 2,000 self-help groups. US$ 38m our investment in these projects was US$38 million in 2011-12. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 57 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 India >> Over 17,000 students benefited through 14 company-run >> Established eight centralised hi-tech mid-day meal schools and post-graduate colleges for girls. kitchens, having capacity to provide nutritious mid-day >> Healthcare services provided to over 776,000 people. meals to more than 250,000 students at 2,710 schools >> 29 company-run hospitals and health posts. on daily basis. >> Veterinary services benefiting over 200,000 cattle. >> 3,000 Vedanta Bal-shakti Anganwadi Centres (pre-schools and early learning centres) benefiting 125,000 children. Africa >> 10 villages provided with safe drinking water projects, >> A Vedanta computer literacy programme in 5,331 benefiting more than 6,000 people. schools and 245 vocational education centres providing >> 28 computer education centres and 25 schools benefiting computer education to more than 71,500 students. more than 7,000 students. >> Vedanta Cancer Hospital at Raipur, Chhattisgarh. >> Two company-run schools benefiting more than >> Vedanta Heart Hospital, Udaipur, Rajasthan. 1,800 students. >> Vedanta Therapy & Rehabilitation Centre, >> Vocational training provided to 138 youths. Korba, Chhattisgarh. >> More than 15,000 farmers benefited through various >> Vocational Training Centre for differently-abled at farm-based activities. Bharatpur, Rajasthan. >> Over 1,000 women benefiting from involvement >> Sesa Technical School, Goa. in 82 self-help groups. >> Vedanta Post-Graduate Girls’ College at Ringus, Rajasthan. >> More than 6,000 saplings planted. >> 27,613 women enrolled in 2,028 self-help groups, with cumulative saving of some US$280,000. In addition to community development programmes, we also focus on augmenting and upgrading community >> Literacy and education initiatives for more than assets and resources, including constructing community 26,000 children and adults. facilities, water tanks, roads and the repair of school buildings >> 163 villages covered under our Integrated Village in partnership with community and local government Development Programme. bodies. These investments make a lasting contribution >> Sesa Football Academy (Junior & Senior), Goa. across multiple generations. Our investment in these >> Over 13,900 acres of land brought under cultivation. projects was US$38 million in 2011-12 and the breakdown is detailed below: >> More than 5 million saplings planted. Our investment in 2011-12 Amount (US$) CSR expenses (Livelihood, Infrastructure, Spent on Spent on Country Community Development etc.) Company-run school Company-run hospital Total India 14,868,827 1,359,962 2,877,981 19,106,769 Zambia 2,295,750 13,372,173 1,038,981 16,706,904 Namibia 773,868 – – 773,868 Ireland 290,733 – – 290,733 Australia 167,438 – – 167,438 South Africa 1,069,313 – – 1,069,313 19,465,929 14,732,135 3,916,962 38,115,025 vedantaresources.com 58 Our Employees A high performance work culture Introduction: Workforce & Diversity Our employees are our key asset Male Female – Vedanta’s growth and success are Region 2010-11 2011-12 2010-11 2011-12 attributable to them. Our people strategy is founded on this belief and India 18,760 18,122 1,558 1,503 is designed to recruit, develop and Zambia 8,609 7,973 753 716 retain the talented workforce who Australia 84 94 18 9 run our businesses. Ireland, Namibia, We are committed to providing our South Africa* NA 1,584 NA 241 employees with a supportive, Total 27,453 27,773 2,329 2,469 rewarding and safe work environment with a high degree of engagement * Our Zinc International operations are based out of Ireland, Namibia & South Africa – consolidated and empowerment, enabling them figure has been provided for the same. to realise their full potential, creating a high performance work culture. Group turnover and attrition We believe that our success is due 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 to the commitment, passion and contribution of our employees. Employee turnover including retirements but excluding VRS 12% 10.6% 10.7% Our Approach Attrition 4% 5.4% 5.5% Our Group Human Resources philosophy framework supports us in inculcating a culture that promotes a high level of employee engagement and the consistent delivery of high performance. The following are >> Creating a conducive atmosphere As part of our sustainability journey, our guiding people philosophies, where performance is recognised Vedanta fosters values such as which apply across all of our and rewarded in a fair and Trust, Excellence, Growth and transparent manner; Entrepreneurship – common values Group companies: >> Strive to drive and achieve which bind our Group together. >> Ensuring a philosophy industry best practice in our of meritocracy; social stewardship; Workforce & Diversity >> We are committed to ensuring that >> On acquisitions and mergers, We have more than 30,000 direct our work places are free from all uphold and honour all ongoing employees and 69,000 contractor forms of discrimination or commitments ensuring smooth employees across the globe. As an harassment on the basis of age, integration and the sharing of best equal opportunity employer, 11.6% of caste, sex or religion; practices – with the aim of our workforce comprises female >> Complying with all applicable achieving internal alignment of employees in management grades. laws and regulations within our processes and systems; Women workforce (%) areas of operation; >> Engaging with employees to encourage feedback and 10 >> Meeting all our responsibilities and 8 7.6 8 8.5 8.16 HR obligations as a direct and address concerns; 6 indirect employer and respecting >> Continuously upgrading our 4 the human rights of all of our IT framework; 2 employees and contractors; >> Generating local employment and 0 >> Have robust processes and systems providing support and resources 2009 2010 2011 2012 in place for leadership development, for long-term skill building. training and growth to deliver value to the organisation and society; Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 59 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 Attracting & Recruiting the development of talented people. In and provides the necessary platform ‘Top Talent’ addition, we provide our employees to create successful managers by Our recruitment philosophy focuses with opportunities to continuously empowering them to move beyond on inducting the right person for the grow through our development and their current roles and responsibilities right job, which has helped us to training programmes. The Group has and aim for stretch targets. recruit the best people. a well demonstrated track record of providing career opportunities from Training and Development across To attract top talent from the best within. ‘Providing growth from within’ levels, for both employees and campuses we proactively engage with is an important pillar of our people contractors, is fundamental to our the premier universities and philosophy, helping to nurture our philosophy of ‘fostering excellence’. empanelled colleges. We also visit talented employees into the business At Vedanta, continuous improvement leaders of tomorrow. is a way of life. Our Group companies minority institutes and colleges from have adopted various tools including remote states and provinces in our The Group’s ‘Star of Business’ Six Sigma, TQM and TPM, promoting campus recruitment programme programme is an Accelerated the achievement of operational to ensure that opportunities are Competency Tracking and Upexcellence. This year we have provided to deserving candidates from gradation programme (ACTUP) which imparted over 1.65 million man-hours all regions and walks of life. As part of is conducted across the Group to of training to our employees. our campus brand building initiatives, systematically identify high potential we sponsor events and participate talents early in their careers and put in guest lectures as subject matter them on a fast growth track through Global Exposure Initiative specialists to share thought leadership. enhanced roles and responsibilities. Our Global Exposure Programme The assessments are performed using has been designed to explore A high proportion of our workforce cutting-edge technologies and the Vedanta competency model joins us immediately after completing provide an opportunity to which encompasses core attributes, their education, making us their first understand and learn about best behaviours and leadership styles. employer. We also focus on recruiting practices around the world. We Currently we have 800 ‘Stars of from the communities that surround initiated this programme at our Business’, a potential pool of future our operations to encourage local companies including Hindustan leaders for the Group. This employment generation. Zinc, Sesa Goa and Sterlite Copper. programme ensures that the identification and grooming of Since the inception of the In order to equip new entrants ‘Business Leaders of Tomorrow’ is programme employees have visited and to make them conversant with an integral and continuous process mines and smelters in Japan, Korea, Vedanta’s values and beliefs, we have US, Europe, Canada, Australia, a structured orientation and training Chile and China. programme which focuses on policies, benefits, practices and a For this programme, employees broad perspective on understanding are selected and a cross-functional our businesses and processes along team is formed comprising Unit with field visits. Mentoring initiatives Heads and Plant Operators. On help in providing emotional support their visits they examine technical to trainees as well as ensuring a aspects as well as best practice. smooth transition into our processes, I started my career in 2004 After these visits, the attending systems and culture. with BALCO as an Engineer teams then share their experience and later as part of job rotation and acquired knowledge with the As a large employer, we employ a diverse mix of people, with the was moved to Sterlite Copper broader workforce – topics include in 2010. As a Graduate operations, maintenance, health majority hired locally, for example as Engineer Trainee, I was given and safety, and environment. In at March 2012, 61% of VAL-Jharsuguda addition, the teams prioritise and employees are from Orissa, its state tremendous opportunity implement improvement projects of operation. to experiment, learn and with specific deliverables to Nurturing Talent grow. I got involved in a lot improve operations and of projects related to Standard productivity. More than 400 Our talent engagement process is employees have undertaken founded on our belief that every operating procedure (SOP) the programme. individual joining us has the ‘right implementation and design to grow’. We have robust processes modifications. Becoming a ‘Star and systems in place to nurture leaders, succession planning and the of Business’ was a great feeling. Santosh Ganesan Head – Precious Metals Business Division Sterlite Copper – Tuticorin vedantaresources.com 60 Our Employees continued Our performance management Rewards – Fair & Equitable (US$m) system is based on meritocracy which Costs incurred during the year in respect of Year ended encourages high performance. It helps Full Time Employees and Executive Directors 31/03/2012 us measure, reward and improve Defined contribution pension scheme costs 23.9 performance and synergise employee Key Result Areas (KRAs) and goals Defined benefit pension scheme costs 24.5 with the overall Company’s objectives. Share-based payments charge 20.2 Performance Management is one of Total 68.6 the core areas which directly correlate to business success. We have a robust system in place to monitor and track Collective Bargaining performance of employees with direct Employees covered linkages between business goals and under collective S/no Units bargaining agreements KRAs set for individuals at all levels. Health and safety, environment 1 HZL 57.7% management and corporate social 2 SESA GOA (Including SRL) 51.0% responsibility remain the important 3 BALCO 66.5% KRAs for all employees. The majority 4 KCM 87.4% of employees undergo a rewardlinked annual performance review, 5 Zinc International 68.4% involving a five-point scale which provides two-way feedback, opportunities for improvement Quality of Life festival celebrations are held and career advancement. Our business locations are across our locations. geographically dispersed and for our Rewards – Fair & Equitable employees we have townships with Equal Opportunities and Our remuneration policy is designed modern amenities including schools, Labour Rights to enable a framework that allows for hospitals and recreational centres. In Vedanta is an equal opportunity competitive and fair rewards linked order to ensure a healthy work-life employer and has zero tolerance to the achievement of key deliverables balance, we encourage socio-cultural for practices involving discrimination as well as aligning with industry best activities like get-togethers, birthday or violation of any labour right. Our practice. We also continually celebrations, picnics, yoga, meditation, Code of Conduct policy mandates: benchmark our remuneration sports competitions and involvement policies with industry peers. in community programmes. At our >> Protection of human and operations we have event labour rights. We provide our employees with management committees with an array of employment benefits >> Prohibition of any kind cross-functional members who of child labour. including long-term/short-term organise these socio-cultural incentive plans (ESOPs), monthly activities. With the active involvement >> Prohibition of any kind production incentive scheme, of employees and their families, of forced labour. performance rewards, milestonebased incentives, retention bonuses and CEO kitty. Periodic surveys are Chairmhoapns’s conducted to ensure that incentives are best in class. We ensure that our compensation for our shop-floor employees meets or exceeds legal requirements and complies with all applicable laws. Works W o rk sh o to be our un ique ps continue ay communication Chairman’s ring free-flow two-w ect’ approach. Our employees can avail themselves su nn initiative en with an ‘employee co riodically with a ls of free medical facilities at across leve ops are conducted pe ross the group. sh Company-owned hospitals and are These work of employees from ac ts share their n an covered for medical and personal cross-sectio al setting the particip ar, over 600 accident insurance. We contribute to In this informand ideas. In the last ye defined employee benefit plans both experiences rticipated. pa through a dedicated fund and from employees general resources to ensure all our employee benefit obligations are met. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 61 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 All our employees are educated in our Code of Conduct policy with compliance mandatory. Our security staff are especially sensitised to human rights and undergo specific human rights training. Through our whistleblowing policy and its mechanism all our employees can voice their concerns. We also have sexual harassment committees at our business locations which address women employees’ grievances. Collective Bargaining The Group engages in collective bargaining with unions. Management and union representatives negotiate agreements, which include clauses on productivity, health and safety, working conditions, remuneration, allowances, incentives and bonuses. HZL, Sesa Goa, BALCO, KCM and Zinc International have recognised unions, while the other locations have appropriate systems for employee engagement, development, appraisal and grievances. Gen-next Operational Leadership Development (GOLD) programme – Sesa Goa The Need >>Each of the participants selected is assigned a Our Sesa Goa iron ore business wanted to guide and an external coach. Guides provide ensure that succession planning and career them with inputs on their developmental needs development were pro-actively embedded in the and coaches, who are behavioural experts, play business – giving middle-management leaders a critical role in coaching participants on their the opportunity to realise their potential – individual behaviours. and two main objectives were identified: >>Once the participants begin to understand their 1. T  o build the capability of middle managers to learning needs, a learning plan is designed in The GOLD Programme excel in their roles consultation with their coaches and guides. The has developed the skill 2. T  o shape the mindsets and behaviours of Development Council (DC) reviews and helps them to finalise their individual plans and of understanding self and managers to accelerate their development into assigned projects. senior leadership roles. others. I am able to use >>Structured interventions are carried out to ensure feedback constructively from The Business Solution that participants receive enough inputs on their The Gen-next Operational Leadership Break-Through Projects and learning edges. various stakeholders and Development (GOLD) programme was developed >>Workshops are conducted to hone soft skills work towards improvement and introduced on core adult learning and and functional/business skills. leadership development principles linking areas in a positive manner. leadership to strategy and to build on existing >>Coaching sessions are conducted to shape Camilo Fernandes leadership systems. The programme combines participants’ mindsets and behaviours, and ignite Manager – Logistics fieldwork with reflective sessions that aim to behavioural change where required. Sesa Goa Limited develop leadership on the job. >>The DC reviews the progress of participants Sesa Goa determined that its leaders should at least twice during the duration of the demonstrate three critical behaviours and programme and provides appropriate mindsets – a drive for results, getting the best out feedback/inputs. of people and problem solving skills. The programme’s design focused on these behavioural The Outcome skills and helped participants to sharpen them. Over the last two years, 67 middle management leaders have participated in the GOLD programme Process in two waves, each lasting seven months. The >>Developmental feedback is taken from programme has been successful, both in various sources to enable participating accelerating the development of several employees to gain a deeper understanding managers, and in sowing the seeds of a culture of their skills and attributes. of leadership development at Sesa Goa. vedantaresources.com 62 Our Communities Working in partnership with our communities is an integral part of our strategy Introduction and Our Role Livelihood Projects Working in partnership with our 2001-12 local communities is an integral part of our sustainability strategy – Youths provided Vocational Training 3,558 we closely consult with them before, Youths linked to job after training 2,337 during and subsequent to our Youths engaged under micro-enterprise development for self-employment 443 operations. We plan and implement Youths linked with job/self-employment 2,780 community development initiatives prioritising local needs and ensuring % youths linked with jobs 78% long-term sustainable benefits – Total no. of farmers benefiting through improved agriculture projects 27,550 with the majority of our operations Total no. of cattle benefiting 203,365 in developing countries and Number of Self-Help Groups (SHGs) 2,028 communities with limited local Women members of SHGs 27,613 infrastructure including health, education and employment Average income of Women Entrepreneurs (monthly income in US$) 73 opportunities, we believe we can add significant value. Our Board’s vision is to add value and >> Health, Nutrition and Sanitation. >> Improved educational facilities, work collaboratively – an important >> Education. resulting in a more highly educated element of our licence to operate populace which is therefore >> Sustainable Livelihood Programme able to secure better and long-term success. It is core (Farm & Non-farm). to our vision to both enhance the employment opportunities. quality of life and the socio-economic >> Women’s Empowerment. >> Livelihood projects in the farm well-being of the communities >> Community Assets Creation and non-farm sector, providing in and around our operations and to (Infrastructure projects). sustainable livelihood opportunities contribute to developing empowered >> Bio-investment. to the local community. and sustainable societies. >> Integrated Village Development Programme. Our Strategy We are guided by the aspirations of We use the ‘Public-Private-Peoplethe Millennium Development Goals Partnership’ (4P) model. Most projects Vedanta’s direct and indirect and have aligned our areas of social involve collaborations with elected economic development investment with them. Through our bodies, government, NGOs impacts on our neighbouring efforts in community development and communities. communities include: this year, projects where we have been involved have reached out and >> Increasing the skills capacity of Monitoring and evaluation tools are benefited more than 3.1 million local people resulting in the integral elements of our project people. These projects cover areas development of local support designs. These are reviewed at both of social development such as services to Vedanta, other private business unit and Group level by community health, nutrition, companies and government. senior management teams. Periodic education, water and sanitation, internal and external assessment is a sustainable livelihood, women >> The development of the local key element of our learning and empowerment and bio-investment. skills base has resulted in increased forward-looking process. Social audits Our community development purchasing power, growing also help us understand the impact priorities focus on the following: the overall economic base in and outcomes of our initiatives on local communities. the lives of the people we work with. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 63 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 Our Approach Community Health at addressing specific diseases, such Our approach to community The context/need as malaria control, Reproductive Tract development is holistic, long-term, Most of our business facilities are Infection (RTI)/Sexually Transmitted integrated and sustainable. located in remote areas where we Infection (STI) management and HIV/ partner with NGOs and government AIDS awareness. The concepts of total We work at two levels to maximise bodies to bring health services to sanitation, safe drinking water and our work and reach. First, we work these regions to provide programmes immunisation are the key initiatives with the community, employees which will result in better health under our preventative approach. We and partners at a local level to identify outcomes than would be available implement these programmes in and plan projects for a defined area without our engagement. close partnership with local health in and around our plants in authorities and NGOs. consultation with the community. The business’ response We also encourage employees to Vedanta recognises the importance volunteer for and participate in all of health in socio-economic projects. Secondly, we work regionally development. We partner with various in 149 partnerships with NGOs, government and non-government governments and universities. We agencies in implementing health also identify macro level projects programmes for communicable to benefit the wider region – these and non-communicable diseases. could be within or outside the ambit of our operational focus area. All We have continued to develop projects commence with a focus sustainable models for community on long-term sustainability. health services and initiatives targeted Process Model Goal: Need Strategic Prioritisation of Monitoring Partnerships Communication enhanced assessment Planning interventions and review quality of lives Our key focus areas • Social Investment: education, health, livelihood & woman empowerment • Bio-Investment: agriculture, water harvesting & social forestry vedantaresources.com 64 Our Communities continued Raising awareness In our African operations we have been working to bring about awareness and behavioural change on the issue of HIV/AIDS. As part of this, in Zambia, our company Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) has adopted a non-discriminatory work Vedanta Medical Research Foundation: place and community-based Raipur Cancer Hospital programme on HIV/AIDS control and prevention. Under this programme, intensive awareness drives are conducted at the The Need hospital (a temporary arrangement until the company’s hospitals and clinics Cancer is a major public health issue, and in hospital is established in Raipur) for treatment, for both employees and the more isolated and rural regions of India access including biopsies and surgery. Our field to cancer identification and treatment facilities is investigators are also able to conduct community. In 2010 and 2011, follow-up treatment. limited. The state of Chhattisgarh has one of KCM also intensified its successful India’s lowest life expectancy rates. It is also The hospital is planned to start operation in Rollback Malaria Programme, primarily a rural state, with approximately 80% 2012-13 as an outpatient department and bringing malaria cases down by of the population residing outside urban areas subsequently as a fully fledged hospital. 80% in its areas of operation and – accordingly, people have severely limited or non-existent access to cancer treatment. The objectives of the project are: spraying insecticides to help >>To provide world-class healthcare in oncology prevent malaria in 40,000 The Solution and related fields at an affordable cost. households. Our scheduled mobile Recognising the poor accessibility of cancer treatment in the region, Vedanta subsidiary BALCO >>To conduct India-centric research in cancer. health clinics and awareness camps is establishing a 350-bed Cancer Research go a long way to prevent the and Development Hospital at Raipur with an >>To train, develop and induct the best oncology outbreak of diseases in the investment of INR3,000 million (US$61 million), professionals from India by initially bringing skills from abroad. communities. Our ‘health posts’ in the state capital of Chhattisgarh. also bring primary health services The hospital is complemented by tertiary centres >>To establish a Nursing Institute to meet demands in the field of oncology nursing. to remote communities. in three districts and six mobile cancer detection vans to attend six districts of Chhattisgarh Cancer education and awareness at the State – Korba, Kawardha, Rajnand Gaon, community level is also carried out by trained -80% Durg, Sarguja and Raigarh – to provide cancer field investigators across targeted regions through detection services to communities otherwise appropriate communication channels in local unable to access the hospital itself. languages, including village meetings and By going to the districts to screen suspected presentations. cancer sufferers in remote villages a hospital referral process is provided. Depending on the The Outcome KCM brought malaria cases down by To date, 7,963 suspected patients have been nature of the complaint, suspected cancer cases 80% in its areas of operation, and uses examined, with 359 patients diagnosed with undergo clinical examinations at routinely insecticides to help prevent malaria in various types of cancer, and 54 patients have organised mobile detection camps. The identified undergone successful operations 40,000 households. cases are currently referred to the BALCO plant’s at the BALCO Hospital. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 65 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 Education Sustainable Livelihoods Our Group companies invest in The context/need The context/need making community-based Education is indispensable for the A sustainable livelihood – where an organisations (CBOs such as self-help development and sustainability of individual or a community can, groups, co-operatives and more) society through broadening life through its own resources and skills, economically independent, with an choices and opportunities. provide for themselves over the long emphasis on using local resources term – is a challenge not always met for livelihood creation. The business’ response in rural and isolated communities. At Vedanta, it is embedded in the We have provided specialised training core values of all our Group The business’ response to unemployed young people and companies to make every effort We are committed to raising the assisted farmers in agriculture to help all target groups receive a quality of life of the communities techniques. In 2011-12, over 3,000 high-quality education. Our basic where we operate through meaningful young people have been vocationally approach entails partnering with engagement with them. We aim trained to enhance their employability, government and non-government to empower them economically with 78% of them finding employment agencies to implement initiatives through various initiatives. We provide with hotels, in retail marketing, based on community needs. sustainable livelihood options in small-scale manufacturing industries, both farm-based as well as non-farmcomputer software and hardware Our holistic approach to education based sectors. firms and setting up their own aims to nurture talent. To convert enterprises in areas including tailoring, this vision into action, we implement Our basic approach is to deliver motor winding, mobile repair, various tailor-made initiatives that interventions that are technically electronics and electrical shops. complement formal and informal feasible, financially viable, ecologically education systems alike. We have sustainable and culturally acceptable. In agriculture, we have undertaken 3,000 Vedanta Balshakti Anganwadi several initiatives to improve rural Centres (childcare centres), over 5,000 Our businesses create direct and management practices – and, as a schools covered under the Vedanta indirect employment opportunities result, increase household incomes. Computer Education programme, 36 for the community in both our core Over the past year we have worked bridge schools (bridge schools are operations and expansion projects. with over 27,000 farmers with non-formal education centres providing tutorial/remedial classes to encourage underperforming children back into mainstream formal The Situation education, whilst improving the In support to government ‘Pulse Polio school academic performance), 13 Programme’ and to achieve a ‘Polio Free Zone’ for children surrounding Vedanta’s Tuticorin company-run schools, and other copper plant in Southern India. education activities that benefit over 0.8 million children and youths. The Solution Sterlite partnered with four Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and provided logistical help to All schools have the basic conduct Pulse Polio Immunisation camps. Over infrastructure facilities that support a 19,000 children were inoculated under the Pulse congenial learning environment. We Polio programme. are also establishing educational The Outcome institutions under public-privateNo recorded incident of child polio recorded in partnerships. We are proactively the regions covered by the programme. This is in engaged in establishing infrastructure support of the “No Polio in India” Programme of facilities and providing training to the Government of India. support computer literacy among children and teachers. Enabling functional literacy among rural Sterlite (Tuticorin) – Polio Eradication Programme women is another significant area of contribution made via our non-formal education centres. vedantaresources.com 66 Our Communities continued collective landholdings of around Community Asset Creation: 14,000 acres, providing assistance and The context/need Safe Drinking Water education around issues including: Many of the villages and communities Project, HZL we work in lack basic infrastructure Laxmipura is a small village in >> Water conservation. facilities, including health, sanitation Bhilwara, India. The village has a >> High Yield seed distribution. and drinking water. population of about 100 households. The only source of >> Promotion of the Drip and Sprinkle drinking water in the village was The business’ response irrigation system. one well in a nearby village. The We aim to provide basic infrastructural >> Cash Crops. facilities to the community based villagers were facing water scarcity >> Vermi Compost for organic farming. on local needs in partnership and women had to walk long with community and district distances to fetch water from the In addition, realising the importance administrations. Our work well. HZL was asked to construct of cattle as a key asset, a Livestock has included: a water tank to mitigate the lack Development Programme was of local drinking water. The project undertaken covering over 200,000 >> Constructed and renovated was completed in a partnership heads of cattle. The collective impact community assets including between HZL and Gram panchayat of these initiatives has been a 27% hospitals, schools, roads, (village elective council) under increase in agri-output per acre of community halls, water Panghat Yojna run by the State land and a significant increase in milk conservation structures and Government. HZL constructed productivity of cattle, along with a community centres. a 10,000 litre capacity tank and reduction in cattle mortality rates. >> Constructed more than 650km sourced the water through a of local roads. pipeline from a well 400m away. Women’s Empowerment: The effort enabled 500 people to The context/need Bio-investment: have access to safe drinking water Rural women play a key role in The context/need in their own village. supporting their households and Restoring natural systems and communities in achieving food and improving natural resource nutrition security, generating income, management is central to eliminating and improving rural livelihoods and rural poverty. overall well-being. They contribute to agriculture and rural enterprises and The business’ response fuel local and global economies. Watershed management, vegetable Improvements in maternal nutrition, plot development, cattle breed access to water and sanitation and improvement and cash crop farming health services can also make a are some of the key initiatives we have significant contribution to child health undertaken in the farm sector. – increasing rural women’s well-being Integrating agriculture with land-water has significant multiplier effects, management and eco-system increasing the impact of appropriately conservation is an essential part of our 5.7m targeted programmes. rural livelihood generation schemes, at both a community and an individual The business’ response level. Bio-mass is – and will continue Socio-economic empowerment of to be for a long time – a major source women is one of our major focus of fuel and energy, especially in rural 5.7 million saplings planted. areas. Our Vedanta Self-Help Group areas. We recognise and support this +650km (SHG) programme aims to achieve an concept at Vedanta and have increase in the socio-economic integrated it into our sustainable empowerment of women through programmes. Specific activities we a holistic capacity building approach. have undertaken include: Currently over 27,000 women are over 650km of constructed local roads. enrolled in over 2,000 SHGs. >> Social Forestry: 5.7 million +0.1m Approximately 40% of these groups saplings planted in 2011-12. are linked to various enterprises like >> One bio-gas plant installed to mushroom cultivation, poultry, goat recycle cattle waste to generate husbandry, puffed rice processing, fuel for cooking and electrification. vermi-composting, leaf plate-making, fish-farming and other initiatives in >> 163 vermi-compost units more than 0.1 million people established to encourage benefited through safe drinking water the non-farm sector. organic farming. programme initiatives. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 67 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 >> Organic waste converter plant Each project is made up of three MDM kitchen – leftover food phases: Preparatory, Implementation waste is being converted into and Handing Over – to progress organic manure. through all three phrases tends to >> Sesa Goa distributed biomass take between three to four years. cooking stoves to promote The process includes: dialogue with clean energy. the community on the developmental aspects of their village; identification Integrated Village Development and prioritisation of needs through a baseline survey; joint action plan Programme development and resource The context/need identification; a partnership strategy; Isolated, rural villages often lack basic implementation; monitoring; and, amenities – including education and lastly, a full social audit, handover leisure facilities and basic sanitation and phasing out. infrastructure, severely restricting life outcomes. Over the last three years, we have successfully completed the The business’ response programme with seven villages, The Integrated Village Development which now independently and Programme aims to achieve the sustainably manage their resources. holistic development of villages. The plan covers infrastructure support and the health, education, Developing the next generation environmental, livelihood, energy and human resources needs of local Computer Literacy – Zambia people. It also encourages local Our Konkola Copper Mines business in Zambia initiated a computer literacy people to participate in the collective programme and has installed 300 computers across 19 schools, along with management of their resources. printers, desks and chairs, and has also assisted in training two teachers from It includes: each school to conduct the programme. >> Community mobilisation Computer Literacy – India and engagement for The Vedanta Computer Education Programme commenced with the aim to bottom-up planning. supplement Government efforts under Sarva Siksha Abhiyan through >> An independent survey and providing rural school students with computer facilities and training school inventory by an external agency. teachers in computer literacy. The programme runs in partnership with Indian State Governments and the Vedanta Foundation and operates at HZL, MALCO, >> Periodic meetings with local VAL, SIIL, SESA GOA and KCM. It caters to more than 322,000 students across government and the community Rajasthan, Goa, Orissa, West Bengal, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. All the project to consider the action plan. schools are equipped with computers and trained teachers. >> Collective action on education, sanitation, gender Pre-school Centre – Zambia bias and livelihood. Konkola Copper Mines responded to the education needs of young >> Dissemination of the plan to the children at Lubengele Market in Chililabombwe, Zambia where the children ward through Gram panchayat of market traders would spend most of their time in the market while their (the village council). parents attended to customers. Many of the parents could not afford to take >> Monitoring evaluation and their children to early childhood education. KCM worked in collaboration communication on progress. with various stakeholders and constructed an early childhood centre – the Nsungeni Centre – targeting the children of market traders. The villages are identified through indicators such as low literacy rates, Vedanta Bal-shakti Anganwadi project (Childcare) (VBCA) – India a high proportion of families below Our Vedanta Bal-shakti Anganwadi project is reaching out to more the poverty line and a lack of assets than 125,000 children aged between 0-6 in 3,000 centres. such as irrigation, healthcare (especially for mothers and children), This public-private partnership complements the Indian Government’s education, basic infrastructure, and Integrated Child Development scheme by providing supplementary nutrition, sanitation and government service pre-school education, capacity building of Anganwadi Centre (AWC) facilities. We are currently working functionaries and health check-ups and is customised in different with 163 villages, reaching out to geographies based on the needs of the centres. The project is currently more than 31,200 people under operating at our HZL, BALCO and VAL-Lanjigarh operations. this programme. vedantaresources.com 68 Our Communities continued The Situation Some communities surrounding our Konkola Copper Mines operations in Zambia suffer significant social issues – including substance abuse – related to high poverty levels. Due to unemployment, some youths also resort to theft and illegal mining activities. The Solution Vedanta Resources partnered with NGO – Development Aid for People to People (DAPP) – to implement a sustainable livelihoods project to assist youths and their family members, as well as provide additional support and education around sanitation and health – the KCM Child Aid Project The Child Aid Project mobilised 16 youth groups of 20 members each in the Chingola District, neighbouring KCM operations. The groups were engaged in capacity building in entrepreneurship and given access to micro credit to facilitate the commencement of various small business enterprises. In conjunction with this programme, Sesa Technical School they were provided with training programmes around HIV/AIDS and sanitation, including participating in the installation of Tippy Taps to promote hand washing in their communities. Success Story – Suzyo Kumwenda Suzyo is a 22 year old youth living in Chingola who was once an illegal miner. He ventured The Need Selection of students for the school each year is into illegal mining when he was in grade nine To promote sustainable livelihoods as part of based on merit. All students from Goa are eligible; to raise funds to support his education. After Vedanta’s post-mine closure plans in Goa, India. however, candidates from the areas surrounding he completed his grade 12, he continued illegal our operations are given preference. The students mining because of lack of employment. The Solution pay a nominal fee of US$30 per annum. Besides Vedanta established the Sesa Technical School the structured trade curriculum they participate in In 2009, the Area Leader of the KCM Child Aid (STS) in 1994 on an old iron ore mine in other extracurricular development activities. Project encouraged him to join the Youth Talent Sanquelim, in North Goa. Club, comprising 19 boys and girls. When he On graduating, the students are usually placed joined, he was among 20 youths that were The prime objective of the school is to impart skill, either with the Sesa Group or in the MNCs. The provided with psycho-social support and to develop technical knowledge and to provide courses are designed to meet the specific job business management skills. The KCM Child vocational training for local youths to enhance requirements of local industries and the school Aid Project gave him a micro loan of 300,000 their opportunities in securing jobs in industry or to works to ensure all trainees are with appropriate Kwacha (US$60). He teamed up with nine of his help with self-employment. STS students specialise employers. To date, over 750 students have friends with similar loans, making a gross loan of in trade skills, including Machinist, Fitter, Electrician successfully graduated from STS. 3 million Kwacha (US$600) which they used to and Instrument Mechanic. All these trades are Mr Shirish Kalangutkar graduated from STS start up a poultry rearing project in the backyard affiliated with the National Council of Vocational Sanquelim in 2000 with an Instrument of Suzyo’s parents’ home. To date the group has Training, New Delhi through the Directorate Mechanic trade. He placed third in the National reared five batches totalling 500 chickens. General of Employment & Training (DGET). Level Skill competition of Craftsmen held in Over the last few years, STS has maintained a Calcutta. Through campus placements he was 100% result rate in the Industrial Training Institute recruited by Hindustan Unilever Ltd. in Goa as (ITI) trade examinations. In 2011, all 52 trainees an instrument mechanic technician. of the school passed the ITI trade examinations Subsequently he has been working as a General with strong marks. Manager in Katomi Kingdom Resort in Uganda. STS revived the Welder Trade to train 16 trainees, in support of Sesa’s community development initiative for Navelim village, where a new expansion project for pig iron and met coke is located. The school obtained affiliation from DGET and provided necessary infrastructure and faculty resources for the course. With the growing popularity of the STS and increasing demand for admissions among Goan youths, a new Technical School at Panchwadi, Over the last few years, STS South Goa, was opened in August 2011, with 48 has maintained a 100% result students in three trades – Electrician, Fitter and Diesel Mechanic. STS Panchwadi is affiliated with rate in the Industrial Training KCM Child Aid and the State Council of Vocational Training from the Institute (ITI) trade Youth Empowerment State Department of Craftsmen Training, Government of Goa. examinations. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 69 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 Our Industry Introduction are undertaken at subsidiary company to align them with our HSE policies, Vedanta is a diversified global resource level. No cases of non-compliance wherever applicable. One approach is major. It produces aluminium, copper, with product and service information always to source locally if a product or zinc, lead, silver, iron ore, power, and and labelling were brought against the service that meets our requirements is oil and gas primarily located in Group during the year, and we available locally. One KCM unit in developing countries including India, received no complaints or penalties Zambia has executed 85% of purchase Zambia, South Africa, Namibia, Liberia regarding the provision and use of orders from Zambia in the last year. and Sri Lanka. These commodities are our products and services. We also During the year, a number of initiatives critical to meeting these countries’ have a Material Safety Data Sheet were taken by KCM that were targeted growing infrastructure requirements. which is available to customers on at vendor development: request. These documents include We generally sell to industrial information on physical data, health 1. MSME Programme: customers with whom we usually effects, storage and disposal to ensure In partnership with the Zambia engage directly, rather than through the safe handling and working with Development Agency (ZDA), in its brokers and agents. Our customers that substance. programme for development of Micro, are often large organisations who Small and Medium Enterprises, we use our material to create their end We have a dedicated Technical signed a Business Linkage Agreement. products. We are positioned at the Services Resource for quality Under this programme KCM jointly very beginning of the product lifecycle assurance and for the monitoring identified specific areas with a high and our final products are pure metals of all physical quality parameters. possibility of conducting business with that meet the required LME standards For example, at HZL, we have a local vendors. The ZDA arranged the for entering the commodity market. monthly scorecard to track quality necessary training from attitude The aluminium we produce improvement performance. Technical change to finance mobilisation. KCM is used to develop electricity grids assistance is provided to customers will place purchase orders with local and other infrastructure developments, both by our internal experts and by vendors who were found to be price copper is used in electrical appliances, international consultant visits, which competitive and capable of providing lead is used in battery manufacturing, we arrange, to customer sites. In quality products. The service and zinc is used to galvanise iron and steel addition we also arrange frequent performance of these vendors will be products around the world and the workshops and seminars on technical measured during the next 2-3 years. power we generate is exported to issues and product development the national grid. Our products benefit for first use. Some of these recent 2. ISO 9001 Training: millions of people around the world. visits included: To improve the quality standards of our vendor base we have undertaken We sold US$14 billion of our products >> Regional seminars for Hot Dip an industry leading vendor training in 2011-12. Galvanisers highlighting market programme in Zambia encompassing potential for galvanising and quality standards, the first of its kind. Product Stewardship and Customers addressing technical issues. We have since selected the Zambia Vedanta’s primary activities are in the >> Promoting the use of Galvanised/ Bureau of Standards to be our partner extraction, processing and smelting Galvalume body in Cars, White in this initiative. To date we have of various minerals as well as power Goods, Roofing & Construction. provided training to two intakes generation using well-established (37 vendors) at our KCM premises, processes and technologies. Most Supply Chain free of charge to the vendor. of our commodities are governed Due to the scale of our operations, by international standards to which we create a strong requirement for 3. Mine Supplier Association we are certified. Our focus on best products and services. We encourage & Chamber of Commerce: available technology helps us to vendors to establish themselves close The Mine Supplier Association is a produce these products using efficient to our operations, creating national organisation whose primary energy consumption and maximum opportunities for local employment role is to promote dialogue between ore recovery. We are aware that there and development – our approach is mining companies and local vendors. are standard recycling processes and to source locally whenever possible. KCM has continued to partner with although we do not directly recycle We employ directly and through this organisation through holding we do support recycling. We aim to contractors some 100,000 people, monthly liaison meetings at which grow our Reserves and Resources at while indirectly creating opportunities issues between KCM and its vendors a faster rate than we deplete them, for more people through our are discussed and resolved in an through active exploration and suppliers. If we assume a standard amicable setting. acquisitions. We also continuously multiplier of 5-6, the number of upgrade our technologies to maximise indirect employment opportunities We have similar initiatives at other recovery and minimise waste. we create exceeds 500,000. locations in India and Africa where we promote local procurement and All product management activities We undertake structured two-way endeavour to foster entrepreneurial and customer satisfaction initiatives communication with vendors and try skills in the local area. vedantaresources.com 70 Our Host Governments Governments Vedanta also participates and Zambia has been one of the pioneering Our operations are predominantly partners with local governments countries embracing the Extractive Industry located in developing countries through its CSR initiatives and Transparency Initiative (EITI). This initiative has been championed by international institutions which have different needs from awareness programmes. and civic organisations, to bring greater advanced economies. Having our transparency and accountability to the roots in India enables us to understand It is the Board’s policy that neither payments made by extractive industries to their these requirements, an understanding Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary host governments. which is reflected in our activities. For companies may make donations Zambia joined the EITI in 2009. Since adopting example, our community actions or contributions to political the EITI, the country has successfully completed are focused on health, education, organisations within the United and issued reconciliation reports for 2008 and Kingdom or European Union. Political 2009. However, the process of collecting and sanitation, women’s empowerment reconciling data has been hampered by an and infrastructure. donations or contributions, if paid inefficient manual process of collecting and or deemed necessary for legitimate reconciling data relating to the payments made Our commodities meet the business reasons, will not be made by companies in the extractive industries to the without the approval of the Board and national treasury, quasi-government institutions significant infrastructure demands and municipal councils. The current manuallyof these developing economies; for the shareholders in a General Meeting. operated system employed by the Zambian EITI example, we meet 80% of India’s The Group paid a political donation (ZEITI) has led to poor data collection and zinc consumption; approximately of US$2.01 million in India. The Board compilation. Understanding the challenges 40% of its aluminium, copper and believes that this will encourage and faced by the ZEITI Secretariat, Konkola Copper strengthen the democratic process Mines (KCM), Vedanta’s Zambian subsidiary, lead requirements as well as providing in India. Vedanta currently plays offered in 2011 to help the Zambia EITI Council 20% of India’s crude oil production (ZEC) develop a solution to make the process no direct role in developing public – reducing import requirements. We more efficient. Subsequently a special policy, however, we have recently sub-committee was formed including members are also a significant contributor to signed UNGC and also been from key stakeholders of the ZEITI process, exchequers. In this financial year, we accepted as a member of the World including the Secretariat, Ministries of Mines contributed US$4.4 billion – including Business Council for Sustainable and Lands, Transparency International, the US$2.4 billion as a consequence of Zambian Revenue Authority and KCM, to look Development, who are engaged at developing a solution to automate the EITI our Cairn acquisition – to the Indian in public policy debates. process in Zambia. KCM has now partnered with exchequer through direct and indirect Accenture to evaluate the current system and taxes, royalty and oil tax. We are also Exchequer Contribution for FY 2012 propose an automated system that would a major contributor to Zambian GDP. ensure the more timely release of reports. ZEC member Dr Sixtus Mulenga, a member We employ directly and through of the first EITI International Advisory Group, contractors a total of about 100,000 ∞ Direct Taxes – Income Tax, FBT, says “KCM’s assistance to the EITI process will people, while creating opportunities WT&TDS/TCS 17.7% ensure the release of accurate data on production figures and mineral sales. It will in for a wide section of people through ∞ Royalty 23.3% turn enable interest groups like the opposition suppliers while, at a standard ∞ Custom Duty 15.6% parties, civil society and ordinary citizens to multiplier of 5-6, the number ∞ Profit Sharing – Petroleum 25.5% monitor total annual payments by the mines exceeds half a million. ∞ Cess & NCCD 8.0% to enhance accountability.” ∞ Others 10.0% After developing the solution design, KCM will spearhead its implementation with support from other members of the Zambian mining industry. Traditionally, the hot dip galvanisers with lead bath option available as per the new guideline and bottoms have been using Special High Grade addressed any technical queries that the Extractive Industry (SHG) zinc for hot-dip galvanising in adherence customers had. HZL organised regional seminars to the BIS and PGCIL guidelines. SHG is minimum chaired by international consultants and respective Transparency 99.995% purity zinc and therefore is more regional managers for Hot-Dip Galvanisers around Initiative – Zambia expensive for galvanising applications. However, recently the BIS and PGCIL revised the reference India. The agenda of these seminars was to highlight the market potential for galvanising and minimum zinc purity suitable for the galvanising to address technical issues that the galvanisers bath to 98.65% and 98.5% respectively. This may have. We worked with 13 galvanisers, six of meant that the galvanisers now had the option which are now using PWG (prime western grade to consider other grades of zinc if they were zinc, minimum zinc at 98.65%) in their galvanising found technically and economical viable. bath. Customers were also educated on the benefits of using Jumbo Ingots in reducing dross HZL took the initiative on this issue and involved generation and wastage. an international consultant to study which grade would be most beneficial to the galvanisers – both Through this initiative and similar seminars and in terms of performance and economy. Once this workshops, we educate our customers in the was established, HZL educated the galvanisers on better use of our products in a responsible and the best economical and technically appropriate cost effective manner. Technical Services Provided to Galvanising Customers of Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 71 Adding and Sharing Value P54-71 Our Broader Stakeholders Shareholders Our key financial highlights for the past Civil Society The returns that we are able to year include: NGOs provide to our investors as we grow We see all feedback to the business our business will always be >> Revenue of US$14 billion – up 23%. as adding to our pool of knowledge management’s focus. >> EBITDA of US$4.0 billion – up 13% and appreciate the effort NGOs (global with an EBITDA margin of 29% and local) have made across the world In 2011-12, we continued to focus on (partially offset by higher operating in contributing to the debate around extending our existing resources costs and increased export duty issues of sustainability and the mining and growing our assets organically, rates on iron ore). and resources industry. Vedanta will investing in projects that expand our continue to proactively engage with high-quality asset base and increase >> Underlying earnings per share of US$1.42 – down 46%, due to lower NGOs on the concerns they raise. our production volumes. During the Over the coming years we believe we year, we invested US$2.4 billion in attributable profit from subsidiaries. will find opportunities to work more our organic growth programme, >> Final dividend of US$0.35 per share closely together and to benefit from increasing production of Zinc-Lead, – up 8%. both the wider viewpoint they offer Silver, Copper, Aluminium, Power >> Free cash flow of US$2.5 billion and their technical expertise. These and Oil and Gas. before growth capex. inputs and guidance allow us to tailor >> Invested US$2.4 billion in organic our operation effectively. We have made considerable progress in the execution of our commercial growth programme during the year. Universities strategy this year, delivering production >> Strong balance sheet with We seek to work closely with some growth and increasing reserves and Cash and Liquid Investments of the best minds in the world to make resources across the portfolio, of US$6.9 billion. technical innovations. We value their completing two acquisitions, and contribution to the projects we are announcing a consolidation and Providing assurance of the quality of developing and will report more on simplification of the Group. Over the these earnings and creating additional this important area in future reports. years, Vedanta has become a worldvalue through the development of class, diversified resources company, intangible assets such as brand value and this year we added Oil and Gas and sustainable development is to our portfolio. important – this report and the actions we describe are a key part of that Our key business highlights for the process. For more details of the returns year include: we provide to our shareholders, please see our Annual Report. >> Group consolidation and simplification announced – on track Our Lenders for completion in FY 2012. We work with commercial lenders >> Integrated Cairn India – Rajasthan from around the world, many of production now at 175,000 barrels whom have signed the Equator of oil per day (kopd) – with Principles. The efforts of the IFC and a basin potential of some 300kopd. the Equator Principles banks are well accepted and we realise that their >> Acquired Liberia Iron Ore assets with input to our business is more than some 1 billion tonnes reserves and financial. We have included an update resources – first shipment expected of the work we have done to in FY 2014. implement the recommendation of >> Increased reserves and resources the Scott Wilson report that we in Zinc, Iron Ore and Oil and Gas. commissioned to meet our lenders’ >> Significant production growth in requirements in the assurance section Silver, Alumina, Aluminium, Power of this report. and Oil and Gas. >> Commissioned new Silver Refinery, increasing Silver capacity to 16moz p.a. >> Three units of 2,400MW Jharsuguda Power Plant operational, fourth unit under trial run. vedantaresources.com Assurance What’s in this section Scott Wilson Report 74 GRI Index 78 UNGC 83 Millennium Development Goals 84 Assurance Statement by DNV 86 Glossary 88 74 Scott Wilson Report Integrating sustainability We are committed to achieving the highest operating standards and we respect the environment and communities in which we operate. The Company is developing a robust sustainable development framework and has in place a comprehensive community relations programme that positively touches the lives of hundreds of thousands of people every day. Scott Wilson, on behalf of certain Their full report is available http:// Company level: financial institutions, conducted an www.vedantaresources.com/ >> Three Recommendations are now independent and comprehensive sustainability/scottwilson.html and considered as being effectively review of our sustainable development in summary it said: closed out policies and procedures in line with >> The remaining four are on track to international standards and best “We are therefore pleased to confirm achieve closure within six months practices in November 2010. that overall satisfactory progress has been made and all the remedial Lanjigarh: The review covered our Sustainability actions set at the first review have >> One Recommendation was practices including; health, safety and been duly actioned. As a result, previously closed out environment (HSE) and our social Vedanta is now able to demonstrate >> Six Recommendations are policies and our Business Code of solid progress at Group, Subsidiary considered as being effectively Conduct. It made recommendations Company and Lanjigarh project levels, closed out towards further aligning our policies although some elements are still to be and practices to the IFC Performance fully completed. The Company >> Three are on track to achieve Standards and IFC EHS Guidelines anticipates that the necessary actions closure within six months including those specifically related for the outstanding recommendations >> One, the Expansion Project, to mining and thermal power. A will be completed by June 2012.” is “pending” (i.e. dependent summary of the review, including on the eventual Court decision) findings and recommended actions, The current situation in regard to the although the plant is already is available via the link http://www. Recommendations is briefly committed to developing vedantaresources.com/sustainability/ summarised as follows: an integrated Environmental scottwilson.html. and Social Action Plan which Corporate level: will include new Stakeholder In line with our commitment to >> Two Recommendations were Engagement, Biodiversity and sustainable development and the previously closed out Tribal Development Plans. implementation of the Scott Wilson >> A further five Recommendations Key recommendations, in December, are considered as being effectively we produced our second six-monthly closed out Recommendation progress report. The report details  complete/closed the actions we had taken up to >> Four more are on track to achieve 31st December 2011. closure within six months  In progress/on track >> One, External Audits, is not yet due A team from Scott Wilson then visited although we believe that a further  Needs higher priority India in February 2012 to undertake extension is needed so that the their review of our progress against Sustainability Framework has – Not due yet/depend upon their original recommendations. sufficient time for bedding-in to external factors During the review the team visited ensure that the exercise has full our sites at VAL Lanjigarh, BALCO and value for Vedanta. Sesa Goa and met with our Vedanta Sustainable Development staff at our corporate offices in Delhi. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 75 Assurance P72-89 Corporate Level Recommendations URS – SW July 2011 URS – SW March 2012 URS – SW comments on Recommendation status status open recommendations 2.5.2 The preamble to the Code, “How We Do Business”, should include reference to local communities as a key element affecting Vedanta’s reputation along with customers, shareholders, competitors and suppliers.   2.5.3 Adopt internal procedures to ensure that all requests for Sustainability information from stakeholders (including investors, NGOs, Framework links to other international organisations and the press) are dealt within a communication channels  timely manner. We see this as an important part of a wider (press/NGO) programme to inform and communicate with all stakeholders. To assist with transparency Vedanta should maintain a register  of enquiries and responses and provide a summary in their Annual Sustainability Report/website. 2.5.4 Revise the wording of the Value statement on Sustainability to state: “We aim to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the communities where we work and to protect and conserve the environment.”   2.5.6 Develop a series of policies to realise the aims stated for each Still to see proposed of the four sustainability areas (environmental stewardship, Guidance documents nurturing people, health and safety and empowering (especially Human Rights, communities). The policy statements should be succinct, should reflect best international practice and reflect a commitment to continuous improvement. Annual targets   Biodiversity and IPs) for progress and reporting should be considered wherever possible. Noise should be included as a policy issue. 2.5.7 The title of the HSE Committee should be changed to the Sustainable Development Committee and its terms of reference expanded to reflect the breadth of its role covering all aspects of the environmental and social   sustainability of the Group. 2.5.8 The corporate Sustainability Development Committee Level of fatalities of should continue to ensure that subsidiary companies take concern, although a consistent approach to promoting sustainable development implementing a suitable in accord with international best practice by monitoring range of actions to  performance, lesson learning and dissemination of address occupational H&S best practice. Appoint an appropriately qualified Chief Sustainability Officer  with international experience to direct and coordinate the HSE, CSR and related functions. The CSO will act through single points of contact in each subsidiary company. 2.5.9 Keep under review the full range of HSE and CSR Some practical training still competencies required across the business and consider needed on implementing the need for additional training, as appropriate, in relation to the IFC Performance Standards and Guidelines, human rights, vulnerable groups and the GRI Mining and Metals   IFC requirements for M&A and new ESIAs Sector Supplement. 2.5.13 Report, where possible, on Group environmental and social Results of the external performance as a whole and seek to benchmark performance against industry best practice and seek assurance from appropriate bodies with industry and sustainability expertise.   benchmarking study 2.5.16 Adopt a specific human rights policy demonstrating its Guidance documents commitment to the UN Declaration of Rights and procedures to ensure its implementation. This should be communicated to all stakeholders via its web site.   being prepared as per 2.5.6 Policies 2.5.24 Undertake an audit of Group and Company environmental Agree suggested extension and social performance against international standards to deadline needed to (IFC, ICMM, OECED) after 12 months of implementing ensure exercise has full the recommendations in this report (i.e. January 2012). Recommendations which are not implemented will be included in a Remedial Action Plan and their compliance –  value. VR to prepare shortlist of potential service providers and reviewed every 6 months. consider scope/extent of the audit. vedantaresources.com 76 Scott Wilson Report continued Company Level Recommendations URS – SW July 2011 URS – SW March 2012 URS – SW comments on Recommendation status status open recommendations 2.5.11 Develop a policy and implementation practices to more Still need to check BAPs proactively manage land in their ownership in order to available/being prepared maximise environmental gains and promote biodiversity. for the high risk sites This would include the development of environmental management plans for all non-operational land and the   carrying out of habitat surveys for all new sites prior to development. 2.5.12 Communicate environmental monitoring regimes at plants Available SEPs reviewed and regularly report to stakeholders, including local and generally acceptable, communities, on their environmental performance, but will need to see VAL-L benchmarking this against international standards (e.g. IFC example once complete. Guidelines) and reporting in their 2012 Sustainability Report.   Routine/annual ‘disclosure’ to project affected stakeholders still to be widely actioned outside of Sesa Goa. 2.5.15 Produce and test EIAs and EMPs against the IFC Performance VR need a more robust Standards and ICMM best practice and define clear links initial screening between the EIAs, EMPs and Environmental Management mechanism in their Systems. Specifically EIAs should be expanded in relation to process. Also will need to biodiversity and habitat identification, the identification of cultural heritage (scheduled and non-scheduled sites) and   check Liberia EIA/BALCO coal block extension EIA social and human rights impacts. Vedanta should commission against IFC standards as independent reviews of one or more major EIAs each year in they progress order to ensure compliance with IFC Standards. 2.5.17 Develop a standardised approach to community consultation VR should consider for new developments which responds to IFC guidance and developing ‘Broad communicate this to all stakeholders via its web site.   Community Support’ indicators to determine success of consultations 2.5.20 Adopt a specific policy in relation to engagement with and Need for Indigenous assistance to social groups that may be vulnerable to change Peoples or equivalent and communicate this to all stakeholders on its web site.   guidance and company procedure for dealing with complex issues like “FPIConsent” 2.5.22 In developing new sites adopt a standardised approach Covered elsewhere to the identification of sites of cultural heritage value involving formal documentary sources, site surveys and community consultation.   (e.g. screening comments in 2.5.15 above) 2.5.23 Maintain a register of major social and labour incidents Notification procedure at their plants and report to VRL   and corrective/preventive actions fatalities and other significant incidents Key Recommendation  complete/closed  In progress/on track  Needs higher priority – Not due yet/depend upon external factors Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 77 Assurance P72-89 Lanjigarh Level Recommendations URS – SW July 2011 URS – SW March 2012 URS – SW comments on Recommendation status status open recommendations 3.3.20 Undertake a systematic gap analysis of the EMS against the Will need to check Industry Best practice criteria and update it accordingly.   progress on new ESMP/ SEP recommended by ERM 3.3.3 Notwithstanding the current problems arising from equipment storage, VAL seek to improve site housekeeping with particular regard to ensuring the correct segregation, collection and disposal of waste materials and the fitness   for purpose of the refinery’s storm water drainage systems. 3.3.32 Develop suitable and sufficient retrenchment plans to mitigate Policy and annexure the adverse impacts of future suspension or closure of the reviewed but could be refinery on both direct and indirect employees.   developed more especially in regard to mitigating local community impacts 3.3.48 Undertake a gap analysis for contractors’ labour Existing situation validated accommodation against IFC/EBRD guidance and any serious and arrangements in hand deficiencies addressed. VAL should therefore amend its contractual documentation to specify minimum expectations for contractors in regard to labour accommodation, and then   to apply suitable standards to extension project contractors once given enforce contractors’ adherence to its specified requirements. Court go-ahead 3.3.63 Undertake a gap analysis against the occupational and As per 3.3.20 above – community health and safety requirements set out in the Lender’s Industry Best Practice criteria (specifically the IFC’s General and applicable sector EHS Guidelines) and take  appropriate measures to address any outstanding gaps. 3.3.79 Review the draft Disaster Management Plan against Need to check recognised industry guidance (such as the ICMM/UNEP ongoing actions – publication “Good practice in emergency preparedness and response,” 2005) and upgrade its emergency prevention and response arrangements including improved drill and   e.g. public consultation and involvement simulation exercises. 3.4.3 If the expansion of the refinery is to proceed, a supplementary May need to – – report be prepared to augment and update the existing EIA, review depending thus meeting international best practice. This report would upon Court decision be used to guide further development and would be made available to key stakeholders. 4.5.5 Review the issue of sporadic dust nuisance, seek to reduce Rail freight progressively such pollution and monitor both dust emissions and incidence of respiratory infections in the immediate locality of the refinery.   replacing road transport and reducing dusts 4.5.8 Establish and strengthen a simple and accessible grievance Subject to CB findings mechanism by which villagers can identify any concerns about the operation of the refinery by using the village coordinators already deployed by VAL.   re on-going local opposition etc 4.6.8 Give further consideration to accelerating livelihood training programmes for villagers via self-help and business start-up support, especially in those villages close to the refinery and monitor local employment creation in these villages and the   Lanjigarh block. 4.6.12 Work together with local government to develop Integrated development and publicise an integrated rural development strategy for the area. –  plan reviewed and generally acceptable vedantaresources.com 78 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index G3.1 Reference checklist Vedanta continues to develop its sustainability strategy and reporting in alignment with the guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). More information about the GRI framework itself can be found on its website: www.globalreporting.org. This Sustainable Development Report has been prepared according to the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We have again appointed DNV as our assurance provider to carry out an independent assessment. The detailed GRI G3.1 Content Index (including mining and metal supplement) reference sheet and data sheet is available at http://www.vedantaresources.com/sustainability/griindex.html Standard Disclosures Part I: Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosure Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 6 – 7 SD Report – Page numbers 2, 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully &9 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully SD Report – Cover page 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully SD Report – Page number 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Fully Annual Report – Page numbers companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 21 & 163, SD Report – 4 & 5 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully SD Report – Back Cover page 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Fully SD Report – Page number 5 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Annual Report – Page number 21 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types Fully Annual Report – Page number 119 of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 2 & 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully SD Report – Internal Back Cover 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully SD Report – Page number 13 3.6 Boundary of the report. Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Fully SD Report – Internal Back Cover 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions Fully Mention along with the indicators and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, Fully Mention along with the sections and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 78 – 79, Website 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 82 – 83 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 79 Assurance P72-89 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest Fully SD Report – Page numbers 14 & governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational 22 – 23 oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully Annual Report – Page number 66 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and Fully Annual Report – Page number 64 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Fully Annual Report – Page number 72 direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Fully Annual Report – Page number 83 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Fully Annual Report – Page number 68 are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members Fully Annual Report – Page numbers of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of 69 & 79 gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Fully SD Report – Page number 10 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Fully SD Report – Page number 14 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly Fully Annual Report – Page number 72 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Fully Annual Report – Page number 22 by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Fully SD Report – Internal Front Cover initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Fully SD Report – Page numbers 48 & 70 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 10, 12 & 46 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 12, 13 & 46 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by Fully SD Report – Page numbers 46, 48 type and by stakeholder group. Annual report 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Fully SD Report – Page numbers 13, 48, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 49 and along with the report. through its reporting. vedantaresources.com 80 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index continued Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3.1 MMSS DMAs Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully Annual Report – Page numbers 12 & 14 Market presence Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Indirect economic impacts Fully SD Report – Page numbers 64 – 65 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Fully SD Report – Page number 36 Energy Fully SD Report – Page number 35 Water Fully SD Report – Page number 35 Biodiversity Fully SD Report – Page number 35 Emissions, effluents and wasteCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 35 Products and services Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Compliance Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Transport Fully SD Report – Page number 35 & 43 Overall Fully SD Report – Page number 35 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects EmploymentCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 58 Labour/management relationsCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 58 Occupational health and safetyCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 26 Training and education Fully SD Report – Page number 58 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully SD Report – Page number 58 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully SD Report – Page number 58 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Non-discrimination Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully SD Report – Page number 58 Child labour Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Security practices Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Indigenous rightsCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 50 Assessment Fully SD Report – Page number 15 Remediation Fully SD Report – Page number 15 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communities Fully SD Report – Page number 62 Artisanal and small-scale mining Not Not Applicable Resettlement Fully SD Report – Page number 52 Closure planningCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 25 Grievance mechanisms and procedures Fully SD Report – Page number 47 Emergency PreparednessCOMM Fully SD Report – Page number 24 Corruption Fully SD Report – Page number 22 Public policy Fully SD Report – Page number 22 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully SD Report – Page number 22 Compliance Fully SD Report – Page number 22 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Materials stewardship Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Customer health and safety Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Product and service labelling Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Marketing communications Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Customer privacy Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Compliance Fully SD Report – Page number 69 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 81 Assurance P72-89 Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicator Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Fully SD Report – Page numbers costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 18 & 19 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Fully SD Report – Page numbers 38, EC2 activities due to climate change. Website – GRI Table EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Fully SD Report – Page number 60, Annual Report – Page numbers 105, 110 & 122. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully SD Report – Page number 49 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant Partially SD Report – Page number 69 locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily Fully SD Report – Page numbers 64 & 65, for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Website GRI Table Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully SD Report – Page number 36 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 16 & 42 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully SD Report – Page number 41 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully SD Report – Page number 41 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Fully SD Report – Page number 38 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, Not Not Applicable and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 36 & 39 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Fully SD Report – Page number 38 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Fully SD Report – Page number 39 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Partially SD Report – Page number 42 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Partially SD Report – Page number 42 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive Partially SD Report – Page number 42 use) disturbed or rehabilitated. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Partially SD Report – Page number 42 EN14C Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Partially SD Report – Page number 42 MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity Partially SD Report – Page number 42 management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats Partially SD Report – Page number 42 in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 38 & 40 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Not material EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Partially SD Report – Page number 42 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully SD Report – Page number 40 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully SD Report – Page number 41 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. Fully SD Report – Page number 41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 42 & 43 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Fully SD Report – Page number 16 of impact mitigation. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Fully SD Report – Page number 36 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Fully SD Report – Page number 34 Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken Fully SD Report – Page number 58 down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Fully SD Report – Page number 58, gender, and region. Website GRI table. vedantaresources.com 82 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index continued Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work continued LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Fully SD Report – Page number 59, part-time employees, by major operations. Website GRI Table. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully SD Report – Page number 60 MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by country. Fully SD Report – Page number 46 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Fully SD Report – Page number 27 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Fully SD Report – Page number 29 of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Partially SD Report – Page number 59, Website GRI Table. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Fully SD Report – Page numbers 59 & 60 reviews, by gender. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Fully SD Report – Page number 60 by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts Fully SD Report – Page number 51 that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Partially SD Report – Page number 51 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Fully SD Report – Page number 51 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and HR5COMM actions taken to support these rights. Fully SD Report – Page number 60 HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Fully SD Report – Page number 51 child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Fully SD Report – Page number 51 forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures Fully SD Report – Page number 51 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Fully SD Report – Page number 51 actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights Not reviews and/or impact assessments. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social: Society MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, Fully SD Report – Page number 52 and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. Fully SD Report – Page number 25, Website GRI Table SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 24 & 25 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 24 & 25 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. Fully SD Report – Page number 23 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies Fully SD Report – Page number 23 and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully SD Report – Page number 23 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Fully SD Report – Page number 70 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Fully SD Report – Page number 70 and related institutions by country. Social: Product Responsibility MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Fully SD Report – Page number 69, Website GRI Table PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Fully SD Report – Page number 69 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully SD Report – Page number 69 concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 83 Assurance P72-89 UN Global Compact (UNGC) Communication of progress This is the first year that Vedanta is reporting against the principles of the UN Global Compact. We are very proud to be the signatories of the UN global compact and here outline where we have reported against the Global Compact themes throughout this report. Issue area UNGC principle Reference Page number Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Building strong relationships – Human rights 50-51 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are Building strong relationships – Human rights 50-51 not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Adding and sharing values – Employees 60-61 of association and the effective negotiation of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination Building strong relationships – Human rights 51 of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Adding and sharing value – Employees 51 of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of Adding and sharing value – Employees 58-61 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Responsible stewardship – Environment 34-35 approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives Responsible stewardship – Environment 34-43 to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development Responsible stewardship – Environment 34-43 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Responsible stewardship – Strategy and 22-23 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Management vedantaresources.com 84 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Supporting development Vedanta is committed to ensuring that our community investment activity has a meaningful impact in the communities and countries in which we operate. We are therefore very mindful of the development imperatives outlined in the Millennium Development Goals. Here we outline how and where our activities are making a contribution to the overall goals outlined by the United Nations. Millennium Development Goal Number Description Progress MDG#1 Eradicate extreme We encourage the socio-economic development of the local community by providing them opportunities poverty and hunger for sustainable livelihood in both farm and non-farm sectors. Our approach to sustainable livelihood is based on a three-pronged household strategy: • Empowerment of women through self-help groups; • E nhancing the skills of young people; and, • Reviving this traditional vocation through innovations in farm-based sustainability. Our businesses create direct and indirect employment opportunities for the community in both our core operations and expansion projects. We invest in making community-based organisations (CBOs, such as self-help groups, co-operatives and more) economically independent, with an emphasis on using local resources for livelihood creation. At Vedanta, we have always aimed at building skill pools and promoting entrepreneurship for gainful employment. Empowering women through financial independence is what Vedanta’s Self-Help Group (SHG) programme aims to achieve which eventually results in overall socio-economic empowerment of women through a holistic capacity building approach. Our women SHG members are now active players in their family decisions, SHG loaning bodies and village institutions are responsible for development of their communities. Currently more than 27,613 women are enrolled in around 2,000 SHGs. Average monthly income of Women Entrepreneurs is US$73. Approximately 40% of these groups are linked to various enterprises like mushroom cultivation, poultry, goatery, puffed rice processing, vermi-composting, leaf plate-making, fish-farming and other initiatives in the non-farm sector as well as stitching, embroidery, meenakari, etc. We also envisage developing a skill pool by imparting trade-specific trainings to unemployed youths and by helping farmers to make agriculture a viable and preferred vocation. In 2011-12, around 0.7 million vocational training hours were generated for unemployed rural youths. So far 3,558 youths have been vocationally trained in various market driven vocations to enhance their employability, with 78% of them finding placement in jobs with hotels, in retail marketing, small-scale manufacturing industries, computer software and hardware firms and setting up their own enterprises in areas like tailoring, motor winding, mobile repair, electronics and electric shops. We also run focused nutritional programmes in India in collaboration with the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) for children aged 3-6 years providing supplementary nutrition, pre-school education and facilitation for child immunisation. In addition we have also established eight centralised hi-tech kitchens in India with the capacity to prepare and serve nutritious mid-day meals to more than 25,000 children. MDG#2 Education for all Our holistic approach to education aims to nurture talent. To convert this vision into action, we implement various tailor-made initiatives that complement formal and informal education systems alike. We have 83 child care centres, 36 bridge schools (bridge schools are non-formal education centres providing tutorial/remedial classes to encourage underperforming children back into mainstream formal education whilst improving the school academic performance), 13 formal company-run schools and 12 adult education centres. All schools have the basic infrastructure facilities that support a congenial learning environment. We are also establishing educational institutions under public-private-partnerships. We are proactively engaged in establishing infrastructural facilities and providing training to support computer literacy among children and teachers. Enabling functional literacy among rural women is another significant area of contribution made via our non-formal education centres. In Zambia, we are benefiting more than 8,000 students through Computer Training Centres and company-run schools. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 85 Assurance P72-89 Millennium Development Goal Number Description Progress MDG#3 Promote gender equality We are recruiting both men and women on an equal salary ratio and attracting the best talents from best and empower women campuses. As an equal opportunity employer, 11.6% of our workforce comprises female employees in management grades. We always have a focus on recruiting appropriately qualified women professionals in the group. Socio-economic empowerment of women is one of our major focus areas; it relies on empowerment of women through Self-Help Groups (SHGs), their capacity building and skill enhancement and subsequently linking them with micro-enterprises or Income Generation Activities. • M ore than 27,000 women in around 2,000 SHGs, are covered under women empowerment projects • Around 1,600 SHGs linked to banks and 269 are involved in Income Generation Activities. MDG#4 Reduce child mortality Our antenatal and post-natal programmes aim to reduce infant and natural mortality rates by 50%. MDG#5 Improve child Through Vedanta’s integrated projects Vedanta Bal-shakti Anganwadi child care project and Mid-day & maternal health Meal programme, we provide nutritious food to around 375,000 children and also sensitize their mothers about basic health and hygiene habits. MDG#6 Combat HIV/AIDS, We have recently framed a global HIV/AIDS policy and are committed to addressing HIV/AIDS through an malaria and other integrated approach that includes awareness, education and prevention, testing and treatment, and community diseases and partner outreach. In Africa, our HIV/AIDS Programme started in 2001 where the prevalence rate of HIV is 20%. The robust sensitisation programme has yielded positive results with an average of 35,000 people sensitised annually and an annual Voluntary Counselling and Testing average uptake of 19,000 people. In India, our HIV/AIDS policy revolves around awareness building and prevention for the workforce, local community and truck drivers. MDG#7 Ensure Environmental We are committed to mitigating, where possible, the environmental impact of our activities and will Sustainability continue to invest to reduce our environmental footprint. In 2011-12, we spent US$56.93 million on environmental protection. To minimise our impacts and therefore run our business in a sustainable manner, we appropriately manage our processes across our products’ lifecycle. We do this through the use of advanced technologies and in accordance with global standards. This includes using efficient technology and processes in their manufacture and concurrently minimising the associated risks. Managing our business sustainably also encompasses an understanding of the outputs generated in production, including greenhouse gases, emissions and other waste products – managing our operations efficiently to appropriately deal with these outputs and keep them to a minimum is important in reducing the risk of harm to people and the environment and makes good business sense. MDG#8 Develop a global Our partnerships with communities, government and civil society (that we term the Public-Private-Peoplepartnership for Partnership [4P] model) are fundamental to our work with communities. development Government: we have successfully assisted government in enhancing both their outreach and quality of services, adding value in the education, health, water and sanitation, infrastructure and agriculture sectors. Civil society: our partnerships with NGOs, research institutions and other organisations have enabled us not only to build upon and deepen existing community development initiatives, but also to bring the highest quality of expertise and skills in community development into our project areas. We have a set of guidelines for selecting our civil society partners. We have partnered with more than 149 NGOs and government departments. People: our people are a key driver in our approach to community development. At each business unit, our socially responsible investments in education, health and livelihood are being managed by dedicated teams of 84 employees and 108 field co-ordinators/volunteers. Performance: through our programmes, we reach out to more than 3.1 million people in 1,006 villages across India and Zambia. vedantaresources.com 86 Assurance Statement Introduction Scope, boundary and limitations Verification Methodology Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) of Assurance This assurance engagement was has been commissioned by the The scope of DNV’s assurance planned and carried out in accordance management of Vedanta Resources engagement, as agreed upon with with the DNV Protocol for Verification Plc, (‘Vedanta’ or ‘the Company’) to Vedanta, included the following: of Sustainability Reporting carry out an independent assurance (VeriSustain). The Report has been engagement on the Company’s >> Verification of the application evaluated against the principles of Sustainable Development Report of report content principles set Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, 2011-12 (‘the Report’) in its printed out in the GRI 3.1 and quality of Completeness, Responsiveness, format and the referenced information information presented in the Report Reliability and Neutrality. in the Report to the Company’s and the referenced information website and Annual Report 2012. The in the Report to the Company’s During the assurance engagement, engagement was carried out against website and Annual Report; DNV has taken a risk-based approach, DNV Protocol for Verification of >> Evaluation and confirmation meaning that we concentrated our Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustain) of Vedanta’s declared verification efforts more on the issues including verification of application Application Level; of high material relevance to Vedanta’s level and adherence to principles of business and stakeholders. As part of >> Review of the Report against the the engagement, DNV has verified the the Global Reporting Initiative 2011 requirements of VeriSustain with statements and claims made in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines a moderate level of assurance; Report and assessed the robustness of Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1). The verification was conducted between March – July >> Review and assessment of the the underlying data management 2012, for the year of activities covered processes and tools for collecting, system, information flow and controls. in the Report i.e. 1 April 2011 to aggregating and reporting In doing so, we have: 31 March 2012. qualitative data inside the Report; >> Verification of the reliability of GRI >> Reviewed the company’s approach DNV is a global provider of G3.1 performance indicators and to stakeholder engagement and its sustainability services, with qualified performance information materiality determination process; environmental and social assurance specifically related to Green house >> Verified the robustness of the data specialists working in over 100 Gas Emissions and Health & Safety; management system, information countries. DNV states its flow and controls; independence and impartiality with Our engagement did not include >> Conducted interviews with the regard to this assurance engagement. assessment of the adequacy or Chief Executive Officer and the DNV was not involved in the effectiveness of Vedanta strategy Chief Sustainability Officer; preparation of any statements or or management of sustainability data included in the Report, with the related issues. >> Conducted in-person and online exception of this Assurance Statement. interviews with more than 115 senior DNV maintains complete impartiality The reporting boundary is as set out Vedanta representatives, including toward any people interviewed. on the inside front cover of the data owners and decision-makers Report. As part of our verification we from different functions and The intended users of this assurance visited the following operations in locations of the Company; statement are the management addition to the Vedanta office at >> Performed sample-based reviews of of the Company and readers of this Delhi, India: the mechanisms for implementing Report. The management of Vedanta the company’s sustainability related is responsible for all information >> Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. Jharsuguda policies, as described in the Report; provided in the Report as well as and Lanjigarh, India. >> Performed sample-based checks of the processes for collecting, analysing >> Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., the data management processes for and reporting the information. DNV’s Tuticorin, India. completeness and reliability. This responsibility regarding this verification >> Skorpion Zinc, Rosh Pinah, Namibia. including assessments of methods, is to the Company only and in practices, tools and competence >> Black Mountain Mining, Aggeneys, accordance with the agreed scope used in collection, aggregation and South Africa. of work. The assurance engagement reporting of data as it is transferred is based on the assumption that >> Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Chanderiya and Sindesar Khurd, India. and managed at different levels of the data and information provided the organisation. to us is complete and true. DNV >> Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. expressly disclaims any liability or BALCO nagar and Mainpat, India. co-responsibility for any decision >> Sesa Goa, Panjim, Bicholim, Codli, a person or entity would make based Sonshi, Sirsai and Amona, India. on this Assurance Statement. Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 87 Assurance P72-89 Opportunities for Improvement Materiality: For Det Norske Veritas AS, The following is an excerpt from the Acceptable. The materiality is observations and opportunities determined using inputs from senior reported back to the management of representatives from various functions Vedanta. However, these do not affect of the Company. Although the process our conclusions on the Report, and does not seem to omit any known they are indeed generally consistent material issues, the process will be with the management objectives further strengthened by formally already in place. documenting the sustainability expectations expressed by Santhosh Jayaram >> Implement a continuous and stakeholders and evaluating Lead Verifier systematic quality assurance the materiality that reflect short, Head, Sustainability and Business procedure for the data management medium and long-term impacts. Excellence (South Asia) system to further improve the Det Norske Veritas AS, India quality of reported sustainability Responsiveness: performance data; Acceptable. The Company has >> Monitoring mechanisms to responded through various policies be implemented to evaluate and standards rolled out during the compliance to the policies past year, and this is reflected in the and standards developed Report. The implementation of these and implemented across policies and standards is currently Group companies. in progress at all Group companies. Antonio Astone Conclusions Completeness: Reviewer In DNV’s opinion, based on the Acceptable. Within the reporting Global Manager, Corporate work carried out, the Report is a boundary defined by Vedanta, we Responsibility Services, fair representation of the Company’s do not believe that the Report omits DNV Business Assurance, Italy. sustainability-related strategies, relevant information that would management systems and substantively influence stakeholder Bangalore, India, 5 July 2012 performance. The Report, along assessments or decisions. The with the referenced information in reporting boundary is clearly stated the website and annual report and in the Report. The Report provides the commitments with timelines to commitments with timelines to report report in full on some of the core in full some of the performance indicators, meets the general content indicators recognising that they and quality requirements of the GRI represent material issues, for example G3.1, and DNV confirms that the indicators pertaining to aspects of GRI requirements for Application biodiversity and human rights. It is Level ‘A+’ have been met. We have evident that Vedanta acknowledges evaluated the Report’s adherence the need for continuous improvement to the following principles on a and is committed to improving the scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and reporting scope and boundary of ‘Needs Improvement’: the Report. Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Reliability: Needs Improvement. The Company Acceptable. Using data protocols the demonstrates engagement with Company has been able to improve stakeholders through various data consistency and accuracy channels, but the documentation compared to previous years. of key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Neutrality: engagement needs to be strengthened. Good. The information contained in the Report is presented in a neutral tone. The Report is transparent and brings out the road map for improved governance, performance and disclosure. vedantaresources.com 88 Glossary A. Narraine Sesa Goa mine in Karnataka, India FY Financial Year AAQM Ambient Air Quality Monitoring GDP Gross Domestic Product ACTUP Accelerated Competency Tracking GET Graduate Engineer Trainee and Up-gradation Programme Gj Gigajoules AISD Asian Institute of Sustainable Development GOLD Gen-next Operational Leadership ASHA Accredited Social Health Activists Development programme BALCO Bharat Aluminium Company Limited, GRI/G3 Global Reporting Initiative a company incorporated in India HGP Hot Gas Precipitator BAP Biodiversity Action Plan HIRA Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment Bicholim A mine of Sesa Goa HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Black Zinc asset (mine) in South Africa Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome Mountain HR Human Resources CAIRN CAIRN India Ltd., a company HSE Health, Safety and Environment incorporated in India IBAT Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool CDM Clean Development Mechanism ICDS Integrated Child Development CEO Chief Executive Officer Scheme: Anganwadi catering to health CER Certified Emission Reduction and educational needs of children in the age group 0–6 years CFO Chief Financial Officer ICMM International Council of Metal and Mining Chanderiya One of the smelter units of HZL IFC International Finance Corporation CII Confederation of Indian Industry IMMT Institute of Minerals and CLZS Chanderiya Lead and Zinc Smelter, Materials Technology a unit of HZL IPP Independent Power Plant CMT Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited, a company incorporated in Australia IPPCL Integrated Pollution Prevention Control Licence CPP Captive Power Plant ISO 14001 International Organisation for CRO Chief Risk Officer Standardisation (standards for CSR Corporate Social Responsibility environmental management systems) DNV Det Norske Veritas AS IVD Integrated Village Development. Sustainable development with a holistic investment EHS Environment Health and Social in all-round development of a village. The EIA Environment Impact Assessment nomenclature of this programme differs from company to company within the EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Group EPA Environment Protection Agency IVDP Integrated Village Development Programme ESC Ethics Sub-Committee KBK Kalahandi, Bolangir, Koraput ESIA Environmental and Social KCM Konkola Copper Mines PLC, a company Impact Assessments incorporated in Zambia ExCo Executive Committee KPA Key Performance Areas Farm Agriculture and livestock KRA Key Result Area Initiative development initiatives LGLC Lead Silver Low Concentrate Fatality The death of an employee, contract employee, business associate or visitor Lisheen Zinc asset (mine) in Ireland at our operations and project sites LME London Metal Exchange FTSE Financial Times and the London LPADF Lanjigarh Project Area Stock Exchange Development Foundation Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2011-12 89 Assurance P72-89 LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas SIA Social Impact Assesment LSE London Stock Exchange SIIL Sterlite Industries (India) Limited LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: SIIL-Copper Sterlite Industries – Copper the number of lost time injuries per Skorpion Zinc Zinc asset (mine) in Namibia million man-hours worked by employees and contractors in our operations SMTTPS Sarvamangla Taknikee Pratishthan Avam Shisha Sansthan m3 Cubic metres SPM Suspended particulate matter MALCO The Madras Aluminium Company Limited, a company incorporated in India SOP Standard Operating Procedures MAS Management Assurance Services STP Sewage treatment plant MDM Mid-Day Meal TMF Tailing Management Facility MHU Mobile Health Unit TPM Total Product Management MOEF Ministry of Environment and Forests TQM Total Quality Management MT Metric tonnes TRIFR Total Recordable Injury frequency rate MW Mega Watt UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change NABARD National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development UNGC United Nations Global Compact NEERI National Environment Engineering VAL Vedanta Aluminium Ltd, a company Research Institute incorporated in India NGO Non-Governmental Organisation VAL-J VAL-Jharsuguda NIT National Institute of Technology VAL-L VAL-Lanjigarh OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation VBCA Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi Centres and Development VCT Voluntary Counselling and Testing OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (standards for occupational health VER Voluntary Emission Reduction and safety management systems) VRS Voluntary Retirement Scheme OMC Orissa Mining Company VZS Vizag Zinc Smelter, a unit of HZL PAH Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbons WBCSD World Business Council for PCB Poly-Chlorinated Biphenyls Sustainable Development PHC Primary Health Centre WRI World Resources Institute PPE Personnel Protective Equipment Zinc Zinc assets in Black Mountain, International Namibia and Ireland PPPP, or 4P Public-Private-People-Partnership (ZI) R&R Rehabilitation and Resettlement ZM Zawar Mines, a unit of HZL RAM Rampura Agucha Mines, a unit of HZL ZSD Zinc Smelter Debari, a unit of HZL RDM Rajpura Dariba Mines, a unit of HZL RMC Risk Management Committee SEL Sterlite Energy Ltd., a company incorporated in India SEP Stakeholder Engagement Plan Sesa Goa Sesa Goa Ltd. and its subsidiaries SHG Self-Help Group: group of women engaged in thrift and inter-loaning business, not more than 20 vedantaresources.com Further Information We value your feedback and welcome comments on this report or any aspect of our approach to Sustainability Reporting. Please e-mail us at: sustainability@vedanta.co.in Please write to us at: Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ For more information visit www.vedantaresources.com More online View our Sustainability website www.vedantaresources.com/sustainability/ View our online Annual Report 2012 www.ar2012.vedantaresources.com Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ Tel: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 Design and production by Black Sun Plc (London) Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 www.blacksunplc.com +44 (0) 20 7736 0011 vedantaresources.com
