S TA I N A SU A B LE 2011 E AT I N G Sustainability FUTUR CR E Review • 2 0 11 • SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 1 2 Message from the CEO Great power involves great responsibility.” These words, spoken by former American president Franklin D. Roosevelt, encapsulate what it means to be an accountable corporate citizen in the world today. A s a member of the global Coca-Cola System, Coca-Cola Sabco is ever mindful of the way in which we do business and are proud to have aligned ourselves with the Company-wide Live Positively/Live for a Difference campaign. Through corporate social investment projects, The challenges we face as an emerging market we are also strengthening the communities in specialist operating in nine territories throughout which they work and live. And finally, by minimising Africa and Asia also present numerous opportunities our environmental impact and being responsible to do good on many levels. stewards of our natural resources, we can complete the trio of strategies that make a longWe are guided in this by a framework built on the range focus possible. three pillars of economic, social and environmental sustainability. It is first and foremost our job to We approach sustainability issues as with grow the business responsibly; not just for our any aspect of our business – by setting clear, shareholders but also for those we employ and measurable targets and establishing key the communities we serve. Creating economic performance indicators to assess our progress. sustainability provides the financial resources we need to carry out our programmes and initiatives With over 70 years in the bottling business, successfully. sustainability is not just an integral part of our thinking – it’s the secret of our past successes and Social sustainability is achieved from within by the key to our future. enabling our workers to achieve their full potential, thereby assuring the production and delivery of safe, Doug Jackson quality products to our consumers. Chief Executive Officer SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 1 Contents About Coca-Cola Sabco 3 Our framework 5 S TA I N Economic Sustainability 10 A SU A B LE 2011 Social Sustainability 16 E AT I N G Sustainability FUTUR CR E Review Environmental Sustainability 32 • 2 0 11 • Our Continued Commitment to the UN Global Compact As part of The Coca-Cola Company’s international System, we are proud to be a co-signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We remain committed to its fundamental principles and continuously strive to align our operations with these universally accepted guidelines. Placing them at the core of our business is the bedrock of true sustainability. Please refer to the pages listed below to see our progress in action. The 10 Principles: page Human Rights 7 & 29 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and, 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 7 & 29 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 8; 32-40 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 12 & 13 10 -Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Published by the United Nations Global Compact Office | March 2007 www.unglobalcompact.org 2 About Coca-Cola Sabco A proud anchor bottler of The Coca-Cola Company Established in 1940, Coca-Cola Sabco is a privately We set the bar high by measuring ourselves against owned family business that is proud to be a part the best Coca-Cola bottlers in the world and define of the Coca-Cola System worldwide. With our our business success in terms of sales volumes origins in South Africa, we are a truly international achieved and the return on capital employed. company and are widely acknowledged as an Our purpose is to create value for everyone touched emerging market specialist. by our business by providing, with passion and focus, the right refreshment at the right price in the We use the benefit of more than 70 years in the right place. In pursuit of these goals, however, we bottling industry to deliver superior beverage have not lost sight of our responsibility to create products to customers and consumers in all of our long-term prosperity for our organisation and nine territories across Africa and Asia. employees, as well as the communities and natural By aligning with The Coca-Cola Company’s 2020 environments in which we operate. Vision, we are building a clear picture of a successful and sustainable future while staying true to our past. We remain immensely proud of our heritage, passionate about our present, and excited about Our company was founded on the principles of our future. respect for employees, consumers, customers and communities; pride in what we do and the brands we represent; and a passion for improving the future of our business and the communities in which we operate. This remains unchanged today. As an anchor bottler within the global System, Coca-Cola Sabco has a greater vision to be the best Coca-Cola bottler in the world. Our role is to be a consumer-driven, customer-oriented manufacturing, sales and distribution company that markets and sells the products and brands of The Coca-Cola Company. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 3 our framework for a sustainable future I n an ever-changing world, it is easy to lose sight of the long-term focus when faced with daily challenges. Keeping an eye on the future is essential if we are to survive and thrive as a business. This is why Coca-Cola Sabco is in alignment with The Coca-Cola Company’s 2020 Vision, which reminds us to “get ready for tomorrow today.” By looking ahead and identifying trends and forces that will affect our operations, we can cre respond effectively and secure a sustainable future for our business and the communities in ati which we operate. For over 70 years, the secret ng a to Coca-Cola Sabco’s success has been our su commitment to responsible corporate citizenship. sta We are guided by an integrated framework based ina on the three key pillars of Economic, Social and ble future Environmental sustainability. Drawing on The Coca-Cola Company’s Live for a Difference platform, we believe the framework provides a balanced approach to managing the long-term sustainability of our business, our communities and our environment. This framework cuts across functional areas and is fully aligned to new and existing business strategy. Our sustainability projects across all our territories are evaluated according to the pillars and focus areas and are closely aligned with the business operations of each plant. The progress of projects in each country is reviewed regularly and best practices are identified and shared with the Group. Key learnings are fed into the overall strategic business plan for each country and challenges are addressed and prioritised for future growth. This report aims to provide an overview of the sustainability focus areas and key performance indicators for each, as well as a way forward for the various initiatives. Where possible, we have provided tangible examples of all the ways in which we are achieving quality growth and winning together as a System. 4 IRONME SOCI ENV NT ECONO AL A MI S C L INABILITY INABILIT TA STAINABILIT STA US SU Y Y SU Ma ke nc e o ur ly mp lia O is b C o En erg pe n r tin g y M nes po tio en es Sustained Financial Gro ctic Wa sR ship e a ste wth pr ra agem teward gement ss a ns es Re •F sp ally Sustainable Corp i na nd po y pl ment ora n ENV S a an on ta Bus te G c n er ial Ma i Transparen SUS IR sib at ov nt t, et Re Y TA ern LIT ing iron hic EC O N O NTAL ue kag Grow the W ME a l IT Go al bu M Eff Pac nc ONNABILITY SUSTAINAB IC e Protection v s Env nd Climat Assura er in le nce nanc e I of e I Su p IRONME SOCI ENV L AL NT S S U S O C I AB I L I T Y ECONO A MI S C L INABILITY INABILIT TA TA I N A STAINABILIT STA US SU Y ro Y SU uc P ts du d ce Proy ge ble IRON SOCI ENV Pro Safe, Quality AL Wo r a ke ECONO m S in a MI a M pl ual it C en INABILITY ac du c a t k o Q t INABILIT TA eR u igh r W t Safety • Product Sus e Eng STA Y US orkpl l y SU aces Social mploy ts • e Le a E t En ter Hea rning and Development • nities en lth a rt u m pr ise He l nd Safety • Equal Oppo bl e Invest pm a ake Society Sustain te Socia De l velo pme nt in o ora ur Value chain • Corp The Coca-Cola Company 2020 Vision Mission To refresh the world... • Partners: Nurture a winning network of customers To inspire moments of optimism and happiness... and suppliers, together we create mutual, To create value and make a difference... enduring value. • Planet: Be a responsible citizen that makes a Vision difference by helping build and support • People: Be a great place to work where people sustainable communities. are inspired to be the best they can be. • Profit: Maximise long-term return to shareowners • Portfolio: Bring to the world a portfolio of quality while being mindful of our overall responsibilities. beverage brands that anticipate and satisfy • Productivity: Be a highly effective, lean and fastpeople’s desires and needs. moving organisation. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 5 ECON SO OM I Economic Sustainability C INABILIT STA Y SU Measures and 2011 Performance Focus Area Our Mission 2014 Targets vs 2014 Targets Sustained Financial Growth We will continue to grow our business 5 yr CAGR through ongoing year on year Volume, • Volume growth (7%) Grow our business responsibly Revenue and NIBT growth supported by • NIBT growth (11%) necessary capital investment. IT Governance Facilitate the achievement of the CCS • IT Governance objectives and manage IT-related risk Scorecard (100%) by providing effective and efficient decision making around the utilisation • TCCC IT Security of IT resources. Dashboard (95%) Assurance of Supply Ensure uninterrupted supply of critical • On time in full (95%) goods/services Creating economic sustainability provides the financial resources we need to carry out our programmes and initiatives successfully. 6 ECON SOCI IRONM OM AL ENV EN I S T SOCIAL Sustainability C INABILIT INABILITY STAINABILIT STA TA Y SU Y US SU AL Measures and 2011 Performance Focus Area Our Mission 2014 Targets vs 2014 Targets Employee We will create a vibrant environment where we • Employee are all passionate and excited about our jobs. Engagement Engagement Make our workplaces socially sustainable Scores (75%) Learning and We will achieve our Created Future through • Training spend as % dedication to providing world-class individual of NSR (0.4%) Development and organisational capability development and growth opportunities for leaders and • Quality of training employees at all levels in the organisation (global ROI score and to fully unlock people potential through of 55%) driving a high performance learning culture. We will also support our future business • Successor cover requirements through filling the talent pipeline (75%) through internal development and succession and sourcing of talent. Workplace rights We respect the rights of all of our employees • Workplace Rights through rigorous adherence to Coca-Cola’s audits (100%) Workplace Rights Policy which is guided Green by international human rights standards, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the United Nations Global Compact. Equal Opportunities We will foster an inclusive workplace in • BBBEE Rating which all members of the community have (SA Only – level 5) equal opportunities for employment and development regardless of race, gender, religion or disability. In South Africa, we will actively pursue the objectives of Broad Based Economic Empowerment. Health and We will ensure that our workplaces are safe for • Lost Time Incident all our employees and take proactive steps to Rate (<2) Safety mitigate any safety risks. Enterprise We will continue to stimulate local economic • Consistent Growth development through partnerships with local in the number of Make society Development small and medium enterprises specifically in retail outlets served the areas of our distribution network and in sustainable our retail base. Produce Safe, Product and Package Quality is one of the • Product Quality (98%) fundamental aspects of the Coca-Cola brand. quality products We invest in new production technologies and • Package Quality (98%) Produce Safe, testing technologies not only to improve our efficiencies, but also to improve our product Quality Products and package quality. Produce Safe Products We will ensure that every product that is produced • No food safety in our manufacturing facilities, distributed in our related incidents network and sold to the consumer is safe to consume for the shelf life of the product. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 7 ECON SOCI IRONM OM AL ENV EN I S T Enviromental Sustainability C INABILIT INABILITY STAINABILIT STA TA Y SU Y US SU AL Measures and 2011 Performance Focus Area Our Mission 2014 Targets vs 2014 Targets Water Stewardship We will continuously strive to reduce • Water Usage our water usage ratio in all our Ratio (2.85) Make our Operations manufacturing sites by proper design and maintenance of our equipment and Environmentally facilities and awareness by our people. Sustainable Energy Consumption We will measure our Carbon Footprint • Energy ratio and Climate Protection and understand the impact of our (<0.42mj/l) operations on our Carbon Footprint. The focus areas for our actions will be • Plant Carbon the reduction of total energy, reduction in emissions (annual diesel consumption and the reduction of reduction in g CO2 fleet and cooler emissions. per UC) Responsible We will constantly work on reducing • PET (annual gram Packaging the impact of our packaging on the reduction) environment through the lightweighting of our packaging material, having no heavy • Glass – % sourced metal content in our material, supporting at it’s lightest weight recycling efforts and increasing the (100%) recycled content of our packaging. • Zero Heavy metal content in new packaging • Recycled Material Content in crates (20%) Waste and Waste Water We will focus on reducing the impact of • Solid Waste Treatment our waste on the environment through Generated a reduction in our waste and increasing (<10.5 g/l) recycling activities. We will ensure that the waste water of • Waste recycled our facilities complies with applicable (>77%) local regulatory and TCCC requirement. • Compliance of Total Waste Water discharged (100%) 8 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 9 ECON SOCI OM AL I S C TA INABILIT US STA Y SU growing our business Responsibly Net Income before O ver the past years, Coca-Cola Sabco has seen increases in growth and volume turnover Tax (NIBT) increased despite a harsh economic environment. The company recorded a volume growth increase of by 12.86% from 6.1 million unit cases from 2010 to 2011 which brought the total volume to over 349.6 million 2010 to 2011. unit cases in 2011. Net Income before Tax (NIBT) increased by 12.86% from 2010 to 2011. The business’ economic growth is seen as its most important foundation as the sustained growth of the company helps to facilitate every one of the other sustainability goals identified by the company. Financial Overview 2011 was again a record year for Coca-Cola Sabco with improvements in Volume and NIBT performance. Volume CAGR 5.95% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Rigorous goals have been set in place to ensure the continued financial growth of the company in the coming years. 10 NSR NIBT CAGR 11.77% CAGR 23.23% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 11 Economic Sustainability CCS GROUP GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Country Internal Authorisation Governance Business Statutory capability audit framework routines risk compliance Internal review controls CULTURE OF FRONTLINE ACCOUNTABILITY AND INITIATIVE Corporate Governance at Country Capability (Internal Controls) Coca-Cola Sabco The Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibilities for the systems of internal control. Coca-Cola Sabco’s board of directors is committed The Group maintains the systems designed to to ensuring that the Group adheres to the highest provide reasonable assurance of the integrity standard of corporate governance in the conduct of and reliability of the financial statements and to its business. adequately safeguard and maintain accountability Coca-Cola Sabco has a governance framework, for the assets. which enables the Company to manage and report on the important aspects of our business. The framework comprises six pillars and operates at Internal Audit Country, Division and Group level. Coca-Cola Sabco is committed to an open policy The Group has an outsourced internal audit of corporate governance which provides the department. This has ensured independence, shareholders and other stakeholders with the improved transparency and sustainability of the assurance that the Company is managed ethically function. Deloitte is responsible for monitoring and in compliance with the best governance the system of internal control in the Group to practices. In this way, the framework protects our ensure that it operates as designed. Weaknesses financial assets and human investments and assists identified during the audit are reported to the audit in ensuring our economic sustainability. committees at a group and country level. Authorisation Framework The Group operates within an approved Chart of Authority, which is managed and monitored throughout the operations. 12 Governance routines Assurance of supply The Board of Directors sets the strategic objectives Our company operates alongside and in of the Group and is responsible for the monitoring of partnership with a number of trusted suppliers. the financial performance of the operating units and These suppliers are crucial to our success and the Group. The Coca-Cola Sabco Board of Directors the positive relationships with these suppliers consists of two executive and five non-executive are highly valued by the Company. The supply directors. They meet at least three times a year. of goods and services on time and in full is a key Each subsidiary has a formally constituted Board of factor to our operations. It is our aim to ensure an Directors who meet at least twice a year. uninterrupted supply of critical goods and services from our suppliers. In the recent past various supplier Well structured committees, at Country and Group shortages such as CO2 and glass out-of-stock level, oversee audit and finance, remuneration, and situations caused significant financial losses to the overall management of Coca-Cola Sabco. soft drink industry, including Coca-Cola Sabco. The importance of minimising this risk of out-of-stock The Audit and Finance Committee and Group situations with suppliers cannot be stressed enough. Compensation and Executive Leadership Committee operate under Board approved mandates and have The majority of key commodities are sourced defined objectives to help the Board in discharging centrally by Group Procurement in close it’s duties. All directors and employees are expected collaboration with country procurement. In order to to espouse the highest moral and ethical principles, ensure the uninterrupted supply of critical goods, values and standards of conduct set out in the Group Procurement have embarked on supplier Group Policy Guidelines. partnerships with Key Suppliers in the form of long-term agreements. Thanks to the nature of our The Company has an Honest and Bona Fide business, Group Procurement uses aggregation Policy which all employees are required to sign of demand and economies of scale to leverage acknowledgement of and adhere to. This policy sets suppliers and secure raw materials and production out all guidelines on operating within the manner capacities based on demand requirements received. required by the Company and its shareholders. CCS operates a fraud and ethics line which allows An integrated planning approach is embedded callers to report confidentially on any violations to ensure that suppliers have sufficient time to of policies and procedures. All reports received prepare for supply in line with agreed lead times. are investigated and the outcome thereof is This is continuously reviewed along with the communicated to the Audit and Finance committee. inventory to ensure sufficient stock coverage. les & marketing Business Risk Review Coca-Cola Sabco’s There is regular review of Coca-Cola Sabco’s strategic and operational risks. Risk management board of directors is integrated into the daily operations and is not a periodic or stand-alone intervention. is committed to ensuring that the Statutory Compliance Group adheres to the The Group requires compliance of all its operations with all legal and governance bodies. highest standard of This is managed at a Country level, with Group support, as required. corporate governance in the conduct of its business. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 13 Economic Sustainability IT Governance Technology is a crucial business enabler, allowing Measuring IT Governance us to execute millions of transactions, reliably report on our results and facilitate communication We continue to measure our overall level of IT between our colleagues, customers, suppliers and Governance using the scorecard devised in 2010 stakeholders, regardless of their location. that is based upon the principles set out in the King Sound IT Governance is recognised as key to ensuring Report on Corporate Governance in South Africa we safeguard this ability and continue to enhance our 2009 (King III). The scorecard measures our status in offering in support of our business objectives. five areas, namely: System Sustainability • Business alignment • IT risks With the ever-increasing number of system solutions • Enabled change available to choose from, the high rate of financial • Service cost failure of IT vendors and the real risk of significant • Service quality strategy changes on the part of IT vendors, the need for a rigorous selection process has become even TCCC IT Security Dashboard more critical to ensure we partner with vendors who will be able to meet our requirements going forward. The area of IT risk as referred to in King III is a vast and complex one. Advances in technology For this reason we continue to utilise a methodology often also mean advances in the IT threats we are where we evaluate and score solutions based on exposed to and these require on-going investment the vision and viability of the vendors, the scope to counter them. and depth of their services, the functionality of their offerings, the system architectures as well as the We continue to actively collaborate with other initial and on-going costs. The methodology is based Bottlers and The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC), on the approach of Gartner, the globally renowned through its Information Risk Management forums, information technology research and advisory to measure and improve our information security. company, and it is conducted in close collaboration The standards used to measure this are embodied with the relevant Function. in a dashboard and they are aligned with international security standards and best practice. Once a system has been selected, the challenge The dashboard has four pillars, namely: remains to ensure that it is optimally utilised to realise the intended benefits. During 2011 we • Strategy and Governance formalised our approach to this in a policy and we • User Provisioning and Access Control have defined the governance routines to ensure on• Vulnerability and Threat Protection going focus on this throughout the business. • Incident Response 14 vision metrics strategic imperatives core focus areas sustainability enablers Brilliant Execution drives sales & marketing excellence Building inspired sales and marketing excellence has become the cornerstone of continued economic sustainability in an unstable global climate. It is only through Part of this strategy involves articulating and Brilliant Execution that we can unleash implementing a simple and clear Picture of Success our potential and ensure that we keep on standard by channel in all of our nine territories winning in the market. and executing it every day in every outlet. It is not simply about winning in the market overall but about Coca-Cola Sabco’s RedPrint for success is driven by an audacious vision “to be revered and winning in every market. The scale of the effort may seem staggering but Brilliant Execution is based on celebrated as inspirational FMCG leaders and as the premise that “success grows on simplicity.” the NARTD (non-alcoholic ready-to-drink) supplier It is about doing each of our jobs with precision and of choice for every customer in every market in passion – the Coca-Cola Sabco way. which we operate; all in service of delighting our consumers and accelerating profitable category Brilliant Execution is perhaps the most critical of the growth.” A powerful Global Commercial Leadership five key pillars that make up the RedPrint Sales & Team comprising 10 of Coca-Cola Sabco’s most Marketing House, because it is where all the plans senior managers has been assembled to make this are put into action with a focus on the end-user. compelling vision a deliverable reality. Brilliant Tool Kits provide managers and sales staff Putting the customer at the centre of everything with a clear “how to” guide, while the commercial we do necessitates a core focus on sales and dashboard provides real-time status updates on marketing, ensuring that our products are sold in key performance indicators and benchmarks our every outlet and that there is perfect availability progress en route to winning in the market. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 15 SOCI IRONM I AL ENV EN S T C INABILITY SU INABILIT STA AL TA Y US SU help make ITY Society Sustainable It is an undeniable fact that our business has a ripple effect on the societies in P roducing premium beverages has wider social ramifications for our workplaces too. Only by creating a dynamic environment in which individual which we operate and the onus is on us employees are stretched and nurtured, can they give to ensure that it is always a positive one. of their best and deliver exceptional results. Social sustainability starts at the centre Ultimately, the impact also echoes in the wider with the beverages we produce. community, as local businesses are incorporated into our value chain and we are able to invest in Every day millions of consumers find focused social upliftment projects. refreshment in them and it is our responsibility to safeguard their wellCorporate Social Investment being and deliver safe, quality products. Contributing meaningfully to community projects in terms of our finances, time and expertise continues to bear fruit across all of our nine territories. In 2011, Coca-Cola Sabco invested in a variety of projects from water and sanitation to famine relief, HIV/AIDS programmes and children’s homes. In the spirit of the Everest Challenge, which encourages employees to make a difference in their personal capacity, we also launched the TOUCH Project. This initiative offers employees the opportunity to get involved in company-funded corporate social responsibility projects in the areas of the environment, education, healthcare, community upliftment, sports development and disaster relief. It perfectly captures the spirit of Coca-Cola’s Live Positively/Live for a Difference campaign. 16 Wishes do come true Wings and Wishes is a truly uplifting project of the Coca-Cola Community Foundation, which helps children with The project is set to attain even greater heights with life-threatening illnesses receive the the introduction of the Coca-Cola Fortune 10 to 1 specialist care they so desperately need. campaign. For many families the cost of transportation puts This campaign gives all 2 900 CCF employees access to such treatment facilities, quite literally, the opportunity to make a real difference in their beyond their reach. Wings and Wishes helps raise communities by forming groups of 10, with each their hopes by providing the bus tickets and airfares group asked to identify just one child in need of they would otherwise be unable to afford. assistance. Established in 2006 by CCS employees, using To qualify, the child must be 18 years or younger and donations of frequent flyer miles and money, have a medically diagnosed critical illness. It must Wings and Wishes started flying critically ill children be established that the required treatment cannot and their accompanying adults to the Red Cross be provided at the local clinic or hospital and that Children’s Hospital in Cape Town. the child’s family cannot afford the transport to a suitable facility. In 2011 alone, the project funded transport, in the form of 733 flights and 121 bus tickets, to medical More than 1 000 children have been helped to date facilities across the country to the value of and, with the number of requests growing on a daily R1.36 million. This represents a 169% increase in basis, Wings and Wishes is undoubtedly taking off. funding over the previous year and a 121% increase in the number of air and bus tickets purchased. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 17 Since 2006, through EVEREST CHALLENGE, hundreds of employees have worked together to make a difference in the lives of the communities we serve. It’s time to TOUCH more lives! We proudly introduce TOUCH Through TOUCH, employees have THE OPPORTUNITY TO GET INVOLVED IN COMPANY FUNDED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS TOUCH Projects fall within the following Corporate Social Responsibility focus areas: Environment, Education, Healthcare, Community Upliftment, Sports Development, Disaster Relief 18 Bottlers Nepal touches young lives Tsunami-hit Sri Lanka receives sanitation The Coca-Cola Company, in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), unveiled a sustainable community-based water and sanitation project at Kattankudy, in Batticaloa, in September 2011. The project, which started in 2006, aims to provide clean drinking water and hygienic sanitation conditions to 350 households in the town, which was devastated by a tsunami in 2004. The 40 000 residents of Kattankudy inhabit an area of approximately 6.5km2, making it one of the most densely populated towns in southern Asia. The new sewerage system has an environmentally Bottlers Nepal (BN) took the Indreni Children’s Home safe design, which will prevent ground water in Sundarijal under its wing as the beneficiary of contamination and halt the spread of water-borne 2011’s Touch project. diseases. Community mobilisation and awareness programmes, conducted in association with local Just a 45-minute drive from the Balaju plant, Indreni health authorities, will help residents to improve is a registered non-profit organisation providing general hygiene practices and work with the Urban quality education and a homely environment for Council to manage, maintain and monitor the 30 orphaned and abandoned youngsters. system themselves. The home’s residents enjoyed a grand tour of the Commenting on the US$550 000 project, Cocanearby bottling plant on June 16 and got to taste Cola Beverage Sri Lanka Country Manager Patrick some of its thirst-quenching products. BN also Pech said, “We have always had strong values and granted the children’s wish to develop their musical human connections that we hold in great esteem. abilities by creating a Coca-Cola music room, It is imperative to us that we are always present to complete with instruments, inside the home as well help people when the need arises.” as a Coca-Cola library. “I am very happy that the project we launched with The initiative was made possible with the generous the UNDP will help lift the living standards of the support of both divisional management and staff. people of Kattankudy.” More than 2 000 people are Established by Ram Hari Khadka, himself an orphan, expected to benefit directly from the new system. in 2006, Indreni’s long-term goal is to give many It is also anticipated that it will assist residents of more vulnerable and disadvantaged children a adjoining villages and help to promote greater better chance at a brighter future. harmony between different ethnic communities in the district. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 19 SOcial Sustainability Project Hope brightens the future for Bottlers Nepal sponsors HIV patients in Mozambique Coca-Cola Cup While there is no available cure for HIV/AIDS, CocaNepal’s biggest and most lucrative inter-school Cola Sabco Mozambique has resolved to improve football tournament, the Coca-Cola Cup, kicked off the lives of those people infected and affected by the on June 7 at the Dasharath Stadium in Kathmandu. disease wherever possible. Sponsored by Bottlers Nepal in association with In partnership with a local NGO and The Coca-Cola the All Nepal Football Association, the five-day Company, Coca-Cola Sabco Mozambique provides tournament saw 126 school teams from the capital assistance to 29 HIV/AIDS-affected individuals city and surrounding areas doing battle for glory. as part of its Project Hope campaign. Coca-Cola The annual competition encourages healthy, active Sabco Mozambique provided portable coolers and living while providing a platform for future football umbrellas to these individuals to enable them to stars to show off their skills and entertain the crowds sell Coca-Cola products and earn a living from the as they make their way through the knockout rounds. income generated. Training has been provided to help ensure the quality of the stock and sales This year, the boys of Sainik Madhaymik Vidyalaya conditions and the beneficiaries visited the plant for from Bhaktapur beat Kathmandu’s Siddartha a tour of the facilities. A designated sales area has Banasthali School to claim the first prize of been allocated to each of the beneficiaries while an Rs.200 000. The runners-up received Rs.100 000. account manager monitors the project and assists the beneficiaries. JP School triumphed over the Gautam Buddha Higher Secondary School in the girls’ competition. Thus far the project has been a tremendous success with the proceeds from the sales providing much The then sports minister Onsari Gharti Magar was needed income for the participants. the honorary guest at the awards ceremony, which was also attended by a host of other sporting dignitaries. Nairobi Bottlers supports Kenyans4Kenya Nairobi Bottlers Limited is helping to stem the tide of famine in the Horn of Africa through its support of the Kenyans4Kenya campaign. The drive, which started in July, sees corporate organisations and ordinary residents raising funds to supplement international relief efforts in northern Kenya. Continued crop failure, cattle deaths and the influx of refugees from Somalia and Ethiopia have resulted in a human disaster of huge proportions. As a responsible corporate citizen, Coca-Cola donated US$50 000 to the cause through the local bottler. The donation, comprising cash and Dasani bottled water, formed part of the Coca-Cola System’s US$1.34 million contribution – the largest by any corporate to date. Coca-Cola Central, East and West Africa Business Unit President Nathan Kalumbu handed the funds to Kenyan Red Cross SecretaryGeneral Abbas Gullet at an official ceremony in August. 20 Fortune smiles on Emelia House Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka cares for disabled Fortune has smiled on the children of Emelia House in Bloemfontein’s Batho township since its adoption Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka’s “Say We Care” as one of Coca-Cola Fortune’s corporate social team put words into action when they embarked on responsibility projects for 2011. their fifth community upliftment project, this time for the Ragama Rehabilitation Hospital. This non-governmental organisation acts as a much-needed day care centre for 18 children “Say We Care” is a Corporate Social Responsibility between the ages of two and 18. initiative by employees of the bottling company. This year, the volunteers have chosen to upgrade All of them are from disadvantaged backgrounds and renovate a ward at the medical facility, which and suffer from severe disabilities that prevent them provides physical and psychological assistance to from attending regular schools or institutions. Yet people with disabilities. these courageous children are the very embodiment of Coca-Cola’s campaign to “Live for a Difference”. As a fundraiser for the project, the “Say We Care” team arranged a Sinhala classical music concert To be as effective as possible, CCF has chosen to on September 3 at the Bandaranaike Memorial take a holistic approach in helping the home and International Conference Hall in Colombo. its residents. Firstly, there is an ongoing renovation process to improve and expand the house itself and With performances by maestros such as Victor upgrade its facilities. Secondly, CCF assists with the Ratnayake, TM Jayaratne, Amarasiri Peiris and upliftment and education of the housemothers and Deepika Priyadarshani Peiris, the show was a hit caregivers. By empowering them to give of their with the audience. The concert takings will be used best, their young charges also benefit. to kick-start the much-needed revamp. And, thirdly, a dedicated group of third-year medical students from the University of the Free State has been brought in to tend to the little ones’ wellness and therapeutic needs. The local University of Technology’s dental department is also being coopted to preserve their beautiful smiles. Recently, members of the Executive Leadership Team took time out of their busy schedules to visit the house and were profoundly touched and inspired by what they saw. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 21 SOcial Sustainability Coca-Cola cares about HIV/AIDS in Africa Over R1million HIV/AIDS programme sponsored by The Coca-Cola Africa Foundation (TCCAF) is being implemented in the Chris Hani district of the Eastern Cape province in South Africa. The programme is being rolled out over three years He said the money through a partnership with Africare, a US-Based non-governmental organization already at work in would enable the the province. society to provide The Injongo Yethu project aims to increase the awareness of, and expand access to quality services in those areas treatment, preven­tative care, and support services for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. hardest hit by the It marks the start of an important and life-saving partnership between TCCAF and Coca-Cola Sabco’s humanitarian crisis, South African operation, Coca-Cola Fortune. especially the southern As Darius Mans, President of Africare points out, “Healthy communities and healthy workers are and southeastern parts an essential ingredient for healthy and profitable businesses.” of the country. EABSC helps ease suffering in Ethiopia East African Bottling Share Company (EABSC) has helped to ease the plight of thousands of Ethiopian children affected by famine through its donation to the national Red Cross Society. EABSC’s US$206 000 contribution was used for the provision of water, basic food and essential medicine, with a specific focus on little ones. At the official handover in Addis Ababa on August 31, Ethiopian President and Red Cross patron Girma Woldegiorgis praised the company’s efforts and called on other corporate organisations to follow suit. Society President Daniel Tegenu gratefully acknowledged the donation. He said the money would enable the society to provide services in those areas hardest hit by the humanitarian crisis, especially the southern and southeastern parts of the country. The Managing Director of EABSC, Greig Jansen, said swift joint action was required to combat the disaster. “We need to work together to develop a sustainable, home-grown solution to the crisis.” 22 Enterprise Development Combining the resources of the global CocaAbafazi empowers women Cola System with sound local knowledge entrepreneurs is what sets Coca-Cola Sabco apart as an emerging market specialist. Across the developing world, women form the socioeconomic glue that binds families and communities Our innovative route-to-market strategies enable us together. Their courage and determination in the to deliver products to even the most far-flung areas face of hardship is perhaps best captured in the in Africa and Asia, where infrastructure challenges familiar South African saying, “You strike a woman, continue to thwart many of our competitors. you strike a rock.” By integrating local small businesses into our value chain, we not only strengthen our distribution and Female-headed households are an increasingly retail networks but also create opportunities for common phenomenon and research suggests that focused community enterprise development. investing specifically in women-owned businesses These are not merely ad hoc partnerships – they can positively influence local economic development. are part of a larger plan to stimulate local economic As an emerging market specialist, Coca-Cola development and ensure a sustainable business Sabco recognises the need to support womenenvironment in which to operate. run businesses as a central component of our community enterprise development programmes. In line with The Coca-Cola Company’s 5 By Our commitment is in keeping with The Coca-Cola 20 initiative to empower five million women Company’s 5 By 20 initiative to empower five million entrepreneurs by 2020, we have adopted a specific women entrepreneurs by 2020. By helping them emphasis on female-owned businesses. overcome the business obstacles they face, we can help them support their families and ensure Furthermore, we have been privileged to share the a sustainable social and economic future for the fundamental principles of our supply chain success communities in which we operate. with the public health sector. We believe this publicCoca-Cola Fortune’s Abafazi Incubation Programme private partnership will improve the delivery of lifein Port Elizabeth, South Africa, for example, saving medicines and create sustainable spin-off acknowledges and assists female achievers in the programmes to the benefit of all. social and emerging entrepreneur categories. Social entrepreneurs are representatives of nonprofit or non-governmental organisations who have demonstrated practical, innovative and sustainable approaches to projects that benefit society in general. The emerging entrepreneurs on the other hand are fledgling businesswomen who have been trading for three years or less, with a turnover of less than R500 000 per annum. The top three finalists in each category are awarded the chance to attend the Abafazi programme, which teaches them vital business and financial skills and provides access to mentorship and networking opportunities, giving them the tools to sustainable success. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 23 SOcial Sustainability Coca-Cola Sabco builds small business Coca-Cola Sabco’s pioneering Micro Distribution The aim of the experiential learning programme was Centre (MDC) model is strengthening local to improve their business acumen and enable them economies throughout East Africa by creating to operate profitably within the Coca-Cola System. entrepreneurial opportunities, promoting the Of those who attended, 31% were women, in line empowerment of women and catalysing human with TCCC’s “5 By 20” initiative to empower five capital development. million women entrepreneurs by 2020. A post-training evaluation by Coca-Cola Kwanza The premise is simple: giving individuals the revealed a significant increase in knowledge opportunity to warehouse and distribute products on regarding MDC operations and improved our behalf to small retailers in a defined geographic relationships with other actors in the value chain. area. By using low-cost equipment such as bicycles, pushcarts and light vehicles, they are able to With over 70 000 new small retail outlets planned overcome transport infrastructure challenges and over the next three years, the implications for the service hard-to-reach places. potential growth of the MDC sector are enormous. This sustainable model has proved so successful The owner-managers usually live in the low-income that it has been replicated in emerging markets urban communities they service, and employ throughout the world. between five and 15 workers who would otherwise have limited opportunities for stable employment. We currently have over 1 550 MDCs employing 9 600 people and servicing more than 320 000 retailers. In Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique, micro distributors account for more than 90% of our total sales. Being part of the Coca-Cola value chain gives them access to finance, as well as learning and development opportunities. For example, MDC owner-managers in Tanzania recently received business strengthening training developed by EcoVentures International in conjunction with the Academy for Educational Development, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC). We currently have over 1 550 MDCs employing 9 600 people and servicing more than 320 000 retailers. In Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique, micro distributors account for more than 90% of our total sales. 24 Coca-Cola keeps Tanzanian supply chain healthy Part of what makes the global Coca-Cola System defined and key people embedded to drive change so successful is the extensive reach of our products. within the department, are now complete. Some of Our supply chain expertise, especially in developing the resulting improvements include redefined core nations, ensures that our beverages find their way to planning and procurement processes and over even the most hard-to-reach locations. 50 MSD staff receiving access to high-level supply chain training. But perhaps the biggest highlight is So when we were presented with a meaningful the revised distribution strategy that has enabled opportunity to apply this knowledge and assist the the Ministry to deliver directly to 5 000 health health fraternity in getting essential medicines to facilities across the country, representing a tenfold these very areas, we saw it as a rare privilege. improvement. Since 2009, we have been involved in a life-saving public-private partnership between the Coca-Cola The third phase, when the partners step back into a System, the Global Fund, the Bill and Melinda Gates support role and allow MSD to lead the change, Foundation and the Tanzanian Government. will commence in 2012. The Global Fund has committed close to US$1 billion to fighting AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in Tanzania, with half the amount budgeted for medicines. However, without an efficient supply chain, the chances of end users receiving essential Project Nurture bears fruit in medicines are slim. The Medical Stores Department Kenya and Uganda (MSD) is responsible for the procurement, storage and distribution of all medical commodities on In line with global consumer trends towards behalf of the Tanzanian Ministry of Health but naturally healthy beverages, The Coca-Cola an audit of its medical supply chain highlighted Company expects the juice business to grow significant bottlenecks. significantly by 2020. With the help of Accenture Development In order to meet the growing demand, a sustainable Partnerships, a three-phase project has been fruit supply is vital. That is why TCCC, together designed and implemented to improve service with Coca-Cola Sabco, the Bill & Melinda Gates delivery, based on knowledge sharing from the Foundation and Techno Serve planted the seeds of Coca-Cola System in that country. The three core Project Nurture in 2010. This four-year, competencies identified are Coca-Cola Kwanza’s farUS$11.5-million initiative aims to improve the reaching distribution networks, passion for customer livelihoods of fruit farmers in East Africa by service and marketing and communications increasing the volume and quality of locally capabilities. produced mango and passion fruit for the fresh fruit and juice markets. By 2014, it is expected to have Three focus areas for building MSD’s own business doubled the incomes of some 50 000 small-scale expertise have also been addressed. These are farmers in Kenya and Uganda. Project Nurture is last mile logistics (from warehouse to consumer), starting to bear fruit for all concerned – the farmers planning and procurement, and supply chain talent gain a market for their produce, consumers support development. The first two phases, in which the local agriculture through their beverage purchases partnership between MSD and Coca-Cola was and Coca-Cola benefits through lower input costs and supply chain flexibility. To date, 36 722 farmers have been trained through Project Nurture, with more than 13 550 metric tons of fruit sold. When Coca-Cola Sabco proudly launched Minute Maid Mango Nectar in Kenya in the latter part of 2010, it became the first product to use Project Nurture’s locally sourced juice. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 25 SOcial Sustainability Make our workplace socially sustainable One of the key ingredients in Coca-Cola Sabco’s The Employee Engagement survey is just one of the recipe for success is our people. Across our tools we use in our Talent Management approach to territories, the shared values of trust, integrity, engage, build, leverage and retain employees. mutual respect and teamwork define the CCS way. We are guided by the motto “hire the attitude, train Practical toolkits and training programmes have also the skill” and remain committed to creating a vibrant been set up to help managers interact with and lead working environment where all employees are protheir teams successfully. active and passionate about the work they do. Only by investing in our human capital can we To this end, annual Employee Engagement surveys ensure a sustainable talent pipeline and continue to are conducted throughout the organisation to drive outstanding performance in the market. understand staff realities and find ways of improving their working experience. Learning and Development Sabco is firmly committed to significantly increase flagship programmes and in our plants and offices the investment in and quality of learning and in all our territories. development. We aim to “touch” every employee In 2011 we launched The Learning Zone, a dynamic, with opportunities to grow and develop. The L&D interactive intranet site through which employees can community has a proud reputation of delivering access a wide variety of e-learning programs as well quality learning both at the Group level, through our as our on-line performance management system. 2011 at a glance CCS Group 2010 2011 vs PY Training investment $ 4 923m $ 5 553m + $ 630 Training investment as % NSR 0.36% 0.37% + 0.01% Number of training incidents 13303 25198 +11 895 Average investment in $ 375 $ 425 + $ 50 training per employee • There were more than 25000 training incidents selling skills, information systems,business training across the Group, acumen for managers and employees and at an average spend of $ 425 per employee. management/leadership development.   • Training programmes conducted during the • A Learning Management System was developed year focused on developing and enhancing to provide a reliable system to measure and track functional skills, legal, safety and quality the performance, development and training of all requirements; technical skills; professional employees. 26 Financials can be fun The newly launched Finance Fundamentals (FinFun) Some of the key FinFun objectives are for programme is being rolled out across all of Cocaparticipants to: Cola Sabco’s territories. • understand the key business drivers in terms The two-day workshop provides all the tools that of achieving success, sustainability and wealth non-managerial staff need to overcome fear and creation for all; confusion about how the company’s finance function • understand their role in helping the organisation works. It also helps employees appreciate the way reach its short and long-term goals; their decisions and actions impact on the business • understand the accounting principles that are on a daily basis. Strengthening their financial employed to facilitate honest, transparent and acumen is key to building sustainability in the way consistent reporting, in compliance with statutory we do business. and other legal requirements; and • gain new perspectives on managing their personal finances in a way that will create wealth. The activity-filled FinFun package has been piloted and “train the trainer” workshops have been conducted in Kenya, Mozambique, Sri Lanka, Uganda, Nepal, Ethiopia and South Africa. New employees get the Inside Track From July 4 to 15, new employees from across the This is accomplished by exposing delegates to the group met at the Coca-Cola Sabco head offices in company’s best practices and “Sabco-nising” them. Port Elizabeth, South Africa, under the auspices of The first week kicked off with a business orientation the Inside Track programme. session, in which the various functions made The key purpose of the programme is to build the informative presentations to the group. A tour of the capabilities of new senior managers in order to bottling plant and depot, as well as a market visit, raise the level at which they execute their duties. rounded out the week. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 27 SOcial Sustainability MTDP builds better business leaders The first joint venture between Coca-Cola Sabco and the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University Business School, the Management Talent Development Programme (MTDP), took place from July 17. This two-week programme aimed to build the confidence and competence of junior and middle managers from all CCS territories across the group, thereby creating sustainability within the talent pipeline. It focused on contemporary leadership HR management is a balancing act issues within challenging business environments. The second Human Resources Management The first week was spent in the Tsitsikamma village, Development Programme, which strives to build where the module “Personal Anchors to Success” capability within the HR function across the Cocawas covered. This module provided a platform Cola Sabco group, was held in the Tsitsikamma for a series of dialogues that helped candidates village, South Africa, in July. create a common language and understanding of contemporary leadership practices. Under Introduced last year, the programme has a specific discussion were a variety of topics such as lifefocus on senior HR managers because they, in turn, work balance, ethics and authentic leadership, are expected to build in-country capability on a polarity management, dealing with turbulence and sustainable basis. The theme, “An Act of Balance”, uncertainty, and strategies for resilience. was designed and facilitated by Celeste Venter Each manager formulated his or her own personal of the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University leadership development plan. Business School. Venter, who specialises in learning programmes for personal development and From there, the candidates returned to the business leadership, was assisted by industrial psychologist school in Port Elizabeth for week two of the course. and international teacher Mario Denton. “Forward Focused Leaders” got them talking about different thinking patterns and frames used for The two helped delegates view their future within problem solving and decision-making. A practical CCS more positively and generate practical ideas on “Negotiation Training” module rounded out the week. how they could co-create the future and contribute to implementing the HR compass. The final component, “Engaging Others with Impact”, will be held in February next year. The senior managers were encouraged to use an optimal coaching model in their HR role, which is based on: • Building crucial skills; • Mastering coaching conversations; • Creating trust; • Setting clear objectives and priorities; • Providing empowerment, accountability and responsibility; and • Providing clear feedback and situational leadership. The ultimate goal of the HR MDP is to create centres of excellence at country, divisional and group level. 28 Workplace Rights In our role as a bottling partner within the global Coca-Cola System, we have a responsibility to meet the Company’s exacting standards regarding human and workplace rights. Fortunately, treating our employees with dignity and respect has always been fundamental to CocaCola’s way of doing business. As a multinational company with employees in Family gets the Executive Inside Track nine different countries, we comply strictly with the rigorous policies and guidelines regulating As a privately owned family business, it is essential that international workplace standards. Our adherence a sustainable leadership base for Coca-Cola Sabco be to these is audited on a regular basis. built across the generations of the Gutsche family. In November, eight members of the third generation The principles set out in the United Nations’ attended their first Executive Inside Track. The intensive two-day programme included a Global Compact and Universal Declaration of brief market visit and was deemed insightful and Human Rights, as well as the International Labour informative by the attendees. Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, lie at the heart of our own workplace rights policy. Coca-Cola Sabco develops Equal Opportunities top leadership In June, 15 senior managers across the Coca-Cola The rich demographic diversity of Coca-Cola Sabco organisation were given the opportunity Sabco employees creates a stimulating working to be part of the company’s flagship Leadership environment and we strive to cultivate an Executive Development Programme. Presented inclusive workplace where race, gender, religion in association with the University of Stellenbosch and disability are not seen as impediments to Business School, the LEDP equipped senior advancement. managers to deal with the challenges they face in a productive and competent manner. Our commitment is to provide equal employment opportunities for all members of the communities The two-week programme took place at the in which we operate. In countries such as South university’s Executive Development Campus in Africa and Namibia, where there are legislative Cape Town, South Africa, and was overseen for the requirements redressing historical discrimination, third consecutive year by programme manager Heilet Bertrand and learning process facilitator Thys we aim to comply with the spirit and letter of the law. Pretorius. The participants were privileged to receive For example, in South Africa we are guided by guidance from some of the business school’s top the principles of Broad-based Black Economic faculty members on a variety of relevant issues. Empowerment (BBBEE) as a Level 5 contributor. Mentors were assigned to each of the three groups and provided assistance with their business-directed Coca-Cola Fortune has made BBBEE a serious action-learning project. priority, appointing coordinators for each of the seven elements of the Generic Scorecard. As is expected of any Coca-Cola Sabco employee, the participants were stretched and challenged to think outside the box and deliver exceptional results. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 29 SOcial Sustainability Health and Producing safe, Safety high quality Looking after our employees’ physical wellbeing is of paramount importance in our day-to-day production processes. Occupational Health and Safety is products always top-of-mind and we continuously monitor its A dual focus on Product and Package ensures implementation. that our consumers receive a safe, high quality product – both inside and out. This is one of the By putting good practices in place, we have created hallmarks of the Coca-Cola brand, which Coca-Cola a culture of safety, which permeates everything Sabco tirelessly strives to uphold. By investing in we do. It forms an integral part of our thinking in new production and testing technologies, we gear terms of our Total Productive Management (TPM) ourselves to deliver efficiently and consistently, in and capital expenditure (CAPEX) projects and compliance with The Coca-Cola Company’s stringent helps ensure that we are able to meet our targets quality specifications. So wherever and whenever successfully and sustainably. consumers purchase one of our products, they can rest assured that they are about to enjoy a beverage that is safe to drink for the duration of its shelf life. Health and Safety performance is measured by Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) and these figures are reported on a monthly basis by all our operations. The Lost Produce Quality Products Time Injury Rate measure refers to a work-related injury or illness that would result in an employee Throughout the world, The Coca-Cola Company’s being booked off for more than one day or being brands are known for their outstanding quality. As a proud bottler within the System, Coca-Cola Sabco transferred to another light duty job. The LTIR reflects has a mission to uphold this reputation. We set high the number of disabling injuries in our operation and standards and goals for quality compliance within is calculated by a ratio of lost days versus total hours the Group, which include: worked in a year. To improve the LTIR and to improve the focus of this measure, the LTIR now forms part • Ensuring that all factories are compliant and certified of the Supply Chain Dashboard, which prompts on the ISO 9000 Quality Management System. our operations to escalate actions for improvement • Ensuring that all plants are operating an in this important standard. The Group LTIR has automated DMS system. improved from 3.8 in 2010 to 2.7 in 2011. • Conducting equipment process capability studies, and entrenching Statistical Process Control (Infinity QS). • Standardising Quality Monitoring and Testing throughout the Group. • Developing and entrenching Group Packaging Standards. • Ensuring that the Total Productive Management process is incorporated in all manufacturing and distribution sites. • Implementing the Quality Maintenance pillar of TPM. 19 of our operations have been certified to the ISO 9001 standard and the aim is to have all operations certified by the end of 2012. An Automated DMS system has been selected (Achiever) and will be implemented at a pilot site in Port Elizabeth in 2012, after which full rollout to all our operations will occur within the next three years. 30 TOWARDS 2014 One of our ambitious goals is to have every CocaCola Sabco plant feature in the Top 100 in the CocaQUALITY AWARD Cola System on Product and Package quality by 2014. We have already met The Coca-Cola Company’s Cambodia’s Phnom Penh plant received 2011 mandate for compliance in all our plants and GMM’s Quality Award conduct annual audits to ensure that we continue meeting and exceeding these requirements. Phnom Penh plant continued with their 100% quality Representatives of The Coca-Cola Company and track record by receiving the 2011 GMM quality our Group Office conduct regular visits, which serve award for Best Product Quality in the Coca-Cola to maintain our focus on quality matters. They also Sabco Group in 2010. They were one of 38 plants assist with corrective action plans where necessary. achieving a 100% score. Bloemfontein was second Those plants that have achieved certain product and with a world ranking of 209 and a Quality Score package quality goals within the Group are then of 97.06% and Hanoi third with a Quality Score of awarded quality compliance certifications by The 96.75% and a world ranking of 229. Coca-Cola Company. Kampala, Mbarara and Nairobi operations KPIs Benchmark received SHEQ awards from the Central, East and Product Quality Index Top 100 West Africa Business unit. Package Quality Index Top 100 Equipment Process Conducted & results for Uganda’s Century Bottling operation received 2 silver Capability Studies CpK >1.33 awards for 2011 performance by CEWA Business Unit. SPC through Infinity software All production lines, WTP Kenya’s Nairobi plant received a bronze award. & Syrup Rooms The award recognizes excellence in product and ISO 9001: 2008 All factories certified package quality, environmental and occupational health and safety performance measures. To achieve Produce Safe Products a Silver award, the operations was required to achieve a product quality score of 92%, meet the Producing quality beverages that are safe for human WUR goal set for the plant, be certified in ISO 22000, consumption, for the full duration of the product’s PAS 220 or FSSC 22000, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 shelf life, is a critical priority for Coca-Cola Sabco. or OSHAS 18001 and must have passed the KO compliance audits. To qualify for a bronze award the We are unrelenting in our determination to do operation must have achieved a Quality Score of 90%, no harm for the sake of our consumers and the improvement over the WUR of the prior year, achieve future of our business. To this end, we have put the certification for ISO 22000 and ISO 9001. The plant following objectives in place: also had to pass the Quality Compliance audit. • Ensure that all factories are compliant with and certified for the FSSC 22000 Food Safety Certification System. • Ensure that no High Risk or Critical Risk scenarios are reported during compliance audits. • Ensure that all factories are compliant with and certified for the ISO 9001: 2008 Quality Management System. KPIs Benchmark FSSC 22000 or PAS 220 and All facilities certified by an ISO 22000: 2005 accredited body Food Safety Risk Incidents Zero (as per definition) Compliance to TCCC Food No High Risk & Critical Risks Safety Standard for Food Safety SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 31 IRONM ENV EN S T INABILITY STAINABILIT TA SU Y US AL make our operations Environmentally Sustainable Coca-Cola Sabco’s daily business Water Stewardship operations play out not only against a complex socio-economic Water is the natural resource at the heart of our company and it flows through everything we do. backdrop but also within As a responsible anchor bottler within the global a variety of physical or Coca-Cola System, we are committed to giving natural environments. as much back to nature as we use in our daily operations. Our water stewardship strategy entails: Reducing the amount of water we use in our To have a realistic chance at a production processes; recycling the water we use so sustainable future, we must be that it can be safely returned to the environment and ever mindful of our effect on the investing in sustainable community water programs. delicate ecological balance as well as our duty to tread lightly upon Improving our Water Usage the earth. Without a core focus Coca-Cola Sabco has an established water usage on managing and mitigating our strategy in place that guides and monitors our use environmental impact, Coca-Cola of this precious resource. Our aim is to reduce the Sabco’s sustainability strategy Group Water Usage ratio by 5% per year, every year. would be incomplete. Our water usage ratio improved by 12.8% in 2011 vs 2010. This was achieved through a continued focus on tracking and measuring water usage We have built our environmental at every stage in our operational processes.We component around the following continue in our quest to reduce our water usage by four cornerstones that guide the streamlining the design of our production facilities to responsible use of our include water-efficient equipment, maintaining the machinery for maximum efficiency, and creating a natural resources: water-conscious culture among employees. • Water stewardship Protecting our water sources • Energy consumption and climate protection IN 2009 Coca-Cola Sabco started a program of • Responsible packaging conducting Source Water Vulnerability Studies (SVA) and compiling Source Water Protection plans (SWPP) • Waste and waste water for all our manufacturing operations. The purpose of management these SVA studies was to ensure that we understand the risks involved with each operation’s source water and have plans in place to mitigate these risks by 32 involving all the relevant stakeholders, including the clean drinking water, improved sanitation and surrounding communities and Local Government hygiene education. It forms part of The Coca-Cola Departments. Although the goal was to complete all Company’s three-tier water stewardship strategy the SVA studies and SWPP’s before the end of 2012, to reduce, recycle and replenish the amount of this has already been achieved and plans are in the water used in beverage production worldwide. process of being implemented. Reviews of the SVA’s As TCCAF’s legacy programme for the FIFA 2010 will be done within 5 years of the original study date. Football World Cup, RAIN is specifically benefitting young learners at 94 schools in the host country, South Africa. Of these, 42 fall within Coca-Cola RAIN pours out over South Africa Fortune territory, with 23 in the Eastern Cape province, 11 in Limpopo and eight in Mpumalanga. More than two million people across the continent will have access to safe drinking water by 2015, This project is a great example of the collaborative thanks to the Replenish Africa Initiative (RAIN). efforts of TCCAF and Coca-Cola Sabco to “Live for This three-year initiative by The Coca-Cola Africa a Difference”. Foundation (TCCAF) aims to save lives by providing SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 33 ENVIROMENTAL Sustainability Polokwane wins GMM award for Best Most Improved water win for Water Usage Port Elizabeth With a usage ratio of just 2.04, Coca-Cola Fortune’s Coca-Cola Fortune’s Port Elizabeth plant led the way Polokwane plant in South Africa scooped the 2011 at the 2011 GMM Awards to earn the prize for Most GMM Award for Best Water Usage. Improved Water Usage. The forward-thinking plant makes use of three Showing an improvement of 22.89% from 3.29 on-site boreholes to reduce its dependency on in 2009 to 2.54 in 2010 – the plant achieved its municipal water and decrease costs; with a further outstanding reduction through the following two holes waiting to be commissioned. Polokwane measures: was the first plant in Coca-Cola’s South African and East and Central African business units to trial the • Backwash recovery was implemented to recycle ECA water treatment technology – and one of the water into raw water at a maximum of 20%. first worldwide to do so. • CIP on lines 1 and 2 were reviewed and a closed system done to prevent water wastage. Since 2007, the plant has used ECA technology for • Underground leaks were discovered and repaired. sanitation purposes only and achieved significant • Leaking pipes within the plant were also repaired. savings in water and chemical usage. A clean-in• Cooling towers were moved and all pipework place (CIP) return system on two production lines replaced with HTPE pipe. further reduces water usage, while awareness • Cooling towers’ waste was addressed to prevent campaigns and regular maintenance of leaking continuous overflow. pipes and taps put this plant ahead of the rest. Bottlers Nepal’s Kathmandu plant was the runner-up Polokwane was closely followed at the awards by with a 22.53% improvement from 4.06 to 3.14, while the Bloemfontein Cheetah plant with a 2010 year-tothe Bloemfontein Cheetah plant demonstrated a date water usage ratio of 2.07 and the Port Elizabeth 20.6% increase from 2.6 to 2.07 for the same period. plant with figures of 2.54. Water is the natural resource at the heart of our company and it flows through everything we do. As a responsible anchor bottler within the global Coca-Cola System, we are committed to giving as much back to nature as we use in our daily operations. 34 Bottlers Nepal plants for the future On World Environment Day (June 5), Bottlers Nepal helped fight the effects of climate change with treeplanting programmes at its premises in Kathmandu and Bharatpur. Special guest Timothy Trenkle, Political and Economic Chief of the United States embassy in Kathmandu, and fellow embassy staff joined company employees in digging deep for a greener world. At the Bharatpur plant in the Chitwan district, 50 saplings were also planted along the highway, starting from the company property, in the direction of Basanta Chowk. The 400-metre stretch of trees was established with the help of staff, the local community of Basanta Tole Sudhar Samittee and representatives of Sports Club Bharatpur-9. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 35 ENVIROMENTAL Sustainability Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka cleans up PET Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka (CCBSL) marked World Environment Day on June 5 with a PET plastic waste clean-up in the Raddolugama Housing Scheme in the Gampaha district. Century Bottling Company recycles plastic With the help of enthusiastic residents and the National Post Consumer Plastic Waste Since opening the country’s first industry-led Management Project of the Central Environmental polyethylene terephthalate (PET) collection centre in Authority, the bottler successfully collected 250kg the latter part of 2010, Century Bottling Company of PET plastic from over 2 000 homes. The initiative (CBC) has become a role model for recycling in formed part of a pilot project aimed at developing a Uganda. sustainable collection mechanism for PET recycling. It also marked the start of the “Give Back Life” The centre, which is situated in the Katwe campaign to educate people on the hazards of PET suburb of Kampala, provides residents with a plastics and the importance of recycling. source of income by offering UGX300 for every CCBSL, together with the CEA and collection kilogram of PET plastic bottles. partners, is currently in the process of establishing three PET collection centres in the district. CBC Managing Director Basil Gadzios said he hoped that plastic bottles would now be valued To date, over 900 tons of PET plastic waste have been and not disposed of irresponsibly. collected and numerous job opportunities created. The long-term goal of the centre is to support the recycling and re-use of 100 per cent of all companies’ PET plastic bottle output. Ugandan Commissioner for the Environment To date, over 900 tons Gershom Onyango thanked CBC for setting the of PET plastic waste pace and called on all other industry players to emulate the company’s example. have been collected The bottler partnered with Plastic Recycling and numerous job Industries, an affiliate of Rwenzori Bottling Company, to complete the actual recycling opportunities created. process. CBC has been invited to present its environmental initiative at various public forums. 36 Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka leads the way on water With Asian rivers containing a reported 20 times more lead than rivers in industrialised nations, CocaCola Beverages Sri Lanka is determined to lead the way in its water conservation practices. This is in line with The Coca-Cola Company’s global aim to safely return 100% of water used in the manufacturing process to the environment. To this end, CCBSL recently upgraded its wastewater treatment plant, receiving praise from the Chairman of the Central Environmental Authority, Charitha Herath, in the process. “The standard of the plant goes beyond the statutory requirement by the CEA. It is the best I have seen in Sri Lanka and just might be the best in the region.” Herath said the private sector played a huge role in mitigating water pollution. “We must ensure that we leave the planet in the best condition possible for our children and their children.” For these young ones, CCBSL held its annual art competition at the Biyagama plant to celebrate World Water Day on March 22. The 78 children from 12 local schools were inspired by a tour of the wastewater plant before settling down to create their masterpieces. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 37 ENVIROMENTAL Sustainability WISE woman earns EABSC recycling crown Degitu Kebebe Kenene is a single mother of three living in one of the poorest neighbourhoods of Addis Ababa in Ethiopia. She is also an innovative entrepreneur who works with the East Africa Bottling Share Company (EABSC) to create beautiful table and wall ornaments from used crowns. Kenene’s handiwork first caught the attention of a Recognising the opportunity to support this initiative, local community project and she was nominated for EABSC commissioned her to make a framed training by non-governmental organisation Women Ethiopian flag from the crowns. This provided the in Self-Employment (WISE). WISE is dedicated to opening for further opportunities and today Kenene the elimination of urban poverty and realisation of commissions others to make the flowers she sells at sustainable livelihoods among poor women. the local market. After receiving training on literacy and numeracy, This project not only recycles used crowns but also small business management, leadership and the provides a good source of income for Kenene and management of cooperatives, Kenene was ready to the people she employs. EABSC is in the process of embark on her career as a businesswoman. helping her up-skill her workers in order to improve She started experimenting with different materials the quality of their products so that these items may that she found in a nearby restaurant to make be used as unique corporate gifts. ornamental knick-knacks. By the time she approached EABSC, she had made a vase of flowers from used crowns. 38 Coca-Cola Fortune 1250ml Crates Go Green Over the years Coca-Cola Sabco, in partnership with The Coca-Cola Company, has embarked on many environmental initiatives. 1 These began with the removal of all heavy metals The process begins with crate granulation. from the plastic ingredients formula used to The crates are ground into chips, a process which manufacture our crates, as well as ensuring that all is often performed at our plants or depots, and crates that have reached the end of their useful life shipped to the supplier in bags. are recycled and do not end up in landfills. The useful life of a 1250ml crate is often significantly more than 10 years depending on weather and handling conditions. At the end of its lifespan, the crate is ground down into chips and returned to suppliers who use the recycled material to produce various plastic products. Coca-Cola Sabco and The Coca-Cola Company have now taken this a step further with a brave initiative to embark on the Crate-to-Crate recycling strategy. 2 This has been attempted in the past, but suppliers have struggled to achieve the required colour, which The granulated material is then sent to a washer is vital to our brand recognition. With technological in order to remove any contaminants such as advancements in certain plastic additives, the sand, stones, and dirt. The washed material required colour is now achievable. is dried to remove all water and fluff and then sucked directly into dedicated silos. Finally, the pelletised material is pumped into dedicated silos ready for the crate manufacture process. The processed material is fed to injection moulding machines at 100% dosage to produce a recycled crate. Routine on-line checks are performed at the machine as well as in the laboratory to ensure strength and colour compliance. 3 4 The clean material is drawn from the silos into a pelletiser via a hopper. Additives and Masterbatch are then blended into the mixture, facilitating effective material bonding and colour compliance. The material is then pelletised by melting and chopping it into consistent sized pellets. SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 39 ENVIROMENTAL Sustainability Group office lights the way to energy saving South Africa started experiencing crippling power shortages in 2010 with demand outstripping what the national grid could supply. This, together with our need to reduce our Carbon footprint prompted us to find a solution to reduce energy consumption at Group office. After investigating a number of energy-saving technologies, occupancy sensors were identified as the best option. These sensors detect movement and switch off lights and air conditioners when a room is not occupied. Initially, data loggers were installed to monitor and record movement and they showed that electricity usage could be reduced by at least 25%. The sensors were installed in June 2011 and although the savings in the winter months were modest due to infrequent air-conditioning usage, in the summer months savings have been as high as 35%. To-date the average saving is 22%. This technology We are proud of this has also highlighted opportunities in the building’s lighting system which will be addressed in 2012. project because it These changes will create a further 5 to 10% reduction in energy consumption. addresses all three We are proud of this project because it addresses of our sustainability all three of our sustainability focus areas, namely focus areas, namely Economic, Social and Environmental sustainability. Economically, the payback period is only 18 months Economic, Social and it will realize savings of up to 30% on an ongoing basis. Socially, we are contributing to the and Environmental national drive to reduce electricity consumption and thereby prevent the rolling black-outs or loadsustainability. shedding that have affected all South Africans in the past few years and Environmentally, by reducing our power usage we have reduced our carbon footprint. 40 Operating companies covered in this report The Coca-Cola Sabco Group encompasses the following companies: South Africa: Coca-Cola Fortune (Pty) Limited Namibia: Namibia Beverages Partnership; Paradise Beverages (Namibia) (Pty) Limited Ethiopia: East African Bottling Share Company Kenya: Nairobi Bottlers Limited Tanzania: Coca-Cola Kwanza Limited; Zanzibar Bottlers Limited Uganda: Century Bottling Company Mozambique: Coca-Cola Sabco (Mozambique) SARL Nepal: Bottlers Nepal Limited; Bottlers Nepal (Terai) Limited Sri Lanka: Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Limited SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2011 41 S TA I N A SU A B LE 2011 E AT I N G Sustainability FUTUR CR E Review • 2 0 11 • For enquiries, please contact Coca-Cola Sabco (Pty)Ltd on: Tel: +27 41 395 4060 • Fax: +27 41 374 4266 Email: nmzimba@za.ccsabco.com For a specific country request, please contact the country representative: Ethiopia +251 112 756 114 South Africa +27 41 395 4090 Kenya +254 206 998 000/9 Sri Lanka +94 1 12 487 700/16 Mozambique +258 2 1 400 189 Tanzania +255 222 700 700/6 Namibia +264 61 320 7000 Uganda +256 312 365 00 Nepal +997 143 506 02 www.simonsays.co.za Further information can be obtained at www.cocacolasabco.com Document printed on recycled paper 42
