Sustainability is Our Nature CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CONTENTS 110 Benefits, rights and support 4 Message from the Chairman of practices the Board 112 Our Contribution to the 6 Message from the CEO Development of Our Employees 12 About the Report 156 Employee Participation and 14 Corporate ProfIle Representation 15 About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 166 Occupational Health and Safety 16 Our Field of Work 174 Product Responsibility 24 Our Management Structure 190 Community Investment 62 Our Stakeholders 212 Our ResponsIbIlIty to the 64 Our Memberships EcologIcal EnvIronment 66 Our Awards 213 Environmental Management 68 Our EconomIc Added Value 218 Environmental Policy 72 Operational and Financial 220 Our Environmental Management Information Model 76 Our Investments 223 Our Environment Friendly 78 Our Work on Research and Practices Development 228 Materials Used 83 Intellectual Industrial and 230 Energy Consumption Commercial Copyrights 232 Water Consumption 86 Fighting with Bribery and 233 Waste Management Impropriety 238 Greenhouse Gas Emmisions and 88 THE VALUE Our Carbon Footprint We Attach to People 240 Biodiversity 92 Human Resources Policy 240 Legal Compliance 94 Our Principles on Employee 241 GRI Check Rights 241 GRI-GC IndIcator Index 95 Demographic Data of Our 257 GC PrIncIples Employees 258 Glossary 100 Management of Differences 102 Our Recruitment Procedures 106 Evaluation of Competencies 108 Pay Management and Retirement Policy MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD We have broken much As a family company, you have attached In your opinion, what contributions did new ground in terms of notable importance to institutionalization… sustainability-related efforts make to Bilim In your opinion, what contributions did your Pharmaceuticals, which is today known as institutionalization efforts make to your rea model company in Turkey in terms of susceipt of the EFQM Excellence Award? tainability management? sustainability. We have indeed attached great importance to institutionalization. We are a large company and we have ambitious It has made an undeniable contribution, because now we have a management approach that is based on processes and targets. We have thousands of employperformance indicators. This way, it was Being remembered as a company that invests not only in ees working at our headquarters, at our not difficult to add sustainability-related production plants and in the field. We indicators to our existing processes. The its own future, but also the future of the world, its country have always believed that we can reach ability of our managers and directors to our targets by creating a family and by speak a common governance language and its sector actually means moving to a new dimension. establishing professional management allowed us to rapidly integrate our sussystems. The transformation process betainability approach into the company. gan in our company as the professional However, we still of course have many managers of Bilim Pharmaceuticals set matters that need to be improved on. We the foundation for our institutionalization deal with them one by one. efforts and made contributions to develop them. According to your observations, what contributions did your sustainability approach Launched in 1998, the EFQM Excellence make to your company’s success and repModel contributed greatly to the manageutation? ment of Bilim Pharmaceuticals in a more institutional manner. A continuously deIt is an honour for us to be deemed a “responsible company”. We were always aware of our responsibilities to our em“It is an honour for us to be deemed ployees, customers and the community; however, I can say that we have begun to a responsible company” observe the real reflections of our comprehensive sustainability strategy as it has entered into all of our processes as veloping process and performance manaof 2010. gement system allowed us to thoroughly examine all of our operations, allowing us Our sustainability approach contributes to see the interactions between our opegreatly to our company. We have broken rations more closely so that we could set so much new ground in the Turkish pharup a more efficient management model. maceutical industry and the business world in terms of sustainability. Being reThe most important factor that allowed membered as a company that invests not us to receive the EFQM Excellence Award only in its own future, but also the future and the Achievement Award in four difof the world, its country and its sector acferent categories was our corporate tually means moving to a new dimension. management approach which helped us achieve success in our continuously imYours sincerely, proving performance indicators. Bülent Karaağaç Chairman of the Board 4 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO “What is measureable is forced our position in the community. My colleagues and I, who serve as directors in our company believe these positive reFurthermore, we have covered a great deal of ground in our human resources practices and in our efforts to minimize our manageable!” sults are important factors which carry environmental impacts, thus improvour company to the future. To this end, we ing our sustainability-related indicators. have strived to achieve continuous deveDetails of such practices and efforts are lopment and improvement, while seeing provided in this report. Many of our pracour sustainability efforts as an opportutices are taken as a model for other comnity to increase our capacity. panies; the fact that companies forward us their requests for benchmark meetBy sharing more data and indicators in our corporate responsibility report each passing year, we seek to improve tainability and its corporate responsibility practices and efforts. The report may only ourselves; however, data sharing is not sufficient. We believe be a result and a means of communication, but it is an important communication that setting targets and striving for continuous improvement tool in sharing information about our efforts with you.This year’s report was auin order to reach these targets will bring us closer to our dited externally. This process was highly informative for all of us. We identified sustainability goals. the points in our internal audit mechanisms which need to be improved for 2011 was an important year for us in terms ings and that our report and efforts are the management of our processes, and of development. Despite the volatility and shared as best practices case studies in we launched new practices that follow challenging factors in the pharmaceutibusiness administration lessons taught at our accountability principle. By sharing cal industry, we did not compromise our universities help to increase the number of more data and indicators in our corporate dedication to sustainability for even a “responsible companies” by sharing our responsibility report each passing year, moment. 2011 was a year full of activiefforts with others. we seek to improve ourselves; however, ties which implemented our comprehendata sharing is not sufficient. We believe sive sustainability strategy, which was The most important development in 2011, that setting targets and striving for condesigned in 2010 under the supervision and the one that crowned our efforts, was tinuous improvement in order to reach of the Sustainability Board. All of our emwhen Bilim Pharmaceuticals was deemed these targets will bring us closer to our ployees serving at our headquarters, our worthy of the EFQM Excellence Award. We sustainability goals. There may be times production plants, and in the field were received this grand award on the behalf of when we cannot reach some of our tarheld subject to sustainability-related our employees, who were the real archigets, but we know that it is important to trainings. These trainings were important tects of this achievement. It was a great steadfastly remain true to our commitin terms of raising our employees’ sushonour for us to represent our country ments and continue to demonstrate eftainability-related competencies, keepamong Europe’s largest companies. This forts to realize them. Only this way can we ing them informed about Bilim Pharmamodel of excellence, which we have been internalize our sustainability approach ceuticals’ sustainability-related efforts applying since 1998, has allowed us to gain and make it a part of our work culture. and offering them various sustainabilitycompetency in process management by oriented volunteering opportunities. The continuously developing our company’s Our primary matters are human health, primary topic of our Business Partners governance capacity. people’s happiness, investing in the comSummit in 2011 was sustainability. We munity and environmental protection. We take pains to encourage our suppliers “What is measureable is manageable!” My Dear Bilim Family, Business have alsoinitiated a record of our previto be informed on sustainability and to I believe we must break the routine; we Partners and Customers, ous sustainability-related efforts. When I launch responsible corporate practices in must allocate time and resources; and fiturn and look at the past, I see that these their own organizations. Moreover, we try nally we must measure. I invite you all to I am honoured to share Bilim Pharmaefforts not only increased our business to increase our information on the subject make continuous contributions to a susceuticals’ Corporate Responsibility efficiency and reduced our risks, but through in-house and external awareness tainable world. Report with you. This is our third realso generated value for our company, raising seminars and information sharing port. This report is a summary of Bilim strengthened our ties as a family, brought on special days. Dr. Erhan Baş Pharmaceuticals’ approach to susus closer to our stakeholders and reinCEO 6 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS AT A GLANCE FASTEST ONE OF MILLIONS OF DOCTORS’ THE BEST BOXES CHOICE According to IMS data, Bilim With a 5.1% share, Bilim In terms of the number of boxes sold In doctors’ prescription preferences, Pharmaceuticals has been the Pharmaceuticals ranked 3rd in the to the market, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Bilim Pharmaceuticals closed the fastest growing pharmaceutical Turkish pharmaceutical market, which closed the year at 3rd place with a total year at 2nd place, with its medicines company in the last five years. reached to TL 15.2 billion in size of 100.4 million boxes. accounting for 7.1 out of every 100 in 2011. prescriptions. 8 9 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 LEADING FACILITIES REGIONAL VOLUNTEERS POWER FOR CHANGE PRECIOUS Exports to 48 countries. 1,043 of its eployees are Bilim With an indoor area of 9,250 square Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked Pharmaceuticals Community meters, the Bilim Çerkezköy 129th in the “Turkey Top 500 The company has representative Volunteers. Beta-Lactam processing facility, Industrial Enterprises” list prepared by offices in Moldova, Georgia, Ukraine approved by the German Ministry of the Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ICI). and Albania. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Health, is one of the most important Volunteers have touched the lives Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 195th penicillin production plants in Turkey. Its exports in 2011 amounted to US$ of 37,911 people with 26,614 in the “Fortune Turkey 500” 29,854,000. voluntary hours, making a difference. With an indoor area of 51,500 list prepared by Fortune, one of the square meters, Bilim Gebze the world’s most reputable business Carrying out its marketing and sales magazines. largest drug processing facility in activities in 11 different locations Turkey approved by the UK Department throughout Turkey with 11 different Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked of Health accounts for 17% of the teams. Turkish pharmaceutical industry with 243th in a research study conducted by the Capital magazine in 2011 to It’s domestic sales in 2011 amounted a production capacity of 250 million determine Turkey’s top to: US$ 461,354,359 boxes per year. 500 private sector companies. Number of employees: 1,950 With a laboratory area of 4,500 Bilim Pharmaceuticals was ranked square meters, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has the largest R&D center in the 672th in the list of Turkey’s top Turkish pharmaceutical industry. 1,000 exporters published by the Turkish Exporters Assembly (TEA). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Rapor, Bilim İlaç’ın üç boyutlu sürsürülversion under the supervision of the Susebilirlik yaklaşımıyla doğru orantılı olarak, tainability Board. The report is filled with kurumsal sorumluluğun her alanıyla ilopinions of those within Bilim Pharmagili içerik barındırmaktadır. Sürdürülebilceuticals.. We find this approach imporirlik Yönetimimiz bölümünde bahsedildiği tant in terms of accountability and transüzere, bu sene iç ve dış paydaşlarımızda parency. sürdürülebilirlik bilinci yaratma konusunda özel çaba sarf ettik. Mikado Danışmanlık (www.mikadoconsulting.com), the sustainability-related There is a glossary at the end of the reconsultant of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, was port. You can look up the definitions of the commissioned for the preparation of the ABOUT THE REPORT words marked with an asterisk (*) in the report. report. Report data was subject to external auWe made use of two internationally-recdit by Deloitte. Deloitte’s statements are ognized standards when preparing this provided at the end of the report. Thanks report: the Global Compact* Progress to this audit, we also included the sourcOur report was examined and approved as A+, Statement standard and the GRI G3.1* es that confirm the report data. These standard. We integrated indicators within sources are provided under the tables the highest approval level, by GRI. a common index since both standards and graphs included this report. and their respective indicators are similar to each other. In the index attached to the The report was examined and approved back of the report, you will be able to see as A+, the highest approval level, by GRI. the indicator index. We prepared our third Corporate Responsibility Report, which is a summary of sustainSince it is a level A+ report, we included abilityrelated efforts shown by our company in 2011, to share with all of our stakeholders. Having close interaction with all the our policies and practices which were We had published our two previous reports in June 2010 and June 2011. These previous boards, and gathering data on stakeholdmentioned in previous reports and have reports can be accessed from our website at www.bilimilac.com.tr. er expectations, the Sustainability Board not changed, in order not to lead to any observes and discusses the material topfailure in terms of the report’s compreWhile the report contains corporate profile information of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, it preics that have to be covered in the report. hensiveness. An online version of this dominantly covers the sustainability efforts shown by the company. The main headings report is included on our company’s webof the report are our corporate management approach, sustainability management pracSürdürülebilirlik Kurulumuz, tüm diğer site at www.bilimilac.com. tices, sustainability targets, economic added values, environmental measurements and kurullarımızla yakın ilişkiler kurarak ve investments and people-oriented social impacts. Since Bilim Pharmaceuticals has a three paydaş beklentileri hakkında bilgi toYou may forward your opinions to Ms. dimentional sustainability approach, the report covers maximum content about each playarak raporda yer alacak konuları Esra Çakır, President of the Sustainabilsphere of corporate responsibility. Human resources practices and environmental issues gözlemlemiş ve müzakere etmiştir. ity Board and Corporate Communication are especially material for us. As discussed in the “Our Sustainability Management” secSupervisor of Bilim Pharmaceuticals: tion, this year we attributed utmost importance to raising awareness about sustainability Report data was collected through focus esra.cakir@bilimilac.com among both our internal and external stakeholders. group meetings and revised to its final 12 13 CORPORATE PROFILE Bilim Pharmaceuticals prioritizes quality and adopts “respect for future generations” as a corporate value. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is ranked 3rd among 300 corporations in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. ABOUT BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS As a “deeply rooted” corporation, Bilim Founded in 1953, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals, in line with its misis a company with 100% Turkish capital, sion, attaches importance to people and which conducts production and markethuman health, adopts quality as a phiing activities in the strategically imporlosophy of life; makes use of advanced tant pharmaceutical industry. Ranked 3rd technologies, performs production at inamong 300 corporations in the Turkish ternational standards, develops econompharmaceutical industry, Bilim Pharmaic products, and is customer-oriented ceuticals continues to grow at a higher and open to continuous development. rate than the market. The company carries out its production activities at two separate plants. 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE The company OUR FIELD OF WORK All stages between the production and the sale of The Turkish Pharmaceutical has the largest an equivalent drug are the same with reference products. The only difference is that clinical and preclinical studies, which were originally conducted by Industry and Equivalent Drugs With the “Law on the PharmaceuThere are two primary categories of drugs in R&D centre the pharmaceutical industry: “original” and “generic”/“equivalent” drugs. An original drug rereference drug manufacturers on living creatures, are not repeated. ticals and Medical Drugs” no. 1262 and dated: 14.5.1928, drug import and manufacturing came under offers to drugs that were proven to have positive imof the Turkish pact on a specific disease as set forth by long research and clinical trials. Moreover, “original drug” For equivalent drugs, all analysis and research deemed necessary by medical authorities is performed and their equivalence (i.e. whether they perficial control. This and subsequent legislation include arrangements with respect to a number of issues, is an international term used for new drugs, whose pharmaceutical foundations are based on a patented molecule and for which no similar drugs exist. form the same treatment with the reference product) is proven through scientific studies. including drug manufacturing, import and export. industry with a Original drugs are protected for a specific time in many countries around the world under comprehenLicensing Requirements Reference Equivalent Within the scope of the EU harmonization period since 2005, revisions began to be made in the pharmaGeneral information on company √ √ laboratory area of sive patent laws and data protection rights. During this time period, no other drug company is allowed to manufacture a similar drug. Thus, original drug Product features (prospectus, labelling, package) √ √ ceutical industry in accordance with EU legislations. 4,500 m2. manufacturers are able to cover their R&D investments and create resources for new researches. As the legal protection period of an original drug Expert report Composition of the medicine √ √ √ √ In Turkey, no pharmaceuticals are offered to the market without first obtaining a license from the expires, pharmaceutical companies may offer simiMinistry of Health. Drugs that are Good Manufacturing Practices lar drugs to the market. These drugs are named as √ √ currently classified as prescribed (GMP) “generic or equivalent drugs”. Companies that and non-prescribed medicine can Approved by the German Ministry of produce equivalent drugs have to abide by some Control of raw materials √ √ only be offered to the market afHealth, Bilim Çerkezköy is one of Turkey’s rules to offer these drugs to the market: ter the required licenses are obmost important penicillin production Control of end-product √ √ tained. During the licensing period, plants. • An equivalent drug must contain the same Stability tests (active substance although there are other types of amount of the same active substance as the √ √ classification, drugs are either clasand end-product) Approved by the UK Ministry of Health, original drug. sified as Original Drugs or EquivaBilim Gebze is Turkey’s largest, newest Comparison of the equivalent drug lent Drugs. --√ and most environment-friendly drug pro• An equivalent drug must have the similar forwith the reference drug duction plant. mulation and pharmaceutical features. Preclinical study √ --The legislation currently defines “Original Drugs” as products which The company also has the largest R&D • An equivalent drug’s bioequivalence with the Clinical study √ --are licensed or permitted for recentre of the Turkish pharmaceutical inoriginal drug must have been proven. lease to the global markets for the Bioequivalence √ √ dustry which has a laboratory area of first time after the effectiveness, 4,500 m2. The company makes signifiWith these features, an equivalent drug has the quality and reliability of their active cant contributions to the Turkish econosame quality, effectiveness and reliability with the As can be seen in the table above, the difference besubstance(s) are scientifically provmy with the new products that it develops original drug. Since research expenditures are less, tween original drugs and equivalent drugs is that preen. Equivalent Drugs, on the other at its R&D centre. an equivalent drug is more economic than the origiclinical and clinical studies are not performed during hand, are defined as medical drugs nal drug. the production of equivalent drugs. Equivalent drugs which contain the same amount of Exporting to a total of 48 countries, Bilim are just as safe as reference drugs. Equivalent drugs the same active substance as the Pharmaceuticals has representative ofThe pharmaceutical sector needs both original and contain the same active substance with reference original drug, which have the same fices in Moldova, Georgia, Bosnia Herzeequivalent drugs for economic contribution. There is drugs and have the same pharmacological effect. formulation and pharmaceutical govina and Albania. no facility in Turkey which produces original drugs; features and whose bioequivalence only equivalent drugs are designed and produced. The benefits and risks of an equivalent drug which with the original drug has been In a sensitive sector which is directly reOur company’s field of work is the production and has been proved for bioequivalence are the same proven through bio-availability eflated to human health, Bilim Pharmamarketing of equivalent drugs. with the reference drug. forts. ceuticals prioritizes quality and adopts respect for future generations as a corporate value. 16 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Entering operation in 1998, the Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility has a production capacity of 44 million boxes ÇERKEZKÖY per year. Penicillin Oral PROCESSING FACILITY Solid and Penicillin Located at the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone, the Çerkezköy ProInjectable products are cessing Facility is built on an area of 22,000 m2 with an indoor area of manufactured at the 9,250 m2. The facility became operational in 1998. facility. With its centre in Penicillin Oral Solid (tablets, film the Maslak Headquarters covered tablets, capsules and dry powder suspension) and Penicillin Building, Bilim Powder Injectable drugs are manufactured at Bilim Çerkezköy ProcessPharmaceuticals executes ing Facility, which has a total producWith its centre in the Maslak tion capacity of 44 million boxes per production in two different Headquarters Building, Bilim year. Pharmaceuticals executes producfacilities: Bilim Gebze and tion in two different facilities: Bilim Holding ISO 9001 Quality ManageGebze and Bilim Çerkezköy. ment System, ISO 14001 EnvironmenBilim Çerkezköy. tal Management System and OHSAS The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility, 18001 Occupational Health and Safety which was designed and built in comManagement System certifications, the OUR PROCESSING pliance with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) standards, entered facility’s compliance with cGMP regulations and integrated management sysModern Automation Level Planned in accordance with the legislaFACILITIES operation in 2008. Non-beta lactam products are manufactured in Bilim tem standards has been proven. tion, the Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility, besides being equipped with suitGebze. Having received approval from Environmentally Friendly Approaches able technologies with respect to energy the UK Department of Health Drug Asand Practices saving, is equipped with computer syssessment Foundation in 2009, the Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ environmentems during production processes. Some facility’s production capacity is 250 tally friendly approaches and pracof these technologies and systems are million boxes per year in all solid, liquid tices are based on the protection of listed as follows: and semi-liquid forms. natural resources of today and the • The Building Management System future. The Bilim Çerkezköy Process(BMS), which controls all areas 24 Entering operation in 1998, the Bilim ing Facility is equipped with environhours a day and 365 days a year Çerkezköy Processing Facility has ment-friendly infrastructural systems a production capacity of 44 million in compliance with legislations in or• Card pass system used for producboxes per year. Penicillin Oral Solid der to ensure protection of natural retion areas and warehouses and Penicillin Injectable products are sources. Bilim Çerkezköy Processing • Automatic fire detection, alarm and manufactured at the facility, which Facility is a processing facility, where extinguishing system was approved by the German Ministry the following environmentally friendly of Health in 2006 and 2010. practices are conducted. • Lighting automation 18 19 CORPORATE PROFILE With a Products Manufactured at the Bilim Phartered through dust separators with maceuticals Gebze Production Plant and an automatically controlled shaking Their Amounts system; manufacturing Gastrointestinal products, AnalgesicsAnti-inflammatory products, Dermatological products, Antibiotics (non Beta-Lac• Solid waste is collected in accordance with the solid waste management procedure, and then taken by capacity of 250 tam), Vitamins (Minerals), Respiratory System products, Antiparasitic products, Sweeteners, Central Nervous System carrier companies approved by the Ministry of Environment and finally annihilated at authorized incineramillion boxes per products, Cardiovascular products, Iron preparations, Muscle relaxants and Flu products. tion plants with no adverse impact on the environment; year, Bilim Gebze Pharmaceutical Form Annual Capacity * “Occupational Health and Safety” and “Social Facilities” was planned to Tablet Capsule 72 million boxes (1.5 billion tablets) 18 million boxes (0.5 billion capsules) Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility was designed with a “human-friendly” point of view so as to increase our employees’ livcover any needs Syrup Sachet 18 million bottles 5 million boxes ing standards. Thus, Bilim Çerkezköy Processing Facility offers the following to its employees within the framework of “Ocfor capacity Dry Powder Suspension Cream/Pomade 7 million boxes 5 million boxes cupational Health and Safety” and “Social Facilities”: increase. The (*) Amounts of products that can be manufactured at the plant in 1 shift • Heat loss is prevented through an • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems and its respective practices, plant is able Environmentally Friendly Approaches and Practices Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ environmentally insulation system that minimizes heat transfer; and • In selecting cooling towers, nec• A workplace practitioner, resting room, psychological consultancy services, and a mothers’ room to meet 17% friendly approaches and practices are based on the protection of natural resources of both today and in the future. essary to cool all indoor areas, enclosed type towers were chosen which use the latest technologies • A cafeteria, resting rooms, library and internet rooms for employees, of the Turkish The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility is equipped with environmentally friendly infrastructural systems which comply and are more expensive than open towers. This way, water consumption for cooling has been reduced Pharmaceutical • A gymnasium, with EU regulations in order to ensure by 85%, compared to open towers. • Outer environment walking areas protection of natural resources. The Bilim Gebze Processing Facility is the most enGEBZE PROCESSING FACILITY industry’s need vironmentally friendly drug manufacturing plant thanks to the following environmentally friendly practices: Having entered operation in 2008, Bilim Gebze, which is the largest drug manufacturing plant in Turkey according to on its own. • Automatically controlled functions that reduce energy consumption have been established within the production forms, was planned in accorbuilding automation system; dance with the standards of the American FDA (Food and Drug Administration), one • No pollutants are allowed in the air of the world’s most prestigious healthThe Bilim Gebze Processing Facility holds through highly impermeable HEPA care authorities. ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, filters used in the ventilation exISO 14001 Environmental Management haust systems; Established at the Gebze Organized InSystems and OHSAS 18001 Occupational • In powdered production processes, dustrial Zone on an area of 60,000 m2, the Health and Safety Management Systems air extracted from each room is filfacility has an indoor area of 51,500 m2. certificates. 20 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Full-Automatic Unmanned Warehouse “Occupational Health”and “Social Management System (WMS) Facilities” Our full-automatic unmanned wareThe Bilim Gebze Processing Facility house is 38 metres high and has a cawas designed with a “human-friendpacity of 11,400 pallets. It is the highest ly” point of view so as to increase our warehouse in Turkey to operate with employees’ living standards. Thus, this technology. All pallets are manathe Bilim Gebze Processing Facility ged with robots, cranes and conveyors. offers the following to its employees Thanks to this system, within the framework of “Occupational Health and Safety” and “Social Fa• An increase was realized in the cilities”: efficiency and speed of warehousing and transportation ac• OHSAS 18001 Occupational tivities; Health and Safety Management Systems and its respective Modern Automation Level • The risk of loss of goods was practices, Planned in accordance with FDA reguprevented; lations, Bilim Gebze Processing Facil• Building security system oper• Occupational accidents, which ity, besides being equipped with latest ated with CCTV, are frequently encountered in technologies with respect to safety and conventional warehouses, • Workplace practitioner, resting energy saving, carries out high quality were eliminated. room, psychological consultanproduction that is able to compete in incy services, ternational markets, thanks to the level of automation provided through computer • Cafeteria, resting rooms, library systems in the production process, and and internet rooms for employfully equipped building automation with ees, smart building features. Systems, which • Gymnasium, allow Bilim Gebze Processing Facility to be defined as a smart factory, are as fol• Outer environment walking lows: areas • The Building Management System (BMS), which controls all areas 24 hours a day and 365 days a year • Energy Monitoring System (EMS) • Employee recognition and safety through the card pass system used for all areas • Automatic fire detection, alarm and extinguishing system • Automatic data collection and reporting from the production field through the Manufacturing Execution System (MES) • Lighting automation (LMS) • Full-automatic unmanned warehouse management system (WMS) • Chromatographic Data System / Scientific Data Management System (CDS/SDMS) 22 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Human happiness We know that quality of life is based on human happiness. We think that our employees’ competencies are reflected in our customers’ happiness. We believe that the concept ‘respect for humanity’ is the most important link of this chain. Respect for the future generations Our Mission Our Vision We know that we are responsible Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops By the end of 2014, for the world. We think that it is drugs that maintain human health necessary to wisely utilize all global • To be one of the top two comand provide treatment. The company resources, especially water and panies in the Turkish pharmaproduces these drugs in its modern energy. We believe in the imporceutical market and and high-tech facilities by internatance of making economic, ecologitional standards. • To achieve the highest level of cal and sociological contributions to exports of any domestic prothe community. By actualizing the publicity and marducer of medicines by the end keting of its drugs in domestic and of 2014. Ethical management foreign markets with focus on the We know how important the triangle client, the company enables availabiof justice, accountability and translity of medicines along with customer parency is. We think that ethics is satisfaction at the highest level. the spine of our decision making Our Values processes and that we have to abide It achieves fertile, profitable and susIn Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ journey of by global laws and rules. We believe tainable growth through the experisuccess that began exactly 58 years in the importance of sleeping with a ence it gained as a rooted corporaago, we have today achieved to be the peace of mind. tion which has adopted the idea of fastest growing company of the last quality of life as a life philosophy, and decade in our sector. The most imporChange the value it places on people and hutant privilege that has made us sucWe know that the only thing that man life, as well as its collaborations cessful in this journey is our “Values”. does not change is change itself. maintained through development and Our values have been prioritized at all We think that change does not only its dedication to change. times by each of our employees since mean ‘being open to innovations’, our foundation. but also means differentiating and It ensures the highest possible level developing. We believe that we must is attained in employee commitment Our values that are the backbone of continuously improve and develop and satisfaction through innovaour corporate reputation also cover our business within the framework tive human resources systems and our principle, “We have no more imof the principle of excellence. an organizational structure open to portant business than managing our learning with the awareness that comreputation”. We get the inspiration Passion for success petent employees will be a driving that guides us in managing our repuWe know that the first step taken on force in competition. tation from our values. any journey of success is passion. We think that having a solution-oriIt protects natural resources and the ented positive character will make environment with its awareness of us reach the biggest achievements. social responsibility, places imporWe believe that each and every suntance on ethical values, and contriset is the messenger of a new sucbutes to the social and economic decess. velopment of society. 24 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE WAREHOUSES MANAGER (GEBZE) Organization Structure – MARKETING Board of Directors TECHNICAL SERVICES PRODUCTION EVENTS MANAGER Chaired by the CEO, the Directors ComMANAGER (GEBZE) EXPORT MANAGER PLANNING SUPERVISOR NATIONAL mittee is comprised of the heads of all deShareholding Structure BUSINESS SALES MANAGER partments who directly report to the CEO. With a 97.19% share, Bilfar Holding AŞ is PRODUCTION MANAGER DEVELOPMENT PURCHASING MANAGER The committee convenes once a week. TECHNICAL BUM the largest shareholder of Bilim PharmaSERVICES (GEBZE) MANAGER (HURRICANE) At the Committee, the ratio of men and MANAGER EXTERNAL ceuticals. (Ç.KÖY) PLANT MARKETS ACCOUNTING women is 83% to 17%. DIRECTOR BUSINESS MANAGER DIRECTOR BUM PRODUCTION DEVELOP(STAR) (GEBZE) Bilfar Holding AŞ 97.19% MANAGER (Ç.KÖY) MENT DIRECTOR BUDGET AND COST All performance indicators, which were Gülseren Karaağaç 0.75% PLANT ACCOUNTING MANAGER BUM (TYPHOON) defined at the time of our foundation, are Adil Karaağaç 0.03% DIRECTOR RESOURCE monitored and evaluated in line with the (ÇERKEZKÖY) BUM Kemal Karaağaç 0.57% PLANNING (NORTHEAST WIND) “Evaluation, Review and Improvement ApDIRECTOR Bülent Karaağaç 0.57% proach”. The performance of the highest Alp Karaağaç 0.56% CORPORATE BUM (LIGHTING) governance body is monitored and evaluCladuıa Ergene 0.33% COMMUNICAGENERAL ated through the “Performance Indicator TION SUPERVISOR with Respect to the Rate of Realization MANAGER Board of Directors MARKETING of Strategies” and to which extent the DIRECTOR As the holder of more than 97% of Bilim primary business targets are reached. Pharmaceuticals, Bilfar Holding sets up INFORMATION This way, the highest governance body is the board of directors and distributes TECH. MANAGER BUM (THUNDERable to evaluate its own economic, enviBOLT) duties to the board members in line with HUMAN ronmental and social performance, since RESOURCES corporate governance principles. The DIRECTOR BUM performance indicators of the primary FINANCE Board of Directors of Bilfar Holding has MANAGER QUALITY (GALE) business targets are a result of basic perSCIENTIFIC administrative power on its subsidiaries. DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR HUMAN formance indicators of all primary proRESOURCES 4 of the members of the Board of DirecDIRECTOR (GEBZE) MANAGER BUM (STORM) cesses (including the Sustainability Ma(GEBZE) tors of Bilfar Holding are independent. nagement process). INDUSTRIAL QUALITY RELATIONS BUM Three of these four independent memR&D MANAGER CONTROL MANAGER MANAGER (SUN) Rate of realization of strategies:: bers are non-executive members. The (GEBZE) (GEBZE) chairman of the highest governance body BUM (VOLCANO) 2007 100.52% has no executive duty in the holding. The MEDICAL SUPPORT QUALITY ASSURANCE 2008 99.55% holding is managed and directed by the & LICENCE MANAGER MANAGER (GEBZE) BUM 2009 99.10% CEO. Shareholders can make sugges(WIND) 2010 102.07% tions to the highest governance body, but QUALITY MARKET 2011 100.73% CONTROL ANALY & they have no power to give instructions. MANAGER DEV. (Ç.KÖY) SUPERVISOR Bilfar Holding – the largest shareholder of Members of the Board of Directors are Bilim Pharmaceuticals – directly forwards elected by the General Assembly and There are 20 Primary Business Target inQUALITY its expectations and suggestions to the they meet at least once a month and if ASSURANCE dicators that are defined under the topics MANAGER management of Bilim Pharmaceuticals necessary according to the legislation (Ç.KÖY) Growth, Profitability and Efficiency. When at the Board of Directors meeting, where on joint-stock companies. Board memBilim Pharmaceuticals shows higher perresults are also evaluated. Methods and bers are predominantly selected from formance than some of these indicators, mechanisms, which are determined for such individuals, who have a high level of the overall rate of realization of strategies how to obtain the expectations of shareknowledge, experience and expertise in may exceed 100%. holders and other stakeholders, are dethe areas of Marketing, Finance and the fined in detail in the company’s “Strategic Pharmaceutical Industry. At the Board, There has not been any structural chanPlan (SP) and Annual Plan and Budget the ratio of men and women is 80% to ges in our company within the reporting (APB) Approach”. 20%. period. 26 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Our Boards ENERGY BILIM PHARMANAGEMENT MACEUTICALS BOARD COMMUNITY (ÇERKEZKÖY) VOLUNTEERS BOARD In our company, we have set up a number of boards, which are the starting point of CAREER many important applications, in line with BUSINESS BOARD our strategy of increasing participation. LEADERSHIP ASSESSMENT DISCIPLINARY Through these boards, it is possible that DEVELOPMENT BOARD BOARD BOARD our employees become a part of administrative decisions, a situation which supports teamwork. HUMAN SOCIAL AND RESOURCES SPORTS QUALITY BOARD As defined in the Board Handbook, our BOARD OF boards hold meetings once a year, where ACTIVITIES BOARD EXECUTION DIRECTORS the effectiveness of the company’s BOARD approaches are evaluated and reviewed. TRAININGS BLUE-COLLAR BOARD COMMUNICAIt is defined in the DGG Plan which board would evaluate and review, as well as GENERAL TION BOARD which approach would be evaluated and reviewed. Boards evaluate and review MANAGER AWARDS the performance indicators, benchmarks BOARD QUALITY and information, which are required to IMPROVEMENT SUPPLY evaluate the effectiveness of the current BOARD END-YEAR SUSTAINABILITY CHAIN AND approach in terms of the EFQM Excellence (ÇERKEZKÖY) MEETING COLLABORABOARD TIONS Model and how it is applied throughout BOARD the organization. Boards also evaluate and review the effective of such criteria through GBR if it exists. Revision suggesFIELD tions are dealt at the Directors Committee ADVISORY ENERGY NEW BOARD with MDAs, providing output for the AnRESOURCE PRODUCTS MANAGEMENT nual Plan and Budget (APB). Our boards, PLANNING AND BOARD BOARD where midand long-term expectations EVALUATION (GEBZE) BOARD CORPORATE and creative and innovative thoughts of TECHNOLOGY COMMUNICAour employees are discussed, are evalMANAGEMENT TION BOARD uated by board presidents at Quality BOARD PRODUCT Execution Board meetings every quarter. LAUNCH ENVIRONMENT OCCUPATIONAL BOARD MANAGEMENT Each board has a sponsor, who is comHEALTH AND missioned by the senior management. BOARD SAFETY BOARD (ÇERKEZKÖY) (ÇERKEZKÖY) (GEBZE) ETHICS (GEBZE) Strategic decisions made by the boards BOARD QUALITY are put on the agenda of the Directors IMPROVEMENT BOARD Committee through sponsors. (GEBZE) QUALITY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT The number of team members is inSYSTEMS BOARD SYSTEMS creased and changes are made in team BOARD (ÇERKEZKÖY) memberships every year so as to encour(GEBZE) age, support and stimulate participation of our employees. 28 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Bilim Pharmaceuticals is carrying out its marketing and sales activities OUR MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES in 11 different In the Turkish pharmaceutical industry that reached locations data automation and R&D pilot production facilities at FDA (*) standards. At the R&D centre which was established 15.2 billion in size in 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals throughout with a $ 15 million investment, a total of 110 scientists are employed who prepare equivalent versions of original drugs – ranked 3rd with a 5.1% market share, while it owns 198 licensed drugs in the market. Turkey with 11 whose patents have expired – in order to offer them to the market. The centre is equipped with 220 different pieces of the different teams state-of-the-art equipment. Striving to rank among the first the two Steady and regular growth Bilim Pharmaceuticals provides “steady over in three (antibiotics, respiratory system, muscular and skeletal system drugs) and a total of companies in the Turkish pharmaceutical market and to be the highest exporting local drug manufacturer by the end of 2014, and regular growth” by being open to continuous development. In the Turkish pharmaceutical industry that reached of the five segments, which account for the highest sales volume particularly in Turkey, while it owns 198 licensed drugs more than 1,200 Bilim Pharmaceuticals allocates nearly 5% of its budget to R&D investments. 15.2 billion in size in 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 3rd with a 5.1% market in the market. field employees. share. In terms of number of boxes sold to the market, Bilim Pharmaceuticals completed 2011 as the 3rd biggest seller with Customer orientation “Customer orientation” is a part of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ strategy of manuBilim 100.4 million boxes. Ranking as the 2nd most preferred company by physicians, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was preferred in 7.1 facturing and offering economic products and its principle of “respecting the community”. Carrying out its marketing Importance attached to finding and devePharmaceuticals out of every 100 prescriptions. The company’s aim since its foundation was to be an effective player not only in Turkey but and sales activities in 11 different locations throughout Turkey with 11 different teams and a total of more than 1,200 field loping new product Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ R&D Centre is one allocates also in international markets; today Bilim Pharmaceuticals exports to 48 countries and plans to enter the American and Euemployees, the Bilim Phmaraceuticals team’s performance is evaluated every two years through customer satisfaction of the largest R&D centres of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry with a total laboratory space of 4,500 m2. Equipped with nearly 5% of its ropean markets in the coming years. Bilim Pharmaceuticals was one of the 5 surveys and implemented plans aiming to raise customer satisfaction. the latest technologies, the R&D Centre carries out its efforts through utilizing technologically advanced and sensitive budget to R&D companies to generate the highest turnlaboratory devices, as well as laboratory investments. 30 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Corporate responsibility awareness Being aware of its social, environmental and economic impacts, as well as its reBilim Pharmaceuticals’ Employees: A part of the solution Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community VolA pioneer in the quality journey Acting upon the principle of conducting all of its operations by prioritizing Bilim sponsibilities towards its stakeholders, Bilim Pharmaceuticals deems serving sustainability with an ethical, transparent unteers is a platform established with the support of Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 2005 by voluntary employees, who share “quality”, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been performing its activities since 1998 within the framework of the EFQM Excellence Pharmaceuticals and accountable corporate management approach as an indispensable part of its business approach and corporate culture. their individual competencies, intellectual knowledge, time, efforts and experiences with those in need “… in order to be a part Model, which is an institutionalization and management model aiming to make all stakeholders happy. By doing so, the was deemed of the solution”. As of 2011, the platform, with a total of 1,043 active members, operates in 11 cities of Turkey with 20 differCompany aims to yield results that satisfy its shareholders, customers, employees and the community, as well as to be a worthy of the ent teams. Every year, volunteers prepare projects and the ones that are approved by the supreme board of team leaders are ”pioneer” in its journey to quality play its role of guiding the sector. “EFQM Excellence As of 2011, the Bilim put in practice with the voluntary support of the families of Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees, as well as that of stakeholdAs the first national company to receive the “EFQM Competency Approval in Excellence” given by the European Quality Award” – which Pharmaceuticals ers. Association in 2004, Bilim Pharmaceuticals also received “The National Quality Grand Prize” in 2006 and “Award of no corporation in Community Continuity in Excellence” in 2010, which are given by TÜSİAD (Association of Turkish Industrialists’ and Businesses) and Europe received Volunteers’ The volunteers KalDer (Turkish Society for Quality). Having received the “Award of Continuity in Excellence” in 2010, which is deemed as for the last three platform, with a have carried out a total of 248 events the most prestigious award of the Excellence Model, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was deemed worthy of the “EFQM Excellence years – and the within the framework of 9 total of 1,043 active different projects and were Award” – which no corporation in Europe received for the last three years – and the achievement award in 4 different categoachievement able to reach more than members, operates 37,000 children and ries in 2011. award in young people. in 11 cities of Turkey 4 different with 20 different categories in 2011. teams. 32 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR QUALITY MANAGEMENT All Quality and Management Systems As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we work to exapplied in our corporation are audited ceed all our clients’ expectations with the and reviewed regularly, which allows for high-quality products we produce under competency, suitability and effectiveness the warranty of “Quality Systems”. of the systems to be continuously assessed and improved. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we consider The main constituents of our Quality Man‘the human, the quality and the future’ as agement Systems have been explained in Quality Policy • We are continuously improving our crucial factors. We place importance on the ‘Quality Policies’ document published • We are pressing forward on our journey system and applying the principles of the following points when considering the by our company. towards excellence with determination Quality Assurance Systems in order to drugs we make available to clients and by adopting and popularizing the EFQM produce products that are as specified make sure to take all precautions to asMoreover, due to the importance our Excellence Model, identifying approachby their labeling and for their purpose sure that: corporation places on the environment, es and targets in this sense and develof use, as well as taking precautions to health and continuous development as a oping them by reviewing at all times. abandon all risk that could occur with • The drugs are compliant with the relation to reliability, quality and effecresult of its approach towards contempoidentified quality standard. • We utilize the ISO 9001 Quality Managetiveness. We assume as a management rary quality standards and customer-oriment Systems, ISO 14001 Environmenresponsibility to reach this target, while • The drugs are used safely. ented, it undertakes the following actions: tal Management Systems and OHSAS we ensure all of our employees and sup• The drugs are proven to be effec• The adoption of the principles of 18001 Occupational Health and Safety pliers to participate in the system. tive. Total Quality under the EFQM (EuManagement Systems as a result of our ropean Foundation for Quality Manprinciples of continuous development • We understand the expectations of our Our management and all of our employcustomers clearly to provide them with agement) Excellence Model since and our customer-oriented approach in ees help us reach these targets with an satisfaction and make efforts to exceed 1998. managing processes. awareness and responsibility of providthese expectations and make sure that ing competent services in view of human • Compliance with ISO 9001 Quality • In line with our sector, we ensure conthey feel valuable. health. Management Systems standards tinuous compatibility with all Ministry of since 2004. Health laws and regulations and all cur• We conduct frequent and planned trainThe quality system applied in our corporent Good Manufacturing Practices in ing sessions to ensure that our Quality • Compliance with ISO 14001 EnviPolicies are adopted by all our employration is based on international standards relation to the development, production ronmental Management Systems ees and that they understand the conand has been established on current and presentation of products. standards since 2004. cepts and principles of our Quality Sysregulations and guidelines (Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), Good Labora• OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health tems to the best possible extent. tory Practices (GLP), Good Clinical Pracand Safety at Work Management tices (GCP), etc) as well as current Quality Systems standards since 2004. Management Systems (ISO 9001). 34 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR JOURNEY OF EXCELLENCE A question concerning these matters marked the beginning of the Total Quality Management at Bilim Pharmaceuticals: “In a world, where changes take place at such a speed, can we preserve our presence with our existing business making habits?” A mobilization was launched at Bilim Pharmaceuticals to accommodate such change. We adopted the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality ManagePierre Cachet ment) Excellence Model in 1998 in order CEO EFQM Quality is on top to receive results that will make all of our stakeholders and the community happy How would you describe Bilim’s performance? and to be a pioneer in the quality journey I would describe Bilim’s performance as excellent in the pharmaceutical industry. We have and exceptional. Bilim Pharmaceuticals won our of everything. been conducting our efforts since then European Business Excellence Award last year, within the framework of the model. following an assessment of the entire organization (from leadership to HR to customer results As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we desire to and Sustainability policies), involving more than develop and generalize this positive at200 Bilim team members in interviews. The Jury We show all of our stakeholders that mosphere that we have created inside, to decided to Award Bilim, not only for their great reset a good example in the sector, to guide sults across all areas, but also because they were we have adopted being an excellent the sector and thus, to realize our misable to make us confident that they would mainsion. We also show all of our stakeholdtain their excellence in years to come. I think it corporation and promise that we will ers that we have adopted being an excelis only fair to say that they are excellent and a lent corporation and promise that we will role model for others! progress with determination in this progress with determination in this never-ending journey. Sustainability is a hot topic at the moment. How do never-ending journey. you experience that in the EFQM community? Indeed! We noted that our members were looking for great examples and benchmarking data. So We adopted the EFQM last year we organized a competition to find good practices in the Sustainability area and we develEFQM Excellence Model (European Foundation oped several case studies. Moreover, we asked As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we are involved leading companies, such as Bilim Pharmaceutiin a difficult and sensitive sector that is for Quality Management) cals, to present their Sustainability approaches at directly related to human health. Product our main annual conference, the EFQM Forum. quality is on top of everything. Aware of all Excellence Model in 1998 of these, we prioritize quality at all times Can you state the importance of sustainability and have adopted it as a philosophy of life in order to receive remanagement in selecting award-winners? since our foundation. Only 40 companies have won the EFQM Award sults that will make all of since it started in 1992. An EFQM Excellence Successful corporations are the ones that Award Winner is an organization that displays role are able to create and maintain extraordiour stakeholders and the model behaviour in all 8 Fundamental Concepts of nary results for their stakeholders. HowExcellence, and hence includes: Taking Responever, in today’s world, which is subject to community happy and to sibility for a Sustainable Future. Because of the gradually increasing global competition, importance of Sustainability in the current envirapid technological developments, conbe a pioneer in the qualironment, it is indeed an increasingly important tinuously changing business processes factor that the Jury will look at. Bilim pharmaceuand rapid changes in the economic and ty journey in the pharmaticals showed very strong society results, much social atmosphere and customer massbetter than their competitors. es, it has become further difficult to mainceutical industry. tain these results. 36 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Bilim Pharmaceuticals is breaking grounds, while taking leadership in quality. Having adopted the EFQM Excellence Bilim Model in 1998, BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS, which has been steadily showing efforts on its journey of excellence since Pharmaceuticals then, gained the following achievements during this period: • “EFQM Recognized for Excellence In addition to Approval” in 2004, • “TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry & is the first this award, Bilim Pharmaceuticals made a pharmaceutical Business Association)-KalDer (Turkish Society for Quality)-Nafirst by becoming the first Having broken much ground in the tional Quality Award” in 2006, Turkish pharmaceutical industry, BILIM company to receive the ACHIEVEMENT AWARD in company to • “Finalist of the EFQM Excellence PHARMACEUTICALS takes pride in Award of the European Foundaachieving a first in Europe this time. four categories. tion for Quality Management” in BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS became the receive the 2009, first company to be deemed worthy of the EFQM EXCELLENCE AWARD, • “TÜSİAD-KalDer-Sustainable Exwhich no company in Europe received cellence Award” (the most presefqm excellence for the last three years, and is also the tigious award given for Excellence FIRST PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY Model efforts in Turkey) in 2010, to receive this award. In addition to this and award. award, Bilim Pharmaceuticals made a – CEO of BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS – • “EFQM Excellence Award” – which first by becoming the first company to received this prestigious award on behalf no corporation in Europe received receive the ACHIEVEMENT AWARD in of all of their colleagues. The award was for the last three years – and the four categories. Having participated at handed by Mr. Mark Duhem – Chairman achievement award in 4 different the magnificent award ceremony, which of the Board of Directors of EFQM – and categories in 2011. These awards was held at BMW Welt in Munich on Mr. Martin Zeil – Bavaria Ministry of are the first and only awards reOctober 25th, 2011, Mr. Bülent Karaağaç Economy. ceived by a corporation in the Turk– BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS Chairman ish pharmaceutical industry. of Board of Directors – and Dr. Erhan Baş 38 39 CORPORATE PROFILE EFQM The Brussels/Belgium-based EFQM (European Foundation For Quality Management) has more than 500 members operating in 50 different sectors in 55 countries. About 30,000 organizations are currently applying the EFQM Excellence Model. In Turkey, international EFQM Excellence Model practices are carried out by KalDer (Turkish Society for Quality). EFQM provides an information sharing platform to its member corporations of different sizes that operate in different sectors through the excellence model that it provides for sustainable economic growth. The EFQM Excellence Award comprises of 8 basic concepts and 9 criteria. Companies which have demonstrated superior success within the framework of the Excellence Model are nomiIn the “Big Scale Enterprises” category nated for the award. Receiving that covers all sectors in Europe, BILIM the EFQM Excellence Award is an PHARMACEUTICALS, as a company with indication that an organization 100% Turkish capital, brought the EFQM employs the best practices in Excellence Award to Turkey in this presimportant areas such as Leadertigious platform, where no company has ship, Strategy, Employees, Partbeen deemed worthy of this award since nerships and Resources, Pro2008. Also, there was no company that cesses, Products and Services, was ever granted the ACHIEVEMENT Customer Results, Employee BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS Award in 4 separate categories at Results, Society Results and Key the same time at the EFQM Excellence Performance Results, and also Awards, which have been given since the organization has conducted 1992. these practices broadly at all WITH 100% TURKISH CAPITAL levels and evaluated itself with a Besides the EFQM Excellence Award philosophy of achieving continuwhich the company received by surpassous improvement and has thus ing strong finalists, including global gishown progress. Through these IS THE MOST “PERFECT” ants, BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS received approaches, while the satisfacAchievement Awards in the following tion of all stakeholders including categories: employees, customers, suppliers and the society is guaran• Adding Value for Customers COMPANY OF EUROPE. teed, a contribution is also made • Managing by Processes to the company’s reputation. • Leading with Vision, Inspiration & Integrity • Achieving Balanced Results 40 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR REPUTATION MANAGEMENT Corporate Reputation is our most valuable capital. Tamer Kaygan Financial Manager Bilim Pharmaceuticals We aimed to raise awareness of all our employees on Reputation is undoubtedly a significant advanmember who feels that his/her sole responsitage in terms of the importance given to this bility is the reputation of the company, strivthe management of our corporate reputation. issue by the company’s employees and the ing to preserve and surely further improve management, who both behave accordingly corporate reputation in their work as well as in and protect it. Companies with a good reputatheir own time. I am very proud to be one of the tion are able to enjoy a high level of reliability Reputation Ambassadors at Bilim Pharmain the eyes of individuals and society at large. ceuticals. As a result of the work that we have This high sense of reliability is also a sign that done in terms of the company’s reputation, we Our Reputation Management Reputation Envoys, which we have estabthe company is carrying out its social responsee, live, and feel that the level of reputation Model lished to raise awareness on corporate sibilities, leading to a positive prejudgment at achieved today is at a very important juncture Corporate Reputation isn’t just an imporreputation within the company, constitute first and, thereafter, of positive support by the based on the ethical values that we received tant issue for Bilim Pharmaceuticals but a platform that is comparable with all stakeholders, ensuring that their behaviour to from company history and the values that we also a general issue for the entire pharmacompanies. On the other hand, the Bilim the company produces the best results. A nohave added and materialised. ceutical industry. The stakeholder research Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers tion, created by a sound reputation, will create conducted also supports this fact. As platform, which we put in practice within an understanding that affects many other eleOur greatest responsibility is to be conscious Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we manage corthe framework of volunteering managements of the company. of maintaining this level across all employees porate reputation effectively among all ment and which has today become a as a corporate culture, and that our reputation sectors not only in the pharmaceutical inbrand, has spread to all around Turkey. At As reputable companies continue to create a is the primary value possessed by our compadustry and give place to the goal of being Bilim Pharmaceuticals which adopted culture and accumulate knowledge to mainny. Thereafter, we must consider that the conpointed out as a “benchmark” company business strategies based on sustainable tain their reputation, the notion of reputation tributions to the company’s reputation cannot in our business model. development, this issue is of key imporis embedded in the identity of the company, solely rely on individual behaviour or protectance in our strategic planning. Another and is thus emphasised and makes a differtion, but that the company shares this holistic We began to apply the corporate repubenchmark practice applied at Bilim Pharence. As a result of the advance in technology, responsibility. Every element of a big “world” tation management model in late 2006. maceuticals, which assumes responsiuniversal work and policies in the work place involving all of our stakeholders includes However, the origin of corporate reputability for a more livable world, is the become more prominent, and such differenccomponents which will positively support our tion efforts goes back to older times. In Sustainability Board. The fact that suses will undoubtedly create an advantage for reputation. We must become exemplary ema continuous effort of development partainability-related policies and processes companies in terms of their recognition and ployees of such a company with a cautious, ticularly since 1998, our company enviscomplying with international standards evaluation within their activities in their playinstructive and sharing point of view, acting ages corporate reputation as part of our are defined at Bilim Pharmaceuticals is ing field as well as society. with utmost care and attentiveness with restrategy of change. Corporate reputation one of the factors that make the greatest gards to every issue that may affect our created its own agenda as part of our contribution to the corporate reputation. A “Bilim Reputation Ambassador” is a staff reputation. long-term growth strategy. 42 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE n C tio ul Acting upon the ra tu po Bra nd Su re Cor ity Em bil fact that any one plo ye e CORPORATE sta ina CODE AND of our employees, PRINCIPLES whatever his Our company management, which complies with the principles of corporate govEMPLOYEES Corporate Governance duty and status ernance and our Ethics Board, which was structured in line with our business ethics and principles are important elements in Principles SO ETY CI are, represents the effective management of our corporate reputation. What lies behind all these efforts is the fact that we have built our Values Reputation Atmosphere our company’s company’s corporate values together with our employees and the integration of all our values to our employees and proreputation, we cesses within the framework of our Bİ’L Leadership Model. Reputation Ambassadors Who is a Reputation aimed to raise Our Company set up a vision aiming to separate its corporate values related to its corporate reputation, which Bilim deplatform Within this framework, a platform of Reputation Ambassadors chosen from emAmbassador? A Reputation Ambassador is a person who increases the reputation of the corawareness of all scribes as its “most valuable capital”, into its all policies and processes. A longterm action plan was implemented, which ployees who have high power within the company was initially set up. Reputation Ambassadors became experts throughporation they work for in their work and social environments and who is also sensitive about their own reputation. The repuour employees on would embrace all Bilim stakeholders and turn Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ corporate reputation before its stakeholders into out the years (with training programs, workshops, source documents, etc). The Reputation Ambassadors Platform now tation ambassador is also a stakeholder representative on behalf of the company, and of all the ethical values recognized by the management “trust” through social sensitivity. Acting upon the fact that any one of our comprises of 64 people as of the end of 2011. society and the stakeholders of the corporation. The reputation ambassador is the voice of the corporation who can repreof our corporate employees, whatever his duty and status are, represents our company’s reputation, we aimed to raise awareness of all sent the company they work and their colleagues with the company principles and goals and can contribute to all the imreputation. our employees on the management of our corporate reputation. provement/restructuring undertakings with their knowledge and experience. 44 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR ETHICAL MANAGEMENT Ethical Training Ratio of employees who It is our values which are the fundamental Board reports all its decisions after resource that asserts our business makconsidering Work Ethics Guidelines participated in the trainings * The group of employees who did not participate in ing style at Bilim Pharmaceuticals; and Ethical Management is one of our most and Principles, laws, societal values as of end-2011: the ethical trainings includes newly hired personnel or those employees who had a valid excuse for nonand corporate values, to the Chairimportant values (please refer to the secman of the Board. The decisions are participation. 82.2%* tion, “Our Values”). then applied after the Chairman of • Our Ethical Management approach the Board has approved them. In is based on our corporate values 2011, no complaint was submitted and business principles which have to the Ethics Board with respect to been guiding our activities sucany violation of Human Rights in the cessfully for many years. Our Work regions of our presence. Ethics Principles do not only protect • In 2010, we applied training proOur Work Ethics Principles: in our corporation and employees but grams on Ethical Management to all this part, all our business goveralso serve as a guide that helps us employees. We continue such trainnance principles consisting of all see the way in light of all our deciings in 2011 for our newly hired emour employees’ responsibilities sions and activities beyond laws, ployees and those employees who towards the company are stated regulations and procedures. did not participate in these trainclearly. • Our Work Ethics Principles consists ings before. Moreover, we published Our Work Ethics Principles summarize the of 2 parts, Work Ethics Guidelines it on Bilim portal and our website, values that we will protect wherever we operate 1. CREATING CIRCUMSTANCES and Principles. These rules play an which is accessible by all our stakeand our responsibilities against our stakeFOR FAIR COMPETITION important role in protecting and holders. holders. 2. RESPECTING THE PRIVACY strengthening the trust relationship OF COMPANY INFORMATION between our corporation and the 1. BEING HONEST AND TRUE 3. GUARDING THE BALANCE OF stakeholders and the third parties it 2. ENSURING THE PRIVACY OF DOCUMENTS INTERESTS works with. • Our understanding of Ethical A total of 3. 4. AVOIDING CONFLICT OF INTEREST FULFILLING OUR RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS OUR STAKEHOLDERS 3.1 Not Taking Part in Relationships of Interest 3.2 Utilizing Duties and Management includes all members of management and all employees as well as members of the 2,715.44 hours 4.1 Our Legal Responsibilities 4.2 Our Responsibilities towards Our Employees Authority Properly 3.3 Using Corporate Sources Properly Board of Directors. All members of management are responsible for ensuring suitable work ethic of ethical 4.3 Our Responsibilities towards Our Clients 4.4 Our Responsibilities towards Our 3.4 Establishing Proper Relationships with Stakeholders guidelines and principles. The Ethics Board is organized in order to ensure the healthy application of training was Shareholders 4.5 Our Responsibilities towards Our Suppliers and Collaborations 3.5 Being Conscientious in Press Relationships 3.6 Representing the work ethics by the Chairman of the Board. Problems faced by employees regarding ethical guidelines in delievered to 4.6 Our Responsibilities towards Our Competitors 4.7 Our Responsibilities towards Society, Corporation Properly 4. CREATING A CONTEMPORARY AND FAIR ENVIRONday to day business, as well as all information and complaints delivered by employees, suppliers and employees in Environment and Humanity 4.8 Our Responsibilities That Root from Representing Bilim MENT OF BUSINESS 5. GIFT GIVING AND ACCEPTING PRINCIPLES clients on ethical issues are shared with the Ethics Board. The Ethics 2011. Pharmaceuticals 46 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR RISK MANAGEMENT Bilim Pharmaceuticals evaluates Bilim Pharmaceuticals not only economic risks or the risks related to its primary field of has shaped Risk activity, but all risks from a very Management as a part of wide perspective and manages its corporate culture. them within the systems it has built. Another important feature of the risk The primary reason why risk managemanagement model applied at Bilim ment plays a major role on the company’s Pharmaceuticals is that it is implemented policies is not only to practice envisaged as a process that is known, applied and plans and to minimize the damage in the At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, risk manageActing upon the fact that a risk manageimproved by employees and stakeholdevent of possible risks, but also risk manment practices are conducted after risks ment approach which does not have a ers. This way, all related personnel act agement is very important in terms of enare predicted and evaluated or after it is strategic or tactical place within all princonsciously and within defined systemsuring sustainability by turning risks into determined what solutions can be prociples and policies of the company would atics when applying such practices that opportunities. Because of this, the comvided in the event of unpredicted risks. fail, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has shaped prevent or eliminate risks, while taking pany evaluates not only economic risks The risk management approach was deRisk Management as a part of its corpointo account the risk factors during their or the risks related to its primary field of signed in a way that it supports the exrate culture. All processes, projects and strategic activities and operations. activity, but all risks from a very wide peristing and potential growth, ensures the systems are implemented after the risks spective and manages them within the company’s further progress and prothat they imposed or would impose are systems it has built. tects such progress under possible risks. evaluated and measured. In the event of A great importance is attached to the folunpredicted risks, it is ensured that crisis Reviewing risk evaluations frequently in lowing two factors when setting up the management procedures and processes companies particularly in emerging econRisk Management System: that are applied separately take effect. omies like Turkey and updating the risk This situation gives the company the abiratings in line with the changing conjunc1. Penetration of risk management lity to act fast in order to eliminate the ture is of great importance. Risk evaluainto the company’s culture and arising risks in times of crisis. Thus, the tions made during the preparation of anstrategy company set up its systems to perform nual plans constitute only a part of risk 2. Implementation of risk managecrisis management with a higher authormanagement procedures and practices, ment practices by all employees ity in this and similar situations and apwhile review, evaluation and update of and respective stakeholders as a plied it when required. these risks are carried out, continuously. body of rules within recognized systems 48 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Our Sustainability Policy The rules of It is our basic principle to manage our corporate operations before the community and our other today’s business Human happiness, stakeholders without any discrimination based on religion, language, race or gender. Beyond full adaptation to all legal obligations, including laws, regulations and official guidelines, we see world are social development and policies that may set an example to other companies as a part of our culture. We do not carry out any activities, which we are not accountchanging; it is not able for. Ethical, transparent and accountable enough anymore environmental protection attitudes and behaviors are our basic practices in our daily lives which allow us to be an exemplary company. for companies are very important issues Following in the footsteps of these basic guidelines in our activities, we • Undertake commercial activities without to focus only deviating from our ethical values; in sustainability. • Work in harmony with all of our stakeholders in Turkey and abroad, while encouragon profitability ing their participation; • Work to add value to our employees, cusin order to be tomers, and the community (our primary What lies underneath our sustainability efforts is stakeholders), and try to set an example for them; “sustainable” and successful. • See it as our duty to protect and enhance transparency and accountability. Before we determine the the health and safety of all our employees and customers; areas that are open to improvement and make improvement • Take pains to reduce our environmental impacts by being aware of them and launchview of the developments through these plans, we find the underlying factor and question it. In ing innovative practices for this purpose; structures, determine the areas that are open to improvement, design improveorder for improvement plans to be permanent and to make • Assume our responsibility for the development plans, and try to not only reach our ment of the society and towards the fulfiltargets, but also to surpass them. contribution to change, they must first be applicable. ment of the needs of future generations by raising social awareness and through Within the framework of our reputation community investments in the fields of management model, we take pains to fulhealth, environment and culture; fill our corporate responsibilities, in order • Ensure active participation of those emto ensure the sustainability of our comployees, who are dynamic, pioneering sopany based on respect for future generacial transformation, demonstrating their tions and ethical management values. We The rules of today’s business world are For Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which is a social sensitivity and have a high sense of always give place to the following matchanging; it is not enough anymore for corporate citizen, the priority issues in responsibility as a part of the community; ters on our agenda: employee rights, occompanies to focus only on profitability sustainability are human happiness, socupational health and safety, individual in order to be “sustainable” and successcial development and environmental pro• Promote volunteerism for a better comdevelopment of employees, equality of ful. Companies have to be aware of their tection. We seek to develop ourselves in munity and environment; opportunity, social investment, product economic, social and environmental resthese matters and produce pioneering • Demonstrate an approach that preserves responsibility, fair competition, ethical ponsibilities towards their stakeholders and innovative practices, which may be an social traditions and culture; and purchase, environmental protection, enand show efforts to fulfil these responsiexample for others. We establish strucergy efficiency, and process and produc• Organize relationships with other bilities. tures that support these practices, keep tion innovations and legal compliance. NGOs. 50 51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we see sustainability as an opportunity. We are a company that is taken as a model by many Our StrategIc SustaInabIlIty Targets • Integrating the sustainability apSustainability corporations in terms of sustainability, but we know that we still have a long distance to cover. There is no destination or proach into the corporate culture • Instilling sustainability conscience is a journey by strengthening stakeholder diaPınar Öncel a finish line for sustainability. We have set our hearts on this issue. We think, as we advance on this path, we gain new experilogue • Improvement activities that we take The Sustainable Life Collective ences, learn new things, improve our processes and further approach excellence. • Leadership in sustainability • Continuous monitoring-evaluation with our Our relationship with Bilim Pharmaceuticals began when they invited us to give a presentation on sustainability. We were pleased to see the interest What lies underneath our sustainability efforts is transparency and accountability. Before we determine the areas that are Within the framework of such main strategic sustainability targets, we have many employees. from employees and the awareness in the presenopen to improvement and make improvesub-targets and take hundreds of actions tations given at the Gebze and Cerkezkoy sites, ment plans, we find the underlying factor to achieve them. Our Sustainability Board and, in particular, the meaningful questions by the and question it. In order for improvement monitors and encourages the implemenCerkezkoy staff were of special significance. plans to be permanent and to make contritation of such actions. Thereafter, they supported the Sustainable Life bution to chance, they must first be appliFilm Festival which we organised in December cable, which is a very important issue for 2011. When we were looking for support for the us. festival contacted the few companies which we believed to be sincere in their work on sustainaSupported by the CEO, the SustainabilUniversity. In the lectures that I participate in, bility; Bilim Pharmaceuticals was one of them. ity Board comprises of people, who have two of the topics frequently discussed are Total the right to make decisions on behalf of Quality Management and Strategic ManageWe noticed the attentiveness of their staff when all departments of the company. In orment of Enterprises. One day I excitedly told my organising activities aimed at improving environder to integrate the sustainability apfriends at the university that we had received mental knowledge and awareness. proach into all business strategies, our Savaş Can the EFQM Award as a result of our longstanding Sustainability Board drafts strategic Senior efforts. My esteemed teachers were curious Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ volunteer-oriented applans, determines targets and moniSales about the EFQM process and wanted to know proach, paving the way for activities under its roof, tors and evaluates practices. Representative a little more about our quality journey. Bilim appears to have achieved considerable success. Pharmaceuticals is surely the best example… I The fact that members of staff can spend two When I began working at Bilim Pharmaceuticals added a great deal of information to our recent hours per week on volunteer projects, and that on March 1st, 2007, the company was trying to Corporate Responsibility Report that was pubthese projects which are for the greater benefit engrain awareness on sustainability and corlished in 2010 in the sector analysis, which I had of society are being supported by the company porate social responsibility in each employee. prepared; and it was a pleasure for me to presis highly meaningful and motivating. Bilim PharWhen I joined the Bilim Family, it was joyful and ent this information at the university. maceuticals’ employees are able to create value pleasing to assume social responsibility by befor themselves individually as well as for society coming a member of Bilim Pharmaceuticals I am extremely proud to work at Bilim Pharmawith this opportunity granted by their firm; we Community Volunteers. ceuticals and I believe we must communicate believe that this fairly differentiates Bilim Pharwith each and every individual, who is a part of maceuticals as an exemplary firm in the busiI graduated from undergraduate programs in the ecological system, our corporate responsiness world. Physics and Business Administration at differbility and sustainability-related efforts in every ent times. Both branches were positive sciences opportunity and at every platform. and for me, as an employee of a corporate firm, this represented an effort to be in a learning orI am currently working in Çanakkale as a Speganization. Conscious employees and all efforts cialized Medical Representative. I wish success that are conducted to produce added value are to all members of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals a part of sustainability. Moreover, in 2011, I was family, who act altogether and fearlessly and registered for a Postgraduate program in Busiwith the awareness of adding value to the ness Administration at the Çanakkale 18 Mart existing value. 52 53 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Our 1,950 • New sustainability-related indicators were added to the group of monitored indicators, thus introemployees ducing depth to sustainability-related operations and integration. • We design contents on sustainreceived able life in the BilimAilem magazine and other publications, in which we share our suggestions that may be trainings on applied by our employees in their daily lives. sustainability. • We added sustainability-related contents to our Bilimk@mpüs (elearning platform), Bilim Portal (intranet) and Facebook-Twitter webpages. • Books on global climate change and the environment were gifted to the children of Bilim Pharmaceuticals book entitled “Transient Caretakemployees. ers” was gifted to employees. Employees also participated in a sus• At the end of 2011, we prepared the tainability survey. 2012 agenda for our employees and customers. With the theme of • A sustainability module was added Green Journey, the agenda recomSome of the actions taken in 2011 aiming to the orientation trainings. The aim mends an environment-friendly acto realize our strategic sustainability taris to raise awareness of each new tion for each day. gets: employee on sustainability and to them their opinions. The recom• We sponsored the Sustainable Life mendations that are forwarded by get them informed on the current Within the scope of our strategic targets; projects conducted by the company. Film Festival held on December 2nd, “to integrate the sustainability approach our employees in these trainings 3rd and 4th, 2011. We encouraged our into the corporate culture” and “Instilling are integrated into our strategy that • At the Periodic Marketing Meeting employees to participate in the fessustainability conscience by strengthenis redesigned every year. We also held in August 2011 and at the CEO tival. ing stakeholder dialogue”, invite our employees to participate Information Meetings that were in voluntary activities. held for employees working in the • With the “Guest of the Month” prog• As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we are company headquarters and proram, we created an environment for currently internalizing sustainability. • A sustainability-related presentaour employees to talk to the repretion was held at the Period-End cessing facilities, a booth on susOur aim is to raise awareness of tainability was set up and the Corsentatives of the leading institusustainability to each of our employMarketing Meeting in January tions in the area of sustainability 2011, which was attended by all of porate Responsibility Report was ees and to support each of them to shared with employees. and to increase their knowledge on be a defender of sustainability. Susour field employees (about 1,300 the issue. We, as Bilim Pharmaceutainability is a journey that we take people). The Attention of employ• A solar lighting post was mounted ticals, hosted the following guests with our employees. We provide ees was drawn to the subject by at the Bilim Gebze processing facilin the “Guest of the Month” progtrainings to our employees, anticiopening a booth on sustainability. ity in 2012. This way, renewable enrams that were held with a sustainpate their desires through surveys Mervyn King’s book entitled “Tranergy began to be used at the facility, ability theme in 2011: Hayretting and establish new structures in sient Caretakers” was given to emwhile also contributing to our efforts Karaca – President of TEMA (the order to encourage them to be ployees as a gift. Employees also to raise our employees’ awareness Turkish Foundation for Combating actively involved in sustainabilityparticipated in a sustainability suron alternative energy resources. Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and related efforts. vey. the Protection of Natural Habitats), • Sustainability-related questions were • A sustainability-related presentaadded to the stakeholder satisfaction Pınar İman from WWF and Pınar Ön• We provided sustainability-related tion was held for our employees surveys (employee satisfaction surcel, Tunç Özçuhadar and Prof. Dr. trainings to a total of 1,950 employ(about 700 people) working at the vey, supplier satisfaction survey and Mikdat Kadıoğlu from the Sustainees. In these trainings, while we company headquarters and procustomer satisfaction survey). able Living Collective. raise our employees’ level of knowledge on sustainability, we also ask cessing facilities. Mervyn King’s 54 55 CORPORATE PROFILE The Business Mahmut Özer Bilim Partners Respiration BUM Summit was My experiences at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which started as a Promotion Manager in 2001, now continue as the Business Unit Manager of the held with a Respiration Group. I am very happy to see that in each of my 11 years in Bilim Pharmaceuticals, I have experienced the “sustainability” principle of “People; our most valuable asset”, and have been a part of this family. I have seen that being a leader in a journey of theme in May quality is a requisite in Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Along with values contributing to the happiness of a person, environmental sensitivity, the heri2011. tage aimed to be left to future generations, reliability of products and developmental efforts aimed at improving product quality, the support given to its employees’ career development paths, the reputation sought to be given to the • We increased our business partpaign between 20:30 and 21:30 on ing institutions of the event. The individual as well as the company, and the clientners’ knowledge on sustainability Saturday March 31st, 2011, and to be campaign aims to ensure that projoriented approach are all of which I have expeby making a sustainability-related a part of the solution for a better fuects are developed and applied; rienced sustainability and have seen numerous presentation for them (a total of ture. We informed all of our employconcrete results are achieved; and happy people enjoying this very notion. 250 participants). ees on environmental problems and permanent solutions are put in ef2011 was a good year for us, corresponding with increased other people’s (including fect in order to protect Turkey’s bioour team’s tagline “I Love to Breathe.” Whether • On special days with a sustainabilour employees’ kins and friends) diversity. it was our sensitivity to the environment in evity theme (for instance, World Enviinterest and attention in this issue ery contact point with our clients, our use of reronment Day, World Water Day, In• Bilim Respiration Team and WWF through our employees. We precycled materials such as biodegradable pens ternational Day for the Elimination jointly prepared a press release to pared 10,000 flyers and distributed or notebooks made from rock powder, it was all of Racial Discrimination, etc.), we ensure that sustainable approachthem to doctors and pharmacists to enhance the heritage that was to be left to make announcements and orgaes take part in our lives, as well as through our employees, informing future generations. We have continuously imnize contests in our company, raisto raise social awareness on susthem of the importance of environproved our relationship with the WWF over the ing our employees’ awareness on tainability and to popularize susmental issues. We asked for their years and have become a bridge for our clients. the topic. tainability-related issues within the support and created an important It was gratifying to observe and experience our community. We ensured that 600 • In order to reflect our collaboration opportunity for those people, who volunteer doctors continue their new leaders bringing in new angles of thought to with WWF, we participated in the are concerned aboutthe problems WWF membership. A WWF press our future through the application of equal op“World Hour Campaign” in 2011, as that our planet is facing and would release was sent to each of these portunities on the career paths of our employees. we have been doing since 2009. The like to convey their sensitivity about members, raising their individual It is hard to describe the satisfaction that I felt campaign, which is organized in 130 the topic. awareness on sustainability. when we received the European Quality Award in countries at the same time, aims to • In May 2011, we participated at the 2011. In the phases leading up to this success, draw attention to the environmental WWF’s nationwide campaign enparticipating in the work, taking a role, executproblems on earth. We invited peotitled “Turkey’s Life” with 7 people ing and being part of this is and will always be ple from many social segments to in total, becoming one of the leadamong my most cherished memories that I participate in the World Hour camwill share with others. 56 57 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE • We began to get our drugstore nylon bags manufactured from biodegradable and reusable materials. • We are a member of the Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey, REC Turkey-Climate Platform-Climate Change Group of Leaders and WWF Turkey; we hold awareness raising trainings on global climate change. • With the project, “Seeds to Saplings, Saplings to Trees”, we raise awareness of our employees and their families on environment. • One of the criteria that we use when evaluating our suppliers and business partners is that they must have the ISO 14001 certification. • Some of our promotional materials are manufactured from recyclable materials. We increase the rate of use of recyclable materials each passing day. It is not wrong to say that we increased the environmental competency We work for of the company that supports us a “non-carbon” future. with respect to the manufactur“Be the ing of promotional materials. change you want We began to get • We have been measuring our carbon to see in the world”, says Gandhi. We believe we made an investment in Kores • In 2011, we enlarged the portfolio of vehicles that work with diesel fuel whose emission per litre our drugstore footprint since 2010 and sharing the – the wind farm built in Izmir. The that we are the change with is lower, while contracting the results with our stakeholders in a amount of the investment was portfolio of vehicles that work transparent manner in order to meaour corporate responsibility equal to the carbon emission of with gasoline. A total distance approach. By inspiring nylon bags sure the negative impacts of our acour activity. of 13,430,000 km was covered tivities on the environment and to everyone under our sphere • Another example is the press by our vehicles in 2010, while take initiatives in order to reduce of influence, we invite meetings that we organize to the total distance increased to manufactured such impacts. By reviewing all of our 20,639,000 km in 2011. Despite them to be a part of communicate our Corporate processes, we take efforts to reduce this 54% increase in total disResponsibility Report 2010 our carbon emissions through varichange. of the GRI level A and to raise tance, the amount of fuel used from ous practices such as energy effiincreased by only 8.8%. awareness in the media on carciency, etc. Moreover, we carry out bon emissions. We also offset efforts for carbon offsetting. The details of our investments in envisuch media activities. biodegradable and • By collaborating with myclimate, a specialized agency on carbon offsetting, we offset our carbon • We concentrated on teleconferences in order to use vehicles ronment-friendly practices can be found in the section entitled “Our Sensitivity towards the Ecological Environment”. less. We made significant investreusable materials. emission highlighted from our Business Partners Summit 2011. In order to perform carbon offset, ment in our information technology infrastructure. 58 59 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE Bilim Pharmaceuticals excels itself in its opWe increase our erations by following its impacts on the environment, raising the issue to the next level by organising meetings and events aimed at effectiveness Hande Sezer measuring the effect of climate change and supporting projects aimed at reducing carbon emissions to neutralise this effect. among NGOs Kerem Okumuş Regional Environment MyClimate Turkey Bilim Pharmaceuticals is one of the only Centre institutions in our country that has interAs MyClimate, a leading institution in carbon nalised the concept of sustainability. It is an This way, we also help them to realize their own In the current age, climate change threatmanagement services and coping with cliinstitution which understands the concept missions. ens the welfare of society whilst having a mate change, we embarked on our partnerof sustainability not only through economic • We play an active role in NGOs that particudirect impact on individuals and compaship in Turkey in early 2011. affairs, but also gives special importance larly operate in the area of sustainable denies. Sustainable development raises the Our first point of cooperation with Bilim Pharto this concept’s social and environmental velopment. (Please refer to the section, “Our need to transform the economy. As the maceuticals was to ensure that the supplier branches, displaying this at every opportuMembership”) world shifts to low carbon emissions, it is summit in Istanbul was carbon-neutral. With nity. The BITG project run by Bilim Pharmainevitable that Turkish companies will be• Board Member of the Business Council our cooperation, we calculated and matched ceuticals, which touches every corner of come a part of this change. The Climate for Sustainable Development Turkey the carbon footprint of various activities consociety, exemplifies what an institution can Platform has been established by instiducted by Bilim Pharmaceuticals. In all of single-handedly achieve in terms of creat• Board Member of the Corporate Voluntutions in Turkey that have accepted the these processes, we had the chance to witing beauties for society. The multiplicity and teers Association principles of sustainability while managness Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ sensitivity to sustainability of these projects proves how • Board Member of the Ethics and Reputaing climate risks and executing the opthe environment. important the development of society is for tion Society of Turkey portunities brought upon by this process, Bilim Pharmaceuticals, as our first client in Bilim Pharmaceuticals. even though there is no official legislation Turkey, has always supported us with its deAs a corporate citizen, Bilim Pharmaceu• Member of REC Turkey-Climate Platformin Turkey with regards to this issue. Bilim termined approach in the field of coping with ticals has taken a step towards shaping Climate Change Group of Leaders Pharmaceuticals, a member of the Climate climate change. Turkey’s future. With its operations, Bilim • Corporate Member of the Corporate SoChange Leaders Group of Turkey, plays We see Bilim Pharmaceuticals as a leader in Pharmaceuticals has shown the concept of cial Responsibility Association of Turkey an important part in Turkey’s shift to low Turkey when it comes to the environment. sustainability to companies operating in the carbon emissions and leads change in its Many firms in our country are still distant to same sector as well as other sectors, and its • Corporate Member of PERYÖN (People sector of operation. the concept of carbon footprints; hence, Bilim internalised applications. This “transparent” Management Association of Turkey) On the other hand, coping with global cliPharmaceuticals’ initiatives have attracted approach, while being engaged in these • Corporate Member of WWF Turkey mate change requires international coopattention. When many firms are unaware of activities, must be taken as an example. eration. Governments, companies and civil how their operations affect the environment, • Corporate Member of the Corporate Govsociety must join forces in order to prevent ernance Association of Turkey waves of natural disasters triggered by climatic extremes and the relative economic The topics that we plan to deal with in 2012 within damage caused by this. In this regard, with • We attach great importance to emthe scope of our strategic targets are: its Climate Platform membership, Bilim “Social participation” has ployee voluntariness. We have been • To create our long-term strategy for climate Pharmaceuticals contributes significantbecome our lifestyle. offering our employees opportunichange ly in the search for a global solution as a ties to volunteer for the community part of the World Climate Change Corpo“Volunteering” through the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers program since 2005. Our employees are • To activate the platform of ECO-SCIENTISTS in order to make sure that our employees become defenders of sustainability rate Leaders Network coordinated by the Princedom of Wales and the University of Cambridge running secretarial affairs. In for the actively engaged in voluntary activities and carry out the projects in their own cities by sparing time from • To launch new practices/programs to increase the number of female employees this regard, its support the “Two Degree Bulletin” published in line with the aim of calling world nations to take emergency development their working hours. Our employees • To organize trainings on how to prevent mobaction and to bring upon a new, comprecome with creative ideas for probing in order to raise our employees’ awarehensive, legally binding climate change jects and implement such projects ness on discrimination agreement prior to the Durban negoof employees by setting up their own teams. Successful projects are popularized and applied throughout Turkey. tiations is vitally important 60 61 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders are those people, groups ness strategies and shape our activities and/or corporations which are directly to provide mutual benefits. In order to unor indirectly affected by our activities or derstand the expectations of our stakewhich directly or indirectly affect our acholders, we collaborate with independent tivities. Our stakeholders are our employagencies to carry out satisfaction surveys ees, customers, business partners/supon a regular basis. Especially, the Employpliers, shareholders, public institutions, ee Satisfaction, Customer Satisfaction local opinion leaders, non-governmental and Supplier Satisfaction surveys are organizations, universities, the commuperformed every year. On the community nity and the media. Our primary stakescale, we get the Research on Perception holders are our employees, customers, done every two years. business partners, shareholders and the community. We set up clear, transparent and reliable Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective relationships with all our stakeholders Encouraging Stakeholder in line with our values, “ethical manageMedical Promotion Representative Visits (continuous), Factory Visits (continuous), Customer Visits (continuParticipation ment” and “respect for future generaous), Scientific Meetings, Congresses / Panels / ConTo understand our customers’ exWe believe that it is important to ensure tions”. ferences (in case of necessity), Customer Satisfaction pectations and requirements acparticipation of our stakeholders and Survey (every two years), Corporate Reputation and Recurately by establishing bidirecto set up effective communication with The following table shows all our stakeCustomers search on Perception (every two years), Customer Focus tional, sustainable and qualified Group Research (in case of necessity), Pharmacy Concommunication channels and to them for a sustainable future. holders, the effective communication sultancy Board (in case of necessity), Physician Consulapply our processes in this direcchannels that we establish with them and tancy Board (in case of necessity), Foreign Market Parttion We try to understand our stakeholders’ the methods of participation in these proner Meetings (continuous), Phone Calls (continuous), expectations, reflect them to our busicesses. Complaints (continuous) Supplier Visits (continuous), Factory Visits (continuous), To trade ethically with our suppliSupplier Satisfaction Survey (once a year), Supplier Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Suppliers and ers through collaborations and to Evaluation Survey(in case of necessity), Business PartCollaborations create awareness on sustainabilners Summit (once a year), Supplier Audits (continuous), Notice Boards (continuous), Bilim Portal(continuous), ity Phone Calls and Visits (continuous) Electronic Communication(continuous), Quality Day (twice a year), CEO Information Meetings (twice a year), Board of Directors Meetings (monthly), Annual Reports Marketing End Period Meetings (once a year), Open Door To raise the level of satisfaction of (monthly), Annual Plan Budget Meetings (according to Meetings (monthly), Acquaintance Cocktails (in case Shareholders shareholders and to strengthen schedule, 3-4 times a year), Strategic Plan Meetings (acof necessity), “Welcome to the Club!” Dinner (in case their investment motivation cording to schedule, 3-4 times a year) of necessity), Meetings with Special Agenda (in case of necessity), Social-Sports Events (in the framework To inform about the sector, to enof the communications plan), Bilim Family Activities (in sure full compliance with the laws the framework of the communications plan), Bilim FamProject Partnerships (continuous), Memberships, ParPublic Institutes, and regulations, to make suggesily Magazine (twice a year), Period Meetings (every three ticipation at Meetings (continuous ),Benchmark Studies Sectoral Assotions with respect to new draft months), HR Regional Visits (in case of necessity), Em(in case of necessity/in the framework of benchmarking ciations laws and regulations in order to ployee Satisfaction Surveys (once a year), CommunicaTo raise our employees’ compeplan) contribute to sectoral develoption Surveys (once a year), Subject-Based Surveys (once tency, to contribute to their develment a year), Focus Group Negotiations (once a year), Comopment, to ensure their participaEmployees petence Evaluation System (in case of necessity), Pertion in business processes and to formance Negotiations (once a year), Individual Suggeskeep their motivation and loyalty at To contribute to the development tion System (continuous), Boards (every three months), a high level Non-GovernmenProject Partnerships (continuous), Memberships (conof NGOs, to employ their expertise Guest of the Month (in the framework of the communicatal Organizations tinuous), Representation (continuous) and to create an environment of tions plan), Department Meetings (in case of necessity), mutual learning Bilim Portal E-Bulletin (monthly), Reputation Management E-Bulletin (every two months), Motivation Practices Press Meetings (continuous), Press Bulletins (continuTo strengthen our corporate repu(in case of necessity), Marketing-HR Coordination Meetous), Interviews (continuous), Factory Visits (continuMedia tation, to ensure transparency and ings (in case of necessity), Employee Clubs (in case of neous) , Corporate Reputation and Research on Perception to inform the community cessity), Quality Circle and Quality Improvement Projects, (every two years) Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform (continuous), Reputation Ambassadors Platform (conAwareness Raising Efforts (continuous), Factory Visits To be sensitive, respectful, and retinuous), Orientation Program (monthly), Exit Interview (students-upon request), Corporate Reputation and Responsive to the needs of the com(in case of necessity), Phase Trainings (in case of necesCommunity search on Perception (every two years), Bilim Pharmamunity and to contribute to social sity), Leadership E-Bulletin (twice a year) ceuticals Community Volunteers Platform (continuous) and cultural development 62 63 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR MEMBERSHIPS • REC Turkey-Climate Platform-Climate Change Group of Leaders Membership 2011 portant awareness projects aimed at inform• Global Compact, April 2010 ing the public of issues related to health. It Turgut Tokgöz plays a large role in raising public awareness Pharmaceutical of Schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s. The fact • PERYÖN (Turkish Personnel Management Association), 2010 Manufacturers that Bilim Pharmaceuticals staff personally Association of voluntarily participate in health awareness Turkey Secretary projects is a good sign of volunteerism being • WWF (World Wide Fund), 2010 General embedded into the corporate culture. We can claim the following when we con• TEMA (Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Forestation and Bilim Pharmaceuticals clearly reflects its sider Bilim Pharmaceutical’s contributions the Protection of Natural Habitats), 2010 environmental sensitivity to its production to society through environmental sensitivity, as well as managing work processes with an training, and corporate volunteerism; Bilim approach that takes into account ecological Pharmaceuticals is a reliable and transpar• TEID (Ethics and Reputation Society of Turkey), 2010 balances. It uses appropriate and advanced ent institution in which a good notion of “cortechnology in all of its work processes, priporate citizenship” is embedded in the cor• TKSSD (Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey), 2010 marily aims to minimise the use of natural porate identity. resources in its operations while protecting Sustainability means industries and comthe environment. Furthermore, Bilim Pharpanies continue with their economic growth • Business Council for Sustainable Development of Turkey, 2008 maceuticals fulfils its responsibilities of while protecting the environment and the raising public environmental awareness by standard of living of the general public, if not developing projects that serve this purpose improving it. Social and environmental re• TKYD (Corporate Governance Association of Turkey), 2008 along with training sessions to ensure a sussponsibilities now play an important role in tainable environmental habitat. establishing a corporate reputation. In the • GOSB (Gebze Organized Industrial Zone), 2006 We now live in a world where companies as name of sustainability, our industry is involved well as individuals are expected to be “good in many projects and activities of social recitizens.” We see that active, responsible sponsibility focusing on the environment and • ÖSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association), 2005 companies that support the development of societal contribution, resulting in the rise of society make a difference through activities its reputation in the eye of the public. • ÇOSB (Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone), 1994 aimed at raising the living standard of future The concept of sustainability is very imporgenerations, laying claim to a world in which tant to our union. In 2010, our industry signed sole commercial power is insufficient. Bilim the Universally Accepted Principles with the • IEIS (Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey), 1972 Pharmaceuticals is an exemplary company participation of many companies under our with the resources it allocates to social releadership. We were very pleased to see that sponsibility and its societal vision of sustainthis was a first for the industry as a step to ability with the partnership of its employees be taken as an example to the entire world. and all of its stakeholders. Bilim Pharmaceuticals has engaged in im64 65 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE PROFILE OUR AWARDS European A first in the Turkish PERYÖN Foundation for pharmaHuman Quality ManKSS ceutical Manageagement – (Corporate sector – ment Social Finalist of “EFQM Kariyer.net Awards – Responsibility “EFQM – Compe– “Respect Finalist in Association) Excellence Corporate tence in for Humans the TrainTurkey-CSR Award” Çerkezköy Volunteers Excellence Award” in ing and Europe – “KSS Chamber of Association Approval” the pharDevelopme Solutions Industry and maceutical nt/Talent Winning and ComPERYÖN – Award” in sector ManageCorporate A first in merce – Awards Turkey category ment and Volunteers the phar“Environfrom the ApplicaAssociation – maceutical mental Heart – tions that “The Most sector – Award” “PERYÖN make a Corporate Successful “National Special difference” Volunteers Voluntary Quality Kariyer.net Award” categories Association Program Grand – “Respect Award Prize” Principled for Humans – Awards A first in ethical Award” in from the the pharmanagement the pharHeart – Kocaeli Kariyer.net maceutical “Most Respect maceutical Chamber of – “Respect sector – Creative Changing for future sector Industry – for Humans “National Project” generations category Şahabetti Award” in Quality and “Most n Bilgisu the pharGrand Successful Environmaceutical Prize” Volunteer” mental sector Awards European Human Passion for Award category happiness success Business 2004 2008 Award – 2004 Ruban 2006 2008 d'Honneur 1999 Award 2000 2009 2006 2003 2008 2009 2010 2003 2009 2007 2010 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2011 2010 2010 2010 2011 SEDEFED (Federation EFQM – National of IndusExcellence Quality Kariyer.net PERYÖN trial AssoIstanbul Award and Award – – “Respect Human ciations) Chamber of AchieveContinuity for Humans Manageand ComKariyer.net Industry – ment in ExcelAward” in ment petition – “Respect “Sectoral Award in 4 lence CSR Europe the pharAwards – Forum – for Humans Environcategories Award” Enterprise maceutical Talent “Most Award” in mental Competi2020 – sector Managethe pharInitiative tive Com”Turkish category ment maceutical Award” pany of the RepreAward and sector 66 Year sentative” Finalist of 67 category Award” the “Hiring” category OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE With our existence, we produce added value for the community and the business world. We serve the development of society with our 1,950-employees and R&D investments, as well as with the taxes we pay, the governmental incentives we are granted, and the resources we allocate for social development and by giving priority to domestic employment and domestic suppliers. 69 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE 756 of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ products have been licensed in 48 Bilim Pharmaceuticals countries from the provides a significant Far East to South contribution to the Bilim Pharmaceuticals America. Turkish economy According to IMS data, generated 15.2 through new products Bilim Pharmaceuticals, billion TL of turnover developed at its R&D as the fastest growing in 2011, ranking center, which is the pharmaceutical 3rd in the Turkish largest R&D center of the company in the last pharmaceutical Turkish pharmaceutical 5 years, raised its market with a 5.1% market with 4,500 m2 of turnover by 43.5% in market share. laboratory space. the same period. Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 110 scientists are 4th in the market with a 4.5% employed at Bilim share in 2008 and 2009 Bilim Gebze meets Pharmaceuticals’ and 3rd in the market with a R&D center. Exporting to 48 of its own 17% of the 5.1% share in 2010 and 2011. countries, Bilim needs of the Turkish Accordingly, the Company’s Pharmaceuticals has pharmaceutical market share has expanded by representative offices industry. 9.6% in the last 5 years. Bilim in Moldova, Georgia, Pharmaceuticals Bosnia Herzegovina allocates nearly and Albania. 5% of its budget to R&D investments. Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops and executes social investment projects Target for 2012 aimed at raising social awareness. The Company’s investments in these 2.750.000 TL projects are listed below: Contributions of Social Investment Projects (TL) Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 215.000 300.000 350.000 1.750.000 1.900.000 2.300.000 225.000 340.057 343.188 1.835.275 1.946.515 2.419.803 70 71 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION Our market share According to Domestic Sales Market Share (%) lMS data, Bilim +9.6% Ranked 9th on TL basis in 2002, 6 5.1 5.1 Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 7th in 5 4.7 4.5 Pharmaceuticals 2003, 6th in 2004 and 2005 with a 4.3% market share, 5th 4 “Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 4th with a 4.5% market share in 2008 is the fastest in 2006 with a 4.5% market share, 4th in 2007 with a 4.6% market share, 4th 3 and 4.7% market share in 2009; ranked 3rd with a 5.1% market share in 2010 growing 2 in 2008 with a 4.5% market share, 4th and 2011. According to these data, the company’s in 2009 with a 4.7% market share and 3rd in 1 market share rose by 9.6% pharmaceutical 2010 and 2011 with a 0 in the last 5 years.” company in the 5.1% 2008 2009 2010 2011 market share. In 2011, in the Turkish Pharmaceutical Market last five years. where more than 300 companies operate, Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 3rd with a 5.1% market share Domestic IMS Sales in terms of turnover in TL, 3rd with a 6.2% market IMS Sales (000.000 TL) share in terms of the number of boxes sold and +43.5% 2nd with a 7.1% market share in terms of doctors’ 800 700 prescription preferences. 600 “As the pharmaceutical company that demon500 strated the fastest growth Market Share 400 in the last 5 years according to IMS data, Bilim Phar2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 300 maceuticals increased its sales volume by 43.5% in Turkish Pharmaceutical 6,954,458,432 8,908,577,303 9,835,347,644 9,560,142,253 9,825,332,223 9,097,319,418 200 the last 5 years.” Industry ($) 100 Bilim Pharmaceuticals 313,299,377 412,388,834 443,490,372 452,404,287 499,920,626 461,354,359 ($) 0 Rank in Industry 6 6 5 4 3 3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Share (%) 4.5 4.6 4.5 4.7 5.1 5.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turnover 448 536 574 700 752 770 72 73 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE Foreign Markets Firstly, we attached importance to the Export (US$ -,000) recognition of the Bilim brand as a wellknown name by sharing our marketing Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 knowledge in the domestic market to our Export 11,935 15,055 19,433 22,962 26,418 29,854 partners abroad. Each country was evaluWe examine the results of the Customer ated according to its own dynamics and Satisfaction Survey that we hold our partNumber of 32 37 42 45 48 48 strategies were determined, accordingly. ners subject to every year and make the Countries necessary improvements. Some examWhen we observe the period between ples to such improvements are as follows: Launched in 1998, foreign market activiAlbania, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Geor1998 and 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ ties were included for the first time in the gia. By the year 2011, Bilim Pharmaceusteady and regular growth success is We changed the package sizes in line 2002-2004 strategic plan. In line with ticals’ products are steadily prescribed clear in terms of foreign markets. with the demand of our Chinese partner, this plan, Turkey’s neighbours were initialin 48 countries. Thanks to our R&D and thus increasing production efficiency and ly targeted and market analysis were perlicensing competency, 756 of our prodAccording to the data announced by IMreducing the transportation costs of our formed with respect to these countries. ucts were licensed in 48 countries from MIB (General Secretariat of Istanbul Minpartner. We opened our first representative office the Far East to South America in 2011. eral and Metal Exporters’ Association), abroad in Moldova in 2007, respectively which pharmaceuticals and chemical exfollowed by the representative offices in porters are bound to, pharmacy exports rose by 13% in 2011. In parallel to the total growth Bilim’s export rise up 13% in the same year. According to the Turkey’s largest exporters listing published by the Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM), Bilim As a result, Pharmaceuticals ranked the share of Bilim 672 end of 2011. Pharmaceuticals in accordance with total pharmaceuticals exports has reached 5.6% in total. We began to keep packaging materials in our stocks in order to shorten order delivery times of partners, who purchase high amounts of products. We performed improvement activities on packing and packaging processes in order to minimize customer complaints. We employed another international product manager in our headquarters in order to increase the marketing support we provide to our partners. We corporated with Eximbank to increase the credit limits of our partners in order to improve the sales conditions that we offer. 74 75 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE The total Our Infrastructure Investments amount of In the section entitled “Our Processing Facilities” in the report, our Bilim Gebze plant, medical storage unit and R&D laboOUR INVESTMENTS dividends paid ratory investments were referred to. Created Added Value in 2011 is TL Our Environmental Investments Bilim Pharmaceuticals invests in enviCreated Added Value* 2,774,000; ronmental protection and carries out environment-friendly and energy-efficient practices to reduce its environmental im2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target for 2012 the ratio of pacts. These investments are discussed in the section entitled “Our Sensitivity toTarget 98,860 125,500 145,500 182,665 204,844 TL 305,829 wards Ecological Environment”. Realized 100,541 129,519 149,875 204,101 186..810.132 dividends to Our Contribution to the Community * Created added value is calculated by adding the gross wages paid to employees, as well as interests and rental fees paid by a corporation to its profit (profit is calculated by subtracting the revenues generated from subsidiaries, inthe total profit Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops and executes social investment projects aiming to raise social awareness. Investments is 6%. terests on dividends and interest incomes from the profit before tax), which is actually the GDP of such corporation. The calculated amount refers to the created added value for the national economy. made in these projects are given in the following table: Payments Made to the CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY (TL) Social Security Institution 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SSK (TL -,000) T 215,000 300,000 350,000 1,750,000 1,900,000 2,300,000 Social Investment Projects 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Amount of Contribution (TL) R 225,000 340,057 343,188 1,835,275 1,946,515 2,419,803 Target 11,000 11,500 11,500 11,905 13,487 Realized 11,532 11,796 11,401 11,971 12,938 Target for Our operating 2012 TL Tax paid costs in 2011 2,750,000 Tax (TL -,000) Target for 2012 amounted to 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TL 48,321 Target 20,500 18,400 23,000 33,000 40,500 TL 313,685,312. Realized 20,620 18,518 23,265 35,147 32,066 76 77 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE We are the leader of the Turkish OUR WORK ON RESEARCH AND pharmaceutical DEVELOPMENT market with Our Research more than and Department Centre has been Bilim Pharmaceuticals 150 products, equipped with 220 hightech machines, apparatus and equipment. Our which were all Research and Development is the biggest local developed in team currently consists of 110 people. Two of our drugs equivalent drug producer. were licensed in Western Europe. our own R&D laboratories and More than 150 of our products which are in solid, semi-solid and liquid dosage forms were developed in our own R&D Bilim Pharmaceuticals and Research & Development As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we increase local equivalent drug producer in the national pharmaceutical markets’ genuine drug sales. In order to protect our posiwhich we hold laboratories. Thanks to the understanding the importance of sharing information and transferring it to future generations, research and development activities in a planned way within the framework of our strategic planning practices. Acting upon tion, we continue to focus our attention increasingly on Research and Development projects. Our Research and Devethe license of. which was adopted in our Research and Development Centre, the knowledge that we gain during the production of each these determined strategies, we have lopment projects are at the centre of our product is carried over to the next project. created a well-organized environment of exportation to 48 countries and the volAs a result of our R&D activities, which are research and development; with a selfume of our exports doubles each passing Our investments should not be anticicarried out from this perspective, product consistent understanding of management, year with the new products that we repated as only buildings or equipment. We combinations that contain two or more a scientific logic and technical approaches ceive licenses for. also undertake large investments in commolecules, as well as controlled release that are cooperative, contemporary, enpetent human resources in our company. products that aim to reduce the side efcouraging and responsive to the needs of The underlying factors in increasing our Researchers (such as Pharmaceutical fects of drugs by increasing patient comsociety. Thanks to our R&D activities which sales targets as Bilim Pharmaceuticals Chemistry Experts, Pharmaceutical Techpliance, are added to the product spectdevelop continuously through this underare our concentration on technologynology Experts, Patent Proxies, Pharmarum of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Two of our standing, we are the leader of the Turkish based R&D activities and a continuously cologists, Analytical Chemists), who have drugs were licensed in Western Europe. pharmaceutical market with more than rising budget allocated for these activiscientific competence, are involved in It is a part of our strategic plan to ex150 products, which were all developed in ties. Our Research and Department CenProject teams that are commissioned in port drugs to Europe and the USA in the our own R&D laboratories and which we tre has been equipped with 220 high-tech our R&D department. Our Research and following days from our two production hold the license of. When evaluated from machines, apparatus and equipment. Development team currently consists of plants, which were approved by the UK this stance, our corporation is the biggest 110 people. and Germany. 78 79 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Our R&D budget, which has been incrementally growing for years, was increased even in 2009, 2010 and 2011 when economic measures had to be taken by making significant cuts in drug sale prices, and maintained at 5% of our net sales. Even during the times of crisis, R&D investments were not ceased at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Our company aims to further increase its investments in the coming periods and to allocate 8% of its net sales to R&D projects every year, in addition to the fixed investments that have to be made. Our Research and Development Centre With its building expenses as high as €120 million, our Research and Development Centre is the largest R&D centre of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry with a total of 4,500 m2 laboratory space. An Our products are investment of US$ 15 million was made in sold in 48 different our R&D centre located within our Bilim Bilim countries from the Far Gebze plant, which is the biggest drug manufacturing plant in the Turkish pharPharmaceuticals’ East to Latin America maceutical industry. We continue to make R&D budget has and Africa to the an average of US$ 5 million of additional Middle East. investments every year. Bilim Pharmaceubeen increased by ticals’ R&D budget has been increased by approximately 320% in approximately 320% in the space of the the space of the last last four years only. Bilim Pharmaceutifour years only. cals earned the R&D Centre Certification Our products in Our R&D related targets on February 17th, 2009. Our Research international markets Our Bilim Gebze Plant, with its 51,500 m2 and Development Centre comprises of 90% of the products that we hold a liof indoor space, which entered operation analytical development laboratories (incense for were developed through our in 2008, has been approved by the UK. strumental analysis laboratories, wet lablaboratory and small scale pilot producR&D activities. Thanks to our license files, With annual production capacity of 250 oratories), formulation laboratories, pilot tions, process and analytical method which comply with international regulamillion boxes, this facility has the capacproduction and stability zones. validations, clinical studies, product imption in order to respond to customer and ity to produce 17% of Turkey’s medicines. rovement studies, new product stability market demands, as well as our R&D plant In our coming investment plan, our tarOur Research and Development Centre at studies and the preparation of authorizaand production quality at high standards, get is to be the leader of the domestic Bilim Pharmaceuticals consists of groups tion files in CTD format are managed with we are able to offer our drug portfolio to pharmaceutical sector and to uphold our dealing with patent-related works, active the concept of QualityByDesign(QbD). international markets. We have a cardioshare and reinforce our position in global substances, formulation and analytical vascular product approved by the UK Demarkets like the European market paralmethod development for new products, Another important role of our Research partment of Health and an anti-diabetic lel to the development of our R&D activiclinical researches, product improveand Development Centre is that it is drug approved by the German Ministry of ties. In this context, we plan to develop ment, and stability and technology for spreading out and integrating the innovaHealth. In the near future, our products equivalent products aiming at untapped new products, alternative API and imtion culture throughout the corporation. will begin to be sold in Europe, too. In adsegments and to expand the range of provement batches. In our Research and Our new product development processes dition, as of the end of 2011, our products products that are used in the treatment Development centre, patent scanning and are improved through innovative studies, are sold in 48 different countries from the of chronic diseases. evaluation studies, active substance aswhile our profitability increases by putting Far East to Latin America and Africa to the sessment, analysis and works, formulaefficiency-increasing and cost reducing Middle East, while Bilim Pharmaceuticals tion and analytical method development, efforts in practice. asserts its presence and quality in global markets by reaching 756 license files. 80 81 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE INTELLECTUAL INDUSTRIAL AND Our targets: • To concentrate our efforts to deOur new 30 velop controlled release tablets, COMMERCIAL COPYRIGHTS which increase patient compliance and reduce the side effect of drugs, projects in addition to widely used traditional dosage forms like tablets; • To increase the number of researchare being es on patient-friendly products that include two or more molecules as they reduce the number of adminsupported by We collaborate with the Patent istrated drugs; • To develop products for markets in TÜbİtak. Institute of Turkey which we currently do not operate; and universities to • To design and develop products for continue our work exportation to global markets, inTÜBİTAK Projects with ethical cluding European and US markets; TÜBİTAK – The Department of Technoprinciples. and logy and Innovation Funding Programs Di• To exploit opportunities arising from rectorate has been established with the bioequivalent and nanotechnologyaim of speeding up the process of turning based products, which become technology to social benefit and supportpopular each passing day in the ing the research-technology development Patents; one of the most important chaWe make applications for newly develpharmaceutical industry and which and innovation activities of industrial racteristics of Intellectual Industrial and oped ideas within the scope of research are gradually used by an increasing corporations in our country. Commercial Copyrights, are tools that and development projects and follow up number of customers, as part our provide legal protection for inventions on their status. long-term strategies; development Thus, the target is to increase the skills of developed by companies and individuof equivalent drugs is only posour country’s corporations in research and als. In order to encourage inventions and We collaborate with the Patent Institute sible through making contribution technology and the increase of innovative to enable technical, economic and social of Turkey and universities to continue our to a number of disciplines such as culture and the competitive capacity. The developments in the application of inwork with ethical principles. pharmacy, chemistry, chemical enDepartment of Technology and Innovation ventions into industry, the protection of gineering, biology, etc. Funding Programs Directorate designs inventions through patents and useful For new inventions to be created informaand manages support programs in view of model certifications have been brought tion and technology have to be renewed/ the aforementioned. under protection in our country under law improved and shared. One of the most 551 “Legislative Decree About The Proimportant steps in achieving this is patAt the end of 2011, 12 in house projects tection of Patent Rights”. enting. Patenting documents are written were being supported by Tübitak at Bilim products where information on research Pharmaceuticals. A total of 30 new proAs Bilim Pharmaceuticals we stay loyal to and development is provided, identifying jects had been developed in 2011. Our aim our values in view of these laws and act the technology of industrial products or is to reduce the project cost by increaslawfully in respect to industrial property methods that require patent protection, ing the number of new projects with a low rights protected by laws. and explain them in detail while being the change in expenses. The budget of each criteria for Research and Development project has been lowered to approximately We assess patents for the medicines beprojects. Our corporation knows the imUS$0.5 million by increasing the number fore market entry in Turkey and abroad, portance of patenting and therefore has of new projects in 2011, it can be said that ensure the transport of medicines into established a department for patenting Bilim Pharmaceuticals would create a R&D the markets without violating patents, as a first step. For other intellectual and volume of nearly US$ 15 million with a total and follow legal procedures and necesindustrial rights our corporation also acof 30 projects. sary processes. quires external support. We also observe the intellectual and industrial property rights of companies that we work with as business partners. 82 83 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE GOVERNMENT GRANTS RECEIVED The formal authority for the refunding of drugs in Turkey is the Social Security InWe have met all provisions set forth in International VAT Refund stitution managed by the Ministry of Lathe law no. 5746 “Law on Supporting ReAlthough some improvements were made bour and Social Security. search and Development Activities” and in EU countries with respect to VAT rereceived an R&D Centre certification for fund, since member countries still have We get licenses for all our products in a period of 2 years being effective as of a set of their own regulations, we are reTurkey and abroad in compliance with re18.02.2009. The period was extended to quired to pay tax at various rates conlated laws and regulations. After licensFebruary 2012. Also, a request was made Investment Deduction cerning expenses that are related to busiing we make sure to conduct all follow-up for re-extension. Practice ness travels to and participation at fairs stages. An incentive certificate was obtained in many countries. Although the amount Grants received through this certification: from the Undersecretariat of Treasury varies from one country to another, we We manage all our relationships with uniwith the beginning of our Gebze investask refund of the tax that we pay, which is versities and all formal health institutions • Research and Development deducment. Our incentive certificate will expire sometimes as high as 25%, from the tax such as government hospitals, community tions in April 2011. offices of respective countries. health centres and private health instituFor R&D and innovation activities carried tions, pharmacies as well as our relationout at the Research and Development We obtained new investment incentive Compliance with law and ships with doctors, dentists and pharCentre, Bilim Pharmaceuticals benefits certificates from the Undersecretariat fair competition macists working in the aforementioned from R&D deductions by 100% in the secof Treasury concerning the purchase of We comply with all the legal obligations environments or independently according tion of deductions on the Corporate Tax new machinery and equipment for our faset out by our government and make all to the regulations and ethical principles of account. cilities in Çerkezköy and Gebze in August our engagements clearly available. the Ministry of Health and the IEIS which 2011 and October 2011, respectively. we are a member of. • Income withholding tax incentive, As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we pay our • Insurance premium support, The new certificates will expire in 2014. tax on time and in full contributing to the We carry out all our legal responsibili• Stamp duty exception, economy of our country. ties fully and within the time frame given We benefit from VAT exception and KKDF and manage correspondences and com• Project-based cash support (Resource Utilization Support Fund) exThe medicines first have to be licensed munication environments according to (TÜBİTAK) ception in items determined by the Unbefore they are provided in the markets our company mission, vision and values dersecretariat of Treasury in investment of many countries and in Turkey. Then if while considering the expectations of all The company also benefits from the “supexpenditures (in our facilities in Çerkezdesired they have to be made a part of the our stakeholders and in concordance with port for the unit rental expenses” for its köy and Gebze) which are made with this refunding system. all state institutions’ and organizations’ representative offices in Albania and certificate. We continue to benefit from laws, decree, regulations and declaraGeorgia within the scope of Supporting investment deduction in the calculation The formal authority for licensing meditions. We have received no penalty with Foreign Units, Brands and Promotion Acof corporate tax as per our incentive cercines in Turkey is the General Directorate respect to such matters as a violation of tivities of Turkish Companies no. 2010/6. tificate that expired in April 2011. for Pharmaceuticals and Pharmacy macompetition, monopolization, etc. naged by the Ministry of Health. 84 85 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR ECONOMIC ADDED VALUE FIGHTING WITH BRIBERY AND IMPROPRIETY We carry out all our activities concerning our organization in accordance with laws, regulations No bribery or and other rules of laws, as well as internationally recognized rules of law. We execute our relations impropriety with organizations and institutions, which regulate, event was apply and audit laws and rules of law, in a manner which is right, consistent and coherent with these observed and rules. no actions Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits giving anything or making any payments to anyWe pay special attention to bribery and impropriety during our activities. Due to It is our principle not to make any payment or to give any presents or services were brought body to gain advantage in the purchase or sales of goods or services or to benefit improperly with the help of official authothe nature of our sector, we make use of knowledge and services of medical employees and scientists. We conduct to public officials with the intent to affect their decisions or in a manner which may be anticipated so. against the rities. our services without neglecting the fact that most of these people work for public institutions or are public authorities. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits direct or indirect involvement of its employees, company in consultants, agencies and other representatives in commercial bribery. 2011. 86 87 THE VALUE WE ATTACH TO PEOPLE We create together with our employees. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the happiness and personal development of employees, the company’s family culture and its notion of creating together with employees are the factors that underly the company’s success in the sector and in the Turkish business world. In HR practices, innovation and the participation approach are prominent. 2011 was a year in which existing efforts were improved and new practices were launched. 89 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People AS A COMPANY THAT RESPECTS FUTURE GENERATIONS: INTERNALIZING SUSTAINABILITY We increaseour effectivness 4-Dimensional Responsibility Approach in the community In our sustainability efforts, We fulfill our social, economic and environmental responsibilities we aim to pioneer our own sector with an ethical, transparent, respectful and accountable and the Turkish business world. NGOs, management approach particularly those operating in the field Our identity as a social participant: Bilim Pharmaceutiof corporate responsibility, command an cals Community Volunteers Platform. important place in our sustainability efforts. Founded in 2005, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers aim to be a part of the solution of social and environmental problems with its 20 teams including 1,043 active members, who carry out social projects in 11 cities of Turkey. The platform makes a difference by having touched the lives of 37,911 people. We produce added value through our social investment projects Within the scope of our strategy of raising social awareness, we carry out social investment projects in the areas of schiAs a Company that Respects Future zophrenia, Alzheimer’s disease and diabetes. Besides drawing atGenerations... Internalizing Sustainability tention to schizophrenia through such projects as Gerçekler Maskelenmesin” (Don’t Let The Facts Be Masked) and “Düşünen Şarkılar” (Thinking Songs), we also aim to show what schizophrenic As well as being a leader in sustainability, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is; patients can achieve when they are given the chance. We implemented the project “40 Işık-40 Hayat” (40 Lights, 40 Lives) a) The first company in the Turkish pharmaceutical sector to: and established Turkey’s first “Alzheimer Call Center” in order to · 2010 prepare a sustainability report raise the quality of life of those near patients and to point them in the right · 2010 prepare a carbon footprint report direction in their fight against Alzheimer’s, which affects 350,000 people · 2010 sign the Global Compact in Turkey and more than 25 million in the World. In our project entitled “Diyabetle Mücadelede Daha Kaliteli Bir Yaşam İçin b) The first company in the Turkish business world to: Hayata Adım At” (Take a Step Towards a Better Life to Fight Diabetes), · 2011 prepare to GRI approved A level sustainability report which we carry out in cooperation with the Turkish Diabetes Foundation, · 2012 prepare the GRI-approved A+ level sustainability report we raise public awareness and inform those who suffer from diabetes of Our primary sustainability-related subjects: People’s happiness, social the risks of improper nutritional habits and insufficient exercise. development and environmental protection. 90 91 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY The Human Resources management We consider all of our is one of our most important processemployees to be skilled. es helping us achieve our vision and We consider each of our employees to be carry out our mission. In this context, a skilled leader of his/herjob, whereby we our defined HR policy acts as a guide formulate a participative work environin all our workforce practices. With ment that will reveal and develop their pothe purpose of creating a corporate tential through preparing opportunities culture that relies on our values, we for their individual development. working relationships with distributors, pharaim at maintaining the highest posmacies and doctors, developed professional sible level of loyalty and satisfaction We encourage our teams and improved the culture of the organamong our employees and we aim at employees to exhibit their Liliana Shalaru isation. implementing innovative human refinest performance. Moldova Country sources systems to ensure that our While we encourage our employees to Manager Bilim was the first Turkish pharmaceutical comcompany’s strategically planned tarexhibit higher levels of performance, we Bilim pany to enter the Moldavian market. Thanks gets are reached. evaluate their performance fairly and obPharmaceuticals to high-quality Bilim medication, we created jectively, and ensure that their personal a sound image of Turkish pharmaceuticals in We hire workers that goals are in line with those of our comMoldova. The competitors that later entered have the potential to pany. When Bilim started its activities in the Republic the market benefited from the Bilim reputation shape our future. of Moldova in 2003, I was employed as a that we had already established. Before Bilim, We uphold the principle of equal opWe encourage participation Medical Representative. I didn’t have any work doctors did not trust the quality of Turkish prodportunities in hiring job candidates and communication and experience in the pharmaceutical field. At the ucts at all. who are focused on team spirit and celebrate the contributions same time, I completed a Master’s Degree as a values, and who are competent, who of our employees in unison. pulmonologist. For a while, I held the position of Bilim Pharmaceuticals is proactively focused possess knowledge and development We encourage our employees to get inSenior Medical Representative. In 2007, after on the self-improvement of its employees and potential to carry our company into volved in all types of innovative and crewe opened the Representative Office of Bilim puts special emphasis on social projects. In the future. ative undertakings as well as having them Pharmaceuticals in the Republic of Moldova, I Moldova, we organised four social projects: two contribute to studies based on individual became the Country Manager. for children from the Tuberculosis Centre (on We prepare opportunities and team improvement. Moreover, we orBilim is a company with a winning and challengChildren’s Day and on the first day of the school for training and ganize in-house corporate communicaing work environment. Bilim started to work in term), one for a regional hospital’s paediatrics development. tions activities in order to foster dialogue a more professional manner in the Republic of department and one in Rezina for the boarding We ensure that our company’s current between our company and our employees Moldova, building new long-term strategies for school for children with learning disabilities. and future competency requirements as well as honouring contributions in unithe Moldavian market. Bilim accelerated the are met by preparing opportunities son. personal development of employees, improved for improvement that will develop the competencies of our employees We get strength from our throughwith our concepts regarding families. constant training, innovation and imWe consider our families to be as much provement. an inseparable part of our organization as our employees who are the determining factor in successfully achieving our company’s targets. 92 93 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People OUR PRINCIPLES ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS DEMOGRAPHIC DATA The principle of treating our employees Moreover, queries and complaints submitted by our employees who believe Demographic data of our employees with fairness and respect is the fundamental reason for our company’s high there are discrepancies between the laws SENIOR standing in the industry. This principle is and practices they encounter in the workAVG. AVG. NUMBER OF % % BLUE % WHITE % GENDER MANAGEassured with our Employees’ Rights Prinplace and our policies and principles can AGE SENIORITY EMPLOYEES RATIO RATIO COLLAR RATIO COLLAR RATIO MENT ciples. In this context, our principles we be notified to the Top-Level Management, consider as our primary principles are; Directors, Human Resources Division and FEMALE 30 4 376 19.3% 1 11% 16 5% 360 22.0% the Board of Ethics without being presMALE 32 4 1574 80.7% 8 89% 284 95% 1290 78.0% • No forced labour sured and with a sense of assuring them• No child labour selves. TOTAL 1950 100% 9 100% 300 100% 1650 100% PERSONNEL • No discrimination No forced labour and no child labour are • Providing occupational health and among our principles on employee rights, safety while we comply with these principles at Female Number of employees (2011) Total as of • Ensuring proper working conditions 100%. While there is no room for forced Facility Male 31.12.2011 labour or child labour practices in our WHITE BLUE that comply with legislation TOTAL company, it is one of our rules that the COLLAR COLLAR • Ensuring proper working hours and Ayazağa Facility 162 485 647 same applies to our suppliers and colFemale Female Female wages Male Total Male Total Male Total laborations. Çerkezköy Facility 23 100 123 The company complies fully with these There is an overtime practice in our comGebze Facility 118 308 426 principles. pany. Overtime is put in practice upon the AYAZAĞA 100 92 192 1 3 4 101 95 196 Adana Liaison Office 3 41 44 approval of our directors. Overtime pay is based on the ratios determined by the ÇERKEZKÖY 21 38 59 2 62 64 23 100 123 Ankara Liaison Office 4 43 47 law. GEBZE 105 89 194 13 219 232 118 308 426 Antalya Liaison Office 8 38 46 FIELD 133 1072 1205 0 0 0 133 1072 1205 Bolu Liaison Office 7 34 41 The Ratio of Overtime to the Total Working Hours (%) TOTAL 359 1291 1650 16 284 300 375 1575 1950 Bursa Liaison Office 0 45 45 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Denizli Liaison Office 5 39 44 Realized 5.33 5.37 3.37 4.30 4.46 Diyarbakır Liaison Office 2 42 44 Target 5.00 5.00 3.50 4.00 3.50 Erzurum Liaison Office 2 42 44 Eskişehir Liaison Office 6 36 42 Overtime is planned by our employees Moreover, within the framework of emGaziantep Liaison Office 5 41 46 and put into practice upon the approval of ployee rights, we do not apply any limitaour directors. Overtime pay is paid after tion on our employees’ right of unionizaİzmir Liaison Office 7 40 47 the total overtime hours of our employtion. Kayseri Liaison Office 4 39 43 ees are recorded in their payrolls in the respective month based on the ratios deKırıkkale Liaison Office 9 38 47 termined by the law. Konya Liaison Office 3 42 45 Samsun Liaison Office 2 44 46 Number of Employees Tekirdağ Liaison Office 4 32 36 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Trabzon Liaison Office 1 46 47 Realized 1,502 1,726 1,683 1,696 1,844 1,950 TOTAL 375 1,575 1,950 Target 1,605 1,898 1,744 1,822 1,773 1,999 2,136 2,530 2,897 94 95 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Female-male breakdown at managerial level Ayazağa Çerkezköy Gebze Field Female Female Female Female Grand Total Male Total Male Total Male Total Male Total Total Labour Force by Employment Contract Ayazağa Gebze Çerkezköy Field Total CEO 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Director 0 7 7 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 Female Total Female Total Female Total Female Total Female Total Male Male Male Male Male 2006 Manager 10 28 38 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 6 6 47 Employment Administrator 25 49 74 1 9 10 0 0 0 1 68 69 153 Contract of Total 35 85 120 3 11 14 0 0 0 1 74 75 209 101 94 195 118 308 426 23 100 123 133 1072 1205 375 1574 1949 Indefinite Duration CEO 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Employment Director 0 7 7 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 2007 Contract of 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Manager 8 32 40 1 2 3 0 2 2 0 7 7 52 Definite Duration Administrator 30 63 93 1 8 9 0 2 2 1 78 79 183 Employment Contract of 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Total 38 103 141 2 11 13 0 4 4 1 85 86 244 Partial Duration CEO 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Total 101 95 196 118 308 426 23 100 123 133 1072 1205 375 1575 1950 Director 0 5 5 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 7 2008 Manager 5 29 34 1 2 3 4 3 7 0 8 8 52 At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, there is no Administrator 16 48 64 1 8 9 16 14 30 3 80 83 186 employee who is subject to the collective Total 21 83 104 2 11 13 20 18 38 3 88 91 246 labor agreement. CEO 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Number of disabled employees Director 1 3 4 0 0 0 0 3 3 0 0 0 7 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2009 Manager 3 24 27 0 3 3 3 2 5 0 9 9 44 Administrator 19 40 59 2 5 7 14 17 31 4 74 78 175 Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Total 23 68 91 2 8 10 17 22 39 4 83 87 227 CEO 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Achieved 2 21 23 2 19 21 2 14 16 6 12 18 6 24 30 5 23 28 Director 1 4 5 0 0 0 0 3 3 0 0 0 8 Target 25 34 22 29 30 37 2010 Manager 4 22 26 0 2 2 2 2 4 0 12 12 44 Administrator 11 18 29 2 5 7 14 12 26 4 103 107 169 Total 16 45 61 2 7 9 16 17 33 4 115 119 222 CEO 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Director 1 3 4 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 6 2011 Manager 4 26 30 1 2 3 2 3 5 0 8 8 46 Administrator 20 27 47 2 7 9 14 13 27 5 115 120 203 Total 25 57 82 3 9 12 16 18 34 5 123 128 256 96 97 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Age breakdown at managerial level AGE GROUP 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 18-30 21 34 20 16 9 13 30-50 181 200 218 204 206 235 OVER 50 7 10 8 7 7 8 We aim to increase the proportion of In our company, age is not considered our female employees on an annual baas a criterion in Hiring Processes; we sis, whereby our target for 2011 is 20%. employ people in accordance with our Gender breakdown of employees by year (%) Moreover, information regarding the proqualifications catalogue. As seen in the portion of female applicants has been above table, we employ people from 90 shared in the “Hiring Practices” section. every age group. No discrimination is 80 Since we hired a high number of female made based on region, religion, language, 82 81 81 81 81 81 80 81 80 employees for our Gebze processing fasect, country, etc during the employment 79 79 70 cility (the proportion of female employees of our employees. is higher particularly in Quality and R&D 60 departments), an increase is observed in We pay particular attention to the recruitthe proportion of female employees in the ment of people from the local community 50 respective year. and fair wage policies in domestic and 40 Female Target foreign communities of our presence. In Age breakdown of employees recruitment, we support local employ30 Male Target ment by allowing our employees to be Female Realized WHOLE COMPANY candidates from places where they are 20 21 21 20 20 born or where they live. We primarily eval18 19 19 19 19 19 19 Male Realized AGE GROUP NUMBER uate the applications of the local commu10 18-30 905 nity in all hiring processes and establish 0 our employee profile by taking these cri2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 30-50 1,033 teria into account. 2011 OVER 50 12 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Female 18 21 19 19 20 20 TARGET Male 82 79 81 81 80 80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 REALFemale 19 21 19 19 19 IZED Male 81 79 81 81 81 98 99 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People MANAGEMENT OF DIFFERENCES We consider the differences among our employees as an asset for approaching business-related problems with innovative and creative methods. The concept known as management of For this reason, • We hire competent people who fit • We carry out activities to enhance differences refers to the understanding, our vision and mission within the diversity and cultural differences • Management of differences is framework of our selection and through social and sports activities, revealing and supporting differences, as a primary topic that Bilim Pharrecruitment processes; we do not boards, teams and clubs. well as turning them into opportunity for maceuticals deals with for all its discriminate on the basis of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals. • We see management of differences stakeholders, including employees, schools attended, regions, gender, customers, shareholders and the as a strategic opportunity and conWe believe that different points of view religion, language, race, socioecocommunity. sider the differences among our and opinions of employees with different nomic past, ethnical roots, etc. employees as the infrastructure characters would contribute to our estab• We respect different experiences, • We take pains to offer opportunities for developing our organization’s lishment. cultural pasts and business and of improvement that will allow our perspective and approaching busilifestyles that would add value to employees to enhance their comness-related problems with innovaWe value differences, because we know our business. petencies and enhance their contritive and creative methods. that the only way to produce ideas that • We seek to understand and meet, butions to their jobs. • Management of Differences at Bilim will make us reach our targets is to reveal if possible, the different needs and • Within the framework of our career Pharmaceuticals allows all stakeand support the differences that exist expectations of our employees to management system, we define criholders to produce added value between us. produce solutions for business-reteria for horizontal and vertical pronot only by acting fairly but also by lated problems. motion to different positions among expressing and exploiting opportuour company for each available ponities. sition and ensure that evaluations are made fairly and within the scope of equality of opportunity. 100 101 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People As Bilim OUR RECRUITMENT PROCEDURES Pharmaceuticals, We hire employee who have the it is one of our potential to shape our future. priorities in our recruitment process to Ayşen Dinçer Senior Product Manager create equal Bilim Pharmaceuticals As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, it is one of our priorities in our recruitment process to open job positions in a manner described in detail in the Competencies Catalogue opportunities Although it is known that interviews are a twosided evaluation process between the corporation and the candidate, this process generally create equal opportunities for everyone. In line with this priority, it is the fundamental principle of our candidate selecis conducted as well as skills tests, personality inventory, information tests and evaluation centre applications are used. for everyone. puts pressure on the candidate. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, in my interviews from the beginning to the end of my recruitment, I got the chance tion and recruitment process to hire creative, multi-directional and participative people, who can rapidly adapt themselves The “Evaluation Centre” practice aims to determine the development areas and levels of requirements of people, who are By using the to see how well the company manages this process. In our company, when searching for a candidate for open positions, priority is given to the to change, who have a global point of view and who continuously improve themselves and those around them, based on candidates for strategically important positions, in line with some specific competencies and to assist in deciding whether fundamental evaluation of internal references, which form a part of our corporate culture. My recruitment process, which began with an internal reference, the principle of equality of opportunity and without discrimination, as stressed out in our HR policy. the candidate fits that position. “Qualifications Catalogue” is among our principles of continued with the competency-based interview with the HR department, the technical interview with the manager that I directly report to and We benefit from the Qualifications Catalogue, which is comprised separately of basic instruments used in our recruitment process. By using these instruments, our decisions do not involve discrimination our candidate the interview with the CEO; and ended with the face-to-face job offering interview with the HR department. each position in the description of the employee profile which shall provide the organizational structure pertaining to the based on school, region, gender, sexual preferences, religion, language, race, etc in line with our principle of equality of opselection our The recruitment process also includes the adaptation process of the newly hired candidates and this process is generally neglected by comrequirements of our company, that is, its values, its mission, its vision and strategies. portunity. The reason for the low proportion of womdecisions do panies. Thanks to “my buddy”, Ceren Yanpar, on my first day of work, I got the chance to meet my colleagues in a sincere environment. In addition, Candidates who comply with the Qualifications catalogue are subject to a pre-inen in the workforce seen in the aforementioned worker breakdown chart is the heavy travel schedule experienced not involve the Human Resources Orientation Program and the Manager Orientation Program gave speed to my adaptation to work and the company. I feel terview with our HR department, whereby those who are deemed positive are directed to the pertinent department chiefs. In in working the field as well as the spread of the geographical dispersion. The percentage of female applicants for job posidiscrimination. myself very lucky as I went through a process at Bilim Pharmaceuticals that adds value to the position and the individual and motivates the these evaluations, an oral interview based tions available in the field is much lower candidate for acquiring the job. on pertinent competencies related to the than for male applicants. 102 103 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Ratio of female and male Newly Hired Employees in applicants (2011) 2011 By age: Total Number of Applicants and Under 25 77 Ratio of Female and Male Applicants 25-30 292 Number of Ratio of Gender Applicants Applicants 30-35 110 Male 21,475 59% 35-40 15 Female 14,893 41% 40-45 7 Total 36,368 100% By gender: Ratio of internal promotions Male 395 Ratio of female and male 100 applicants for field position Female 106 94.6 Total Number of Applicants for Total 501 90.4 90.6 90.1 90 86.3 Field Positions and Ratio of Female and Male Applicants (2011) By work status and region: Number of Ratio of Adana 7 7 80 Gender Applicants Applicants 74.2 74.1 Ankara 18 18 Male 4,588 70% 70 Antalya 8 8 Female 1,923 30% Antep 12 12 62.1 Total 6,511 100% 60 Ayazağa 19 166 1 186 Bolu 16 16 Application Methods 50 Bilim Pharmaceuticals treats all candiBursa 8 8 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 dates equally and allows candidates to Çerkezköy 4 11 15 complete job applications from a number *The ratio of the number of employees who are internally promoted to the number of open positions of sources. Denizli 11 11 Diyarbakır 13 13 Recruitment sources are: Erzurum 15 15 Breakdown of internal promotions (2011) • Web-based recruitment sites Eskişehir 12 12 Female Male • Direct candidates (Bilim Pharmaceuticals Candidate Database) Gebze 45 61 106 Ratio of promotions of candidate who fulfill all criteria 96.00% 96.43% (by gender) • In-house candidates (suggest a İzmir 5 5 candidate, add value & candidates holding a reference) Kayseri 14 14 In 2011, we had 15 female employees who • Internal advertising Kırıkkale 15 15 Ratio of employees who return back took maternity leave and returned back to work after giving birth • Consultancy companies Konya 16 16 to work and 133 male employees who 2011 100% took paternity leave and returned back to Samsun 11 11 work. The ratio of returning back to work 2011 is 100% for both genders. Tekirdağ 2 2 Newly Hired Employees 501 Trabzon 11 11 Employees Quitting Job 395 Total 68 360 73 501 104 105 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People EVALUATION OF COMPETENCIES • Occupational Bilim Pharmaceuticals has received kariyer.net’s • Talent Tests personality inventory “Respect for People Award” for the past three years. Talent Personality At Bilim At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, defined competencies are one of the important instruments with respect to the creation of Pharmaceuticals, equality of opportunity during the recruitment process. A number of different instruments is used to evaluate the compeSkill/ Knowledge/ Experience Motivation/ Interest defined tencies of candidates the most accurate and objective way. Elements that constitute competencies and the instruments • CompetencyBased Interview • Motivation Inventory competencies that are used to measure them are given • Traditional Interview • Inventory of interest in the following table: • Knowledge Tess • Competency-Based are one of Prior to the job offer, candidates who • Foreign Language Interview successfully pass these applications go Placement Test through a reference check as per the job the important application information. Candidates who are not included in the job hiring process or are not positively evaluated are notified those employees who are starting their By creating a platform where interns can instruments via the career portal, e-mail or a telephone call. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals has hired the great majority of its job applicants jobs in management and executive positions. Besides this formal process, newlyhired employees are assigned “Buddies”, share their innovative ideas through our training programs that ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the internship with respect coming from outside the company through the human resources internet referral website www.kariyer.net, it has received who facilitate the creation of a faster social atmosphere within the company and who convey the unwritten, informal diprogram, we encourage and support interns to produce creative and innovative thoughts. to the creation kariyer.net’s “Respect for People Award” for the past three years. This award is presented based on the following criteria: mensions of our corporate culture. “Buddies” work in the same departments as the newly-hired employees and are the Following our efforts that we carry out in order to own a qualified labour force, of equality of time that passes between job application and responding to candidates and the ratio of responded candidates. last staff members who started work in a department and have completed the orientation process. we hire the candidates in line with the “Post-Internship Recruitment Systematics”. The number of interns that we hired opportunity during Newly-hired personnel participate in an “Orientation Program” and are introduced Internship program As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we aim to find with this method is shown in the following table (by year): 159 in 2011. the recruitment to the values required to become a part of the Bilim Family. Employees are initiated through the HR Orientation Training, folthe talents for not only the present, but also the future. In line with this approach, we aim to raise the leaders of the future Breakdown of the number of hired interns by year process. lowed by a Department Orientation Program, which lasts between 2 and 6 weeks. A separate, “Management Orientation with cooperation between universities and industrial corporations by improving the qualities and competencies of our 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 87 33 52 62 90 125 138 2011 159 Program”, which creates the opportunity students, a move that we take in the light to get acquainted with their colleagues of our corporate responsibility awareand one-to-one meetings, is applied for ness. 106 107 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Pay raises by years The rates of increase in pay have exceeded the rate of inflation every year. The pay raises offered to our blue-collar employees’ wages are higher than those of white-collar employees to make a positive difference to blue-collar workers’ pay. Our grades within the scope of our Wage Management System are not only based on salary, whereas we also utilize fringe benefits other than base salaries. Special fringe benefits have been defined for grade-based positions. PAY MANAGEMENT AND No separate wage and retirement policy is applied to our employees, whether RETIREMENT POLICY hired, still working or resigned, based on gender. Ratio of Average Wage Paid by We have a fair and transparent wage policy at Our Company to Minimum Wage Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which is not affected Analyst 188.01% by age, gender or criteria that would constiWorker 211.25% tute other discrimination. Engineer 169.20% Employee 128.55% Mechanic 123.37% The ratio of the average wage paid by Technician 270.61% Bilim Pharmaceuticals to newly hired perWe pay attention to maintaining competiBilim Pharmaceuticals ensures that pay sonnel to the minimum wage in the foltive levels of pay for our employees. While management is monitored based on legal Medical lowing countries where our representa166.50% determining our salary policy, we have records and within the legal framework. Representative tive offices are located is as follows: benefited from the salary research conNobody is working informally and there is ducted by the accredited HAY Job Evaluno incidence of non-payment at the comation and Grading Systematic as well as pany. Ratio of average Employment of Tower Watson, Poyraz Consultancy and wage paid to newly Number of Country People from Local Mercer Human Resources. In taking into account salary research, hired personnel to the Personnel Community legal increases and economic indicators, minimum wage Beyond the legal requirements aimed at our Performance Management System raising employee satisfaction and depenconducts salary raising practices every All staff are from the Moldova 700% 31 local community dency and going beyond these necessiyear. ties, we have planned and are currently All staff are from the implementing non-salary supplementary Our company pays insurance premiums Albania 300% 12 local community possibilities, resources and services. for its employees as defined by the law within the scope of legal practices, which All staff are from the Bosnia Herzegovina 300% 11 are defined by the government for retirelocal community ment. All staff are from the Georgia 275% 17 local community 108 109 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People When the balance BENEFITS, RIGHTS AND SUPPORT between wages, PRACTICES supplementary BENEFITS, RIGHTS AND SUPPORT PRACTICES rights and promotions is taken Support Practices Our Company Provides Its Employees Start-up Year Coverage Overtime Pay to All Employees Legal Rights into account, there Fuel, Maternity, Death, Religious Holiday, Annual Leave and Matrimony Assistance to All Employees Transport Opportunities for Overtime Workers Vehicle Allocation for Company Top-Level Management and Field Employees is no discrimination Shuttle Fleet Service for Employees Working at Ayazağa, Çerkezköy and Gebze Since its between our female and male Bi-Annual Clothing Allowance for Field Employees foundation Bonus System for Field Employees employees. There is Quarterly Premium for All Employees Evening Meal for Overtime Employees Lunch Per Diem Payment for Employees Working outside Their not any difference Normal Province Individual Accident Insurance for All Employees 2001 Non-Salary Supplementary between full-time and temporary Allocation of GSM Line, Blackberry and Notebook ComPossibilities 2001/2005/2010 puters to Marketing Department/Field Advance Payment to Employees in Need 2003 Credit Card Allocation to Field Employees 2005 employees Morning Breakfast Delivery Service 2005 Private Health Insurance for All White-Collar Staff 2004/2006 concerning The fact that our establishment has never Mothers’ Room Practice for Our Employees at the Headsupplementary 2010 been subject to penalties during inspecquarters and at our Plants tions pertaining to job legislation which Psychological Consultancy Unit 2005 has been conducted by legal institutions Insurance Consultancy Unit Legal Consultancy Unit 2010 2009 rights. and agencies is a direct result of the sensitivity we show in carrying out our commitment to legal requirements. The Psychological Consultancy Unit began to provide 2011 services to field employees through online channels 110 111 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Discov erin nt g th le eT Ta g ht al e e Ri nt th OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE Fin Selection and Placement Development Center din Collaborations with Potential Evaluation g Universities Performance Evaluation Evaluation Center DEVELOPMENT OF OUR EMPLOYEES Human Resources Plan BUSINESS TARGETS BUSINESS RESULTS Employee Brand Gaining LEADERSHIP Bilim Family Creation Efforts Participation and MODEL Loyalty of EFQM Management Authorization Model Working alent Reputation Conditions and he T Management Environment t Sustainability Efforts th e g Volunteering Tal tin Backup Plans en Platform Training and t c Development t tra A Programs Stars Team Each of Our Employees is a Career Paths and Plans Imp Talent; Each Talent is a Potential… g the Talent rovin TALENT “At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, talent management has become the most funWhile the EFQM model applied throughout the organization and sustainability-related efforts damental approach in all our Human MANAGEMENT create a field of attraction, the recruitment sysResources processes. This approach alYiğit Duman tem focuses on reaching talents with high polowed us to receive the Talent ManageChairman of tential, who must be the primary target of each ment Achievement Award at the PERYÖN Turkish Personnel company in today’s business world. From this At the Human Resources Department, we Human Management Awards 2011.” Management stage on, the most important difficulty in talconsider all our employees to be “skilled” Association ent management is to reveal and improve the and allow them to exploit career opporIn 2000, we launched the Talent Manpotential. Regarding this issue, innovative and tunities by preparing individual develagement System in which our employees I can confidently state that Bilim Pharmaceuunique practices such as potential evaluation opment facilities and by establishing a can reveal their talents, recognize and ticals’ Talent Management system is based systems, supporting the talent through perparticipative working environment where improve their potentials and receive conon scientific foundations, can be measured sonal coaching and consultancy and the use of they can reveal and develop their potensultancy for their career targets. Our sysby means of reliable solution-oriented pervolunteering projects draw attention. Gaining tial. tems operate as a guide or an advisor in formance indicators, and is a model practice, the loyalty of the talent, on the other hand, turns every step that our personnel take in their which can be taken as a benchmark. On the bainto practices that cover not only the employcareers. sis of the leadership approach, talent manageees, but also their families. ment has become a culture in all areas associated with human resources management. The I think that the talent management system at system considers all employees to be skilled Bilim Pharmaceuticals inspires other compaand works by means of objective evaluations by nies. applying external evaluation centres in order to provide equality of opportunity. 112 113 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People We perform Evaluation Centre Through the Evaluation Centre applications, we gather objective and multiFinding the Right Talent evaluation directional data about our candidates which cannot be obtained during the interview. We perform evaluation in an enviAt Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the recruitment system was designed in a way that it supports the company’s foundation strateOur recruitment process is not limited only to the HR department. All our managers are actively involved in this process. Our qualiin an ronment, which is designed to offer equal opportunities to each candidate to show his talents under a series of standardised gies. In order for the company to realize its vision and mission and to reach its primary targets and policies/strategies, it fications and competencies catalogue (a catalogue of highly reliable and internationally accepted instruments that we use environment, circumstances. This way, we can compare the competencies and the level of competency of a candidate, who would potenhires such talents who have the required qualities and competencies in parallel with the corporate culture. to evaluate such competencies and have been adapted to the Turkish norms), which is based on our corporation’s vision, misdesigned to tially shape our company’s future, to the competencies required by the company and the position for which the candidate sion, values and strategies, is a basis for our evaluation tools. Also, the special practices offer equal is evaluated. “We recruit not which we use intensively, like the evaluation and development centre, guides us in hiring the right talent in our company. opportunities “Through the professional methods and tools we use, we question not only the past, but also the future potential.” only the talents The “Evaluation Centre” practice is one of the most important instruments that we use to each In our Evaluation Centre practice, we make use of the competency sets that of today, but to find new talents for our corporation. The “Evaluation Centre” practice aims to determine the development areas and levels of candidate to are included within our Corporate Competency Catalogue and prepare separately for each position. Those candidates who also the talents requirements of people, who are candidates for strategically important positions, in line with some specific competencies and to asshow his/her meet the required qualities for the positions that they apply for are subject to competency evaluation during the Evaluof tomorrow.” sist in deciding whether the candidate fits that position. talents under ation Centre practice. Evaluation of the competencies for the respective position is carried out by our team of professionAnother method we use to discover the right als, who are competent and experienced Discovering the right talent and recruiting not just today’s talent, but the talent of tomorrow, we believe talents are talent is establishing collaborations with universities. These collaborations may comprise of standardised activities like offering a series of in observing behaviour, by making use of a variety of internationally recognised and highly reliable instruments. among the crucial factors behind Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ success, which it pays attention to when setting up its human internship opportunities,participating in career days or customised practices specific to our company like the “My Career Is Under standardised Target Mass Method Talent Tests resources plans. In a sector such as ours, employees’ knowledge and competencies are of tremendous importance. The My Control” Congress. In today’s business world where the use and circumstances. New Graduates / Staff Members Information Tests Foreign Language Placement Tests Group Practices dynamics of the pharmaceutical industry the importance of social media are growing, Competency-Based Interviews necessitate recruitment of competent another way to find the talents is through employees with high potential and efsocial media. Through Bilim PharmaceutiGroup Practices fective implementation of systems that cals Facebook and Twitter accounts, which Analysis Presentation would ensure continuous development were opened in 2010 and began to be acExperts / First Competency-Based Interviews Forof employees. We designed a special retively used in 2011, we are able to reach our Level Managers eign Language Placement Tests cruitment process which would allow all candidates who are involved in our recruitRole-Play our candidates to reveal their potentials ment process, as well as other potential Personality Inventory and competencies (in line with the princandidates. These platforms also allow us to ciple of equality of opportunity), while we share information about Bilim PharmaceuPersonal Practices measure their unique talents and potenticals and our recruitment processes with Midand Upper Competency-Based Interviews tials that would create value in line with them in order to find the talents that would Level Managers Personality Inventory our corporate strategy. carry Bilim Pharmaceuticals into the future. Leadership Report 114 115 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Performance Management Discovering the Talent “Through performance management, we approve “Our target is to offer our the achievements of our employees the careers of employees and reveal and their dreams.” improve their potential.” The Performance Evaluation process is In this system that addresses all of our We believe, “In the qualified and compeThe common target of all the instruments applied based on determined measureemployees, the aim is not only to evaluate, tent human resources competition of we use to discover the talents of our emment and performance criteria to evalubut to ensure their participation in busitoday’s world, the best way for compaployees is to know our employees and ate employees in a fair, equal and timely ness plans, to motivate them for success nies to find and keep those employees their expectations well and to satisfy such fashion in order to ensure that Bilim Pharand to undertake planning to improve who demonstrate a high performance is expectations. The most extensively used maceuticals reaches its strategic targets their potential. Talent is fostered and to know them better than they do and to instrument that covers all of our employas its employees realize their own individsupported to demonstrate a higher peroffer them the careers of their dreams ees is the Performance Evaluation Sysual targets. The Performance Evaluation formance by integrating the performance by using this information.” (Butler and tem. The Performance Evaluation System process also paves the way for the comevaluation process into potential evaluaWaldroop, 1999) aims to evaluate the business perforpetencies and performance of employees tion, education and career processes. mances of our employees and to plan the to be improved in line with targets through environment required for their improvethe feedback that they receive during the ment by determining their strengths. The operating period, as well as through conPotential Evaluation System, on the other tinuous dialogue; objective information is hand, aims to evaluate the sustainable collected for pay and career-related deciperformances of our employees as well sions; and achievements and the perforas their current and future potentials and mances of the employees are known by accordingly to plan their development others and rewarded. by also taking their personal targets into account. At the Development Centre, we identify our stars from among the talents, who have come into prominence, on the basis of the criteria that are determined through the Performance Evaluation and Potential Evaluation systems. 116 117 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People In all stages (strategic planning and prepa“Participation, authorization, innovative Performance Evaluation Sections and Supporting/Improving Practices ration of the annual plan and budget) with contribution to business targets the exception of the determination of pridevelopment and objective evaluation Source Weight Supporting Practices Improving Practices mary business targets and primary strateare important approaches of our talent gies, performance targets are determined management.” Talent Improvement Corporate Development Centre with the participation of all employees. The Programs, Mentorship Competencies Potential Evaluation annual plan and the budget, as well as the We appreciate the value produced by CompeSystem, Competency (Basic, 20% 360° Competency business targets set forth in the annual plan our employees in business results and tencies Development Trainings, Functional, Evaluation System and the budget are written down on perforapprove this value through our “instant Personal Development Managerial) Field Coaching mance evaluation forms as annual or periodhonouring” and “honouring/awarding” Tools based performance evaluation targets after systems in addition to our Performance Strategic Plan Standard Occupational consensus is reached at the end of the neEvaluation System. Annual Plant Field Coaching Development Plans, gotiations that are carried out between all Business Budget 80% Performance Talent Improvement white-collar and blue-collar employees and Targets Duty Definitions Improvement Pool Programs, Occupational managers every year in January. Processes Development Tools 360° Competency Evaluation System Percentage of employees who received performance evaluation 1,00 0,98 0,99 Objective Evaluation 0,97 0,96 0,94 The “360° Competency Evaluation System” 0,92 raises effectiveness of interpersonal 0,90 0,88 0,88 0,87 communication and directly contributes to 0,86 organizational development. 0,84 0,82 The “360° Competency Evaluation Syssonal communication and directly contem” is applied to contribute to the pertributes to organizational development. 0,80 sonal development of our personnel who 2008 2009 2010 2011 are in managerial or higher positions by In the evaluation form, behavioural exgiving feedback on their strong sides and pressions are defined with respect to sides that are open to improvement. “Basic and Managerial Competencies”; they are monitored and the extent that “Participation, authorization, innovative This system is based on the principle of the evaluation of a manager’s basic and these behavioural indicators are covered by our managers is then measured. contribution to business targets development and managerial competencies by a number of different criteria, such as their executive Through mass data received from the syssenior managers, their subordinates who tem, our company’s “Leadership Photo” objective evaluation are important approaches of directly report to them, their functional superiors and subordinates, as well as can be taken by measuring the managerial capabilities of our personnel who are in our talent management.” themselves. This study aims to contribute to the personal development of our managerial positions at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. With these results, the “Bilim Leadermanagerial personnel by giving feedback ship Model” is created and each leader is on their strengths as well as their areas informed through feedback on which part of that are open to improvement. the model they are at. Moreover, the results of the measurement provide significant inMoreover, the “360° Competency Evaluput for other HR processes and systems, ation System” provides objective evalusuch as Quality Management System, PE ation as there are a number of criteria (Personal Evaluation) and Education. involved raises effectiveness of interper118 119 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People “Talents are The most important Potential Evaluation those people role model and the “We guide our who become source of inspiration employees Percentage of Employees Who Are Subject to aware of their for talents are their potentials leader managers. With the Career Development Evaluation: to properly 2008 2009 2010 2011 by taking the our Leadership Model, Realized 78.0% 82.0% 81.0% 75.1% manage their *The percentage of employees who are subject to pocareers.” tential evaluation is the ratio of employees who are given feedback as a result of such practices in the development program and evaluation and development responsibility leader managers Our corporation has a young and highly centre. of their discover and develop qualified workforce. It is critical for our Talent Management to know and manage our employees’ expectations and targets, Ratio of employees who were development the talents.” subject to career evaluation to ensure that they set up targets in line with the corporations and to guide them in order to properly manage their targets. Female in 2011 Male and who can The Potential Evaluation Meeting Aims to: • ensure proper management of our 62.1% 78.6% get one step After the career expectations and targets of employees are received, managers who will guide these employees are invited to employees’ career expectations; • determine employees that make a ahead by using the Potential Evaluation Meeting, which is organized by the HR department. The main target of the manager is to make difference; • identify our employees’ potential; Those employees who have a specific such potential.” sure that his employee focuses on his development, searches for opportunities, and prepares and implements his action • direct each employee to different development programs based on performance result participate in this proplan. At the Potential Evaluation meethis potential and sustainability percess by filling out the “My Career Is under An employee who fills out the “My Career ing, in sessions that are specially held for formance; My Control” form. The form aims to make Is under My Control” form is ready to take each employee, the manager is allowed sure that our employees think about their the responsibility of his career developto state his opinions on his employee’s • identify leaders of the future (star areas where there is room for improvement. Having received training on this approved achievements, qualifications, employees); ment, plan their development properly, form and the Potential Evaluation System, experience and career targets/expec• design/implement different applimake use of development opportunities employees get the chance to state freely tations, as well as the projects that his cations and instruments taking our more frequently and take responsibility what they expect from their managers, employee is involved in. For the manaemployees’ development potential for their career. The form allows employthe HR department and other colleagues. ger who has focused on his employee’s into account when designing develees to take responsibility of their career qualifications, achievements in the past opment programs. through “RUMBAS Management” and oriand future expectations, a special report entation questions. is prepared which would be used by the manager in the feedback stage after the meeting. The process comprises of the stages shown in Figure 2: 120 121 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Potential Evaluation Process It is also aimed to determine the areas of improvement and the level of require“Our team of Receiving ments of those candidates, who are candidates for strategic positions in terms of Development Centre practices and some evaluators the Career Expectations of Employees specific competencies, and to decide whether they fit such positions. who have As a result of these meetings, each emThe objectivity and professionalism of our talent management process is of great importance to us. We maintain our internationally ployee is placed in the Talent Management Matrix. Besides functioning as a scale used by managers to evaluate their employees’ motivation and confidence in the system and ensure they concentrate on improvement. The following has been recognized employees, the matrix creates our company’s talent inventory. Analysis is made based on this inventory after the compleFeedback guaranteed by the HR department when entering the Development Centre: evaluator from • there are clear and specific criteria; tion of Potential Evaluation meetings and reported to the senior management. Employee’s Manager Potential Evaluation • the process and the practices are clearly defined; certification is Meeting Development Centre The “Development Centre” is one of the instruments that we use to help our emRegarding Their Targets • employees are well informed about the process and practices; the guarantee for the career of ployees reach their personal career tar• a standardized evaluation scale is gets, which they determine in line with used for everyone; their talents, and to improve their talents • a number of professional evaluain parallel with the targets of our company. At the Human Resources Department, we In order to discover the talents in our company and to reveal their potentials, we act within the framework of two basic tors apply highly reliable and recognized instruments in a professional our employees.” manner; consider all our employees to be skilled approaches. The first is to set up systems and allow them to exploit career opportuthat will reveal and improve the talents • results are evaluated in an objective We include those employees in the nities by preparing individual development of our employees, while the second is to manner; and Development Centre who have contrifacilities and by establishing a participaperform this action on the basis of our es• there is no exception to the system. buted to the company’s performance tive working environment where they can tablishment’s needs. with successful performance results and reveal and develop their potential. are evaluated according to the results of Evaluators are selected amongst the potential evaluation, while we set up our The basic purpose of using employees internally according to specific criteria after an extensive application process. At the end of the training Stars Team that would provide additional development opportunities for our company’s future targets. the Development Centre is to program that comprises of two modules, evaluator candidates are held subject to various practices. Candidates who are Stars Team is our talent pool, which covers 10% of our employees and which is objectively determine employees’ successful in such practices are commissioned in the evaluation processes after they receive the internationally recogconstituted of those employees, who follow career opportunities by participating in a challenging development program, strong sides and their sides that nized SHL Evaluator Certification. in addition to standard development programs. Employees, who successfully complete their development on the Stars are open to improvement. Team, are directed to the “Appointment Evaluation Centre” when any career opportunity arises. 122 123 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People IMPROVING THE TALENT In order to realize our corporation’s vision, we see creation of a learning organization as the basic element of strategic HR management. For this purpose, “We plan and apply modern we provide all of our employees with new learning methods and various learning tools at our platform, bilimk@mpüs. Ful“We learning tools, methods and ly compliant with the latest e-learning standards in the world, bilimk@mpüs’s e-learning and management platform established systems that are based on allows monitoring of classroom trainings and various development tools. Thanks to the methods and new techa special and individual and organizational nologies it makes use of, the platform eliminates time and place restrictions. individual needs and measure their results Bilimk@mpüs is our learning platform that makes individual development permanent. It is able to cover different learning development the most effective way.” needs and allows rapid learning facilities to be accessed by all of our employees who are working across the nation. platform for The driving force behind change and debehaviors. When defining our training and Thanks to the “Career Paths”, our employees learn which positions they can target in parallel with their existing qualities and each of our velopment of organizations is undoubtedly their human resources. The thing that makes humans so important for ordevelopment targets based on the above mentioned mentality, we aim to create an employee profile, which would provide competencies, and how they can be candidates for these positions in accordance with career criteria. Our employees, who employees.” ganizations is undoubtedly their ability the organization structure in line with our are given feedback during Performance to learn. Learning is the most important company’s requirements, in other words and Potential Evaluation processes on Each of our employees has a special destep in forming and developing human its mission, vision, values, strategic plan their developed and undeveloped compevelopment platform at bilimk@mpüs. and primary business targets. tencies so they can achieve their career They can access the standard developtargets, improve their potentials by makment programs and individual developing use of our learning platform in areas ment tools that they require for their cathey want to improve. reer development and business targets. 124 125 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People bilimk@mpüs Ahmet Hançer Sinan Akdoğan E-NOCTA – Information Senior Sales Training Manager Bilim General Manager grows as it is Pharmaceuticals Bilimk@mpüs has become one of the within the training and identify their development areas. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a leading company in Turkey which correctly positions training and development as a strategic tool within In this respect, Bilim K@mpus not only provides a learning model that offers the full extent of technology, but also supplies shared… most important steps for our company, especially considering the popular slogan of our time “grasping change.” At the same time, we have also defined the field so that they can repeat any one training if they feel necessary. its integrated human resources management. Training and development activities, corporate strategies, social responsian integrated social working field for its employees, business partners, clients and the rest of society. While executing this We are in an environment in which it is In this process, we aim to provide a cambility projects and communication work strategy, Bilim K@mpus uses software vital that individuals shape their own capus consisting of 20 modules targeting together in complete harmony; without this, provided by ourselves the Enocta reer management as well as their eduTTS proficiency within a period of 57 it would have proved impossible to execute Training Platform (EEP, which presents cation. months. such a vast change in such a short space of and manages all training and development “The individual is primarily responsible The aim is to provide theoretical traintime, in addition to the winning of consecuactivities). The EEP is produced entirely in for the individual’s self-development,” ing as well as the chance to observe tive awards. The EFQM award, the PERYON Turkey, has received R&D support from the and I strongly believe that friends who and evaluate these training areas within Special Award for Talent Management and Turkish Scientific and Technical Research seek this kind of development will be their field of work. Hiring, and the Private Sector Volunteers’ Institute, and is used in many EU projects able to take one step forward with this The base courses within the modules Award stand as testament to this fact. as well as other projects taking place area of training. are Individual Image, Body Language Bilim Pharmaceuticals is an institution beyond our borders. This software offers The benefits of Bilimk@mpüs in connecand Body Language and Behavioural which believes in the continuity and unistate-of-the-art technology in e-learning tion with myself and what I do are; Training. versalisation of training and development. and communication. It features the • I will be able to complete my trainTo improve sales and marketing proAs a result, training and development is not retrieval of all content related to training ing needs in the area of my choice ficiency, the training modules include only performed as one of the many tools and development from computers, mobile • I will be able to use my time wisely Sales Skills Training, Presentation Skills for staff members, but also for business devices, tablets and any form of internet and effectively Training, and Negotiation Skills Training. partners, suppliers and society at large. devices; the conducting of tests, sharing • It is an area in which the control For the purposes of increasing teamAll training and development is positioned of videos; the production of contents and of my development rests with mywork, modules include becoming a Team with an integrated manner, completing ittheir sharing. This infrastructure also self Member Training, Conflict Management self. supports social learning and the sharing of • I have the opportunity to reach my Training, and Team Success Training. As with many parameters in the business information. target audience in the most effecThe Bilim Sales Academy, in its current world, training and development also unBilim K@mpus is the first social learntive manner through my training structure, boasts an unrivalled depth dergoes change. In an increasing number ing and social information sharing model identity and range when compared to all other of institutions across the world, a learning among Turkish pharmaceutical compafirms engaged in sales. model in which training and development nies. This is a sign of of Bilim Pharmaceu• I am able to reach at the fastest Medical Promotion staff will be able focuses on staff and is delivered by staff ticals’ innovate approach, as well as the speed to take 60 different types of training has become more evident. Institutions and significance it attaches to transparent • I am able to conduct general comacross 20 training modules, and also leaders, including Bilim Pharmaceuticals, production and the sharing of information. putations and extract results be able to evaluate this training over Biltry to support this process. Training and Bilim K@ampus, with its infrastructure In this area, within the Sales Academy, imk@mpüs. development are offered in an integrated including training sessions, articles, book which is geared towards all of our TTS My most important message for Bilmodel. Classroom training sessions, trainsummaries, e-MBA programmes, up-tocolleagues, we have defined a field in imk@mpüs is: “those who want to learn ing and development material, tool and date news announcements, links etc. is which the TTS team is able to follow its take one click forward!” e-learning technologies are planned and very rich and dynamic in terms of content entire training process from the period executed holistically and coherently. This and moves forward every day. of hiring. They can track their progress approach ensures the direct contribution of earning efficiency in business results. 126 127 The Value We Attach to People We create an organizational culture that learns through social learning. As a result of the studies performed on Our aim is the human brain in the last decade, it is known that humans can learn better via the learning methods they prefer. This to provide introduces the necessity to diversify learning tools according to learning preference. At Bilimk@mpüs, a number of tools and specialization methods can be simultaneously used during learning & training programs. through Question-Answer – I have easily accessed information; what do others know? schools and Yasemin At least, I got such an impression. Learning by having fun, practicing applications that are easily rememWe ensure our employees instantly access information through the quesacademies. Öztürk bered, solving exemplary questions tion-answer system without waiting Secretaryabout a subject that is already learned for their training sessions. With its audio and visual contents, its liResource and analyzing the solutions reinforce brary that makes data sharing easier, its Planning learning and increase its permanency. Blog – Sharing of intellectual information; specially designed in-class development Director This, by making you happy, creates the what are the interpretations? programs, and its measuring-evaluation motivation to participate in new training systems, Bilimk@ampüs aims to offer opprograms and to keep up on the kampüs. Our blog writers and followers either portunities to our employees and stakeI think that Bilimk@mpüs, as a website publish research or an essay in the holders for specialization through five difwith rich contents, is an ideal system Kampüs is easy to use and simply desame way they share their opinions ferent academies. for working with people, allowing you signed. I had no difficulty in learning. It with others. to take one step closer to your target is even more fun and easier than SAP… Our target is to make learning a habit. s by improving yourself at the desired When you make a mistake in SAP, it is Discussion Groups – The truest, the time and place. It is also a platform that difficult to correct it. You do not face this most unique and the most effective ideas 78% of our employees actively use this improves and strengthens communicaproblem in Kampüs. It has an easier decompete for the sake of greater insight. system that is open to all of our emption between employees. sign, but more content… Ideas produced by discussion groups loyees. The minimum rate of successfully I believe that e-training that is designed Because I am a Training Guide and becompete. completing the Bilimk@mpüs practices is with the self-learning concept helps peocause of my personal curiosity, I, as a determined as 80% among the employple to learn about a subject by allocating person who loves to research and learn, Business Friendship – Who is doing ee performance targets for 2012. This a desired amount of time without being use almost all of the options: Training, what? How much do they share? What way we aim to increase the ratio of our subject to any pressure and constraint. Reports, Content, Questions, Social Acare the learning trends and what is on the employees who actively use this system E-training, the duration and speed of tivities, Communication and the library, company’ agenda? to 100%. which are determined by employees, which I use the most frequently. In the also teach them how to test themselves. library section, I read books about perThrough business friendship, we follow E-learning is applied at a rate varying beIf an employee believes that they have sonal development and I feel that this what others read, learn or share. tween 50-80% per employee. The averlearned enough about a subject, the has made a difference in my life. age rate of satisfaction with these trainplatform allows them to pass to the next I am very thankful to those who have One person is sharing information and ings is between 80-90% in 2011. These subject and to state their opinions about provided such a platform to our nine people are writing their comments. figures are high for a new learning model the subjects that he has already learned. employees. 90 people who do not interact, on the and for the first year of application. other hand, learn by just reading. 128 129 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Communication is very important at BiIt is important that participants and their Trainings in 2011 (Employee/Hour) An employee’s potential is associated limk@mpüs! senior managers are active and take rewith their learning speed and ability to reBilimk@mpüs allows the executive senior sponsibility throughout all stages of Average flect what he or she learns in their job and manager to be informed of every stage of learning and development programs. All job results. Within the scope of the prinTarget 56.00 learning and the status of his employee’s the learning and development behaviour ciple of equality of opportunity, we allow progress. Moreover, senior managers of participants, from requesting to learnRealized 58.61 those employees who benefit from the are informed through general reports, ing and test results, are reported over the learning environment we offer and who which are automatically produced by the system. Department Realized become prominent with their achievesystem. ments to join the Stars Team, where they Marketing 63.04 are provided additional development opHuman Resources 53.76 portunities. Çerkezköy Processing Facility 52.33 Development programs, which are designed and customized according to the Gebze Processing Facility 33.32 employee’s career targets, current status Scientific Departments 53.05 and profile level, are created by professional training companies and their conResource Planning 50.60 sultants based on the results of the DeQuality 62.00 velopment Centre. Business Development 24.99 Foreign Markets 35.70 Employee training (HOURS) Employee Training (Hours) • Medium Level • Senior Level 2010 Employee 2011 Employee Manager Manager Candidates Hours Hours Candidates • Red Group • Green Group Occupational Development Trainings (General) Leadership 5.06 8.42 Leadership (Employee Hours) Development Development Program Male 13.5 10.7 Program Female 11 10 Red Group Green Group Personal Development Trainings (General) (Employee 37.2 36.8 Hours) Stars Team Male 27 38.4 Development Female 35.2 30 Programs Integrated Management System (Employee Hours) 8.36 9.47 Blue Group Yellow Group Male 6.84 8.86 Female 10.07 12 • Functionally Targeted • First Level Manager Candidates Occupational Health and Safety Trainings (General) Candidates 2.03 3.92 (Employee/Hour) • Internal Trainer • Blue Group Development Program Male 1.95 3.79 Leadership Development • Yellow Group Female 2.37 4.4 Leadership Program Total Number of Employees: 1,950 Development Program Male: 1,574, Female: 376 130 131 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Leadership Development Program Number of Employees Who Participated in the Leadership Development Program 140 124* 120 118 118 117 120 Hanife Tanışan 120 Ken Blanchard Instructor 100 80 75 We have been working with Bilim Pharegating and the handover of authority, maceuticals since October 2010 in the observing and evaluating performance, 60 Multi-Dimensional Leadership II ® (CBLII and the delivery of feedback. They also ®) training processes. CBLII contains all become more effective, trustworthy, 40 those involved in a management role. convincing and supportive. Individuals Multi-Dimensional Leadership II is a become more efficient because individ20 practical, up-to-date and the most comual aims are clearly identified while esprehensive method in the world to mantablishing links to the targets of the inage and develop people, time and other stitution. The competency and loyalty of 0 resources. Multi-Dimensional Leaderstaff increases, reaching the expected 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ship II helps the leader move beyond the results, hence boosting performance. *Female: 19 Male: 105 critical character of a boss, evaluator The programme aims to achieve a much and judge, and guides them to become more open and positive system of coma partner, facilitator, encourager, supmunication between management and porter and coach. staff through the use of a common lanStars Team The Multi-Dimensional Leadership II guage. takes participants on a journey during Our journey with Bilim Pharmaceuticals, When determining the number of people which they experience development which began in October 2010, continued “Through our Talent who will join the Stars Team each year, while also converting the participants’ in 2011 with most of the management we pay attention to a number of criteria staff into self-sufficient and successundergoing this process (a total of 168 Development Programs and plans, such as back-up plans, moful individuals. This process helps those individuals received the Multi-Dimenbility plans, rate of compliance with the who want to be among the best, are willsional Leadership II training in a total of on the Stars Team, we determined target profiles of candidate ing to work independently while overlapnine groups). employees, etc. Each program continues ping personal goals with corporate aims. The characteristics which we observed offer our employees for six months to two years. participants It also helps those individuals who seek whilst while Bilim Pharmaceuticals were join trainings working in cooperation with these aims with an emotion of dedicathe dynamic human structure which was one of the target development consultants and intensively tion. The programme increases the freopen to development, the understandmake use of various development tools. quency and quality of speeches deliving of leadership, the ethical stance, opportunities that The program begins with a cocktail and ered on performance and development. team spirit and the level of corporate then moves onto development trainings It enables managers to easily apply loyalty in its employees. All of these they can benefit from like simulations, workshops,event analytheir leadership styles, to be flexible and characteristics moved us deeply and sis, preparing development action plans compatible and to take over the responserving Bilim Pharmaceuticals and its throughout their entire together with their managers, managsibility of the development of their staff. staff has been a source of pride for us. ing community investment projects and They become more competent in issuing Our journey with Bilim Pharmaceuticals career development then finally presenting the results of the instructions, appreciating, encouraging, continues with volunteer activities. projects that they manage to the career the designation of targets and direcprocess.” board. tions, individual problem solving, del132 133 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Ahmet Ük Marketing Director Bilim Pharmaceuticals I joined Bilim Pharmaceuticals on March 3rd, 1997 as a Medical Representative. I was chosen as the medical representative of the year in 1998 and promoted as the Head of the Kadıköy Region in 1999. I was Hakan Tetik accepted in the Talent Pool in 2003 within TMI Group the scope of Stars Team Green Group. The Instructor point that was explained to me by the Human Resources department on the day I was accepted was very important: “We Within the framework of the Bilim Phar“Managing and It is much easier for managers to delegate jobs to the employees under by status and to manage the results than it would be to are offering you a development opportunity for your career. We are ready to support you in order to satisfy all of your demaceuticals Star Team – Effective Person Management Program of 2011, we supported a group of individuals consisting of successfully manage a voluntary project. It requires leadership skills to convince and motivate peovelopment needs. However, what is more important is that you take responsibility management candidates with an intensive programme. Throughout the training procompleting a ple to undertake a different and challenging for this process” … I successfully completed gramme, over 60 highly energetic stusocial responsibility project that you deterthe program and was promoted to the Hurridents believing in themselves and Bilim mine. to receive people’s support, to make cane Team in 2004 as a Promotion Manager. Pharmaceuticals completed their chalCommunity them work for such purpose, and to make sure that they continue making voluntary contributions by keeping their energy and On the day of my promotion, I noticed one thing: the person must first take the responsibility for their career; and then the lenging yet enjoyable development in the fields of strategic approaches, personal quality, team formation, team manageInvestment motivation level high, allow managers to lead employees to perform such efforts by company must continuously support it… My development continued between 2006 ment, creativity, and project preparation. In the practical exercises at the end of Project taking responsibility and by allocating extra and 2011 at the Talent Pool within the the training programme, candidates were time outside working hours. framework of the Stars Team Red Group able to synthesise practical work with the Talent Development Program. Following knowledge given to them in training. The requires Acting upon this idea, those of our employees who are candidates for first level managing positions have the opportunity to develop the 6-month rotation in the PM position in 2007, I was appointed as a Business Unit Manager. performance of the team as well as the Bilim Pharmaceuticals HR was greatly appreciated. maximum use themselves by carrying out voluntary projects throughwith the leadership skills that My professional career that began at Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 1997 as a medical repThis work was conducted with the aim of having the managers see different perof leadership they gain during trainings. In these projects, resentative continues as of January 2012 spectives, internalise facts, and raise they voluntarily develop a social responsibias a Marketing Director at Bilim Pharmastrong leaders and to make a difference lity project, create their teams from volunceuticals within the scope of our talent in the competition. The strength of the inskills.” tary employees and work together to reach the determined targets. Candidates for midlevel managing positions, on the other hand, management system. I was not surprised when we received the Talent Management dividuals and their team player skills attracted attention, yet the observation was Award from PERYÖN (People Management that there was room for improvement in work in a camp where they ensure that their Association of Turkey) in 2011. I think our the synergy between teams. Bilim Phardisabled guests have the best vacation of Talent Management system represents maceuticals HR immediately increased their lives. This way, they can overcome the a significant benchmark both in Euits communication and took necessary obstacles inside themselves. rope and Turkey. action to achieve this goal. 134 135 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Coaching System Number of employees who are supported for graduate study* The “In-House Coaching System” was launched 40 36** in December 2005 which initially began with 19 35 31 mentees and 13 mentors within the framework 30 29 of the first pilot practice, continued in a growing 25 20 manner and reached 26 mentors and 26 mentees, 20 which were identified in line with quotas. 15 13 10 8 6 The “In-House Coaching System”, which Our “In-House Coaching System” aims 5 is applied by many successful organizato create a culture in which each mantions throughout the world, is one of the ager has adopted the “coaching style” 0 strongest instruments applied for transmanagement approach motivating men2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ferring of knowledge, experience and tees to become mentors in the future. culture within a company from one gene* Figures in the table are cumulative. ration to another by use of in-house reAs in all our HR applications, we began ** Male: 20, Female: 16 sources and thus to establish a “learning” to work to reach a management model in organization structure. At Bilim Pharmawhich this culture is well settled. As new ceuticals, the “In-House Coaching Sysmentors are trained, we are now planning tem” was launched in December 2005, to expand our efforts in the coming years taking its place in our history as one of our to all our employees in a way to create most successful practices. Our “In-House equality of opportunity Coaching” system, which initially began with 19 mentees and 13 mentors within the framework of the first pilot practice, continued in a growing manner and reached 26 mentors and 26 mentees, which were identified in line with quotas. Today, there are 31 mentors and 31 mentees within the system. 136 137 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Examples to Our Practices and Investments That Make a Brand for Our Employees Job/ Role and Working Corporate Individual Experiencing Environment Culture Learning & Development Bilim Family Opportunities Bilim Children’s Bİ’L Leadership Performance Evaluation World Model Our Principles System Bilim Wages and Benefits R&D Talent Management GAINING LOYALTY Pharmaceuticals Systematics Technological System Community Flexible Working Infrasructure Potential Evaluation Volunteers Model EFQM Excellence System OF THE TALENT Management of Department Model Projects and Teamwork Differences Motivation Sustainability Creative Idea Platform Psychological Practices Efforts Innovation Tours – Consultancy Unit Social Facilities in Reputation Brainstorming Session Legal Consultancy all facilities (Fitness Management Instant Honouring We further develop and differentiate our In order to ensure that our employees Unit Centre, Library, Model Systematic special practices every year which we develop emotional loyalty to our corporaInsurance Bilim Café, Café Ethical Recognition, Appreciation have created in line with our employees’ tion, we establish and manage systems in Consultancy Unit Mola, Cafe Beta Management and Awarding Systematics expectations so that they feel safe, adopt 4 different areas: individual, job/role-exSocial and Sports Internet Room, dry Master and Doctorate Activities Teams cleaning service) our corporate targets and values, show perience, working environment and corDegree Application Clubs efforts to be a part of the corporation, and porate structure. Systematic feel that they are members of a strong family. We work with such employees, who are university graduates or higher, who have an average of 3 ½ years of experience, BilimAilem (Bilim Family) and “Our target is who have the motivation to succeed, who are socially responsible, who are ethical, etc. We establish systems that would reBilim Children’s World Family is a concept that everyone learns to shape the spond to their unique expectations in line with their personal qualities. In the job/ role-experience area, we aim to properly at a very young age. Our family supports us by always standing by us throughout our lives. We always get strength from our future with identify our employees’ expectations and to ensure they are satisfied with what they are doing. We receive their business defamily, share our feelings with them and take shelter in our family even at the tiniest despair. employees, velopment ideas, authorize them and give them the opportunity for personal development, and appreciate their achieveWe are a big who are ments through our honouring and awarding systems. In the working environment area, we aim to model the leadership style family with our loyal to their expected by our employees and to maintain their business-private life balance. In the corporate structure area, we aimed to employees and business and draw talents to our corporation by creating a brand for employees through excellent management, sustainability, corpotheir families. corporation.” rate image and reputation activities. 138 139 The Value We Attach to People The strength, interdependence and continuity of a family, which is very important for everyone, child or adult, creates positive impact on each member of the family. We have been practicing BilimAilem as a project that is in line with our HR PoliAyça Öztunç cy and covers both employees and their Clinical Research families. The project aims to ensure our Specialist employees get acquainted with the famiBilim lies of each other and to contribute to Pharmaceuticals personal and social development of our employees’ families. We plan the projI started working at Bilim Pharmaceutiects, BilimAilem and Bilim Çocuk Dünyası cals in the Research and Development (Bilim Children’s World), in parallel with Department in 2005, before moving on our 3-year strategic plans and within the to my ongoing role as a Clinical Research framework of the annual HR plan. AccordSpecialist. I think including all company ingly, we prepare the budgets for these employees and family members in the projects, while keeping view of the perforcompany’s processes, while not underesmance of the projects as a factor that aftimating their contributions to corporate fects our corporate success. success has proven to be quite a successful approach. It is very good of Bilim Pharmaceuticals to remember their staff and let them feel that the company is by their side during happy times such as marriage and birth, as well as during the dark days of when loved ones are lost. Hacı Daş Such practices enable the company to beLiquid Production come something more than just a workDepartment place, but an entity to which there is an Bilim emotional connection. In this respect, I Pharmaceuticals find the Bilim Family Gebze facility visit to be highly successful. It was personally very effective to physically see a workI have been working as a Foreman in the place where corporate success includes Liquid Production Department for 24 the contributions of family members. Both years. the facility visit and the accompanying I share the pride of being together with my activities were highly enjoyable. In anBilim Family for 24 years, in a structure other thoughtful turn, employees are rewhich takes great responsibility for a betmembered on special occasions such as ter world and becomes ever more corpoMother’s Day, Father’s Day and Women’s rate with every passing day. Day. My family and I participate in corporate I believe that Bilim Pharmaceuticals will activities, thereby making use of the opcontinue to gain the appreciation of its portunity to meet my colleagues as well as employees’ by improving on these their families. Activities such as the worksuccessful policies. place visit, the Dolphin show and Summer Table Tennis School significantly increase the motivation of the employees. Sustainability, as part of our corporate culture, motivates us in terms of pushing us to improve our work and to become leaders in this field. 140 141 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Sample Activities for Sample Activities for Bilimailem The Bilim Children’s World (Bilim Family) Painting Contest BilimAilem Magazine 2006 Chocolate Course Dalin Baby Care Set Distribution Creative Drama Course Concert & Playhouse Organizations Stationery Campaign Welcome to Summer Picnic 2007 Visit to the Toy Museum Çekül Birthday Card Practice Space Camp General Manager Promotion Celebrations April 23rd Festival Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book Book & DVD Sending to Houses distribution 2008 National Geographic Kids Subscription Photography Course Painting Contest Birth Photographer “Bilim’s Tastes” Cookbook Ping-Pong Summer School Photograph Exhibition Çekül Birthday Card Practice Marital Communication Training 2009 Wooden Toy Painting Workshop with Boyner Discount Card Implementation Grandfather Theo SOSAK Cental Istanbul Workshops Concert and theatre organisations Bugs Bunny Basket Show Family communication education 2010 Bilim Children’s World Semester Activities Release Mothers’ and Fathers’ day presents A SOSAK press release is published to inform all of our employees on cultural, art and sports activities to be DOLPHINARIUM Trip March 8th World Women’s Day Stationery Set Delivery Ağaçlar Konuşuyor (Trees Are Talking) Photoorganized by SOSAK in and outside the company and Bulletin on Semester Activities graph Exhibition Delivery of Magazines, National GeographMother’s Day to ensure their participation in such activities. ic Kids and Winnie Father’s Day the Pooh Domestic Communication Trainings (AntalyaBook Delivery Konya-Trabzon) As a platform that is established with the decide on the activities that they would 2011 DVD Delivery BilimAilem Gebze Trips voluntary participation of our employees perform throughout the year. They deterDiscount Campaign for Tuluhan Uğurlu Concert working in different departments within mine their activities and the awards to be Ticket Drawing for Saphire-Tuluhan Uğurlu Conour company, SOSAK organizes activities given in line with their own decisions withcert in line with the plans prepared in the bein a general budget approved by the GenTicket Drawing for the Piano Recital ginning of every year. In order to strengtheral Directorate. A SOSAK press release is BilimAilem Magazine en our communication with our employpublished to inform all of our employees Dalin Baby Set Delivery ees and to create the social interaction on cultural, art and sports activities to be Baby-care Book Delivery environment between employees, SOSAK organized by SOSAK in and outside the began in 2003 to systematically organize company and to ensure their participasocial and sports activities, which are tion in such activities. SOSAK traditionally In the BilimAilem Magazine, in addition to ous issues. In the last issue of the magaincluded in SOSAK’s activity programs. organizes Bilim Olympics, as well as bowlpublishing news from our employees, we zine, we focused on “sustainable life”; we Through these activities, we support our ing, football, ping pong, billiards, backshare information to raise awareness of shared practical applications with our employees’ business and private life balgammon tournaments every year. Moreour employees and their families on variemployees which they can do in their daily ance and create social times that bring over, a New Year’s cocktail is organized by lives for a more sustainable life. our employees together. SOSAK teams SOSAK teams every year. 142 143 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People OUR IDENTITY AS A SOCIAL PARTICIPANT: BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS COMMUNITY 55% 55% of our employees VOLUNTEERS PLATFORM today carry out active voluntary projects, thus proving to the world what can be done through the BPCV voluntary efforts of a professional labour force. 26,614 By allocating “2 Orange projects: Hours” per week to our human resources, who are our most valuable 9 asset in our voluntary platform, we allow them 1. Remove the to share this time with Barriers Alternative the community. By Camp Project accumulating hours to 2. Remove the these 2 Orange Hours, Barriers Audio Book our employees fulfil As of 2011, Bilim Project their social responsibiliPharmaceuticals 1,043 3. Bilim Fellows at ties. Our employees have Community School Project contributed to the Volunteers (BPCV) 4. Bilim Fellows “In community by carrying operated with 20 Pursuit of Seeds” out 26,614 hours of teams including 1,043 Project Number of activities 210 voluntary activities. active members, 5. Bilim Fellows: “Cuthat were carried out carrying out rious Books, Creative by our volunteers social projects Reading” Project in 11 cities of Turkey. 6. Bilim Fellows at the Theatre Project 7. My Career is in My Hands -Personal Development Congress Project 8. Save Life Project 2011 Corporate Volunteers Association – Awards from the Heart – “Most Creative 9. Eco-scientists Project” and “Most Successful Volunteer” Awards Project AWARDS With the awards they 37,911 have received for their voluntary projects, they have 2008 2009 2009 2010 2011 2011 inspired us in our PERYÖN ÖSGD KSSD CSR Europe ÖSGD ÖSGD corporate responsibi(People (Corporate Vo(Corporate Turkish (Corporate (Corporate lity efforts and made Management lunteers AssoSocial Representative Volunteers Volunteers a difference by toucAssociation of ciation) – The Responsibility Association) – Association) – hing the lives of 37,911 Turkey) Most SuccessAssociation) – Most SuccessMost Creative people. Special Award ful Voluntary Winner of ful Volunteer Project Program Award Turkey (Kadir (My Career is in Gökbakan) My Hands) 144 145 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers “VOLUNTEERING” “Bilim Pharmaceuticals is is an opportunity the first corporation that comes to mind, when the for Bilim issue is volunteering.” Special Award Most Creative Pharmaceuticals… An opportunity by PERYÖN Project by (Turkish Personnel Most Successful Turkish Champion Turkish Most ÖSGD in 2011: Thanks to our corporation’s financial and Management Volunteering in KSSD (Corporate Representative Successful My Career is in logistics support and the support of our Association) in my Hands for employees stakeholders and 1,043 active volunteers, Program by ÖSGD Social Responsibility of CSR Europe Volunteer by 2008 (Corporate Volunteers Association of Turkey) in 2010 ÖSGD in 2011: we are the first thing that comes to mind, when voluntariness is said in Turkey. We Association) in 2009 Awards in 2009 Kadir Gökbakan achieved to be a brand in this area in Turkey through the management of our talented employees. to contribute to corporate responsibility… Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers made a difference by touching the lives of 37,911 people. 146 147 The Value We Attach to People Number of People Reached Time Allocated from Working Hours 14000 8000 12000 7000 7602 12000 7599 13793 10000 6000 10000 5883 5000 8000 11103 4000 2487 6000 2500 3000 2201 3500 4000 2000 2100 2140 3355 2000 2056 784 5362 2000 1000 102 58 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 We established the Bilim PharmaceutiTarget Achieved Achieved cals Community Volunteers platform in 2005 in order to place our approach to Our employees social responsibility at the heart of our corporate culture. We know that social Number of Activities rying out their active volunteering work. responsibility transforms into a corporate We share our human resources, our most 70 living value only if it becomes a part of the corporate culture. Such transformation fulfill their social 70 60 60 64 valuable asset in our volunteering platform, with the community by giving our is possible only if our employees improve 56 employees “2 Orange Hours” per week. their social sensitivity on a platform of volunteering and popularize volunteerresponsibility by 50 47 50 Our employees fulfill their social responsibility by spending at least these orange spending at least ing among all of our stakeholders and the 40 40 hours. Our employees have so far concommunity. Our employees have inspired 40 tributed to the community by performus in our corporate responsibility efforts ing voluntary activities for a total of 30 with the awards they received in the area of voluntarism and made a difference by “2 Orange Hours” per 20 15 15 17 18 20 26,614 orange hours. touching the lives of 37,911 people. week and they have 10 8 8 An opportunity An so far contributed to 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 to contribute the community by Target Achieved opportunity to to employee produce added performing voluntary We have redefined “volunteerism” by value for the activities for a total of sharing our employees’ intellectual capital, professional experience, high level of knowledge and expertise, and time loyalty, community… 26,614 orange hours. with the community. Today, 55% of our employees prove to the whole world “what can be done with the voluntary efforts of success and the professional labour force”, while cardevelopment… 148 149 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People “To be a Bilim Number of Active Volunteers 1200 1051 Pharmaceuticals 1100 1000 800 Community 800 653 700 748 Becoming a part of the solution is an important source of motivation and spiritual satisfaction for our highly Volunteer means 600 300 450 400 to create time.” 200 333 intellectual and socially aware employees. 206 With this source, the sky is the limit for 200 126 what they can do in terms of their personal and social development. Moreover, those 7 employees who voluntarily serve at 0 the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Volunteers platform turn what they gain Target Achieved through voluntary projects into business success and competency development. Employees with high social responsibility An opportunity to integrate social and awareness are one step ahead in environmental matters into our busirecruitment, career criteria and training ness processes… practices. Number Social responsibility is not only the Our leaders of the future improve their responsibility of NGOs, governments of active leadership skills by performing voluntary The Bilim or corporations, but the responsibility projects, because it is much easier for managers to delegate jobs to the Pharmaceuticals of every global citizen who lives on this planet. We are responsible for our world volunteers employees under them as per their status and to manage the results than it would be Community Volunteers and future generations in each decision we make as a corporation, in each process 2012 target to manage a voluntary project. However, in voluntary projects, you are forced to platform is comprised of we apply, with each stakeholder we work with, and in each resource we use. Aiming 1.100 recognize an important social problem 1,043 people, who were to be a part of the solution of social and and expand your sphere of influence by environmental problems, our employees, moving outside your comfort zone. It operating within a total of who have adopted social responsibility requires leadership skills to convince and through 5 different areas and 9 different In 2011, we renewed the organization motivate people to undertake a social 20 teams in 11 cities in projects, add economic, ecological and structure and the management style responsibility project that you choose sociological approaches to their jobs. of bilim pharmaceuticals community or create. It requires people’s support, Turkey as of 2012. volunteers… willingness to work for such a purpose, An important criterion and a big opporcontinuous voluntary contributions and tunity to create new generations with Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunhigh energy and motivation levels, so high social sensitivity… teers (BPCV) is managed with the decision that they perform such efforts by taking of the BPCV Board. Having accepted to responsibility and by allocating extra time Our platform, which is able to reach For the first time in history, employees, switch to project-based management in outside working hours. Our employees, anywhere in Turkey, is shown as one whose values and approaches may be 2007, the board raised competent project who are involved in the projects and who very different, share the same business leaders for each project through various manage the projects, are also involved of the most successful practices in atmosphere. In particular, in order to activities since 2007. After the board in a serious personal development and Turkey and in Europe. raise new generations with high social completed its efforts to restructure the awareness raising process. sensitivity, it is an important selection BPCV in 2011, the platform which has been criterion and a source of loyalty and managed by BPCV Turkey Leader since motivation to support voluntary activities, 2005 began to be managed by project to give employees ‘orange hours’ and to leaders since 2011. The coordination of make sure that they work with socially project leaders is the responsibility of responsible leaders... BPCV General Secretary. 150 151 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Number of Projects 12 12 11 Selin İşcen 10 9 Research and 8 8 Development 8 7 7 7 7 Analytics Specialist 6 Bilim Pharmaceuticals 4 I joined Bilim Pharmaceuticals Society 2 2 2 Volunteers (BITG) in 2009 when I also 2 1 1 1 started working for Bilim Pharmaceuticals. I found out about BITG’s work through e-mails 0 and presentations delivered in awareness 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 meetings. I noticed that various projects were run simultaneously and volunteered Target Achieved for BITG to become a part of the solution. So far, I have participated in the “Seeds to Saplings, Saplings to Trees,” and “Curious Books” projects. In the Curious Books Number of project, in particular, I was most touched employees. when I had the chance to communicate projects In 2010, I was involved in the reading project. This project with children in the elementary schools we Birce Pirinç was also a great experience for me. I established strong visited, where we saw our success in trying 2012 target Occupational ties with the children. The week the project ended, one to pass on the love of reading. 12 Health, Safety of my pupils bought nail polish for me and I was really Becoming a BITG volunteer made a very and Environment surprised. I shared presents with the children as well. effective contribution to me, in the sense Specialist In 2011, we implemented the project, Eco-scientists, unthat I have had the opportunity to discover Bilim Pharmaceuticals der my leadership. In the project which comprises of three and apply my personal skills. I also added categories (Eco-scientists Teach, Eco-scientists Inform to my personal development through Our BPCV Board consists of Bilim Pharand Eco-scientists Apply), we are planning various activicreativity, teamwork and self-confidence. maceuticals Community Volunteers GenI joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers ties for each of the three categories. Utilising the experience from this project eral Secretary, Project Country Leaders, (BPCV) in 2009. I was informed of BPCV’s efforts just afWhen working in these projects, it makes me very hapand harmonising my personal interests Team Leader, Project Executives, Corpoter I began working at Bilim Pharmaceuticals by my colpy to see that we can be beneficial to the community as with my hobbies, I recommended an original rate Delegates (General Manager, HR Dileagues, who were already members of the BPCV. They responsible citizens on top of everything. Moreover, you new project; the “Pursuing the Seed” rector, Corporate Communication Superused to take part in very pleasing projects which provided can observe how important teamwork is as well as the project, which received approval from upper visor) and NGO representatives. social benefit. I, as a part of this community, wanted to enmethods to increase the success of your team. Another management, and we started working on gage in such projects that could be beneficial for the comadvantage of voluntary work is the new people you meet the establishment of the project with a The most important duty of our BPCV munity. and the new friendships you establish. You are in bi-direclarge team, to bring the project into action in board is to identify the scope of projects In 2009, I took part in the project, entitled “Seeds to Saptional development; I think this is the best aspect of volun2012. Afterwards, I would like to participate to be applied and to check whether they lings, Saplings to Trees”. It was a very good project in tary work. in new or ongoing projects and to contribute comply with our principles. Within the which the carbon footprints of our employees were meaI will definitely continue to take part in voluntary projects what I can to the BITG platform. new structure, the BPCV board is chaired sured and employees were informed on what they must both as a participant and a project leader. Voluntary proI recommend volunteerism to all, both from by the General Secretary of Bilim Phardo in order to reduce their carbon footprints. Moreover, all jects allow you to fulfill your duties to the community as a within or outside the company. I think it is maceuticals Community Volunteers. employees were asked to plant and germinate the seeds. corporate citizen, while contributing significantly to your very important for individuals to contribute Everyone planted their seeds with enthusiasm. It was a personal development. Moreover the pleasure and selfto people other than just themselves. We very sound project in raising awareness. We then orgaconfidence you gain when your project becomes sucdamage the earth that we live on, and hurt nized some events on important days. For instance, on the cessful increases your motivation by inspiring you to the people around us without thinking about World Environment Day on June 5th, we organized various carry out much larger projects in the future. the future. We should start positively exhibitions within the company, raising awareness of our contributing to our environment when we have the chance. 152 153 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Organization Scheme of talents. In order for our leaders to inAttracting the Talent ternalize Talent Management, we apply Enriched with our personal values, our internationally recognized leadership decorporate values have made Bilim PharProject Country Leaders velopment programs in our company and maceuticals one of the fastest growing monitor the performance of our leaders in and most preferred companies in the this area. Turkish pharmaceutical industry today. The BI’L Leadership Model is based on the General Leadership Manifesto that is produced in It is “our employees” who Secretary the workshops, in which employees from have always crowned Bilim Fellows Bilim Fellows at Bilim Fellows Bilim Fellows Ecoscientist Save a Life My Carrier is in Remove the Remove the İpek Kul at School and Environmental the Theatre in Pursuit of Seeds Curious Books, Creative My Hands Obstacles, Alternative Obstacles, Audiovisual all levels participate. This manifesto is Penguins Reading Camp Book signed and promised by all of our manaİpek Kul Kadir Gökbakan Selin İşçen Gözde Özkamer Birce Pirinç Ayşegül Tekin Dilek Mete Feray Ataç Evren Duman gers. In the BI’L model, different developour belief to be a “good ment programs are prepared for each of Maslak İstanbul Ankara Erzurum Denizli Antalya Çerkezköy Bursa Trabzon our employees. company” not only in Erhan our sector but among Ali İlker Elçi Duygu Çakar Hüseyin Ozan Canyurt Fuat Kaçak Tamer Aytaç Akyol Hülya Kara Atakan Çakar Suat Baş Within the framework of the Leadership Bilim Pharmaceuticals Çopur Akbulat Bayraktar Development Program, we improve the Gebze Kadıköy İzmir Samsun Adana Konya Stars Team Members Van Diyarbakır leadership skills of employees from all all companies from all levels, while we inspire our managers’ Corporate Delegates sectors, as well as our Fahri Aykut Cem Bora Pelin Şafak Eyüboğlu Erhan Senger Samsunluoğlu İbrahim Obaz İlhan Yurt Sevenyener Dilek Mete Muhammet Ali Gündüz Arda Geçer leadership potential at the Leadership Summits that are organized every year. passion for change, our Esra achievements, and our Çakır policies and processes BI’L Leadership Model We think that leadership is the responsithat aim at people’s bility of all of us for sustainable success Projects and Teamwork and a stronger company. happiness. Through collaborative projects and teamwork, we make sure that our employees develop their jobs and achieve knowledge and experience in various areas. According to our project and teamwork system, “Leadership is “We believe that being a good company is more important than making money.” our talents manage their projects within a team structure that comprises of the following boards and teams: in our spirit.” We always believed that a management approach that is based on our basic principles and values, human-oriented corporate management approach, reputation It has become impossible for companies management, policies and feeling of cor• Boards to reach sustainable success without a porate responsibility will make competi• Project Teams (PT) strong leadership strategy. In order to tion more meaningful. reach our vision by realizing our mission, • Routine Improvement Teams (RIT) we attach great importance to the maxiAs a company 100% owned by Turkish • Critic Process Teams (CPT) mum use of our leadership capability. capital, we have been enriching our experience each passing year, turning our at• Process Improvement Teams (PIT) We have implemented the Bilim Pharmatention to Europe in 1998 when we began • Quality Improvement Teams (QIT) ceuticals Leadership Model (BI’L Model) to apply for the EFQM Excellence Model. • Quality Circles (QC) for a stronger leadership strategy and to We will carry Bilim Pharmaceuticals formake sure that all of our leaders act with ward, based on a corporate framework a common leadership understanding and backed by its wealth of experience. approach. It is our leaders’ primary target to discover, improve and gain the loyalty 154 155 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Boards and Working Teams EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION AND Boards are teams that are established to ensure that employees become a part of REPRESENTATION decision-making processes and to support teamwork. Midand long-term expectations as well as creative and innovative ideas of employees are received by chairmen of related boards and evaluated at Quality Execution Board meetings evA variety of Communication and Participants ery quarter. Participation Instruments communication Bilim Portal All employees In 2011, our 330 employees participated in boards. and participation Notice Boards All employees instruments and E-bulletins All employees Number of employees participating to the Boards activities are widely BilimFamily Magazine All employees and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 their families Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved used within our Target Target Target Target Target Motivation Practices All employees company to get Systematic Boards Board members 50 55 80 92 95 100 120 141 125 330 employees recognized, Electronic Communication All office employees as well as to encourage, (e-mail) Organization-based groups are those Employee Satisfaction groups that work as a holistic team when stimulate and support Survey All employees carrying out their activities and conduct performance evaluations including busitheir participation. Communication Survey All employees ness results on a team basis. All employees Within the scope of the strategy of “RaisFocus Group Meetings (excluding field Blue Collar ing Employees’ Participation” and in order It is a board that meets every quarter, where communication related staff) Communication to protect our employees’ private-busimatters of in-house blue-collar employees are discussed. Board ness life balance and to cover their comSubject-Based Surveys All employees munication needs, communication and • To increase the speed of information access by our blue-collar participation plans are prepared every Subject-Based Contests All employees colleagues year and all internal communication prac• To create an effective communication network tices are implemented as per these plans. Personal Suggestion Blue-collar Targets of the Blue • To determine employees’ satisfaction with respect to in-house System employees Collar Communication communication means Board • To determine expectations with respect to in-house Quality Improvement All employees communication means Programs / Quality Circles • To encourage and support employees to participate at in-house Marketing HR Coordination Marketing communication activities Meeting employees Office Communicator All office employees 156 157 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Number The suggestion of Creative Ideas Produced system also aims to 2010 42 evaluate and 2011 13 Suggestion systems implement, Open-Door Meetings Personal Suggestion System (PSS) The Personal Suggestion System (PSS) is a system that allows our blue-collar employif deemed These represent a communication medium that provides one-to-one communication between the top management and ees to share their remarks with respect to improvement activities, supports their innovative and creative initiatives, evaluates appropriate, the employees, and it allows employees to transparently share any issues that matter to them with the top management. Evincoming suggestions and implements the suggestions deemed appropriate. In line with our company’s purpose, targets and suggestions ery Wednesday afternoon in the second week of each month, employees come together with managers through making policies, and with the support of our bluecollar employees, the suggestion system aims to collect suggestions particularly based on appointments. The top management is always available on this precise day for possible requests for communication. with respect to such matters as: • efficiency development, objective Creative Idea Platform The Creative Idea Platform is a platform which was set up to generate ideas and • quality improvement, • cost-efficiency, criteria. encourage rising levels of values and per• improvement of the working environformances through continuous and sysment, tematic innovation by making use of our • increasing customer satisfaction, The number of suggestions forwarded employees’ creativity in order to design with the scope of the Personal Suggesnew or improved products, services, pro• occupational health and safety and tion System since 2006 is given in the cesses and social interactions. We aim to • social development and environmenfollowing table: open the creative idea platform, which is tal impacts already open to all our employees, to the Number of Suggestions Made as per use of all our stakeholders in 2011. The suggestion system also aims to evaluthe Personal Suggestion System ate and implement, if deemed appropriate, 2006 442 In 2011, as per the efforts to revise Bilim the suggestions based on objective critePharmaceuticals’ website, a “Creative ria and thus, to provide further participa2007 217 Idea Platform” was established on the tion of our employees and to permanently website as an online function that allows increase the number of our company’s 2008 136 all of our stakeholders to share their creachievements. Owners of the suggestions ative ideas. This way, the creative ideas that are deemed appropriate and put into 2009 483 of not only our employees but all of our practice are rewarded parallel to the benstakeholders are supported and evaluefit achieved through what is suggested 2010 738 ated. and announced to all other employees throughout our organization. 2011 549 158 159 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People General Rate of Satisfaction Internal Communication Regarding Internal Activities Communication Means The most In line with our strategy of “increasing communication among employees”, the 2012 hedefi important most important feedback resources that we use to identify communication needs and expectations are the Employee Sat89% isfaction Survey (point of contact), Comfeedback munication Survey and Focus Group studies. General Rate of Satisfaction Regarding Internal Communication Means (%) resources that Through communication surveys, the effectiveness of existing communication means and expectations regarding new 100 85 84 85 88 89 82 83 we use to identify communication means are questioned80 80 80 Focus group studies are conducted in coordination between Corporate Com60 communication munication Department and Human Resources Department in order to to evaluate employees from various departments 40 needs and on their communications means and 20 methods in detail. 0 expectations are Moreover, various benchmarking studies 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 are carried out. By comparing in-house Target Achieved communication efforts of various organithe Employee zations, we learn new practices, which are discussed at the Corporate Communication Board. Achieved 2008 80 2009 82 2010 85 2011 88.16 2012 Satisfaction All information collected from the Communication Survey, focus group studTarget 80 83 84 85 89 Survey (point ies, and Employee Satisfaction Surveys (under sub-section entitled “Communication”), as well as the results of perforNumber of participants: of contact), mance-measuring and benchmarking activities are evaluated at the Corporate Communication Board. 2008: 486 White-Collar Employees + 153 Blue-Collar Employees = 639 Communication Our employees are informed aboout signicant operational changes. In case of 2009: 552 White-Collar Employees + 157 Blue-Collar Employees = 709 2010: 761 White-Collar Employees + 53 Blue-Collar Employees = 814 Survey and Focus precedural changes, people affected receive trainings and new procedures are distributed to all people concerned. An2011: 552 White-Collar Employees + 136 Blue-Collar Employees = 688 people Group studies. nouncements with effective dates are made when organizational and positional changes occur. 160 161 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People The Corporate Communication Board: A board sponsored by the General Manager and chaired by the Corporate Communication Manager, which meets every quarter and where internal and external communication matters are discussed. Corporate Communication and purposes are well understood, Policy we inform our employees and pro• We consider communication as the vide their participation in related most important factor supporting processes. We create means of our participative management apcommunication, which would allow proach. We are engaged in regular our employees to adopt our corand bi-directional information exporate values and popularize our change with our internal and excorporate culture. We provide internal stakeholders that we are in formation flow that contributes to touch with, within the framework the personal development of our of our principles such as honesty, employees and we enable the coortransparency, ethics, ease of undination of produced information. derstanding, sustainability and acWe keep a continuous view of the countability. latest technologies to ensure that our employees have easy access to • We present our company’s vision, information and take any measures mission, values, policies and stratthat would ensure the effectiveegies first for the understanding ness of our communication. of our employees then our other stakeholders. We support activities • We establish sustainable and that aim to internalise our vision. transparent relationships with the Moreover, we aim to make sure that corporations we are in cooperation our company’s mission, corporate with, based on mutual trust and reculture and values are effectively spect. We set up widespread relaResults of the employee satisfaction survey used by our employees in their daily tionship networks that would ease lives, particularly during “business determination of possible collaborations. 100 making, decision making, implementation and evaluation”. • We determine shortand long-term 80,7 communication needs jointly with 77,5 79,2 • Regarding all our stakeholders, 80 75 we aim to ensure that information our customers and take pains to is accurately shared based on the meet them. We respond rapidly and principle of transparency and trust. effectively to the feedback from 60 We transparently share our perforour customers. We make suggesmance in our corporate responsitions to our customers to use our bility reports in order to meet our products and services responsibly. 40 stakeholders’ basic expectations. • We establish communication with • Based on our employees’ commuthe media and the public based nication needs and expectations, on the principles of accuracy and 20 we plan our internal communicatransparency. We strive to ensure tions strategy,policies, and design that media members receive the communication channels accordright information from the source 0 ingly. In order to ensure that our and at the right time. 2008 2009 2010 2011 company’s mission, vision, values Total 162 163 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Aylin Korkmaz HR Specialist Ezgi Ersul Bilim Pharmaceuticals Regulatory Affair Specialist • Social responsibility projects Bilim Pharmaceuticals I think that employee satisfaction has These implementations are among motivated and loyal team behind the continued to increase since 1999. I those that I find successful in the Employee satisfaction in our compasuccess of so many awards. relate this to the fact that the staff is company. My family also participates ny increases consistently each year. In recent years, almost every cominvolved in corporate implementations. in and appreciates the success of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals enables this pany has started participating in so• Establishment of consultative Bilim Family and Bilim Children World with the participation of its entire staff cial responsibility projects. The days units, projects, and I see that these projects in highly energetic projects that make when only associations took part in • Universalisation of private health are enhancing the sense of belonging a difference. With the Bilim Family projects are now in the past. Compacare, as well as representing a source of project, we participate in events where nies execute many projects on a very • Extension of private health care happiness. we can spend time with our spouse large scale. The social responsibilcoverage to include family memand children, and we make prepaity projects undertaken by the Bilim bers, rations for special occasions. The Pharmaceuticals Societal Volunteers • Activity groups, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Social Activity and the Star Team are developed by • Open-door meetings, Group (SOSAK) enables us to follow the staff. This proves be very useful the works of theatre, and we spend when it comes to staff forming their time socialising with our co-workers own teams and is therefore highly throughout the year with activities satisfying with regard to bringing sosuch as bowling, backgammon and cial responsibility to reality. Being Legal actions on overtime, harassment or discrimination pool. We log on to Bilimk@mpüs on part of a project and even leading the any given moment of any day and reteam is a very useful contribution to 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ceive training online. Support is given personal development. In my opinion, Lawsuits 0 2 1 1 1 3 through cooperation with important social responsibility projects estabuniversities in master’s and doctorlished through the opportunity of beOvertime 0 2 1 1 1 3 ate degrees. Bilim Pharmaceuticals ing the leader of your own project at Others 0 0 0 0 0 0 Societal Volunteers (BITG) enables us Bilim Pharmaceuticals, and the trainto get involved in social responsibility ing sessions that we can access onprojects. I believe that the two awards line through Bilimk@mpüs are very No complaints were submitted to our that we received this year in addition important in achieving employee Ethics Boards with respect to any to the EFQM are parallel to the level of satisfaction. violation of Human Rights in our offices or employee satisfaction. There is a vast, facilities. 164 165 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People OCCUPATIONAL We also provide training on occupational en to continue the ergonomics managehealth and safety and the environment to ment project in 2012 through business newly hired employees within the frameanalysis, training and the preparation of HEALTH AND SAFETY work of orientation programs. the activity plan for areas that are open to improvement. In 2011, the ergonomics management program was launched in order to reduce Regular check-ups and tests are still the illness rate. The first step of the properformed on all employees within the gram was completed by conducting an framework of the “workplace medical obergonomics survey. According to the reservation procedures”. sults of the survey, the decision was takOccupational Health and Natural disasters which may adversely Safety Management affect business continuity and operationWe, at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, apply the al emergencies are also regarded as part Ismail Yazan IMS (Integrated Management System) of the risk analysis. Gebze Industrial which integrated the Quality, EnvironEstate ment, Occupational Health and Safety (GOSB) Fire standards within a single framework. Our system is based on the cGMP, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 We conduct Department and Administrative Support Manager Environment Management System as well as the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System emergency Since Bilim Pharmaceuticals is located within the GOSB, we often provide them Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a company able to contribute to the environment standards. Our Çerkezköy Production Facility has drills with with fire fighting training. As their aim is to train all staff in fire fighting and to keep this information up-to-date, and society. Their premises within the GOSB are designed to minimise its environmental effects. They are also a held the IMS Certification since 2004. As our Gebze Production Facility was certified in 2010, the scope of the certification emergency we organise training sessions for their employees at regular intervals. We also share our thoughts and recommendacompany that actively participates in the work within the industrial estate. It is an establishment that is a source was expanded so as to cover our entire company. crews and the tions in the fields of labour safety and related risk assessment when they require support in evaluating risk. of motivation for individuals through remembrance and reminders. They provide psychological support to indiThe Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been structured in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ OHS policy and participation Bilim Pharmaceuticals is especially sensitive in the area of emergency management. We work together in viduals and society at large by sending greetings on national holidays. Any accidental environmental negligence is risk analysis foundation. Risk analysis studies are repeated annually by the OHSAS 18001 Study Teams in departments of all our their annual emergency management drills. They always seek to increase participation in their work to establish dealt with immediately. For example, a sprinkler in their summertime irrigation system that was accidentally sprinthroughout the corporation. Hazards stemming from our activities within the study content, as well as risks are asemployees in full labour safety. They act sensitively in training matters. We were very pleased to see that they have gained posseskling water onto the road was fixed at once. We don’t see such constructive behaviour in other companies operatcertained by evaluating the possibility of their occurrence and severity. A business plan is formulated by taking the degree our operations sion of the emergency crew gear that we had recommended. We see that the establishment actively pursues vigoring in our country. Even this small example enables us as outsiders to develop a positive perception in terms of of risk into account. Risks with higher degree are evaluated at the OHS Board. The business plan is administered and exetwice a year. ous research to prevent mishaps that may be experienced in its operations. This is evaluated by our staff as the imthe difference that Bilim Pharmaceuticals makes. Another plus in my book is the fact that no litter can be seen cuted within the scope of the annual OHS portance that Bilim Pharmaceuticals near the entrances and that it was targets and OHS Management Programs. attaches to health and safety at work. neat and tidy. 166 167 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People The OHS Board and OHS Study • Risk Analysis Results, OHS Targets, OHS Training Team OHS Management Program One of the performance indicators • Internal and External Inspection OHS Targets for Gebze through which the effectiveness of our The OHS Board Findings, Corrective and PrevenProcessing Facility in company’s occupational health and In addition to the members who are detative Activities and Improvement 2012 safety practices is evaluated is “training fined in regards to the requirements Plans The following Occupational Health provided within the scope of OHS”. An of the Occupational Health and Safety and Safety targets were deteraverage of at least 4 hours of OHS trainBoard’s Regulations, it is also comprised • Findings and Recommendations mined at Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ ing is organized for each employee each of department representatives at the Presented by Employee RepresenGebze Processing Facility for the year. These include significant training management and specialist level. The tatives and Other Board Members year 2012 in line with the compasuch as driving techniques, ergonomics, board meets at least once a month and • Job Accidents, Accident Risk, ‘Close ny’s OHS policy: behaviour-oriented safety management, conducts an evaluation and revision with Call’ Accident and Occupational personal protection, intervention in emer• to reduce the weight rate the following agenda in addition to the Sickness Bulletins gency, protection against explosions, etc. of job-related accidents to standard agenda: • Training Activities 0.06%; • Preparations for Natural Disasters • to carry out a total of 5,200 and Emergency Situations Medical Screenings; • Assessment and review of the • to reduce the absence rate OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY progress deriving from the Current to 0.5%; Total Training Hours on POLICY Status Analysis Occupational Health and We make use of the most appropriate technol• to reduce the illness rate to Safety in 2011 ogy and take protective and preventive mea• Assessment and review of legal 0.5%; sures aimed at reducing the hazards that our stakeholders may encounter as a result of our amendments (when necessary) • to provide all employees with 7,645.52 Male / Total Hours • Monthly assessment of perforonline training on “Safe Drivcompany’s operations. mance indicators related to OHS ing Techniques”; 5,975.32 We ensure that activities executed in our com• Assessment and review of innova• to set up an Ergonomics (%) tive and creative ideas and learning Management Program and 78.15 pany comply with the current GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) standards and the Minisdata (when necessary) to inform all employees try of Health’s laws and regulations, as well as about the program; • Assessment and review of OHS polFemale / Total Hours the valid Job Law Legislation and local requireicy (at the last quarter) • to ensure that our employees ments. OHS Study Teams take preventive measures in emergencies and to perform 1,670.20 Risks pertaining to Job Health and Safety hazThe teams are comprised of managers emergency drills for at least (%) 21.85 ards, which originate from the activities of our and specialists determined by the mantwice a year within the scope company, are identified whereas we keep these agement of each department. The esof the legislation; risks under control by bringing them down to sential purpose of these teams is to conacceptable levels. tinually increase the dissemination and • to raise the number of emapplication effectiveness. They meet on a ployees who receive first aid We organize training activities that are deemed monthly basis and more often, if deemed certification to 70; necessary for the dissemination of our Occunecessary, to conduct risk analysis within • to provide at least 4 hours pational Health and Safety Management Systhe Training Management Systems conof training per employee to tem by the employees of our company and our text. Their job is to conduct revisions in acthe employees of our comsub-contractors. cordance with experiences gleaned from pany and sub-contractors the practice of OHS, SOP and instructo acquaint themselves with OHSAS 18001 ensures the continuation of the tions, to ensure compliance with safe job our Occupational Health and Occupational Health and Safety Management rules in the departments they represent, Safety Management SysSystemand continually improves it throughto evaluate OHS bulletins, to participate in tem; and with revisions and periodically defined tarinternal inspection activities,and to plan • to make sure that OHS imgets, whereas we are committed to prevent and execute activities for areas open to provement activities are job-related injuries and illnesses. development. completed in a timely manner and at a rate of 100%. 168 169 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Training topics on ohs (as of 2011) Our Efforts in 2011 within the Scope of Occupational Working with Equipment Having a Health and Safety: 1 Screen • We provided training on occupa• 28 April has been announced as the Job-Related Accidents Health and Safety in Manual Handling tional safety for 4.94 hours per emWorld Day for Safety and Health at and Efforts to Prevent 2 ployee which was higher than the Work by ILO. We have been realizing Accidents Work target (4 hours per employee). Motto Competition among our emOccupational Diseases and their Reaployees for 4 years to celebrate this Weight rate of job-related accidents 3 • We provided training on occupasons day. The winners of the 4th Safety At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the basic pertional safety to field employees at 4 Ergonomics at Work Motto Competition can be formance of applications related to octhe meeting held at the end of the seen below: cupational health and safety is evaluated 5 Impacts of Noise on Health marketing period. through the KOA (Accident Weight Rate) • We provided training on safe drivperformance indicator. While the weight 6 Emergency Patient Transfer Systematic ing techniques, first aid and office rate of job-related injuries covers acMonitoring of Health Conditions in the ergonomics over the Bilim K@mpüs cidents which result in the loss of more 7 Workplace and ensured that all employees parthan three working days, it indicates how ticipated in these programs. many hours were lost in correlation to ev8 Waste Management • Our workplace psychologist proery 100 hours of actual working time dur9 Evaluation of Environmental Impacts vided training on “business stress” ing a calendar year. 10 Risk Evaluation to the members of the OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) Board. When any job-related accident occurs, Training on Environment-Related LegThe training is now open to all emwe notify and report the accident and 11 islation ployees. keep related statistics in accordance with the “Procedure for Occupational Health, Instructions for Checking Chemical • In cooperation with the Dünya Göz Safety and Environment Related Notices”. 12 Spillage and Leakage hospital, we held information semi13 Work Permits nars on eye health for employees. 14 Training for Safe Use of Forklifts • In cooperation with 3M, our supplier of personal protection equipment, Occupational Health and Safety Regulawe held seminars on the use and 15 tion the importance of personal protection equipment for all employees 16 Hygiene and Order The average weight rate of working in our Gebze and Çerkezköy 17 Firefighting processing facilities. job-related accidents 18 Physical – Chemical – Biological Risks • Our workplace physician distributed informative brochures on “Flu and in 2011 19 Personal Protection Equipment protection against flu” to all emwas realized as ployees against flu risk in the winter 20 21 Occupational Safety Warning Signs Occupational Stress Management months. The brochure contained 0.03. answers to questions such as what 22 Safe Driving Techniques is flu, how does it infect the body, and what are the methods for protection 23 Protection of Eye Health against flu. 24 Personal Protection Equipment 170 171 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Weight rate of occupational accidents (%) Medical scanning includes scanning procedures that are compulsory by law and 0.50 0.50 carried out under the supervision and instruction of our office doctor, as well as Weight rate scanning procedures which are needed at of occupational 0.40 the end of risk evaluation. With this prac0.35 accidents tice, we aim to reduce the rate of absence 0.30 and illnesses by supporting our employThe illness rate includes maternity leave. 2012 tarfet 0.30 0.25 ees beyond the legal framework. Regular For this reason, the illness rate of our fe0.02% medical check-ups of our field employmale employees appears higher. 0.20 0.18 ees, on the other hand, are carried out within the framework of “private health There is no one in our company with an 0.10 insurance” as they are at a distance from occupational illness. 0.10 our medical unit in our company. 0.02 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.01 TOTAL NUMBER OF RATIO OF TOTAL 0 TOTAL WORKING HOURS MISSED BY NUMBER OF HOURS 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 HOURS (YEARLY) THE WORKFORCE MISSED Target Achieved YEAR AVERAGE 429,331 5,498 1.28% Performance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sor. Indicators T A T A T A T A T A T Weight rate of Illness rates occupational accidents 0.50 0.18 0.35 0.30 0.25 0.02 0.10 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.02 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (%) Illness 0.41% 0.45% 0.57% 0.77% 0.78% 0.75% Gebze PD-İD 0.35 0.03 0.25 0.05 0.10 0.05 0.01 0.09 0.06 Male 0.26% 0.20% 0.32% 0.37% 0.43% 0.49% Çerkezköy 0.50 0.03 0.35 0.00 0.25 0.09 0.10 0.00 0.01 0.04 0.04 Female 1.61% 1.60% 1.61% 2.41% 2.33% 1.87% Ayazağa and Regional 0.50 0.21 0.35 0.37 0.25 0.01 0.10 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.01 Illness rates 2011 Target 0.50% Achieved 0.75% Offices Absence rates (by year) The weight rate of occupational accirisk analysis under control. The disseminadents covers accidents that necessitate tion and application effectiveness is evalu2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 first aid. Calculations are made based on ated and revised in the light of feedback Absence 0.50% 0.55% 0.53% 0.63% 0.73% 0.59% calendar days (which include weekends). such as “close call” accidents, internal and external inspection findings and employee Male 0.42% 0.35% 0.30% 0.42% 0.37% 0.41% The calculation of the weight rate of occuaccident risk, personal exposure level meapational accidents covers accidents that surements, occupational illness risks, acFemale 1.87% 2.78% 1.71% 1.43% 2.31% 1.34% take place in sub-contractors. As the pricidents and incidents, as well as final risk Absence rates (by year) 2011 Target 0.50% Achieved 0.59% mary employer, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is analysis results. We take the “procedure responsible for the occupational safety of and instruction revisions” of areas open to Legal compliance sub-contractors. The company provides improvement (İAA), “application methods Launched in the second half of 2009 at tion. We are fully complying with all regunecessary training on occupational safeand inspection,” “working environment and the Gebze Plant that became operational lations related to work and labour practicty to sub-contractors before they begin facilities” and “training” courses. in 2008, the IMS (Integrated Management es. There is no incidence of any violation working. Moreover, sub-contractors are System) Certification Project was comcase at our company. audited at specific intervals for compliRegular medical scanning is performed to pleted in the first quarter of 2010. Thus, ance with occupational safety rules. No protect the health of employees. Beyond our entire company, including our ÇerkezOur company is not a member of any union job accident involving death occurred in legal requirements, the scope of scanning köy Plant and its headquarters, which had and we do not engage in any union-relatour sub-contractors in 2011. covers measurement of the body-mass already been certified, has received ISO ed activities, while no non-compliance index, eye health, audiometric measure9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment and with Audit Standards was experienced in The OHS procedures, instructions and acments, respiratory tests, etc. ParticipaOHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and our company in 2011 within the framework tion plans have been formulated with the tion is open to all employees who request Safety Management Standards certificaof the Law, Legislation and Regulations. goal of keeping risks that emerge from the to do so, not only those in the risk group. 172 173 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY We keep ing the safety, quality or performance of our products. As for our policies, as well as the law and regulations, we monitor all Within the framework of our sustainability close view of feedbacks related to the quality, safety and effectiveness of our products and notify respective authorities, if necessary. policy, we do not perform or execute any publications and In the event of feedback concerning the product quality, we perform required action, which we cannot be accountable for. The priority of our product responsibility evaluations that analyses and evaluations, respond immediately and make necessary improvements after obtaining legally required policy is patient safety. include scientific permits. developments We carry out regarding our development products and efforts try to provide permanently Monitoring Safety, Performance and Quality of Our Products ments, if necessary. We keep close view of publications and evaluations that include scientific developments regarding patients/users, in order to Within the framework of our sustainability performance, we do not perform or execute any action which we cannot answer our products and try to provide patients/ users, health care providers and public authorities with up-to-date and qualified health care raise the level for. The priority of this policy is patient safety. information on risks and benefits of our products. providers and of safety and Due to the nature of the sector we serve, our establishment operates in compliance with cGMP (current Good ManuWe do not limit the safety profile of our products with the pre-certification period only; we monitor it even after we republic authorities quality of our facturing Practice) quality management standards, an issue which is set forth in legislations as per regulations. GMP reglease these products to the market and make necessary improvements, developments and notifications. We try to collect with up-to-date products. ulations and the quality system are not only confined to production processes, but all processes from purchase to delivas much information as possible about our products. For this purpose, we have commissioned “medical sales represenand qualified Since 2011, all of our customers’ feedbacks – including all complaints with ery, which affect product and production quality. tatives”, whom our stakeholders, primarily patients and health professionals, can reach in the first plan, as well as assisinformation on respect to the adverse effects of our products which are adapted within the framework of pharmacovigilance are acFollowing the certification process, we evaluate to what extent our products, are effective and reliable and whether they tants, safety and call centre employees. This way, as Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we inform our employees through our specialrisks and benefits cepted through our web-based platform and jointly monitored by our Quality Assurance and Pharmacovigilance departare easy-to-apply; we pay attention to the feedback we receive and make improveized instructors about what they have to do when they receive feedback concernof our products. ments. 174 175 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Licensing and Training with respect to product safety, a Counterfeit Products Thanks to this technology, Bilim PharmaPharmacovigilance matter which we always prioritize in our In the pharmaceutical industry, drug ceuticals, besides fulfilling the provisions To ensure health care providers recomway of business making, is completed manufacturers and distributors collaboset forth in countries’ regulations, permend our products confidently to conwithin the orientation periods of newly rate with the Ministry of Health and take forms production at global standards and sumers, we continuously check and hired personnel in our company. We reand apply preventive measures to stop is deemed as an example to best pracevaluate reliability and effectiveness of peat these training sessions at specific counterfeit products. tices at the international level in terms all products that we hold a license for and intervals. We evaluate the results of the of DMS (Drug Monitoring System), which regularly report to official authorities. trainings as a criterion when measuring Drug Monitoring System would gain popularity among all countries the performance of our marketing perIt is a system that aims to stop counin the world in the future. If necessary, after obtaining official apsonnel who are in continuous contact terfeit products by ensuring traceability proval, we send information letters to with our customer group. at every point of the entire supply chain Number of Drugs Recalled from the Market health care providers, organize meetings from production to the delivery of drugs In 2011, three series of the product enwith them and inform them through our Regulations to patients. titled “Antepsin Süspansiyon” were restaff in the headquarters and in the field In order to release drugs and medicinal called from the market upon the Ministry under the management of our Marketing products intended for human use to the of Health’s request and eighteen series Department. Turkish market, licensing procedures Bilim Pharmaceuticals were voluntarily recalled as the product must first be approved by the General Dihas lost its suspension feature. The recall The safety of our medicinal products for rectorate for Pharmaceuticals and Pharexperiences the privilege of Antepsin Süspansiyon in 2011 is a “sechuman use is constantly monitored by macy under the Ministry of Health. During ond class – level B” recall. our “Product Safety Executives,” who are the development of new products, which of being one of the physicians and pharmacists under the marks the beginning of the licensing First class recalls point out such situPharmacovigilance Administration that stage, we go to great lengths to comply several companies in ations, in which serious or vital health we have set up under our Medical Supwith the requirements set forth in regulaproblems arise or in which there are reaport and Licensing Department. All kinds tions and instructions in effect in Turkey Turkey that are able sonable evidence for this. Second class of information concerning the effectiveand with the requirements and provisions recalls are situations in which temponess and safety of our products are conset forth by the European Agency for the to operate the Drug rary and treatable health problems arise tinuously investigated from domestic and Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) or there is such a possibility. Third class international sources. as part of the EU harmonization period Monitoring System and recalls are situations in which use of the and in line with our exportation efforts. We product does not harm human health. With in-house training, we inform personalso follow the requirements of the Food the SAP (ERP) system in nel at each level, particularly our employand Drug Administration (FDA) in the USA, Level A refers to the consumer level; first ees in the marketing headquarters and the health authorities of the countries we full integration, as well as class recalls are made at this level. Level in the field, with respect to how they will export to, the International Conference on B refers to the retailer level (drugstores, deal, manage and monitor the matters Harmonization (ICH), the World Health Ormaking use of the latest hospital drugstores, institutions); second concerning the safety of our products, ganization (WHO), and the Local and Cenclass recalls are made at this level. Level which may be forwarded by consumers or tral Ethics Boards. In line with the legislatechnologies that ensure C, on the other hand, refers to the pharhealth professionals. tion published by these organizations and maceutical warehouses; third class rethe amendments in instructions, we need full automation between calls are defined at this level. After they receive feedback concerning to update and restructure our efforts in a the safety of our products, our executives way that they cover these newly defined systems in all processes A fine of a total of TL 25,565.45 was imconduct the necessary initial evaluationrequirements throughout the scope of posed because of the drugs recalled in sand receive additional information if the amendments in question. from production lines to 2011. necessary from the person / people who submit the feedback.They then report to These regulations and instructions define the storage of products, official authorities within a maximum of the matters that must be paid attention 15 days depending on the emergency and to during the development of new prodfrom product ordering the importance of the situation/matter. ucts and guide us in giving direction to If there is any additional precaution that our efforts. by customers to the has to be taken in the company, we notify the respective department(s) and closely notification of production/ follow the subject. sale to the Ministry of Health. 176 177 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Our Customers Customer satisfaction Corporations that have reached excelAccording to the model, it is necessary to lence have the ability to create extraordimake use of various research techniques nary results and to maintain them. Among and measurements in order to learn exall stakeholders, it is the customer who ternal customers’ opinions regarding will finally evaluate the quality of the prodtheir perceptions about the company. ucts and services. The best way of ensuring customer loyalty, retaining customers An important instrument we use to learn and achieving market share is to clearly about the expectations and perceptions focus on the requirements of existing and of our customers is the Customer SatisErhan Sezer potential customers. faction Survey (CSS). We have initiated Sezer Pharmacy, the CSS with doctors in 2001 and have Samsun In the EFQM Excellence Model, the folbeen applying it to pharmacies and pharlowing question is asked in the category maceutical warehouses since 2004. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a best-fit for the of “Results Regarding Customers”: “what Professor definition of strong domestic company. results does the company achieve reThe questionnaire forms used in this surMete Çek, M.D. They sensitively examine the problems of garding its external customers?” vey are prepared in accordance with the Thrace University the pharmacist within the sector, and emEFQM Model of Excellency, together with Medical School ploy an empathetic approach while mainAccording to the EFQM Excellence Model, the employees of the Marketing DirectorDepartment of taining an effective and considerate beit is the customer who will finally evaluate ate and the support of the consulting firm. Urology haviour. Bilim Pharmaceuticals works with the quality of the products and services. We review the questions on the survey in a team which has the capacity to make its every survey period and update them in As a doctor specialising in a branch of surgery, products the primary brand in its region, inlight of the current demands and expecI not only attempt surgical procedures to cure cluding generic products. The awards that The best way of tations of our customers. In accordance with the above mentioned, patients, but also support surgical initiatives by seeking pharmaceutical solutions that take a surgical operation out of the equation. In this the company has won give confidence to the doctors and pharmacists in the sector. In turn, we have the comfort in reflecting ensuring customer Bilim Pharmaceuticals Customer Satisfaction survey aims to: context, I think that Bilim Pharmaceuticals, as a domestic producer, has an important and valuable position in terms of producing according this confidence to our patients. Satisfactory responses are given to the requests of the pharmacists even when the sector goes • search for answers about how loyalty, retaining much the corporation satisfies its customers; to international standards, following ethical values in its presentation of its products and providing scientific support to doctors. through difficult periods. What impresses me most about the compacustomers and • identify strong sides and sides that are open to improvement; and I am also aware of the contributions of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ activities for the good of sony is that it takes on social responsibilities across all of its areas of operation, not limited to its sector. As a result of its employees’ • establish a basis for improvement achieving market activities to be carried out in the future. ciety and environment through their web pages and their representatives working in our department. From this perspective, the fact that devoted efforts, theatrical activities have been opened to the people of Samsun with the donation of one book per viewer, leadshare is to clearly The questionnaire forms consist of three sections, the first of which covers expectations, the second examines their perthey are open to creative ideas and voluntarily take part in projects across the country is a very impressive example. Further examples ing to the contribution of two whole libraries to the city. I really wanted to actively participate in this project, but I was too late. Alfocus on the ceptions, whereas the third section helps us learn customers’ suggestions and needs through the aid of a series of opencould include special arrangements in their production facilities, the use of recycled products in their promotional material and packagthough I was not directly involved, I watched it with great pleasure. requirements ended questions. We use the “GAP Analysis” in analysing the measurements and results of the level of satisfaction. ing for the purposes of preserving the ecologic balance. Producers across all industries must take these efforts by example and clarify their Among domestic pharmaceutical producers, companies such as Bilim Pharmaceuticals that have firm principles in providing of existing and aim of preserving the environment and advancing society, thus bringing great gains to our country. people with quality service not only bring gains for pharmacists like ourselves, but also for Turkey. potential customers. 178 179 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People The survey held in 2011 was responded by: 5,945 doctors Within the framework of the relevant law and regulations, this information is presented through the following channels: We instruct all 2,723 pharmacists • Documents inside the packages such as prospectus or usage inour personnel, structions; Rabia Çam 213 pharmaceutical warehouses • Letters entitled “Dear Health Care Providers” sent to physicians, pharwho are Sales Manager Customer Satisfaction Rate in 2011 macists and other health care providers; responsible • Informative and/or printed promoI began working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals within the structure of 100 tion materials; • Presentations made by our reprefor marketing, 96.00 96.31 96.50 98.38 Istkoop in September 2010. Since I 94.50 95.73 80 on marketing joined Istkoop, Bilim Pharmaceutisentatives like our medical promocals has been one of the best com60 tion executives; panies in terms of the cooperation • Sharing of relevant scientific pubbetween the pharmaceutical depot and the producer company. I have noticed how the company is making 40 20 lications (medical literature, congress information, etc); communications principles during its way up through the pharmaceu• Reports presented to official autical sector thanks to the effective 0 thorities (Pharmacovigilance replanning and sustainability under2007 2009 2011 ports, stability results, etc.) pinning its sales policy. In these times when the sector’s Achieved Target The shared information must be consistent with scientific information and not be the orientation period and profitability is declining and man2007 2009 2011 misleading. For this reason, in the event agement fees are on the rise, Bilim Achieved 95.73 96.31 98.38 of any change in current information (or Pharmaceuticals is an ideal partner if such a possibility arises), we rapidly conduct for Istkoop and pharmacists in terms Target 94.50 96.00 96.50 complete all legal procedures, ensuring of its high first grade product portfothat information is always up-to-date and lio. In addition, considering that our shared with the public in a timely maninstitution is the economic organisation of the pharmacist occupation, this profitability is reflected to Informing Customers Sharing of product-related information and ner. We fully comply with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling. There is reminder the pharmacist, and the company takes the lead in creating change in the sector as well as the decisions experiences Bilim Pharmaceuticals carefully monitors the benefit and risk profiles of all its licensed no incidence of non-compliance. Marketing Communications and Ethics trainings on a that it makes in favour of the pharmacist. It is a company possessing a high focus on creating solutions with products on a regular basis, ensuring their protection. Each newly hired employee receives training on ethics. regular basis. its positive approach in its cooperaWithin the limits permitted by the existing We plan and implement all marketing tion with Istkoop and our partners. It law and regulations, we pay maximum attencommunications activities that aim our is a company that keeps its word to tion to forward product-related information customer groups within the framework Istkoop and the pharmacist, with a to users (and/or appliers), health care proof relevant regulations, rules and instructrustworthy and ethical reputaviders and public authorities. tions of the Ministry of Health and the tion in the industry. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers AssociaAll the concerned people, both in Turkey and tion of Turkey (IEIS), which we are a memin countries we export to, are informed with ber of. regard to a variety of features such as the use and safety of our products, situations in which they must not be used, usage in special conditions such as pregnancy and lactation, and the side effects. 180 181 The Value We Attach to People Under the guidance of the Sustainability Board, the following practices were conductWe provide all our employees with comed in 2011 regarding our opinion leaders: prehensive trainings and request a let• Sharing of our Corporate Responsiter of undertaking on ethics from each of bility Report them in line with our Ethical Management approach. The Ethics Board examines all • WWF Turkey membership types of violation of ethics which are for• Sharing of the monthly issues of the warded to the Board and independently magazine entitled EKO IQ takes all necessary measures after reWe pass all kinds of materials and activiporting the situation to the senior man• Opinion Leader Events ties aiming at the promotion of our prodagement. • Giving away the book entitled “Ekoloucts through a series of checkpoints withjik Zeka” (Echological Intelligence) in the marketing team and confirm them. When carrying out our activities, we enand Al Gore’s book entitled “Our If needed, and in order to receive feedback sure that we act in accordance with the Choice”, and soap by the Foundation internally, we are also supported by a unit provisions and instructions of the Ministry gional managers submit messages to for the Support of Women’s Work, which is completely independent from our of Health’s Marketing Communications this group of opinion leaders personally in etc. marketing team. In the event of any conRegulation, IEIS Marketing Communicatheir monthly visits. cerns that the marketing communications tions Guidance or Bilim Pharmaceuticals • An agenda entitled “Yeşil Yolculuk” principles have been violated by our comBusiness Ethics Principles, whichever is During the period in which we launched (Green Journey) was prepared for our pany or other firms, we take pains to solve more restricting, and repeat our internal our sustainability efforts, we adopted the customers. Environmental protection the problem first by mutual negotiations, training on these matters on a regular baprinciples of “communicating messagis tended to in each day of the agenda thus allowing a self-regulating mechasis. We fully comply with regulations and es on sustainability to opinion leaders” which can be done that day. Moreover, nism to establish itself within the sector. voluntary codes concerning the marketthrough our regional managers and apspecial days on sustainability and ining of our products and services. There is plied it with success. formation on sustainability-related As a license holder, we prioritize patient no incidence of non-compliance. NGOs were shared with customers. safety and keep close view of all developments regarding our products. We have About the Communique on Project Date of organized a separate unit, which is comthe Promotion Activities for implementation prised of our product safety executives, Medicinal Drugs for Human Book entitled “İstanbul Hakkında Her Şey” (Everything About Istanbul) 2010 in order to view the side effects that may Use arise due to the use of our products and Prepared with the purpose of determining Book entitled “Ekolojik Zeka” (Echological Intelligence) 2010 to take extra measures, if necessary. the rules concerning promotion activities Mardin Soaps by the Foundation for the Support of Women’s Work 2010 aiming to ensure proper use of medicinal drugs, the “Communique on the PromoPolyphonic Folkloric Songs CD 2010 We provide personnel, tion Activities for Medicinal Drugs for HuSubscription to the magazine, EKO IQ 2010-2011 man Use” was published on August 26th, who will be responsible 2011 and most of the provisions set forth Al Gore’s book entitled “Our Choice” 2011 in the communique took effect on Defor the promotion cember 31st, 2011. CD Catalogue Set entitled “Sahnede Bir Ömür’’ (A Life on Stage) 2011 Book entited “UNESCO World Heritage Anatolia” 2011 of our products, Our Efforts Aimed at Opinion Leaders Classical music archive 2011 with related training Our marketing department is responBook entitled “Yok Olmadan Önce Görülmesi Gereken 100 Yer” (100 sible for the promotion of our company’s 2011 (pharmacovigilance products to physicians and pharmacists. Places to Remember Before They Disappear) For this purpose, 10 separate teams and Green Journey Agenda 2012 training) during the nearly 1,200 people work in coordination. The above listed materials were delivered to period while they are still In addition to their management and oropinion leaders by our Regional Directors. ganization functions, the regional managcandidates, aiming to ers of our field staff (which is comprised of nearly 120 people) include commuraise social awareness nication with the doctors, who have the qualification to be opinions leaders. Reon this matter as well. 182 183 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Customer privacy There are 4 factors as the source for Our customer database is maintained by complaints. OUR SUPPLIERS & a CRM software company; Bilim Pharmaceuticals does not keep a record or have Accordingly, 41% of complaints take its access to its customers’ personal inforsource from people, 10% from machinery COLLABORATIONS mation. No incidence of violence of cusand equipment, 33% from materials and tomer privacy is reported. 16% from methods. Customer complaints ratio Targeted Achieved Targeted Number of Number of Performance Indicators Ratio (2011) Ratio (2011) Ratio (2012) We defined our collaborations based on Project-based Collaborations: Refers Complaints Boxes Sold (in a million) (in a million) (in a million) our business relationships: to a project-based business relationship Ratio of Customer Complaints in the Supplier: Refers to a business relationbetween our company and the organiza52 94,739,153 0.75 0.55 0.7 Domestic Market (in a million) (Gebze) ship of less than 3 years with companies tions it cooperates with, which produces from which we buy materials, products value for or adds value to both parties. Ratio of Customer Complaints in the 4 24,674,780 0.27 0.16 0.25 and/or services that are required for our Domestic Market (in a million) (Çerkezköy) primary business. Strategic – Critical Collaborations and Ratio of Customer Complaints in Foreign Suppliers: Refers to all suppliers and col4 12,144,313 0.75 0.33 0.65 Markets (in a million) (Gebze) Collaborations: Refers to a business laborations that the company receives relationship of more than 3 years with critical materials or services for GMP; Ratio of Customer Complaints in Foreign 5 8,646,966 1.3 0.58 0.5 which we work with or order from at least or collaborations and suppliers that are Markets (in a million) (Çerkezköy) for 6 times a yearand produces value for highly important in terms of implementThe customer complaints ratio is the number of customer complaints accepted by the company in a year to the total number of or adds value to both parties. ing our company’s strategies and that boxes sold in the same year. This ratio is expressed in terms of in a million. ensures our company to achieve or even exceed its primary business targets. Ratio of resolved customer complaints* (%) Targeted Achieved Targeted Management of Collaborations Number of Performance Indicator Ratio (2011) Ratio (2011) Ratio (2012) Complaints (in a million) (in a million) (in a million) Ratio of Resolved Customer Complaints in COLLABORATION and SUPPLY collaborative companies that are based on 52 97 100 98 the Domestic Market (in a million) (Gebze) mutual trust, respect and openness. CHAIN POLICY Ratio of Resolved Customer Complaints in the We establish and foster trustful relations We formulate approaches with our collabora4 97 100 98 Domestic Market (in a million) (Çerkezköy) that address continuity with various compative companies so that they may partake in nies that assure mutual success in order to innovation and brainstorming activities. Ratio of Resolved Customer Complaints in create added value for our customers and 4 100 100 100 Foreign Markets (in a million) (Gebze) While we develop processes aimed at meaother stakeholders. suring and assessing the performance of Ratio of Resolved Customer Complaints in We act with the awareness that collabora5 100 100 100 collaborative relationships, we get a clear Foreign Markets (in a million) (Çerkezköy) tion depends on working together in the long picture as to the shortand long-term expec*The ratio of resolved customer complaints indicates the ratio of the total number of responds given to the complainants, term and sustainable value creation. While tations and manage the perceptions of our including the results of the study performed on the accepted customer complaints and the actions to be taken, within the defining our strategic and operational colcollaborating companies. determined period of time to the total number of complaints received by the company. The ratio is expressed as a percentage. laboration, we base them on corporate and strategic needs, as well as each other’s comWe create synergy and provide the necesplimentary strong aspects and skills. sary information flow that is required to proPatient confidentiality All of our employees, suppliers and comduce added value in the customer – supply Some of our activities may necessitate panies working with Bilim PharmaceutiIn order to achieve common goals and acchain. For this purpose, we monitor our invenreview and evaluation of the medical recals go to great lengths to maintain conquire mutual benefits with our collaborative tories and exits in our delivery channels on a cords or personal medical information of fidentiality and provide the safety of this companies, we develop structures that supproduct basis online, while we make plans for patients. Patient-related information that information which is entrusted to us. No port each other from the standpoint of accuproduction and supply in line with 6-month we obtain or is delivered to us during our incidence of violation of patient confidenmulative knowledge, resources and specialdemand planning. This way, we also help our activities is kept confidential. Unless retiality has been reported. ization. suppliers prepare their own plans. quired by the law and regulations or withWe establish sustainable relations with our out the patient’s consent, this information is not used and shared with others. 184 185 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Supplier Satisfaction Survey Results of the Supplier Satisfaction Survey* (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Achieved 90.30 93.01 94.87 96.27 96.54 Target 92.50 94.50 96.00 96.50 96.70 Selection of Collaborations Competency criteria are prepared and * Number of suppliers/collaborations that presented to the Supply Chain and CollabCollecting Feedbacks on Stakeholders’ Expectations and Needs orations Board (SC COL B) by the related participated in the survey STAKEHOLDER 2007: 129 suppliers/collaborations process owners in line with stakeholder EXPECTATIONS, NEEDS Period Receipt Evaluation 2008: 529 suppliers/collaborations expectations and related strategies; and 2009: 558 suppliers/collaborations the Board evaluates and finalizes these AND FEEDBACK 2010: 580 suppliers/collaborations criteria. The criteria are reviewed and up2011: 192 strategic-critical suppliers dated at the COL B each year. A selection Medium Responsible Short and collaborations participated Long Stakeof collaborations is performed based on Source Freq. Department Medium Freq. in the survey. holders / Person these criteria and through using various forms, particularly the Supplier CollaboDepartment ration Selection Pre-Evaluation (SCSPE) Meetings, Board Form. Corporations that meet at least Supplier once a Resource of Collaborations, once a Our suppliers’ expectations and per60% of the competency criteria set forth Satisfaction X X X year Planning Supplier Satisfaction year ceived satisfaction levels are received at in the SCSPE are selected. The related Survey (SSS) Department Surveys, Improvement supplier meetings held on a regular basis procedure is launched upon the approval Plan Determination as well as through the Supplier Satisfacof the concerning director and the COL B Meeting tion Survey. The supplier satisfaction suris informed accordingly. This procedure vey is electronically performed with speis not applied to monopolies or official/ Collaborations Related Board of every 3 cially designed software in a web-based semi-official institutions. and supplier X X always Department Collaborations months environment. 192 strategic-critical supmeetings Meetings pliers and collaborations participated in The general criteria that are required for Suppliers and Collaborations the Supplier Satisfaction Survey in 2011. all suppliers are outlined below, and the Quality (With a decision made by the Board of competencies that are required on a subSupplier Department, every 3 Collaborations, the company only focused ject basis are specifically listed. checks X X always Resource Department Meetings months on critical-strategic collaborations in the • Compliance with the law and reguPlanning Supplier Satisfaction Survey of 2011. lations Department We develop and apply action plans to im• Holding ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and Resource Department prove the Areas Open to Improvement, OHSAS 18001 certifications Phone calls and X always Planning Meetings, Board every 3 which are determined by the above-men• Adopting an approach that fits visits Department of Collaborations months tioned instruments. For instance, orderthe provisions stated in the Global Meetings ing methods are reviewed and rendered Compact concerning human rights more effective; special training programs and working conditions Related Department’s are offered to our employees who are in Receipt of X always Related Meeting Board every 3 direct relationship with suppliers; activi• Offering a competitive price complaints Department of Collaborations months ties that aim to provide special technical • Presenting a list of reference comMeetings support to suppliers are carried out; trainpanies ing is given on various topics (such as Suppliers’ once a Resource Department once a GMP rules, amendments to regulations); • A satisfactory past summit X X year Planning Meetings, Board of year and activities that aim to increase suppli• Having the ability to develop new Department Collaborations ers’ awareness on the EFQM excellence products/innovation model are conducted. 186 187 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Supplier Inspection Number of Visited/Inspected Suppliers • If one of our suppliers or agencies (if it is a warehouse) forwards a 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 request to us to join our List of Approved Suppliers, the “Amendment Achieved 51 59 65 72 75 Control Process” is launched by Target 49 58 64 70 75 77 the Quality Assurance Department. One of the activities conducted during this period is the inspection of Ratio of Evaluated Suppliers and Collaborations the company in question. This is called pre-inspection, while regu2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 lar inspections are made after the company is accepted to the list of Achieved 85.7 90.3 92.4 96.0 97.1 approved suppliers. Target 86.0 90.0 92.0 95.0 97.0 97.5 • During pre-inspection and regular inspections, an investigation is held as to whether the company meets various criteria within the scope of Improvement of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Collaborations and the Global Compact, such as A contribution is made to continuous imBilim Business Partners quality system, environment, ocprovement by mutually sharing knowlSummit edge and experiences between our Business Partners Summit is a one-day specifically by presenting examples from cupational health and safety, emcompany and suppliers/collaborators, meeting which is held every year to make its activities. Since 2009, Bilim Pharmaploying child workers, working enparticularly with respect to the GMP, Quala contribution to the improvement of colceuticals has been calculating its carbon vironment conditions, etc. After the ity, Environment, Occupational Health and laborations. The summit has a different footprint caused by its activities in order findings are evaluated, the comSafety Standards and Management Systheme ever year. The theme of the first to recognize the impacts of its activities pany is expected to complete the tems, as well as related technical matBusiness Partners Summit held in 2010 on the global climate change and to take shortcomings in question in order ters. “Formal Benchmark Collaborations” was “leadership”. The theme of the secthe necessary precautions regarding this to be approved, or the company is are established. ond Business Partners Summit held in matter. Within the framework of such efapproved but asked to complete 2011 was “sustainability”. The theme of forts, the company calculated the impact the shortcomings until the next inInnovative and creative ideas forwarded the third summit which would be held in of the widely participated “Business spection, depending on how critical by suppliers and collaborators during 2012 is planned to be “volunteerism”. Partners Summit” on climate change these shortcomings are. meetings, which are made on a reguwith myclimate Turkey, the Turkish part• Within this framework, the compalar basis or whenever needed, as well as nership of the Swiss NGO, myclimate. It Participation Rate ny is guided, explained, suggested the “Business Partners Summit” and fowas calculated that the carbon footprint and provided information support cus group studies, and their feedback 2009 2010 2011 2012 of the event was 5.81 tons. Bilim Pharwith respect to how to complete received through the SSS (Supplier Satmaceuticals neutralized the carbon the shortcomings. Thus, we make isfaction Survey) are evaluated at the Achieved 106 178 217 footprint of this event by buying the a contribution to the development Current Situation Analysis committee. Target 110 140 200 220 carbon emission lowering certificates of the company and to raising its (Please refer to the table entitled “Creof the Kores Wind Power Plant (located awareness on these matters. ative Ideas and Innovation”.) near Izmir) which is included in myclimate • We fully comply with the law and Turkey’s portfolio of carbon neutralization regulations with respect to the supMoreover, meetings are organized, if nec“CARBON-FREE” BUSINESS projects and which is certified by Gold ply of products and services. No fine essary, to promote a mutual exchange of PARTNERS SUMMIT IN 2011… Standard, which has the highest criteria is imposed due to non-compliance. ideas, technical support, improvement Having held its Business Partners Sumamong voluntary carbon standards. and sharing of plans, as well as for probmit with the theme, “Corporate Responlem solving, while legal and legislative sibility for Sustainability”, in order Following its carbon neutralization efamendments are shared in written form to, Bilim Pharmaceuticals raised the forts, Bilim Pharmaceuticals deserved by related units/departments. awareness of its suppliers and business to get the “carbon neutral” certification partners on sustainability by making sugfor the “Business Partners Summit”. Short-term Annual Business Plans are gestions in the name of leaving a more also mutually shared at the meetings orsustainable world to future generations, ganized with suppliers and collaborators. 188 189 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Social Awareness There exists a negative perception in society created by the merging of drugs Temel Yılmaz (health) and profitability. It is possible to Chairman, alter this perception through communicaDiabetic tion based on trust. Pharmaceutical comFoundation panies are doing their utmost through Bilim Pharmaceuticals has engaged in very projects they have developed. Numerous valuable activities in the field of chronic illfirms including Bilim Pharmaceuticals are nesses, raising public awareness through attempting to raise public awareness by long-term work across a very wide audiimplementing social responsibility stuence. Under the auspices of the Turkish dies. Presidency, the “Lets Stop Diabetes” project, undertaken simultaneously across 15 Thanks to the communication activities provinces through the “Take a Step and carried out by pharmaceutical compaRemain Healthy” and “Take 5,000 Steps nies, many people are becoming more Every Morning and Defeat Diabetes,” Bilaware of issues such as illnesses, proper im Pharmaceuticals has extended vitally drug usage, family medicine, etc. In this important support and contributions to context, we can say that the task of raisdeveloping an awareness of sports and ing public awareness (which should actuactivity. The Secretary-General of the ally be performed by the public) is taken Turkish Presidency has issued a plaque of up mainly by pharmaceutical companies gratitude to Bilim Pharmaceuticals for its in an open and transparent manner. support. Bilim Diabetes Bilim Pharmaceuticals turned one of the I find it very important that Bilim PharAs a company that Bilim Pharmaceuticals raised diabetestents, which were all prepared within the maceuticals, as a member of the domesrelated awareness of athletes and the form of a Yoruk tent to allow athletes rest tic pharmaceutical industry, is becoming conveys and provides local community, who participated in the stops, into the “Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ such a powerful actor in the international Lycian Trail Ultra Marathon. Tent of Raising Awareness on Diabetes” arena with a wide product portfolio. information regarding with the following motto: “more informaThe fact that its production facilities have The 2nd ‘Lycian Trail Ultra Marathon’, tion, more therapy”. On the preparation sensitive issues such which is sponsored by Bilim Pharmaday of the marathon, Bilim Pharmaceureceived approval from significant health authorities also adds further value to the ceuticals, started in Fethiye on Monticals informed sports men and women, as human health, Bilim day September 26th, 2011. The marathe press and the local community on dicompany. Also, the fact that Bilim Pharmaceuticals has received the EFQM award, thon was completed in the Antique City abetes in the tent and, in particular, drew Pharmaceuticals is of Phaselis on Sunday October 2nd, 2011 attention to the “prevalence of Type 2 diaan honour not awarded to any European institution in the preceding three years, with participants running on a different betes”, which has high insulin-resistance. is a success of great pride for the Turkish committed to open and leg of the 240 km portion of the historiThe primary focus was on unhealthy nuhealth sector. cal 509 km long Lycian trail each day. trition, excessive weight and immobile honest communication. life as factors behind the rise of diabetes. I also closely follow completed or ongoing efforts conducted by the pharmaceutiBilim Pharmaceuticals’ diabetes team With this respect, the company adopts was on duty in the tent, providing particical industry to improve public awareness the approach of establishing reachable pants with diet lists, calorie scales and inand environmental protection, as a chairman of an NGO. It is also vitally important collaboration and gives great emphasis formative brochures on diabetes. that companies engage in activities for the to providing information and responding good of society and the environment with to the media in a timely manner under any no relation to their products, and I take circumstances. this very seriously. I find Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ work in the social field to be Bilim Pharmaceuticals prioritizes being of vital importance, and I thank them. a dependable information source for the media. 190 191 The Value We Attach to People Bilim Pharmaceuticals Central Nervous System Team We say, “Don’t let the Truth Be Masked” to the stigma against schizophrenic patients! Bilim Pharmaceuticals draws attention to schizophrenia with the project entitled TURKEY’S FIRST ULTRA “Gerçekler Maskelenmesin” (Let Truths MARATHON Not Be Masked). This project, which Bilim eral Coordinator. Contestants who were Held for the 2nd time this year, the Lyjoined in 2007, addresses the treatment ranked 1st, 2nd and 3rd were given monecian Trail Ultra Marathon was the first of the Central Nervous System. Supporttary prizes and the right to participate at ultra-marathon in Turkey. A total of ing both patients and patient relatives Mario Levi’s writer workshop. Moreover, 27 athletes from Turkey, Russia, Denwith its efforts in this field, the Company the stories of the first 10 contestants are mark, the USA and the UK participated aims to traditionalize these efforts and to gathered in a book published by Doğan in the marathon, which was supported ish Diabetes Foundation, Bilim Pharmaceumake them exemplary activities before Yayınlar every year. The books are sold at by the Ministry of Culture and Tourticals aims to inform and raise awareness the entire community. D&R stores. ism. Athletes, who run with a back-pack of people,who have diabetes risk because that contains materials such as food of the poor feeding habits and lack of exerThe aim of the project, which has been Moreover, due to the extensive interest and drinks and which cover their daily cise, as well as diabetes patients and their conducted since 2008 with the support shown in writing activity, which is a means needs, will complete in this challenging close family. of the Federation of Schizophrenia Asof rehabilitation, writing academies were and exciting marathon within 6 days. sociations, is to introduce schizophrenia established in the psychiatric hospitals of A step from Anatolia to Europe… and to eliminate the stigma applied to many cities in Turkey under Mario Levi’s An intercontinental step to tackle diabetes Having assumed its mission to inform peoschizophrenia patients by the communileadership within the framework of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals participated in the ple with the motto, “more information, more ty. Within the framework of the “Gerçekler project. “Eurasia Intercontinental Diabetes Walk” therapy”, in BILIM PHARMACEUTICALS took Maskelenmesin” project, a story contest within the framework of the project entia step from Anatolia to Europe with the entitled “From the Place where the Ember In the other leg of the project which cartled “Adım At” (Take a Step) as part of the Turkish Diabetes Foundation. BILIM PHARFalls: Voices, Faces, Stories” is organized ries the most beautiful examples of what campaign entitled “Diyabeti Durduralım” MACEUTICALS walked hand in hand with among schizophrenia patients. The jury schizophrenia patients can do when they (Let’s Stop Diabetes), which is conductdiabetes patients at the 33rd Eurasia Maraof the contest is constituted of Novelist are permitted to hold on to life, pianist ed by the Turkish Diabetes Foundation thon to raise awareness about treating and Mario Levi, Ass. Prof. Dr. Haldun Soygür Davig Helfgott, the world’s most famous under the Turkish Presidency. Mr. Kadir preventing diabetes within Turkey. Acting – President of the Federation of Schizoschizophrenia patient, came to Turkey Topbaş – The Mayor of Istanbul– supupon the fact that poor feeding habits and phrenia Associations, Dr. Erhan Baş – Biland contributed to the adoption of the ported and participated in this event, lack of exercise have a major impact on the lim Pharmaceuticals General Manager, project by the community by giving conwhich started under the Altunizade Bride rapid increase of the prevalence of diabetes Actor Tuncel Kurtiz, Mrs. Deniz Yüce certs within the framework of the project. on Sunday October 16th, 2011. in Turkey, the company distributed training Başarır – Doğan Kitap General Director booklets on diabetes and healthy nutrition and Mrs. İpek Altıner – Tiyatro Kedi GenWith the project entitled “Take a Step for before the marathon, which is very impora Better Life to Fight Diabetes”, which it tant for diabetes patients. conducts in cooperation with the Turk192 193 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People Bakırköy Prof. Dr. Mazhar Osman Mental Facility (BRSHH) and Bilim Pharmaceuticals carried out an important social responsibility project in order to overcome society’s prejudices against individuals with mental illnesses, especially schizo“Do not phrenics. Poems written by the patients undergounderestimate ing treatment at the mental facility were set to music and gathered under an album entitled ‘Düşünen Şarkılar’ (Thinking or exaggerate Highlighting schizophrenia, in particular, Stories which had been entered in preSongs) by the psychiatrist, Dr. Vedat Bilgiç and the music instructor, Volkan Uruk. our little steps… as a disorder leading to loss of ability, Mrs. Amering said that, besides proper medication, schizophrenic patients have vious contests were collected into two books entitled “Life Opens Its Heart to Me” and “We Are All Insane” by Doğan Poems that were compiled and collected in a book entitle ‘İnilti’ (Moaning) by a literature teacher named Bedia Tuncer Just trust us!” to participate in rehabilitation programs. By sharing with others they maintain the quality of their daily lives at a maximum Kitap. Thinking Songs in 1964 were dubbed by famous artists such as Teoman, Ahmet Özhan, Soner Arıca, Betül Demir, Mercan & Rashit and level. She also added that the most sucPoems written by patients, who are reDemet Sağıroğlu. Ranked first in the contest, Yasemin cessful way of sharing was artistic creceiving treatment at the Bakırköy Prof. Şenyurt, who is still studying for a doctorativity. Dr. Mazhar Osman Mental Facility, were Bilim Pharmaceuticals sponsored the alate in philosophy, said on behalf of all of dubbed by famous artists such as Teobum as part of its projects entitled “Gerher friends regarding her success story: Stating that they found the project very man, Ahmet Özhan, Soner Arıca, Betül çekler Maskelenmesin” (Let Facts Not “do not underestimate or exaggerate successful and that they were involved in Demir, Mercan & Rashit and Demet Be Masked) and “Ateşin Düştüğü Yerden, our little steps… Just trust us.” Ranked order to support it, Mrs. Michaela Amering Sağıroğlu and gathered under an alSesler, Yüzler, Öyküler” (From the Place third, Hasan Emre Keskin influenced the said, “I believe the stigma will disappear in bum entitled ‘Düşünen Şarkılar’ (ThinkWhere Ember Falls to: Voices, Faces, Stoaudience including Mario Levi, with the a relation to be established through any ing Songs). ries). following expression from his story: “We art branch.” are illusions of each other”. I Released the Threads of My Mind! Meaningful support by the World PsychiatAll winning stories were collected into ric Association (WPA)! a book entitled “I Released the Threads Having participated in the conference to of My Mind” by Doğan Kitap. 13 attracsupport the project, WPA General Secretive stories are published in the book, tary Assistant Prof. Dr. Levent Küey and which sheds light on the secret worlds of Prof. Dr. Michaela Amering mentioned schizophrenic patients. that more than 500 million around the world have psychological disorders and In the sustainable success stories catonly 20 million are able to receive aid. In egory, which was evaluated for the first other words, while 1 out of 7 people face time this year, stories authored by Hüseat least one psychological disorder every yin Avni Cinozoğlu and Süveyda Ölüdeniz, year, 1 out of 4 people face it throughout winners of the two previous contests, their whole lifetime. were mentioned. 194 195 The Value We Attach to People “In line with our corporate responsibility, FAMILIES OF PEOPLE WITH we have been carrying out a number of ALZHEIMER’S ARE NOT ALONE social responsibility exercises. The projProject ect, ‘Thinking Songs’, which is conducted by the Bakırköy Mental Facility, is an important corporate responsibility project Turkey’s First for us. Our main purpose in supporting this meaningful project is to draw attenAlzheimer’s Disease tion to mental illnesses with a particular focus on schizophrenia and to show what Support Line: patients can do and how productive they can be when they are given the chance. 0 800 261 78 40 Within the framework of our social responsibility project entitled ‘From the Alzheimer’s disease, which 35 milPlace Where Ember Falls to: Voices, Faclion people throughout the world and es, Stories’, which we have been carrying 300,000-350,000 people in Turkey have out for three years, we are very happy to live with, is an incurable disease that In order to help patients’ Launched in 2009, the pilot project beand honoured to also support the project, changes not only the patient’s life, but the gan in 3 cities (Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir) ‘Thinking Songs’”, says Dr. Erhan Baş – lives of his whole family. Patients’ families families overcome this with the patients of 30 doctors. The call Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ CEO. have to be supported during this difficult centre, where specialist psychologists period which sometimes reaches the limperiod in the easiest way work between 9am and 5pm every weekWhile all songs and poems are inspired its of emotional trauma. day, began to open throughout Turkey on by true stories, each occasion, each feelwithout compromising September 30th, 2009. Calls incoming ing and each expression told in the songs out of working hours are recorded and carry the traces of real life stories their quality of life, the callers are called back by expert psychologists. Regular follow-up calls are made In this project, invigorated by the voices “Alzheimer’s Disease Call to patient relatives every month and they of famous artists such as Teoman, Betül are given information about the patient Demir, Demet Sağıroğlu, Ahmet Özhan, Centre”, a first in Turkey, after contacting their doctor. Soner Arıca, Mercan & Rashit, etc, Assistant Prof. Dr. Erhan Kurt vocalized the was launched by the Given the recent ageing in the world’s poem entitled “Teselli İsterken” (While population, it is estimated that the numLooking for Consolation). Alzheimer’s Association ber of people with Alzheimer’s disease will reach 115 million by 2050. Also, the The revenues generated from sales of and the Alzheimer’s increasing number of incoming calls to the album will be donated to the Bakırköy the Alzheimer’s Call Centre serves as a Mental Facility Foundation and used in Foundation under Bilim clear indication that the disorder is inthe rehabilitation of patients. creasingly recognized by people each Pharmaceuticals’ leadership. passing day. 196 197 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People 40 Lives Illuminated Dr. Erhan Baş drew attention to the fact to raise the quality of life of patients and by 40 Lights! that the project, “40 Işık – 40 Hayat” (40 their relatives. Within this framework, we Bilim Pharmaceuticals and Mersin UniLights – 40 Lives), is one of Bilim Pharmalaunched the Alzheimer’s Call Centre in versity were a source of light for 40 famiceuticals’ sustainable corporate respon2009, a first in Turkey. The ’40 Işık – 40 lies with an Alzheimer’s patient, and acsibility projects. Mr. Baş mentioned that Hayat’ project, which we launched today, cordingly, for hundreds of thousands of the company would like to continue to is our most recent social investment proAlzheimer’s patients in Turkey and their implement the project with other univergram related to Alzheimer’s disease. We relatives. Through the project entitled “40 sities following Mersin University, which shall keep conducting sustainable projIşık 40 Hayat” (40 Lives – 40 Lights), has an Elderly Care Services program in ects in this area”, added Bilim Pharmawhich was implemented to raise social their Medical Services Vocational School ceuticals’ CEO, Dr. Erhan Baş. awareness on the Alzheimer’s disease of Higher Education. “Turkey’s population and to raise the quality of life of patients is gradually getting older. Because of the The originator of the project, Prof. Dr. and their relatives. The project, which was ageing population, the number of chronic Aynur Özge – an Academic at the Departconducted with the cooperation between disorders is increasing. As people live lonment of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, the Dementia Division of the Department ger in Turkey, the number of Alzheimer’s Mersin University, said the following about of Neurology at the Faculty of Medicine, cases gradually rises because of agethe project: “We designed the ‘40 Işık 40 the Medical Services Vocational School ing. We aim to raise social awareness of Hayat’ project so as to observe mutual inof Higher Education, the Faculty of ComAlzheimer’s disease, which is also known teraction by matching, within the framemunication, and the Faculty of Science as dementia. Affecting about 450,000 work of a program, 40 university students Professor Aynur Özge and Literature in Mersin University, was people in Turkey and more than 35 milwho are being trained in professional Academic, Mersin University Medical launched at a press conference on Seplion throughout the world, the number afelderly care to work in these respective School, Department of Neurology tember 19th, 2011 within the framework of flicted by Alzheimer’s disease will rapidly areas in the future, with 40 families that World Alzheimer’s Day event. increase in the coming years; acting upon need service in this area. Thanks to the In the 40 Lights, 40 Lives project, we this fact, we carry out projects that aim project, families which need information aimed to establish solidarity in society and support with respect to tackling Alby bringing the knowledge and energy zheimer’s disease received on-site supof the young together with those famiport from specialists on this subject. They lies who have a loved one suffering from met other families facing the same probAlzheimer’s, thereby enabling these lem and shared their experiences. In this young people to act as guides for these project, which was realized with the profamilies. fessional efforts of the ’40 Işık – 40 Hayat’ At this point, Bilim Pharmaceuticals not team but with the enthusiasm of an amaonly sponsored the project as the sole teur spirit, we received positive feedback representative of its industry, but also from students and instructors, as well as engaged in extensive cooperation, takpatients and their relatives. I think that the ing responsibility for the project. We project, which is a first in Turkey, would were also encouraged by its cooperaalso be deemed as a model study within tion, where it delivered the project rethe framework of collaboration between sults to the desired points, and their universities and the industry sector. We reassurance that their cooperation was will be able to share our experience with not limited to this project. everyone through the documentary that reflects the entire project and the book Bilim PPharmaceuticals is a company engaged in active exercises with the that tells our lively experiences.” effort of giving back what it has earned from this country as well as activities “This project taught us how we have to aimed at enhancing public awareness of approach a taboo concept like ‘Alzheimpatient groups. Projects are laid claim to er’s patient’ and how to establish communot by just the person in charge, but also nication with patients and their relatives. by those on lower pay grades, hence enBy applying what we learned, we were suring effective delivery on the ground. able to bring some support to their lives. I believe all of these activities will raise Our experiences allowed us to look at our public awareness and enhance the occupation with a realistic point of view”, concept of responsibility. says Şule Sevim on behalf of “40 Işık” (40 Lights). 198 199 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People THE PROJECT HAS ENCOURAGED US… Şenay Topal, who represents “40 Hayat” (40 Lives) and whose mother is an Altives spent time for themselves. Within the framework of “40 Işık – 40 Hayat”, Consultant Psychologist Kahraman Kıral and This project taught zheimer’s patient, expressed her feelings: “As indicated by the name of the project, students brought light in and livened up Specialist Nurse, Aslıhan Yandım, who are assistant project coordinators, conducted visits to offer support to students and us how we have the home of each patient’s relative. When the project was over, each of the students was accepted as the daughter or son of families. When needed, the project team provided medical support services as well. to approach a each visited home. While trying to recover our balance in our fight against a disease that has extremely exhausted and aged ALZHEIMER’S PATIENTS’ ART THERAPY ARTWORK EXHIBITED As well as providing information, stutaboo concept us, educated young people came to our homes and became our guests for a period of 12 weeks with no thought of perdents allowed patients to participate in various social and cultural activities, in an attempt to raise their own and their relalike ‘Alzheimer’s sonal gain. The project, ’40 Işık – 40 Hayat’, showed us that we are not alone by providing us with the reflection of young tives’ awareness of Alzheimer’s disease, as well as their motivation. They went to a dinner, went on a walk and they went to patient’ and people’s energy, proved us that we will be relieved of our burdens through sharing and encouraged us in what we will do positive developments in patients’ efforts to become socialized both within their the cinema together. 40 students, who initially received “Art Therapy” training, conducted some work as a hobby with the how to establish from now on.” Having organized art therapy work in the families and in the community as their self-confidence increases”, thus drawing attention to the impact of the therapy on support of their teacher, Sculptor Özge Kar, during home visits; these works of art were exhibited during the press launch. communication project, Sculptor Özge Kar says, “We have observed that art therapy, which was implemented within the framework of the patients. “40 HAYAT” (40 LIVES) WERE A DOCUMENTARY FOR THE “40 IŞIK 40 HAYAT” PROJECT WAS PREPARED with patients and project, improved patients’ concentration and emotional status and increased their emotional connection with the practitioILLUMINATED The project, “40 Işık 40 Hayat”, was carried out in Mersin between February 11th Activities performed during the “40 Işık 40 Hayat” project were recorded by an extheir relatives. ner by creating a new and non-verbal way – May 28th, 2011 under the supervision of of establishing communication. We found Prof. Dr. Aynur Özge an Academic at the perienced team under the supervision of out that patients become happy for their Department of Neurology, Faculty of MediAssistant Professor Hakan Erkılıç, who new capabilities instead of feeling bad cine, Mersin University – with the contriis an academic at the Cinema-TV Departabout their lost capabilities, and there are bution of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Within ment of the Faculty of Communication at the framework of the project, 40 students, Mersin University. Filmed interviews were who receive training with respect to proedited, andas a result, a documentary for fessional elderly care services, including the project was prepared. nursing services and psychology, were supported with 16 hours of theoretic trainA BOOK FOR THE “40 IŞIK ing and 3 hours of applied art therapy train40 HAYAT” PROJECT WAS AUTHORED ing These trainings included information The entire project was monitored by Ason the Alzheimer’s disease,its associated sistant Prof. Dr. Nesrin Canbek Mengi, problems, the progress of the disorder, the an academic at the Department of Turkimpact of the disease on patients’ relaish Language and Literature of Faculty tives and technical data about the issue. of Science and Literature at Mersin UniWithin the framework of the project, 40 versity. Sound-recording interviews were students visited 40 families in their homes made with patient relatives who agreed for 2 days a week for a period of 3 months to be interviewed. Their stories were lisand established active communication tened to, edited and gathered in a book of with patients and their relatives. Families comments. The book was supported with received professional support from stupoems written and pictures drawn by padents and while students were dealing tients and their relatives. with Alzheimer’s patients, patients’ rela200 201 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People 2. “Remove the OBSTACLES” Volunteering Audio Book Project Another pillar of the project, “Remove Platform for the the Barriers”, is the “Audio Book” project, in which currently best-selling books are vocalized in order to support the personal Community development of our visually impaired citizens. Books are vocalized by volunteers and submitted to various NGOs like GETEM Bilim Pharmaceuticals (Technology and Education Laboratory for Community Volunteers the Visually Handicapped). Our project Platform’s Volunteering team provides all the necessary techniProjects cal support to our volunteers, who want to The primary target of BPCV projects is “to vocalize books. Moreover, volunteers are ensure that our employees, our families provided training on proper vocalization, and our stakeholders share their knowlaccentuation and breath-taking. edge, time, talents, resources and experiences with an understanding of social At the Alternative Camp, 3. “Bilim Fellows at SchooL responsibility and with a voluntary apAND ENVIRONMENTAL proach for the benefit of individuals, who our mid-level manager PENGUINS” Project are not members of our families, in order A number of activities from supplying prito become a part of the solution.” candidates are on duty, mary school students’ personal needs (i.e. stationery, school uniforms, shoes, jackets, The 1st “Remove the doing their best to make etc) to providing schools with important edOBSTACLES, Alternative ucational facilities (i.e. a library, a computer Camp” Project handicapped guests lab, etc. are carried out by our volunteers. “We are making their have the most beautiful The other three pillars of the project, “Bilim Fellows in Pursuit of Seeds”, “Bilim Fellows: dreams come true” vacation of their lives. Curious Books, Creative Reading” and “Bilim Fellows at the Theatre”, aim to support Within the framework of the project entithe personal development and socializa4. Bilim Fellows “In Pursuit tled “Remove the Barriers”, which we have All services at this 4-star holiday camp are tion of children. of Seeds” Project been conducting since 2005, we create rendered by volunteers. In this project designed in 2011, a new opportunity for handicapped children and Since all activities related to the project are education method is developed with youngsters to: conducted in the same school, students the cooperation between the Ministry of • Enjoy a vacation at the “Alternative Camp”, where all their needs are Volunteers are well acquainted with volunteers; this way they get the chance to know such people, who can be a role model for them. National Education and Corporate Volunteers Association (ÖSGD). In the first phase of the project, the drama play encovered by volunteers; • Play “No Handicap Football Match” with famous football players; discipline titled “Tohumun Peşinde” (In Pursuit of Seeds) which is written by Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers, aims to • Hold a photography exhibition; • Walk with corteges at national holitheir egos and raise environmental awareness. A new education technique is planned to be created by combining this play with creovercome possible days and wave hands to millions of ative drama in elementary schools. This people at the national TV channels; “learn by living” experience, which will be • Enjoy festivals and balls. practiced by volunteers in groups of 40 Among these activities, the Alternative Camp is regularly organized every year. obstacles inside people, can be applied to elementary students by all private sector employees via 8-hour programs. The related activities in themselves at the classrooms (the second pillar of the project) will be started in 2012. 202 Alternative Camp. 203 The Value We Attach to People 7. “My Career Is in My Hands” Personal Development Congress Project At the “My Career Is In My Hands” congress, which has been organized by Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers continuously for 4 years, researchers and professional voluntary instructors of Turkey, who are experienced in their own areas, provide full-day trainings with certification for a period of 4 days in order to be a role model for young people and to make sure that they begin their careers 5. Bilim Fellows: “Curious one step ahead. Books, Creative Reading” Project The most precious present that could be When compared to developed countries, given to a university student, who is about Turkey is among the countries with the to graduate, is a career and a developlowest litreacy rate. However, reading 6. Bilim Fellows at the ment opportunity. Bilim Pharmaceuticals books is very important for personal deTheatre Project Community Volunteers created this opvelopment. All actors on this stage are volunteers and portunity for the university students in their families. They perform children plays the eastern parts of Turkey. The fourth of to contribute to the social development of this event, which is a candidate to be the This project children, while children of those families with financial problems are allowed to watch these plays free of charge. Trained largest personal development congress of Turkey with 15 different training programs and 32 sessions, was organized aims to get for months, volunteers visit city by city and exhibit their plays with a far superior performance than professional actors. at Dicle University in Diyarbakır. There are solutions that make a difference through volunteering in every detail of the project, children to love Adults, who would like to watch the plays, on the other hand, have to donate a children’s book to enter. With these collected which was applied fully based on the principle of volunteering. The project is unique, because… No company is promoted. The purpose reading books books, our volunteers build libraries in schools with no library. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers hit the road with the following idea: “If we had received basic talent training is not to collect applications, to promote any products by opening a booth or to distribute promotional materials. The and to turn during our college yearsfrom professional instructors after entering business lifewho make significant contributions to our only purpose is to offer a training or development opportunity to the juniors and seniors from any faculty and any departreading into a achievements in the private sector, we would be one step ahead in our journey!” ment who attach importance to their personal development. habit. The congress is organized with the purpose of producing solutions for the problem of insufficient participation of young The central coordination team, which is comprised of Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers, as well as all acpeople in employment in our country ademicians and university representaIn this project, we make children not only where the unemployment rate among tives, assistants and all companies that read, but also to experience what they young adults is around 18%. The congress provide logistics services voluntarily conread via drama. Children, who read books aims to support university students partribute to the project. by playing, dreaming and discussing altoticularly in Anatolia in their career plangether, begin to love reading books, while ning, to create a role model, to improve developing their creativity. students’ knowledge and talents, to help them create their visions and to make sure that they begin their career one step ahead. 204 205 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People For the first Rıfat Bayraç E&R Danışmanlık (E&R Consultancy) Mikado Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma New Psychology of Success Sustainable Development and Social time, Turkey’s Serra Titiz Danışmanlığı (Mikado Sustainable Entrepreneurship Development Consultancy) At the end of the congress, students get Hanife Tanışan KenBlanchard Knowing Yourself 23 leading a special internship opportunity in these companies, thanks to the unique and creative solution offered in the congress. Ayşe Köse Ferda Binatlı Gümüş Remeda Consultancy TMI Progress on the Career Path Emotional Intelligence in Business Life companies in Students, whose knowledge and talents were improved through personal develHakan Tetik TMI Strategic Thinking My Career Is Under my Control, Career their own areas opment trainings, will benefit from the Dilek Mete Bilim Pharmaceuticals Targets and Career Planning internship opportunity that is open to 50 students in maximum. When students Personal Behavior Models and Sinan Akdoğan Bilim Pharmaceuticals Relationships contribute to complete their 30-day (1 month) internship in Turkey’s leading companies, they will get paid. Also, their accommodation Kürşat Acartürk Bilim Pharmaceuticals Effective Presentation Techniques, Positive Thinking and Stress a community and travel costs will be covered by these Management companies. During the internship period, Body Language and Personal Image the training programs and the efficiency Erol Tuncer Bilim Pharmaceuticals Tactics investment of this process will be monitored by the representatives of these 23 companies and BPCV. Çağlar Çabuk Mobing Eğitim ve Destek Merkezi (Mobing Training and Support Centre) Future Starts from Today project that is Voluntary instructors support the project… One of the most important features that Nurdan Akalın Terazi TMI Özel Sektör Gönüllüleri Derneği Success in Interview Başak Güçlü Volunteering in the Private Sector carried out by make the project successful is that pro(Corporate Volunteers Association) fessional instructors who are well known Seni Dinliyorum, Seni Anlıyorum (I in the private sector voluntarily provide Candan Erdemci Innovara Listen to You, I Understand You) the volunteers support to the project. Voluntary instructors and the trainings Betül Bozkurt Katharsis Eğitim ve Danışmanlık (Katharsis Training and Consultancy) Personal Leadership of a company. they provided at Dicle University are listed below: Güray Sabit FutureLeaders Teamwork in Corporate Life The Personal Development Project entitled a decision was made in 2011 to organize “My Career Is Under my Control” has been a more comprehensive congress at Dicle conducted in a total of 4 universities… University in Diyarbakır which will last for The project was first organized at the 4 days. Kariyer.net became a sponsor Anatolian University in Eskişehir in 2008 of the congress and provided technical as a pilot project where a total of 60 stusupport to students from the receipt of dents participated in 2-day trainings. The their participation applications to the instudent who wrote the most successful ternship process. Bilim Pharmaceuticals career target was offered an opportuCommunity Volunteers and voluntary nity to make internship on salary at Bilim students from the university promoted Pharmaceuticals. Later. The congress the congress by opening booths in all facwas regularly held every year: at Erzurum ulties of Dicle University. Moreover, volAtatürk University in 2009 and at Kayseri untary students participated in trainings, Erciyes University in 2010. becoming well-equipped with respect to effective communication. As a result of all With the increase in the number of volunthese efforts, tary instructors and the strength of the fact that the project has become a brand, 206 207 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People The 4th Students Who Are Assigned in the Congress Are also Volunteers Thanks to the students who voluntarily congress worked in the congress, participation was monitored using signature lists. Each of the students who were present throughheld at Dicle out the congress created a CV through the internship application ad on Kariyer. net and satisfaction surveys were applied University in to these students. According to the results of the survey, 93.4% of the students mentioned that the congress contributed Diyarbakır to their personal development and that they would make use of such information in their careers in the future. became a source of light The number of students who were for more than present throughout the congress at Dicle University in 1,600 students Kerim Çelik Tuzla 1 among their professional employees. FolDiyarbakır was 2,310, while the lowing a 30-day special development proKerim Çelik Bursa 1 number of students who at least gram, interns are also paid salary during participated to begin their this period. Students’ accommodation Borçelik 1 and travel costs (from and to Diyarbakır) Borçelik 1 in the 1-day training was are also covered by these companies. The careers one students will also get the chance to participate in social activities in their cities Boyner Holding A.Ş. 1 4,260. of presence with their mentors within the Altın Yıldız 1 steap ahead. scope of special development programs. Companies that support us with respect Beymen Ay Marka 2 1 Students were each given a certificate for to our internship process and the interneach of the trainings they participated. Brisa Briggestone 1 Moreover, 21 companies that are memship quotas offered to students by the bers of the Corporate Volunteer Associacompanies are as follows: Citibank 2 Project Teams Reinterpret Voluntarism tion supported the project by providing The central project team begins its efextra quota for interns. Akbank 2 Çimsa 1 forts 6 months before the congress. The Enerjisa Group 2 central coordination team intensively colAvivasa Emeklilik Anonim Şirketi 1 Providing Students with a unique and spelaborates with the university in the entire cial internship experience… ATOS 1 Garanti Pension 2 process, from negotiating with the uniStudents who are offered such a special GlaxoSmithKline 2 versity president to organizing a promoBilim Pharmaceuticals 6 internship opportunity also get the chance tion cocktail for academicians, from all to participate in a development program Borusan Holding A.Ş. 1 Kadıköy Şifa Hospital 10 banner and brochure-related efforts to that is based on the principles of the menLevis 2 the coordination of instructors who partorship program. The mentee training is BMGS 3 ticipate in the congress. The project is led provided by Çağlar Çubuk. Members of Borusan Oto 1 Zarakol Ajans 1 by Dilek Mete – Bilim Pharmaceuticals HR the Corporate Volunteers Association Supervisor. The internship process which Borusan Lojistik 2 Olmuksa 2 which is comprised of Turkey’s leading is added to the project this year has been companies identify voluntary mentors Borusan EnBW 1 Roche 1 voluntarily executed by Damla Yüksek – HR Specialist – like all other employees of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. 208 209 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 The Value We Attach to People The next targets of the Personal DeveApproved as the Turkish leg of the Eurolopment Congress entitled “My Career is pean Union’s project entitled “25,000 “My Career is Under My Control”… As you go from West to East in Turkey, you can see from data that the equality of oplives to save”, our “Save Life” project aims to attach 25,000 people to life every year. The project is an awareness raising initiaUnder My portunity in education and employment deteriorates. Our next target is to increase the employment of young jobless tive to prevent accidents and to ensure that life-saving measures are taken after accidents or disasters occur. The project Control” adults and to facilitate the increase of investments by raising the level of social awareness in the Eastern parts of Turkey began to take the attention of our colleagues, who cover a total of 3 million km per month, to preventive measures and Congress through young people, who we have contributed to the personal development of. first aid. Our families, teachers and children will be the significant parts of this awareness raising initiative, which we bewas awarded Our targets are to: • strengthen our collaboration with lieve will grow in waves. 9. Ecoscientists leading companies that are memby OSGD bers of the Corporate Volunteers Association in order to reach more The project aims to provide our employees, who have received training on sustainability throughout 2011, with an opporuniversities within one year; Association • increase the number of voluntary professional instructors; tunity to perform voluntary activities with respect to environment and sustainability, as well as to make sure that the targets as the “Most • make sure that other companies apply their own personal developof Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ sustainability strategy are adopted and internalized by employees. Within the scope of the Ecoment congresses by preparing the Creative instructions of the project; • find a voluntary company that can scientists project, it is one of the planned activities to increase the sustainabilityrelated competency of employees utilizVolunteering perform the inventory practice in ing informative training programs and to order to make sure that students encourage employees to raise awareness ‘Awards from the Heart 2011’is held for can see their strong sides and sides of stakeholders. Project” the fifth time by the Corporate Volunteers that are open to improvement; and Association this year and in which the • ensure that students benefit from projects of Turkey’s most active compaprofessional online trainings in adnies in the area of volunteering compete. dition to classroom training. The factors that brought the award are the momentum that the congress has gained since the first organization and 8. “Save A Life” Project the fact that it has positively affected As Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community large masses. Volunteers, we launched the “Save Life” project in memory of our colleagues, who lost their lives in traffic accidents or were forced to break their careers because of their physical disability. Complying with the European Road Safety Charter, this project was deemed as a European Union project. We, as BilimFamily, want this project to expand to Turkey and even throughout the world. 210 211 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Environmental management We consider the environmental dimension and impacts of our activities during all stages in order to minimize ecological impacts. We consider the environmental dimenWe have structured our Environment sion and impacts of our activities during Management System on the basis of ‘Enall stages including design, purchase, vironment-DimensionEffect Evaluation’, manufacturing, packaging, storage, and Bilim Pharmaceuticals Environmental launch of products on the market and rePolicy and in compliance with ISO 14001 cycling of packages of marketed products standards encompassed by Integral in order to minimize ecological impacts; Management Systems (IMS). We identify and we carry out our activities taking into the environmental dimensions and efconsideration and respectful of the profects of our activities and products, their tection of natural resources. legal and local requirements, the ins and 213 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT We also undertook an investment equivalent to the carbon emissions associated with our efforts to communicate our Corporate Responsibility Report 2010, which is an level A report approved by GRI, and during our meetings focusing on raising environmental awareness in the media. In 2011, we enlarged the portfolio of vehicles that run on diesel, with their lower emissions per litre, while reducing the portfolio of vehiles that work with gasoline. We concentrated on teleconferences in an A total distance of 13,430,000 km was covered by our vehicles in 2010, while the effort to reduce the use of vehicles. total distance increased to 20,639,000 We undertook significant investments in our information technology infrastructure. km in 2011. Despite this 15% increase in total distance, the amount of fuel used increased by only 8.8%. Systemic changes that are requested from the IT department for each department with forms with written signatures can be received in the digital environment as the Solution Manager module was put in practice, removing the need for paper in this process. As a result of the improvements, photocopying, printing and the use of paper We have been measuring our carbon footprint and making improvement plans accordwas reduced by 30%. ingly since 2010 in order to evaluate the negative impacts of our activities on the environment and to take initiatives to reduce them. Our water consumption target was set at 1.24 litres per box; the realisation was lower at 1.1 litres per box in 2011. We determined our electricity consumpWe determined our water consumption tion target as 0.13745 kWh per box for 2012. target as 0.00082 m3 per box for 2012. 214 215 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT We built a “Lighting Pole Operating with Solar Energy” in our Gebze facility in order to raise employees’ awareness on sustainability. We will be able to save 219 kWh of energy per year by means of the Thanks to the covalent bond diverging lighting pole, which is built as a symbol to bushes that were installed on the natural raise sustainability-related awareness of gas feeding pipe in Q3/2010, we reduced employees and became operational in our natural gas net consumption by 5% in November 2011. This will reduce CO2 2011. emissions by 200 tonnes per year Providing input for studies to increase (a photo or a promotional visual image will production efficiency, the MES be included). (Manufacturing Execution System) allowed us to transfer records on paper, which are monitored throughout the production process, to the electronic environment. This way, we prevented the consumption of 420,000 pages of paper per year. Since the Business Partners Summit 2011, we have been offsetting our carbon emisWe achieved our natural gas consions resulting from. In order to actualize the carbon offset, we undertook an investment sumption target of 0.0158 m3 per – equivalent to the amount of our carbon emissions – in the Kores Wind Farm in Izmir. box in 2011. We determined our natural gas consumption target as 0.01222 m3 per box for 2012. Some of our promotional materials are manufactured from recyclable materials. The recovery of recyclable paper, cardboard and plastics had been carried out through 3 We increase the rate of use of recyclable regional directorates. Five more regional offices began this practice in 2011. materials each passing day. By removing 105 mercury vapour lamps of 250 W located in various places within the Bilim Gebze facility and installing 85 W compact fluorescent lamps instead, we We began to have our pharmacy nylon saved more than 400,000 kWh of bags manufactured from biodegradable electricity per year. and reusable materials. 216 217 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT outs of every procedure, their routine and exceptional management circumstances Our Environmental and emergency situations, findings of external and internal audits and stakeholders’ feedback by assessment with our ISO Management Model 14001 work teams. We create and apply the Yearly Environment Management Action Plan in order to reduce identified environmental risks, as well as to keep them under control. environmental policy We use appropriate technologies in order We have developed important procedures to minimize and control potential impacts and directives deriving from the results of caused by our activities, related to envi‘Environment-Dimension-Effect Evaluaronment and human health. tion’ to reduce environmental effects or to keep them under control. All applied We comply with the laws and regulations procedures and instructions are assoof the Ministry of Health required by the ciated with the requirements of the ISO pharmaceutical production sector, the 14001 standard and defined in the Envirules of current Good Management Pracronmental Handbook. We comply with the tices, Environmental Legislations and loenvironmental legislation encompasscal requirements. ing the receipt of legal permits, approvals and licenses, in line with the “ProceThe Environmental We predicate our actions for a sustaindure of Monitoring Compliance with the able environment through the minimizaLegislations on Occupational Health & Management Board and the tion of loss in the ratio of raw materials, Safety and Environment, as well as Other the efficient use of energy, the absolute Requirements” based on the “CompliA sustainable ecological environment Energy Management Board minimization of waste products and the ance Evaluation Table”. We take ‘Waste requires effective governance that is in increase in support of recycling. Management Procedures’ and ‘Energy relation with all other processes. Within were established under the Management Procedures’ as a guide in the framework of our sustainability manWe organize training events for our comactivities we undertake on the protecagement process, and in line with our roof of the Sustainability pany’s and subcontractors’ employees tion of ecological environments. We disstrategy of “protecting the environment with the aim of raising awareness on propose such products, materials and semiand reducing consumption of natural reBoard to evaluate and review tecting the environment. finished products as waste, for which a sources”, we set up the Environmental decision for disposal is taken due to exManagement Board, the Energy Managemanagement, planning and We assess and monitor our suppliers and piration or non-compliance with quality ment Board and ISO 14001 Environmencontract manufacturers in view of their specifications; we carry out the disposal tal Work Teams, which play active role in implementation processes, impacts on the environment. procedure within the framework of the such processes as evaluation of our en“Rejection and Disposal Procedure”. vironmental impacts, planning of neceswhile Environmental Work We ensure the adherence to ISO 14001 sary activities to minimize determined Environment Management Systems and We have set up Environmental Manageimpacts and reducing consumption of Teams were established to review and improve them through set ment Units in our Gebze and Çerkezköy natural resources. The Environmental targets. In this manner, we commit to processing facilities in parallel with the Management process is carried out with execute and disseminate preventing environmental pollution. legislation on permits and licenses that the participation of all our employees and must be obtained as per the environment in cooperation with other processes. activities in practice. law. 218 219 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Mustafa Asbaş Çerkezköy Chamber of Trade Environmental Management Council Member Board (EMB) Our Environmental Management Board We observe that Bilim Pharmaceuticals, as one consists of department representatives. of the pioneers of the pharmaceutical industry, The Board meets under the presidency attaches particular importance to occupational of the Technical Services Manager of the health and safety beyond the standards of the related plant, every 3 months, and evaluÇerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone (ÇOSB) ates and reviews the standard agenda and legal requirements. I have never seen or and other matters set forth by its memheard any accidents at Bilim Pharmaceuticals bers. The standard agenda is as follows: or any negativity in terms of occupational health • Activities of improvement that deEnergy Management Board Environmental Work Teams and safety. First of all, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is rive from the Current Situation (EMGB) Environmental Work Teams consist of very environmentally friendly thanks to the naThe Energy Management Board consists managers and experts determined by Analysis ture of its sector. Furthermore, it is a model comof the department representatives, who our process owners. In the scope of Envipany. If I am not mistaken, Bilim Pharmaceuticals • Environmental Activities set forth are actively involved in energy procureronmental Management Systems, these has received many environmental awards from that serve the “Management of ment, distribution and consumption proteams come together once a month or the Çerkezköy Chamber of Trade and Industry Environment in the Annual Budget cesses within our company. The Board more when needed, to review yearly en(ÇTSO) and ÇOSB, which are indicators of its enPlan” meets under the presidency of the Techvironmental dimensions and their effects vironmental soundness. The above mentioned • Corrective and preventive environnical Services Manager at the plants, evand to review, popularize and increase the practices and results clearly indicate that Bilim ment-related measures ery 3 months with a standard agenda as efficiency of the application of procedures Pharmaceuticals is always a model company in set forth in the board format in line with and directives in light of the experience ÇOSB and in our region in terms of environment• Review and evaluation of legislative the strategies of “protecting the enviacquired and current legislations, while friendliness and occupational health and safety. amendments ronment and reducing use of natural realso to ensure right waste management • Stakeholder feedbacks sources” and “lower production costs”. It practices in areas that fall under their Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a pioneer that always also reviews and assesses short-, midresponsibility, evaluating environmental makes a difference with the awards it receives At its meeting at the 4th quarter, the Board and long-term improvement plans and feedback and preparing/managing action in Turkey and Europe with respect to quality and determines improvement areas for the employees’ suggestions with respect to plans for areas of improvement. excellence. In particular, the EFQM Excellence next year by considering the environenergy consumption, energy efficiency Award received by the Company is a source of mental policy, by conducting the Current and saving, as well as related perforpride for our country and an exemplary achieveSituation Analysis (CSA) and by evalumance indicators during the operating ment for all other companies. ating stakeholder feedbacks, status of period. At its end-period meetings, the compliance with the law and regulations, Board determines areas of improvement We see, appreciate, admire and celebrate that collaborations, technologies, benchmark for the next year by evaluating its energy Bilim Pharmaceuticals keeps close view of many and training information and findings of policy, stakeholder feedback, status of problems of the community and provides soluinternal and external audits. If any evalucompliance with the law and regulations, tions for and makes contribution to solving soation comes from outside the Company collaborations, technologies, benchmark cial problems, while perfectly fulfilling its OHS regarding the Excellence Model throughand training information and findings of and environment-related responsibilities at all out the year, the Feedback Report is also internal and external audits, providing times with social responsibility awareness. evaluated at the first subsequent meetinput for the Current Situation Analysis ing. The EMB may meet with a special (CSA)*. The EMGB may meet with a speagenda, if necessary. cial agenda, if necessary. 220 221 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Our environment-friendly Our environment-related practices targets for 2012: For Çerkezköy processing facility: For Gebze processing facility: • To realize electricity consumption • To realize electricity consumption at 0.183 kWh per box In our corporation, the ‘Environment-Dimension-Effect at 0.160 kWh per box • To realize natural gas consumption • To realize natural gas consumption Evaluation’ is performed every year on a regular basis, at 0.0088 m3 per box at 0.014 m3 per box • To realize water consumption at while our environmental impacts are continuously reduced • To realize water consumption at 0.78 litres per box 1.03 litres per box or kept at a level, which is well within the legal limits. • To realize the amount of hazardous • To realize the amount of hazardous process waste at 0.3815 g per box process waste at 1.617 g per box • Thanks to the covalent bond di• To realize the rate of loss of materiEnvironmental investments • To realize the rate of loss of materiand energy saving through verging bushes that were installed als in production at 1.21% als in production at 1.16% these investments on the natural gas feeding pipe in • To provide at least 4 hours of trainWe carried out a study on Clean World and Q3/2011, we reduced our net natu• To provide at least 4 hours of training to each of our employees and the use of renewable energy resources in ral gas consumption by 5% in 2011. ing to each of our employees on the the employees of our sub-contracISO 14001 Environmental Manage2011 and searched for facilities to benefit • Providing input for studies to intors on the ISO 14001 Environfrom solar and wind energy to a small exment System crease production efficiency, the mental Management System tent. MES (Manufacturing Execution System) allowed us to transfer reAmong the determined projects such as cords on paper, which are monitored the lighting pole operating with solar enthroughout the production process, ergy, solar tree and the 5 kW wind-rose to the electronic environment. With By evaluating global and national policies We will launch our roadmap to achieve which will reveal the wind energy potenthis practice, there is no need to duon climate change in conjunction with our our targets for 2020 by publishing the tial of the Gebze processing facility, the plicate the copy of the production strategy of “protecting the environment Climate Change Strategy Document in lighting pole investment was realized and method for each product series, and reducing the consumption of natural 2012. Investments, concerning the use of the pole began to generate power in Noallowing us to save a significant resources”,one of our sustainability strarenewable energy resources, which aim vember 2011. amount of paper. While nearly 150 tegies, we aim to reduce energy conto reduce use of energy, will be explained million boxes from 6,000 product sumption utilizing high tech practices in detail in the strategy document. We will be able to save 219 kW of energy series are manufactured each year, with high energy efficiency and to diverper year using the lighting pole, which is the average record is as long as 70 sify the natural resources we use with built as a symbol to raise sustainabilitypages (a total of 420,000 pages). renewable energy resources and thus, to related awareness of employees and We made positive contributions to reduce the CO2 (carbon dioxide) emiswhich became operational in November the protection of natural resources sion per box by 20% by 2020. 2011. Thus, 200 tons of CO2 emission will by reducing paper and to the envibe prevented every year. ronment by reducing toner cartridge consumption. 222 223 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT • With the SAP Document Management System, the intellectual capital of the entire company is transferred to an electronic environment, providing data security and a paperers by at least 50% through virtuless office environment. With the alization, we aim to reduce energy SAP-DMS (Document Management consumption and greenhouse gas System) module, creation, storage emissions and to extend the serand archiving of all documents provice life of our servers. We replace duced within the scope of the Qualold servers and data storage units ity System as well as execution of that have low energy efficiency and the approval mechanism are conswitch to new systems, which are ducted at the electronic environmanufactured with latest technoloment. Thanks to this practice, there gies and which have high perforis no need to print documents in mance and energy efficiency. order to spread out documents for • In the SAP/ERP system, legallyinformation and usage purposes, required dispatch notes and inthus contributing to the protection voices that are issued for weekly of natural resources. or monthly orders taken from the • By removing 105 mercury vapour same customer are combined, thus lamps of 250 W that are located in lowering the number of required various places within the facility and printouts. Thanks to this improveinstalling 85 W compact fluoresment, the number of dispatch notes cent lamps instead, we have saved and invoices printed in a year was more than 400,000 kWh of electric reduced by 60%. energy per year. • By launching the e-learning prac• We built a “Lighting Pole Operating • Systemic changes that are retice, a learning platform entitled with Solar Energy” in our Gebze faquested from the IT department by BilimK@mpüs was set up which cility in order to raise employees’ each department with forms with can be remotely accessed by all awareness on sustainability. wet signatures can be received in employees. With this practice, the digital environment as the Sothe need for face-to-face training • In order to make sure that cooling programs decreased as employees lution Manager module was put in towers are cleaned more quickly are now able to receive training practice; so there is no need for usand efficiently, the system is reconexternally, thus saving from ing paper anymore in this process. ditioned in a way that the tower discosts associated with external As a result of improvements, photocharges water from its inner centre, consultancy services, as well as copy printing and the use of paper thus ensuring water saving. travelling, accommodation and were reduced by 30%. • The recovery of recyclable paper, other costs of regional employees. • We have been continuing at full cardboard and plastics used to be • We prefer recyclable/biodegradspeed the virtual server practice • In 2010, OCS Video Conference Apperformed by 3 regional directorable materials as promotional masince 2009. Instead of purchasing plication software was installed to ates. 5 more regional offices began terials. new servers for the practices in efall employees’ computers. Audiothis practice in 2011. • A decision was made to replace all visual communication is provided fect, we have virtualized the current • We set up the “paper saving project desktop computers with CRT moniservers. As the number of physithrough data lines between empgroup” in order to minimize use of tors to LCD screens until the end of cal servers decreased, our carbon loyees working at Ayazağa, Gebze paper throughout the company. 2012. This way, we left behind the emissions were reduced, while we and Çerkezköy Plants, as well as tube technology that negatively afsignificantly saved from our energy Regional Offices, thanks to the OCS • We set up quality teams to reduce fects human health, while we aim to and air-conditioning costs, as well application. This practice signifithe loss of materials in production, reduce energy consumption by usas associated maintenance costs. cantly saved our Company’s comthus lowering the amount of hazing the LCD technology instead. By lowering the number of our servmunication and traveling costs. ardous waste. 224 225 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT By providing • Electronic devices that are not used In this context, some of the practices aimat Bilim locations were collected at ing at energy saving which are carried out the headquarters and submitted in our Gebze and Çerkezköy processing sustainability regularly to a contracted company, facilities are as follows: which is approved and authorized by the Ministry of Environment • Within the scope of the Personal Suggestion System (*), LED lighting trainings to and Forestry and which holds ISO 14001 certification. Electrical and fixtures were used in environmental electronic devices, as well as techlighting and at some points of the Çerkezköy Processing Facility, thus all employees nological waste such as accumulators, batteries, cartridges, cables, saving electricity. etc. are delivered to an organization • Within the scope of the Personal in 2011, Bilim that has a recycling plant. Through Suggestion System, the air-condithe “Satellite Tracking System” tioning system of the product wareowned by this company, we are able house is changed from 100% fresh Pharmaceuticals to track the whole process from air to 10% fresh air and 90% circureceipt of electric and electronic lated air, thus saving heating/coolwastes from our company to their ing costs. raised its transportation to the company’s recycling plants. • Within the scope of the Personal Suggestion System, jackets were • Official correspondence and agreemounted on the valves of the vapor ments that we mutually enter into with our external stakeholders are carried out through an electronic employees’ system, cutting costs. • Within the scope of the Personal awareness on environment, while legal records Suggestion System, a pressure are automatically created as the tank and pump were attached to the electronic environment is integratsoft cold water system, preventing environmental ed to the SAP system. Corresponcontinuous operation of the pump, dence, letters of agreement, and thus saving energy. so on, which are printed on paper • In very cold weathers with freezing from the SAP system and sent to our suppliers, customers or banks we work with are now automatically impacts and risk, fresh air suctions are opened to the technical area, thus saving heating energy. submitted by e-mail with improvements made by our IT department. We reduced our use of paper and energy saving. • Within the scope of the Personal Suggestion System, internal mechmailing costs through this practice. anisms of the 250W halogen lighting fixtures used in high-ceiling • Within the framework of legal oblirooms were replaced with 85W gations that are not yet enacted but compact fluorescent bulbs at our expected to be put in practice in the Gebze Production Facility. This way, following years, we made our infrawe saved electric energy by keeping structure and systems ready for the light intensity at the same level. switching to e-signature in all documents and for the management of invoicing (e-invoice) processes between companies through the IT systems of Ministries and Bilim. As e-signature and e-invoicing become legal obligations in the coming years, they will reduce use of natural resources, thus contributing to the national economy. 226 227 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Materials used Energy Consumption Our production volume increased by 14% in 2011 compared to 2010. In order to limit As a result of energy consumption that increases in parallel with the production volume: these efforts, • We activated the condensing tower automation unit, thus ensuring that the freecooling function is automatielectricity cally activated in days when the outside air temperature (wet-bul thermometer) is favourable. consumption • In line with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), provided that the minimum air change rate is ensured per box in production, we showed efforts to reduce the air change rate in a way that the temperature is kept within 22.5 ± decreased 1.5 °C. Within the scope of these efforts, we reduced the air change rate in some areas, starting from the volumes that by 2% while Amounts of materials used in production (2011) (in terms of tonnes) are not critical in terms of GMP. Thanks to such efforts, by reducing the spin speed of fans in air-conditioning units, natural gas Material Number Kg Total Glass 28,165,230.00 28,165,230.00 we aim to save electric energy. These efforts will be more comprehensive in 2011 in order to keep electric energy consumption per box Labels 41,307,275.70 41,307,275.70 costs under control. Raw materials 338,071,539.45 2,962,529.78 341,034,069.23 • The frequency of hot water sanitization performed against microbiological Parcels Boxes 2,396,565.50 104,901,669.74 2,396,565.50 104,901,669.74 pollution in pure water distribution systems is first changed from once a week increased by to once every two weeks and then once Plastic Prospectus 54,737,183.60 105,241,547.95 10,680.57 54,747,864.17 105,241,547.95 a month towards the end of the year. If the result of the validation is positive, 1% despite the the sanitization frequency will continue Pvc-Folio Cans 10,794,041.00 45.00 493,489.00 11,287,530.00 45.00 to be once a month in 2012. With this effort, we have reduced the amount of 14% increase in steam used in the sanitization heating Grand Total 685,801,095.94 3,466,699.66 689,267,795.60 cycle and the amount of cooling energy used in the sanitization cooling cycle, the production thus saving electric energy. Due to the nature of our sector, we cannot use recycled products in raw materimaterials. All materials in production processes are single use only. For this rea• By replacing the valve insulations on steam pipes with removable jackets, volume. als and primary and secondary packaging son, we cannot use recycled materials. we aim to reduce consumption of natural gas, which is used in steam proSince we do not have any energy production. duction portfolios, we have no direct • Thanks to the covalent bond diverging renewable and non-renewable energy bushes that were installed on the naconsumption according to the primary tural gas feeding pipe in Q3/2011, we energy resource. reduced our net natural gas consumption by 5% in 2011. 228 229 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Electricity consumption Natural gas consumption Electricity Consumption Natural Gas Consumption 0.20 0.016 0.16 0.012 0.12 0.008 0.08 0.04 0.004 0.00 0.000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Target Achieved Target Achieved 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Resp. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Performance Resp. Performance Indicators Indicators T A T A T A T A T A T T A T A T A T A T A T Electricity Natural gas consumption consumption per 0.00793 0.00767 0.01620 0.01456 0.01446 0.01437 0.01400 0.01311 0.01274 0.01319 0.01222 0.08194 0.08831 0.19874 0.16834 0.18352 0.16635 0.15897 0.15235 0.14467 0.14889 0.13745 box (m3/box) per box (kWh/ box) PD Gebze 0.01804 0.01606 0.01773 0.01721 0.01695 0.01607 0.01577 0.01588 0.01479 Gebze PD 0.22741 0.19197 0.23919 0.20683 0.19731 0.18984 0.17491 0.17633 0.16052 Çerkezköy 0.01866 0.01854 0.01819 0.01781 0.01765 0.01762 0.01686 0.01476 0.01268 0.01086 0.0088 Çerkezköy 0.21136 0.21006 0.20554 0.18832 0.18795 0.18646 0.18139 0.17072 0.16698 0.19219 0.18316 Ayazağa 0.00564 0.00546 0.00399 0.00360 0.00361 0.00358 0.00351 0.00354 0.00340 0.00692 0.00639 Ayazağa 0.05420 0.06356 0.03869 0.03515 0.03377 0.03448 0.03356 0.03321 0.03273 0.02876 0.02686 Natural Gas (2011) MJ Gebze 52.235.701 Electricity (2011) MJ Ayazağa Headquarters 7.532.521 Gebze 58.006.368 Çerkezköy 9.906.948 Ayazağa Headquarters 3.129.955 Total 69.677.170 Çerkezköy 17.539.873 Total 78.676.194 Motorin (2011) MJ Gebze 161.370 Our Gebze and Çerkezköy plants are loduces from cogeneration, %19,2 from hyAyazağa Headquarters 12.551 cated at Gebze and Çerkezköy industrial droelectricity and %1,8 from wind-energy. zones. These industrial zones procure Hence, these industrial zones use %21,2 Çerkezköy 71.720 their energy from EnergySa; the latter renewable energy sources. Total 245.641 acquires the %79 of the electricity it pro230 231 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Water consumption Waste management At our Gebze facility, water is provided treatment system to the exit of its current from the Yuvacık Dam, which is a supercentral water treatment facility. We separate the recyclable waste at the ficial pond, through the municipality’s source under such categories as hazardous water supply network. This water source When this project is implemented in the wastes, industrial wastes, recyclable wastes is not only used by the Gebze Organized coming year, we will get the chance to and recoverable wastes in the scope of our Industrial Zone, but also by the residential obtain our garden irrigation water from “Waste Management Procedure”, and disareas in the region. Within the scope of the exit of the Gebze Organized Industrial pose them, giving priority on recycling and plan B, we drew water for one week in 2011 Zone’s central water treatment facility. recovery, through collaboration with accredAyfer from the Denizli Pond, a superficial pond ited firms licensed by the Ministry of EnviNefesoğlu which is kept by the Gebze Organized InIn our Çerkezköy processing facility, waronment and Forestry in a way that does not Marketing dustrial Zone in reserve. Similarly, this ter is provided from 17 deepwater wells harm nature. Director pond provides water not only to the Gebze within the boundaries of the organized Izaydaş Organized Industrial Zone, but also to residential and cultivated areas in the region. industrial regional directorate. Moreover, the use of the Yoncalı dam is allocated to the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone, Amounts of Manufacturing under competitive conditions that gradually become more and more produced wastes, Gebze Organized Industrial Zone currently while the project design will be completed difficult with each passing day, pharmaceucarries out a preliminary project to provide in 2012 and a tender will be called in 2013 tical companies – like all of our stakeholdgarden irrigation water to the industrial for the construction of the dam. ers who we fulfill our environmental responincluding their establishments by installing an advance sibilities with – have a special position in Rainwater is not collected and reused. the eyes of my company, IZAYDAŞ, which is Turkey’s first and still the largest Waste Discategory, are posal Plant in terms of the type and amount Water Consumption of waste processed. This special position of pharmaceutical companies is due to the value they attach to humans as well as their continuously 0.0012 environmentally friendly activities. 0.0010 Even in years when waste management and recorded at their waste awareness were just being discussed 0.0008 in our country, Bilim Pharmaceuticals used to interpret the legislation on behalf of the 0.0006 environment as one of the most important 0.0004 source and their companies of the pharmaceutical industry specialized in its field. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is important to us, because we as 0.0002 0 monthly trends IZAYDAŞ can establish easy communication with Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Moreover, IZAYDAŞ and Bilim Pharmaceuticals have 2007 2008 2009 Target 2010 Achieved 2011 2012 are kept view of. brought their relations to the present time with mutual trust and have been showing progress together since 1999. We can see that Bilim Pharmaceuticals carPerfor2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 One of these trends, which is the “amount ries out exemplary efforts with the impormance Resp. of hazardous waste per box”, is monitored tance that it attaches to its employees, sciIndicators T A T A T A T A T A T as a performance indicator, entific studies and customer satisfaction, Water conand with its accountable and transparent sumption 0.00067 0.00062 0.00134 0.00119 0.00115 0.00114 0.00111 0.00100 0.00099 0.00087 0.00082 In 2009 and 2010, we declared in our approaches in terms of social responsibility. (m3/box) CSR only the amount of controllable hazI would like to pay tribute to your company Gebze PD 0.00151 0.00133 0.00144 0.00140 0.00139 0.00126 0.00124 0.00110 0.00103 ardous process wastes. However, a decibecause of your approaches and practices sion was made to include uncontrollable regarding economic, social and environÇerkezköy 0.00151 0.00149 0.00146 0.00144 0.00140 0.00136 0.00127 0.00108 0.00100 0.00082 0.00078 waste with financial value and uncontrolmental responsibility and the sustainabillable shelf samples with no financial value ity efforts you carry out throughout your Ayazağa 0.00049 0.00044 0.00029 0.00024 0.00023 0.00020 0.00020 0.00020 0.00020 0.00018 0.00018 in our CSR of 2011. company, and wish that you continue such successful efforts. 232 233 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT We continuously keep our employees, Wastewater In accordance with the discharge criteria Apart from this process, if a material can suppliers, business partners and visitors As the central treatment facility was comof the central wastewater treatment sysbe delivered to any recycling company, it informed about waste management in ormissioned at the Gebze Organized Intem of the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial is sold as scrap. The Ministry of Health der to increase the effectiveness of our dustrial Zone in early 2011, the industrial Zone for the receiving environment of the is not notified about such products and waste management system. wastewater treatment and the domestic exit water, the wastewater at our Çerkezmaterials. We have not encountered any wastewater treatment system installed köy processing facility is discharged into spills caused by our operations. Waste Recycling at our Gebze Plant were closed in April. the Çorlu stream. The Çorlu stream carIn the scope of the Regulation on the ConWe began to collect our industrial and dories the wastewater into the Ergene river, In 2009 and 2010, we declared in our trol of Packaging Wastes, since 2005 we mestic wastewater associated with our Meriç river and finally into the Saroz Gulf. CSR only the amount of controllable hazhave been collaborating with ÇEVKO, an activities in the reservoirs of our old treatardous process wastes. However, a deciauthorized institution in recycling activiment facility which is no longer used, and The amount of wastewaters that are dission was made to include uncontrollable ties, for the collection of our packaging to canalize it directly to the central treatcharged by our Gebze and Çerkezköy prowastes with financial value and unconwastes at a specified quota. For packagment system of the Gebze Organized Incessing facilities and our headquarters in trollable shelf samples with no financial ing wastes that we have been offering to dustrial Zone. Ayazağa to the receiving environment are value in the report. the market, the recycling rate rose from given in the following table: 36% in 2010 to 38% in 2011. The central wastewater treatment sysBased on this new approach, the amounts tem of the Gebze Organized Industrial Water discharge (m ) 3 of hazardous waste per box and targets Zone is comprised of chemical and biofor 2012 are given in the following tables: Amounts of recycled wastes (2011) (kg) logical treatment units. Our wastewater is 2010 2011 Type of Waste 2009 2010 2011 analyzed by the Gebze Organized IndusAmount of Hazardous Wastes in 2011 – Gebze 17,600 37,734 trial Zone twice a month for compliance Realized Plastic 39,186 61,465 39,533 with the criteria of water admittance to Çerkezköy 10,948 7,494 the central wastewater treatment system A. Process-based hazardous waste Paper-Cardboard 277,679 302,576 293,830 Maslak 5,395 5,392 of the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone. Glass 3,150 15,681 46,473 The results of the analysis of our wasteAmount of Total 33,943 52,145 Amount of Amount of water, performed by the accredited enviWaste per Waste Production Recycling of strong palette 4,018 6,634 4,225 box (gr/box) ronmental laboratories as per the request Scrap palette 59,050 73,800 58,430 of the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone in Enterprises 159,107,760 146,778,553 1.084 2011, are given below. Management of hazardous waste Gebze 149,352,000 91,933,959 1.625 At our Çerkezköy processing facility, If a decision of destruction is taken for Çerkezköy 9,672,100 25,351,099 0.3815 domestic and industrial wastewater is material and products which were reprocessed at our wastewater chemical jected by our Quality Control and Quality Maslak 80 29,493,495 0 The recycling rate pre-treatment facility and drained to the Assurance Departments, a destruction for the packages of Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone’s form is filled. Based on this form, products Chemical and Biological Treatment Faciland/or materials are transferred to project B1. Hazardous waste with financial value (official products sold ity. Similarly, our wastewater is analyzed inventories, provided that they are kept destroyable products – raw materials – rejected in 2011 was by the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial at the warehouses of rejected materials products) Zone for compliance with the criteria of within the SAP system. Later, the related 38%. Amount of water admittance to the central wasteinformation is conveyed to the Cost AcAmount of Amount of Waste per Waste Production water treatment system of the Çerkezköy counting Department. Meanwhile, informbox (gr/box) Organized Industrial Zone. ing correspondence is sent to the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Health, and ofEnterprises 100,080,000 146,778,553 0.681843484 In accordance with the discharge criteficials from the tax office and the Ministry Gebze 100,080,000 91,933,959 1.08860753 ria of the central wastewater treatment of Health check destruction amounts and Recycled wastes (2011) (kg) system of the Gebze Organized Industrithe reason for such destruction. Following Çerkezköy 0* 25,351,099 0 al Zone for the receiving environment of the official compliance letter, the products Maslak 0* 29,493,495 0 Type of Waste 2009 2010 2011 the exit water, the wastewater at our Geand materials are destroyed by the authoPlastic 189,840 23,300 8,895 bze processing facility is first discharged rized institution, Izaydaş, in the presence * No hazardous waste with financial value is produced at our headquarters in into the Yumrukaya stream, then into the of the Notary and officials from the MinisMaslak which is not a commercial building. Hazardous wastes with financial Paper-Cardboard 2,955,158 2,549,000 971,430 value produced by our Çerkezköy processing facility are disposed by our Dil stream that the Yumrukaya stream try of Health. Gebze processing facility. merges with and finally into the Kocaeli Gulf. 234 235 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT B2. Shelf sample waste with no financial value (products + raw materials) Amount of hazardous waste per box Amount of Performance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Resp. Amount of Amount of Waste per Indicators Waste Production T A T A T A T A T A T box (gr/box) Enterprises 22,550,000 146,778,553 0.153632799 Process-Based Hazardous 1.275 1.280 1.350 1.340 1.100 1.076 0.900 0.538 0.780 1.0840 1.0929 Gebze 16,750,000 91,933,959 0.182196004 Waste (g/box) Çerkezköy 5,800,000 25,351,099 0.228786926 Gebze 1.850 1.843 1.450 1.425 1.190 0.737 1.100 1.6250 1.6175 PD Maslak 0 29,493,495 0 Çerkezköy 1.400 1.380 1.350 1.336 1.200 1.168 0.980 0.507 0.520 0.3820 0.3815 * No shelf sample waste with financial value is produced at our headquarters in Maslak which is not a commercial building. Ayazağa 1.700 1.692 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.0000 0.0000 Amount of Hazardous Waste – Targets for 2012 Carbon Monoxide (mg/Nm3) A. Process-based hazardous waste Gebze max.100 27.09 max.100 max.100 0 max.10 0 max.10 PD Amount of Amount of Target Çerkezköy max.100 9.46 max.100 10.3 max.100 10.4 max.100 9.68 max.10 0 max.10 Waste Production (gr/box) Enterprises 177,334,209.9 162,260,138 1.092900648 Sulfur Dioxide (mg/Nm3) Gebze 167,274,240 103,415,598 1.617495264 Gebze max.100 0 max.100 max.100 0 max.10 0 max.10 Çerkezköy 10,059,869.92 26,367,465 0.381525866 PD Maslak 100 32,477,075 3.0791E-06 Çerkezköy max.100 0 max.100 0 max.100 0 max.100 0 max.10 0 max.10 Powder (mg/m3%3Ref.O2) B1. Hazardous waste with financial value (official destroyable products – raw materials – rejected Gebze max.10 0.73 max.10 0.37 max.10 3.66 max.1 <5 <5 products) PD Çerkezköy max.10 0 max.10 0 max.10 0.38 max.10 0 max.1 7.2 <5 Amount of Amount of Target Waste Production (gr/box) Enterprises 70,000,000 162,260,138 0.431406018 Gebze 167,274,240 103,415,598 1.617495264 Çerkezköy 0* 26,367,465 0 Maslak 0* 32,477,075 0 * No hazardous waste with financial value is produced at our headquarters in Maslak which is not a commercial building. Hazardous wastes with financial value produced by our Çerkezköy processing facility are disposed by our Gebze processing facility. B2. B2. Shelf sample wastes with no financial values (products + raw materials) There is no data with respect to shelf samples to be released in 2012. 236 237 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 3 greenhouse gas emission in 2011 CO2e (tonnes) and our carbon footprint Flights with business purpose 2,576.46 Service vehicles (Diesel) 403.54 The gas emission per box caused by vehiGreenhouse gas emissions caused by our 2011. The production volume in 2011 was cles used by the employees of Bilim Pharcompany’s activities in 2009 and 2010 10.97% higher than the target set forth for Transfer of products from facilities to maceuticals is monitored as a basic per317.31 were reviewed under the consultancy of the year (2011) and 23.28% higher than pharmaceutical warehouses (Diesel) formance indicator. The realized amount an independent institution. We calculated the production volume in 2010. As a result of 0.059 CO2kg/box in 2011 is lower than Total 3,297.32 our greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 of all these arrangements and measures, the target. based on the metrics set forth herein. we were able to lower the greenhouse gas The scope was expanded to cover other emission per box by only 1.35%. Thereactivities throughout the organization. fore, we could not achieve the target that Perfor2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Resp. Air miles, personnel transportation serwe set for 2011 which was to lower our mance vices, and transportations that are outgreenhouse gas emission by 2.5%. Indicators T A T A T A T A A T A T sourced to third companies between our warehouses and distribution outlets were Acting upon the fact that the arrangeGreenincluded as well. Greenhouse gas emisments related to drug prices would be house Gas PD-HRD sions that arise during the supply of input in effect in 2012 and our production volEmission 0.18240 0.17784 0.17287 0.16876 0.16364 0.16293 materials, which are used in our producume would increase by 13.17% in 2012 Ratio tion and distribution services in the supcompared to 2011, we aimed to keep total (CO2kg/ ply chain within the Scope 3, are excluded. greenhouse gas emissions below 30,000 box) tonnes in 2012. EnterIn line with the new regulation covering 0.11789 0.11495 0.10793 0.10577 0.10466 0.10453 prises reference prices in the pharmaceutical In 2011, we enlarged the portfolio of veindustry in 2011, prices were cut; the dishicles that work with diesel fuel whose Vehicles 0.06450 0.06289 0.06493 0.06299 0.05899 0.05840 count rate was extended; and the repayemission per litre is lower, while contractment limits were lowered. These arrangeing the portfolio of vehicles that work with ments that were simultaneously carried gasoline. A total distance of 13,430,000 Emissions of substance that consume ozone according on out affected our investments for the purkm was covered by our vehicles in 2010, weight pose of lowering greenhouse gas emiswhile the total distance increased to Amount of sions. In order to minimize the impacts of 20,639,000 km in 2011. Despite this 54% Refrigerrefrigerating CO2e these changes on our company, we aimed increase in the total distance, the amount Location ating Gas gas added in (tonnes) to increase our production volume in of fuel used increased by only 8.8%. 2011 (kg) NOx ve SOx emissions Ayazağa Headquarters caused by natural gas, gas Greenhouse gas emission in 2011* Freon R 22 oil and LPG in our facilities Air cooling refrigerating 2009 CO2 group, 1x1.45 mWatt SOx (tonnes) 0.1 2010 CO2 (tonnes) 2011 CO2 (tonnes) (tonnes) Gebze Processing Facil134 A Scope 1 12,107 11,558 13,333.18 ity NOx (tonnes) 6.8 Scope 2 10,778 9,680 11,555.07 Water cooling refrigeratR410 A Scope 3 2,815 1,954 3,297.32 ing group, 3x3 mWatt Total 25,700 23,192 28,185.57 Çerkezköy Processing Facility * Within the framework of the standards of the GHG protocol, the calculations were made by the use Freon R 22 480.00 868.80 of coefficient metrics. Since there is no change in coefficients, which were used in 2009 and 2010 to Air cooling refrigerating determine the emission per consumption, the data for 2011 were generated by making use of the same coefficients. group, 1x1.45 mWatt Total 868.80 238 239 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 Biodiversity Our facilities were established at Organized Industrial Zones (OSB). One of the foundation targets of OSBs is to provide waste management and to minimize and keep the possible negative impacts on biodiversity under control. Both facilities went through Environmental Impact Assessment during establishment and the negative environmental impacts arising from the activities of these facilities were Legal evaluated. The issued report stated that our facilities would have no negative impact on flora and fauna. We continuously monitor our emissions compliance and discharges with accredited independent organizations, which are licensed by Launched in the second half of 2009 at Ministry of Environment and Forestry of the Gebze processing facility, which enthe Republic of Turkey. This way, we entered operation in 2008, the IMS (Intesure that our emissions and discharges grated Management System) Certificaare well within the legal limits. tion Project was completed in the first quarter of 2010. Thus, our entire company, including our Çerkezköy processing facility and the headquarters which were certified before, has received ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Standards certification. No fines have been levied on our facilities. No spillages have occurred in our facilities. 240 241 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report was prepared in compliance with the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Principles and the Global Compact’s Communication on Progress (COP) ReportRelated GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report ing. The following table is an integrated indicator index table that brings together the indicators of both Indicators* Status Number standards. Status of reporting concerning all indicators has been specified. Date of most recent previous report 3.2 Fully June 2011 (if any). Related GC Reporting Page Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report 3.3 Fully Annual Indicators* Status Number etc.) GC Contact point for questions regarding *Message from the CEO 3.4 Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 Statement from the most senior Statement the report or its contents. 1.1 Fully *Message from the 4-5, 6-7 decision-maker of the organization. of Continued Chairman of the Board Support 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 *Message from the Boundary of the report (e.g., 6-7, Description of key impacts, risks, and CEO *Our Sustainability countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 1.2 Fully 50-61, opportunities. Management * Our Risk 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 48-49 Management suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully *Cover Page State any specific limitations on *About Bilim the scope or boundary of the report Primary brands, products, and/or Pharmaceuticals *Our Field 3.7 Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 2.2 Fully 15-23 (see completeness principle for services. of Work *Our Processing explanation of scope). Facilities Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Operational structure of the subsidiaries, leased facilities, *About Bilim organization, including main 15-23, outsourced operations, and other 2.3 Fully Pharmaceuticals *Our 3.8 Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 divisions, operating companies, 26-29 entities that can significantly affect Management Structure subsidiaries, and joint ventures. comparability from period to period *About Bilim and/or between organizations. Location of organization’s 2.4 Fully Pharmaceuticals *Our 18 Data measurement techniques and headquarters. Processing Facilities the bases of calculations, including Number of countries where the assumptions and techniques organization operates, and names underlying estimations applied to *About Bilim 3.9 the compilation of the Indicators Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 of countries with either major 14-23, 2.5 Fully Pharmaceuticals *Foreign and other information in the report. operations or that are specifically 74-75 Markets Explain any decisions not to apply, or relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. *Organization Structure 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 26-27 Explanation of the effect of any re*Board of Directors statements of information provided Markets served (including geographic *About Bilim in earlier reports, and the reasons 14-23, 3.10 for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and Fully Pharmaceuticals *Foreign 74-75 acquisitions, change of base types of customers/beneficiaries). Markets years/periods, nature of business, *About Bilim measurement methods). Pharmaceuticals *Our Significant changes from previous Processing Facilities 14-23, reporting periods in the scope, 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully *Shareholding Structure 26, 723.11 Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 boundary, or measurement methods *Operational and Financial 75, 95 applied in the report. Information *Number of Employees Table identifying the location of the 2423.12 Fully *GRI ve GC Endeksi Standard Disclosures in the report. 256 Significant changes during the 2.9 reporting period regarding size, Fully *Board of Directors 27 Policy and current practice with structure, or ownership. 3.13 regard to seeking external assurance Fully * About the Report 1 2-13 for the report. Awards received in the reporting 2.10 Fully *Our Awards 66-67 period. Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar *Cover Page * About the 3.1 Fully 12-13 year) for information provided. Report 242 243 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Indicators* Status Number Governance structure of the Procedures of the highest organization, including committees *Our Management governance body for overseeing under the highest governance body Structure 24-29, the organization’s identification 4.1 Fully *Our Management responsible for specific tasks, such *Age breakdown at 98 and management of economic, 26-29, Structure *Our Risk as setting strategy or organizational managerial level environmental, and social 48-49, 4.9 Fully Management *Our oversight. performance, including relevant risks 50-61, Sustainability Management and opportunities, and adherence 46-47 Indicate whether the Chair of the *Our Ethical Management *Our Management or compliance with internationally 4.2 highest governance body is also an Fully 26-27 agreed standards, codes of conduct, Structure executive officer. and principles. For organizations that have a unitary Processes for evaluating the highest board structure, state the number governance body’s own performance, and gender of members of the *Our Management *Our Management 4.3 Fully 26-27 4.10 particularly with respect to Fully 26-29 highest governance body that are Structure Structure economic, environmental, and social independent and/or non-executive performance. members. *Our Risk Management Mechanisms for shareholders *Our Management *Occupational Health Structure/Our Boards 26-29, Explanation of whether and how the 48-49, and employees to provide and Safety *Product 4.4 Fully *Our Stakeholders 62-63, 4.11 precautionary approach or principle Fully 166-173, recommendations or direction to the Responsibility *Employee Participation and 156-163 is addressed by the organization. 174-189 highest governance body. *Environmental Representation Management Linkage between compensation Externally developed economic, for members of the highest *Our Memberships *Our 64, environmental, and social charters, governance body, senior managers, Quality Management *Our 34-35, *Board of Directors 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to Fully and executives (including 26-27, Journey of Excellence *Our 36-41, 4.5 Fully *Pay Management and which the organization subscribes or departure arrangements), and 108-111 Sustainability Management 50-61 Retirement Policy endorses. the organization’s performance (including social and environmental Memberships in associations performance). (such as industry associations) and/or national/international *Our Management advocacy organizations in which Processes in place for the highest 26-27, Structure the organization: * Has positions in 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts Fully 36-41, 4.13 Fully *Our Memberships 64 *Our Journey of Excellence governance bodies; * Participates in of interest are avoided. 46-47 *Our Ethical Management projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine *Our Management Process for determining the membership dues; or * Views Structure composition, qualifications, and *Our Recruitment membership as strategic. 26-27, expertise of the members of the Procedures 102-105, List of stakeholder groups engaged 4.7 highest governance body and Fully *Evaluation of 4.14 Fully *Our Stakeholders 62-63 106-107, by the organization. its committees, including any Competencies *Our Contribution to 112-137 consideration of gender and other Basis for identification and selection indicators of diversity. the Development of Our 4.15 of stakeholders with whom to Fully *Our Stakeholders 62-63 Employees engage. *Our Management Structure *Our Management *Our Stakeholders Principles 26-29, *Volunteering Platform 62-63, Internally developed statements *Our Quality Management 30-35, Approaches to stakeholder for the Community 143-155, of mission or values, codes of *Our Reputation 42-45, engagement, including frequency *Employee Participation 156-163, Management 4.16 Fully conduct, and principles relevant to 46-47, of engagement by type and by and Representation *Our 178-184, 4.8 Fully *Our Ethical Management stakeholder group. Customers *Management 185-189, economic, environmental, and social 50-61, *Our Sustainability of Collaborations 190-211 performance and the status of their Management 68-87, implementation. 88-211, *Community Investment *Our Economic Added Value *The Value We Attach to 212-240 People *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment 244 245 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Indicators* Status Number Policy, practices, and proportion of *Our Stakeholders *Our *Our Suppliers and EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers Fully 185-189 Key topics and concerns that have Quality Management *Our 62-63, Collaborations at significant locations of operation. been raised through stakeholder Sustainability Management 33-34, engagement, and how the *Our Economic Added Value 50-61, *Our Economic Added Value 4.17 Fully Procedures for local hiring and organization has responded to those *The Value We Attach to 68-87, / Foreign Markets 74-75, key topics and concerns, including People 88-211, proportion of senior management EC7 GC 6 Fully *The Value We Attach to 108-109, through its reporting. *Our Responsibility to the 212-240 hired from the local community at People / Demographic Data 99 Ecological Environment significant locations of operation. of Our Employees Economic Development and impact of *Our Economic Added infrastructure investments and Value / Our Investments 76-77, *Our Management EC8 services provided primarily for public Partially *Our Work on Research and 78-82, Structure benefit through commercial, in-kind, Development *Community 190-211 *Our Management 24-29, or pro bono engagement. Investment Principles 30-33, *Our Quality Management 34-35, *Our Risk Management Understanding and describing Management *Our Journey of Excellence 36-41, *Our Responsibility to the Fully significant indirect economic 48-49, Approach *Our Reputation 42-45, EC9 Fully Ecological Environment/ Management impacts, including the extent of 223-227 46-47, Our Environment Friendly *Our Ethical Management impacts. 48-49, Practices *Our Risk Management 50-61 *Our Sustainability Environmental Management *Our Management Direct economic value generated Structure *Our and distributed, including revenues, Management Principles operating costs, employee *Our Quality Management EC1 compensation, donations and other Partially *Our Economic Added Value 68-87 *Our Journey of Excellence community investments, retained GC Management *Our Reputation 24-61, earnings, and payments to capital Environmental Fully Approach Management *Our Ethical 212-240 providers and governments. Commitment Management *Our Risk Management *Our *Our Management Sustainability Management Structure *Our Responsibility to the *Our Risk Management Ecological Environment *Our Responsibility to the Financial implications and other Ecological Environment/ *Our Responsibility to the Environmental Management 26-29, EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 228 risks and opportunities for the EC2 GC 7 Fully Our Environmental 48-49, Materials Used organization’s activities due to Management Model 212-240 climate change. Energy Management Board *Our Responsibility to the Environmental Work Percentage of materials used that EN2 GC 8, GC 9 Fully Ecological Environment / 228 Teams Realizations in 2011 are recycled input materials. Materials Used Our Environment Friendly Practices * Our Responsibility to the 229Ecological Environment Direct energy consumption by 231, *Our Economic Added Value EN3 GC 8 Fully / Energy Consumption primary energy source. 238/ Our Investments Greenhouse Gas Emmisions Coverage of the organization’s 76-77, 239 EC3 Fully *The Value We Attach to and Our Carbon Footprint defined benefit plan obligations. 108-111 People / Pay Management and Retirement Policy * Our Responsibility to the 229Ecological Environment Indirect energy consumption by 231, *Government Grants EN4 GC 8 Fully / Energy Consumption Significant financial assistance primary source. 238EC4 Fully Received by Bilim 84-85 Greenhouse Gas Emmisions received from government. 239 Pharmaceuticals and Our Carbon Footprint Range of ratios of standard entry *The Value We Attach to level wage by gender compared to People / Pay Management EC5 GC 1 Fully 108-111 local minimum wage at significant and Retirement Policy / Pay locations of operation. Raises by Years 246 247 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Indicators* Status Number *Our Responsibility to the * Our Responsibility to the 223Ecological Environment/ Total direct and indirect greenhouse Ecological Environment / 238227, EN16 GC 8 Fully Our Environment Friendly gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emmisions 239 Energy saved due to conservation 229EN5 GC 8, GC 9 Fully Practices Energy and Our Carbon Footprint and efficiency improvements. 231, Consumption Greenhouse 238* Our Responsibility to the Gas Emmisions and Our 239 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Ecological Environment / 238Carbon Footprint EN17 GC 8 Fully gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emmisions 239 *Our Responsibility to the and Our Carbon Footprint 223Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Ecological Environment/ 227, *Our Sustainability or renewable energy based products Our Environment Friendly 229Management *Our 50-61, EN6 and services, and reductions in GC 8, GC 9 Fully Practices Energy 231, Responsibility to the 223energy requirements as a result of Consumption Greenhouse 238Ecological Environment/ 227, these initiatives. Gas Emmisions and Our Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas GC 7, GC 8, 239 EN18 Fully Our Environment Friendly 229Carbon Footprint emissions and reductions achieved. GC 9 Practices Energy 231, *Our Responsibility to the 223Consumption Greenhouse 238Ecological Environment/ 227, Gas Emmisions and Our 239 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Our Environment Friendly 229Carbon Footprint EN7 consumption and reductions GC 8, GC 9 Fully Practices Greenhouse Gas 231, achieved. Emmisions and Our Carbon 238Footprint 239 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not EN19 GC 8 substances by weight. applicable *Our Responsibility to the EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment/ 232 * Our Responsibility to the Water Consumption NOx, SOx, and other significant air Ecological Environment / 238EN20 GC 8 Fully *Our Responsibility to the emissions by type and weight. Greenhouse Gas Emmisions 239 Water sources significantly affected and Our Carbon Footprint EN9 GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment/ 232 by withdrawal of water. Water Consumption * Our Responsibility to the Total water discharge by quality and 232*Our Responsibility to the EN21 GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 232, destination. 235 Percentage and total volume of water Ecological Environment/ Waste Water EN10 GC 8, GC 9 Fully 234recycled and reused. Water Consumption Waste 235 * Our Responsibility to the Water Ecological Environment / Total weight of waste by type and 233Location and size of land owned, EN22 GC 8 Fully Waste Management Waste disposal method. 237 leased, managed in, or adjacent to, *Our Responsibility to the Recyclingı Management of EN11 protected areas and areas of high GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 Hazardous Waste biodiversity value outside protected Biodiversity areas. * Our Responsibility to the Total number and volume of Ecological Environment / EN23 GC 8 Fully 240 Description of significant impacts significant spills. Management of Hazardous of activities, products, and services *Our Responsibility to the Waste Legal Compliance EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 and areas of high biodiversity value Biodiversity Weight of transported, imported, outside protected areas. exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Not EN24 GC 8 *Our Responsibility to the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and applicable EN13 Habitats protected or restored. GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 VIII, and percentage of transported Biodiversity waste shipped internationally. Strategies, current actions, and *Our Responsibility to the Identity, size, protected status, and EN14 future plans for managing impacts on GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 biodiversity value of water bodies and *Our Responsibility to the biodiversity. Biodiversity EN25 related habitats significantly affected GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 by the reporting organization’s Biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and discharges of water and runoff. *Our Responsibility to the national conservation list species EN15 GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 with habitats in areas affected by Biodiversity operations, by level of extinction risk. 248 249 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Indicators* Status Number *Our Sustainability *Demographic Data of Our Initiatives to mitigate environmental GC 7, GC 8, Management 50-61, Percentage of employees covered by Employees Total Labour EN26 impacts of products and services, Fully LA4 GC 1, GC 3 Fully 96 GC 9 *Our Responsibility to the 212-240 collective bargaining agreements. Force by Employment and extent of impact mitigation. Ecological Environment Contract * Our Responsibility to the Minimum notice period(s) regarding Percentage of products sold and Ecological Environment 233significant operational changes, *Internal Communication EN27 their packaging materials that are GC 8, GC 9 Fully LA5 GC 3 Fully 160 / Waste Management 234 including whether it is specified in Activities reclaimed by category. Waste Recycling collective agreements. Monetary value of significant fines Percentage of total workforce * Our Responsibility to the *Employee Participation and and total number of non-monetary represented in formal joint EN28 GC 8 Fully Ecological Environment / 240 Representation Boards sanctions for non-compliance with management-worker health and 156-157, Legal Compliance LA6 GC 1 Fully and Working Teams *The environmental laws and regulations. safety committees that help monitor 168 OHS Board and OHS Study and advise on occupational health *Our Sustainability Team and safety programs. Significant environmental impacts Management 50-61, of transporting products and *Our Responsibility to the Rates of injury, occupational 223other goods and materials used Ecological Environment/ diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, *Job-Related Accidents and EN29 GC 8 Fully 227, LA7 GC 1 Fully 171-173 for the organization’s operations, Our Environment Friendly and number of work-related fatalities Efforts to Prevent Accidents 238and transporting members of the Practices Greenhouse Gas by region and by gender. 239 workforce. Emmisions and Our Carbon Footprint *Occupational Health and Education, training, counseling, Safety Management *OHS *Our Sustainability prevention, and risk-control Total environmental protection Trainings *Occupational GC 7, GC 8, Management *Our 50-61, programs in place to assist EN30 expenditures and investments by Fully LA8 GC 1 Fully Health and Safety Our 166-173 GC 9 Responsibility to the 212-240 workforce members, their families, type. Efforts in 2011 *Job-Related Ecological Environment or community members regarding Accidents and Efforts to serious diseases. Prevent Accidents Labor Practices and Decent Work *Our Management Health and safety topics covered in Not Structure *Our LA9 GC 1 formal agreements with trade unions. applicable Management Principles *Our Reputation Management Average hours of training per year *Employee Training *OHS 130-131, *Our Ethical Management LA10 per employee by gender, and by Fully 24-33, Trainings 169-170 Management *Our Risk Management employee category. Fully 42-63, Approach *Our Sustainability 88-211 *Our Contribution to Management *Our Stakeholders the Development of Our *The Value We Attach to Employees Bilimk@ People mpüs Employee Training Programs for skills management and *Occupational Health and Leadership Development lifelong learning that support the Safety Program Stars Team LA11 continued employability of employees Fully 112-137 *Coaching System and assist them in managing career Total workforce by employment type, *The Value We Attach to Number of employees who endings. LA1 employment contract, and region, Fully People Demographic Data 95-99 are encouraged to study broken down by gender. of Our Employees for a master’s degree Volunteering Platform for Total number and rate of new the Community employee hires and employee *Our Recruitment LA2 GC 6 Partially 102-105 turnover by age group, gender, and Procedures *Our Contribution to region. the Development of Our Percentage of employees receiving Employees Performance *Benefits, rights and LA12 regular performance and career Fully 118-123 Management Potential Benefits provided to full-time support practices provided development reviews, by gender. Evaluation Leadership employees that are not provided to by Bilim Pharmaceuticals Development Program LA3 Fully 108-111 temporary or part-time employees, by to its employees *Pay major operations. Management and Retirement Policy 250 251 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Indicators* Status Number Composition of governance bodies Operations and significant suppliers and breakdown of employees per identified in which the right to *Our Principles on Employee *The Value We Attach to employee category according to exercise freedom of association and GC 1, GC 2, Rights *Selection of 94, 187LA13 GC 1, GC 6 Fully People Demographic Data 95-99 HR5 Partially gender, age group, minority group collective bargaining may be violated GC 3 Collaborations *Supplier 188 of Our Employees membership, and other indicators of or at significant risk, and actions Inspection diversity. taken to support these rights. Ratio of basic salary and Operations and significant suppliers *Our Principles on Employee remuneration of women to men by *Pay Management and identified as having significant risk LA14 GC 1, GC 6 Fully 108-111 GC 1, GC 2, Rights *Selection of 94, 187employee category, by significant Retirement Policy HR6 for incidents of child labor, and Partially GC 5 Collaborations *Supplier 188 locations of operation. measures taken to contribute to the Inspection effective abolition of child labor. *Our Recruitment Return to work and retention rates Procedures Ratio of Operations and significant suppliers LA15 Fully 105 after parental leave, by gender. employees who return back identified as having significant risk *Our Principles on Employee to work after giving birth for incidents of forced or compulsory GC 1, GC 2, Rights *Selection of 94, 187HR7 Partially labor, and measures to contribute to GC 4 Collaborations *Supplier 188 Human Rights the elimination of all forms of forced Inspection or compulsory labor. *Our Management Structure Percentage of security personnel *Our Management trained in the organization’s policies Principles *Our Sustainability *Our Quality Management HR8 or procedures concerning aspects GC 1, GC 2 Fully 54 Management *Our Reputation of human rights that are relevant to Management operations. *Our Ethical Management 24-35, Management *Our Risk Management Total number of incidents of Fully 42-63, Not Approach *Our Sustainability HR9 violations involving rights of GC 1, GC 2 Management 88-211 applicable indigenous people and actions taken. *Our Stakeholders *The Value We Attach to People Percentage and total number of *Occupational Health and operations that have been subject to *Our Suppliers and HR10 Fully 185-189 Safety human rights reviews and/or impact Collaborations *Our Suppliers and assessments. Collaborations Number of grievances related to Percentage and total number of *Our Ethical Management human rights filed, addressed and 46-47, significant investment agreements HR11 Fully *Results of the employee GC 1, GC 2, resolved through formal 163-164 and contracts that include clauses *Our Suppliers and satisfaction survey HR1 GC 3, GC 4, Fully 185-189 grievance mechanisms. incorporating human rights concerns, Collaborations GC 5, GC 6 or that have undergone human rights Society screening. *Our Management Percentage of significant suppliers, Structure GC 1, GC 2, *Our Management contractors and other business *Our Suppliers and HR2 GC 3, GC 4, Partially 185-189 Principles partners that have undergone human Collaborations GC 5, GC 6 *Our Quality Management rights screening, and actions taken. *Our Journey of Excellence Total hours of employee training on *Our Reputation Management 24-63, policies and procedures concerning GC 1, GC 2, Management *Our Ethical Management 86-87, HR3 aspects of human rights that are GC 3, GC 4, Fully *Our Ethical Management 46-47 Fully Approach *Our Risk Management 144-155, relevant to operations, including the GC 5, GC 6 *Our Sustainability 190-211 percentage of employees trained. Management *Our Principles on Employee *Our Stakeholders *Fighting with Bribery and Rights *Benefits, rights and Impropriety support practices provided *Volunteering Platform for Total number of incidents of GC 1, GC 2, by Bilim Pharmaceuticals to 94, the Community HR4 discrimination and corrective actions GC 3, GC 4, Fully its employees *Results of 110-111, *Community Investment taken. GC 5, GC 6 the employee satisfaction 163-164 survey Legal actions on overtime, harassment or discrimination 252 253 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Indicators* Status Number *Our Processing Facilities Prevention and mitigation measures *Our Quality Management implemented in operations *Our Reputation Not SO10 with significant potential or Management applicable actual negative impacts on local *Our Ethical Management communities. *Our Risk Management 18-23, Percentage of operations with *Our Sustainability 34-35, Product Responsibility implemented local community Management 42-63, SO1 Fully engagement, impact assessments, *Our Stakeholders 144-155, *Our Management and development programs. *Volunteering Platform for 166-173, Structure *Our the Community 212-240 Management Principles *Community Investment *Our Quality Management *Occupational Health and *Our Journey of Excellence Safety Management *Our Reputation 24-63, *Our Responsibility to the Approach Fully Ecological Environment Management *Our 174-189 PR Ethical Management *Our Percentage and total number of *Our Ethical Management Risk Management *Our 46-47, Sustainability Management SO2 business units analyzed for risks GC 10 Partially *Fighting with Bribery and 86-87 *Our Stakeholders *Product related to corruption. Impropriety Responsibility Percentage of employees trained SO3 in organization’s anti-corruption GC 10 Fully *Our Ethical Management 46-47 Life cycle stages in which health policies and procedures. and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for *Fighting with Bribery and PR1 improvement, and percentage of GC 1 Fully *Product Responsibility 174-189 Actions taken in response to Impropriety 86-87, significant products and services SO4 GC 10 Fully incidents of corruption. *Results of the employee 163-164 categories subject to such satisfaction survey procedures. GC 1, GC 2, Total number of incidents of nonPublic policy positions and GC 3, GC 4, compliance with regulations and *Marketing Not SO5 participation in public policy GC 5, GC 6, voluntary codes concerning health Communications and Ethics 181-182, applicable PR2 GC 1 Fully development and lobbying. GC 7, GC 8, and safety impacts of products and *Number of Drugs Recalled 177 GC 9, GC 10 services during their life cycle, by from the Market type of outcomes. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Not Type of product and service SO6 GC 10 politicians, and related institutions by applicable information required by procedures, *Sharing of productcountry. PR3 and percentage of significant GC 8 Fully related information and 180-181 products and services subject to experiences Total number of legal actions for such information requirements. anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, *Fighting with Bribery and SO7 Fully 86-87 and monopoly practices and their Impropriety Total number of incidents of nonoutcomes. *Sharing of productcompliance with regulations and related information and PR4 voluntary codes concerning product GC 8 Fully 180-182 *Our Ethical Management experiences *Marketing and service information and labeling, *Fighting with Bribery and Communications and Ethics Monetary value of significant fines Impropriety by type of outcomes. 46-47, and total number of non-monetary *Occupational Health and SO8 Fully 86-87, Practices related to customer sanctions for non-compliance with Safety Legal Compliance 173, 240 satisfaction, including results *Customer Satisfaction laws and regulations. *Our Responsibility to the PR5 Fully 178-184 Ecological Environment of surveys measuring customer *Customer Privacy Legal Compliance satisfaction. Programs for adherence to Operations with significant potential Not laws, standards, and voluntary *Sharing of productSO9 or actual negative impacts on local applicable codes related to marketing related information and communities. PR6 Fully 180-182 communications, including experiences *Marketing advertising, promotion, and Communications and Ethics sponsorship. 254 255 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GRI-GC IndIcator Index Related GC Reporting Page GRI G3.1 Indicators Related Part in the Report Indicators* Status Number Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations *Sharing of productand voluntary codes concerning related information and PR7 Fully 180-182 marketing communications, experiences *Marketing including advertising, promotion, and Communications and Ethics sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches *Customer Privacy PR8 GC 1 Fully 184 of customer privacy and losses of *Patient Confidentiality customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and *Number of Drugs Recalled PR9 Fully 177 regulations concerning the provision from the Market and use of products and services. * We have made use of the Practical Guide in the Communication on Progress of the UN Global Compact for the matching of GRI-GC indicators. 256 257 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GLOBAL COMPACT Glossary HUMAN RIGHTS ABP Annual Budget Plan Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationCSA Current Situation Analysis all proclaimed human rights; and CSS Customer Satisfaction Survey Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. EDIE Environment-Dimension-Impact Evaluation LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the EFQM European Foundation for Quality freedom of association and the effective Management recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ESS Employee Satisfaction Survey Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of FDA US Food and Drug Administration forced and compulsory labour; GC Global Compact Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and GCP Good Clinical Practices Principle 6: the elimination of discriminaGLP Good Laboratory Practices tion in respect of employment and occupation. GMP-c GMP Good Manufacturing/ Current Good Manufacturing ENVIRONMENT Practices Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental GRI Global Reporting Initiative challenges; IMMIB Istanbul Mineral and Metals Principle 8: undertake initiatives to proExporters’ Association mote greater environmental responsibility; and IMS Integrated Management System Principle 9: encourage the development ISS Individual Suggestion System and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. MES Manufacturing Execution System ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work OIZ Organized Industrial Zone against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PMAT Pharmaceutical Manufacturers This report has been prepared with the support of Association of Turkey Mikado Consulting, our consultant on sustainability strategy building. SSS Supplier Satisfaction Survey www.mikadoconsulting.com Designed by MYRA T 90 212 243 26 70 www.myra.com.tr 258
