Sustainability Report 2011 Contents Statement by the CEO 3 Strategy 5 Sustainable finances 8 Motivated and competent employees 11 Climate-smart bank 13 Social commitment 14 Responsibility, control and reporting 15 GRI index 17 Auditor’s Review Report on ­Sustainability Report 2011 The success of SBAB Bank is largely dependent on the confidence of customers and society in our ability to conduct and develop our operations in a responsible and sustainable manner. This is particularly important today as we expand our operations and develop new customer offerings. Active dialogue with the company’s stakeholders provides us with awareness and knowledge of their demands and expectations, which contributes to our development in the right direction toward sustainable progress. Corporate Responsibility (CR) has been part of SBAB Bank’s business plan since 2009 and thus serves as a solid platform for continued proactive and future-oriented sustainability work. Carl-Viggo Östlund CEO 2 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 Strategy The continued success of SBAB Bank depends on the confidence of customers and society in our ability to conduct and develop our operations in a sustainable and responsible manner. This is particularly important as SBAB Bank now expands its operations and develops new product offerings. CR for SBAB Bank For SBAB Bank, CR entails integrating economic, social and environmental responsibility into its operations. Economy Social responsibility Environment Stable finances Ethics Bank without an office network Sustainable investment Leadership and competency development Recycle and reuse Return requirement Healthy workplace Virtual meetings Responsible granting of loans Equality and diversity Climate-adjusted workplace Counteracting financial crime Social commitment Climate reporting and action plan Satisfied customers CR strategy nd commu ng a To contribute to sustainable social development, it ti nic is important that SBAB Bank pursues sound business or Ec at operations, with minimal environmental impact. p ilit y ono m sib n Re Sound business operations entail an ethically io Social resp ponsibility responsible approach in all areas of operation comSound res bined with sustainable financial development. By on business ic engaging in an active dialogue with its stakeholders, the bank becomes aware of and understands their operations expectations, which contributes to the company developing in the right direction and toward sustainable En vi il ity ro progress. n m en o n sib SBAB Bank’s aim is to fulfil stakeholders’ wishes, tal resp expectations and requirements whenever reasonable. Performance in 2011 Focus for 2012-2013 • Active communication with employees regarding the • Continuing programmes to achieve the established bank’s environmental goals and climate action plan. environmental goals via the climate action plan. • Completion of CR week with a focus on • Continuing efforts aimed at communication, information ethics and the environment. and training in CR internally and externally. • Substantial increase in the use of video-conferencing equipment. • Development of a strategy for social commitment. • Completion of gap analysis for certification • Development of sustainable products and services. according to ISO 14001. • Inventory of environmental documentation as the basis for decision regarding ISO14001 certification. SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 3 Stakeholder dialogue By engaging in a dialogue with stakeholders, SBAB Bank is able to make the right priorities when establishing its CR strategy. SBAB Bank’s priority stakeholders are its customers, investors and employees. A sustainable investment SBAB Bank’s relations with its investors are based on their confidence in the bank’s employees, operations and sustainable Straightforward and customer driven financial development. Close contact with the market ensures that SBAB Bank is aware Long-term customer relations are achieved by of the demands and requirements that ensuring accessibility and exceeding customer investors impose on the company. Extensive expectations in terms of good service. It is also surveys are also conducted on behalf of important that products and services are clear, investors regarding SBAB Bank’s sustainstraightforward and competitive. SBAB Bank ability efforts – surveys that have become monitors various confidence surveys conducted increasingly relevant as more investors in the market. By engaging in an active dialogue integrate sustainability into their analyses with its customers, SBAB Bank aims to maintain and investment decisions. a top ranking in these surveys. Customers Investors Stakeholder Media organisations Business Owner partners Employees Suppliers Motivated and Climate-smart bank competent employees SBAB Bank’s business model is climate smart Motivated and competent employees consince banking business is mainly conducted tribute to SBAB Bank’s success. An active via the Internet and telephone. By impledialogue between the bank’s managers and menting new, innovative IT solutions, the employees is vital. Attracting and developing climate impact of the operations can be the right skills to build a new bank will be a further reduced. A climate action plan has challenge in the coming years. been established to achieve the climate goal of reducing SBAB Bank’s CO2 emissions by 5% annually from 2011 to 2014. Channels for stakeholder dialogue Customers: Customer surveys, user tests, brand analyses, customer meetings, question forum at sbab.se, Annual General Meeting, Sustainability Report, CR at sbab.se, information from SBAB’s financial secretariat (sbab.se, twitter, blogs), social media. Employees: HR surveys, intranet, leadership days, business plan, CR week, Sustainability Report, CR at sbab.se, cr@sbab.se. Investors: CR surveys among investors, investor presentations, rating company analyses, personal contacts, Annual General Meeting, Sustainability Report, CR at sbab.se, cr@sbab.se. 4 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable finances To contribute to sustainable social development, SBAB Bank must pursue sound business operations that enable positive financial development. Establishing a new bank offers opportunities – based on responsibility and quality – to present challenges in areas other than property funding. SBAB Bank is to have a clear, straightforward and attractively priced offering. Stable finances also when market conditions are more challenging. By supplying the retail market and corporates with By maintaining stable finances and favourable liquidresidential mortgage funding and attractive savings ity, SBAB Bank has been able to continue satisfying alternatives, SBAB Bank fills an important function in customer funding requirements. SBAB Bank’s stable society. SBAB Bank is to conduct a profitable and susfunding situation during the year also demonstrates tainable business based on customer requirements. that customers and society have confidence in the Success in this effort requires that the company pursue bank and feel secure in the SBAB Bank brand. operations in a responsible and cost-effective manner. In recent years, the financial crisis and recession Investors have affected major parts of society. In view of this, it SBAB Bank’s relations with its investors are based on is important to show customers and society that the the investors’ confidence in the bank’s employees, bank can be relied on – not only in good times, but operations and sustainable financial development. Close contact with the market ensures that SBAB Bank is aware of investors’ wishes and their demands on Financial key figures the company. Each year, SBAB Bank meets with the Key figures 2011 2010 2009 rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Expenditure/Income ratio, excl. These meetings involve a highly transparent review loan losses, % 60 42 29 of SBAB Bank and its operations. These reviews form Loan loss rate, % 0.00 0.02 0.06 the basis for the official rating that the agencies subReturn on equity, % 4.2 7.5 13.8 sequently assign the company. Extensive surveys Capital adequacy ratio, %1) 10.7 10.2 9.2 of SBAB Bank’s sustainability programmes are also 1) With transitional regulations. A sustainable investment Oekom is a company commissioned by asset managers to conduct corporate sustainability analyses. In the past, this was mainly related to equity investments. However, in recent years, investor interest has also turned to the debt capital markets. This increased interest is primarily due to the widespread belief that sustainability factors influence a company’s profitability. Rolf Haessler, Head of Corporate Communications at Oekom, notes, “The value for rated companies is twofold. A high rating has a positive impact on the company’s reputation, thereby providing access to growing socially responsible investment (SRI) capital. However, a low rating is also of value to the company, since it provides the company with assistance in identifying strengths and weaknesses in its sustainability programmes. SBAB Bank is one of the few companies in its industry to have gained the Oekom Prime rating.” The basis for Oekom’s assessment of SBAB Bank is the generally favourable transparency in the bank’s sustainability reporting. A clear description of the company’s relationship with its employees, including the officially published diversity and equality policy, is noted as a key feature of the assessment. Moreover, the manner in which SBAB Bank has elected to report environmental key figures, as well as its membership in the Global Compact, has contributed to a high rating. However, Oekom believes that the industry – including SBAB Bank – needs to more clearly define how environmental aspects are integrated into deposit and lending operations, as well as in respect of responsibility for customers and products. SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 5 c­ onducted on behalf of investors by independent Responsible granting of loans rating companies. A good result in these surveys is SBAB Bank seeks to create long-term, trustful customer becoming increasingly important as a growing numrelations. This requires the bank to assume responber of investors integrate sustainability into their corsibility by ensuring that customers have the financial porate analyses and investment decisions. capacity required to meet their undertakings. Consequently, each SBAB Bank customer is subReturn requirement jected to a rigorous credit evaluation to assess SBAB Bank’s return requirement, as set by the owner, whether he/she has the financial capacity for a loan is a return on equity corresponding to the yield on to be granted. The customer’s payment capacity is five-year government bonds plus 5 percentage points first assessed and subsequently the collateral availafter tax and over a business cycle. SBAB Bank did able. Loans are not granted in the event of insufficient not attain the owner’s return requirement for 2011. The income or repayment capacity. Using a residence as owner’s dividend policy is that one third of net profit collateral, a customer may borrow up to a maximum after tax be distributed to the owner. In view of the regof 85% of its value. The repayment of a residential ulations governing continuing application of the tranmortgage contributes to sound household finances. sitional rules for capital requirements in 2012 and the Accordingly, it was decided during the year that a forthcoming new capital adequacy requirements, the repayment requirement would be imposed on loan Board proposes that the profit for 2011 be carried foramounts exceeding 75% of the value of the residence. ward and that no dividend be paid. Counteracting financial crime SBAB Bank works actively to prevent the company Direct economic value generated, pursuant to GRI (indicator EC1) Income in 2011: SEK 1,171 million from being used for criminal activities. The bank complies with applicable legislation and regulations, and conducts company-wide risk assessments at least once annually. These actions are designed to identify Employee compensation, SEK 323 million risks and thus enable the bank to take actions that preOperating expenses, vent its operations from being used for money launSEK 357 million Payments to the public sector, dering, financing of terrorism or other criminal activiSEK 122 million ties. The key factor is a high level of insight, including Retained economic value, SEK 369 million understanding the customer’s business and transactions with SBAB Bank. Clearly defined o ­ perations, Credit evaluation model for retail mortgages 1. Repayment capacity: The bank stress tests the customer’s repayment capacity using a computed rate of interest, which takes into account such factors as forecast interest-rate development and includes a buffer in the event of unexpected increases in interest rates. 2. Calculation of residual disposable income: The bank reviews the customer’s financial status to estimate the residual disposable income. Among other factors, the calculation is based on information from the Swedish Consumer Agency’s assessments of household costs and operating expenses for real estate. 3. Collateral: Collateral for a residential mortgage becomes relevant only after the customer’s financial position passes the bank’s credit evaluation. The valuation is conducted using SBAB Bank’s approved valuation models. Using a residence as collateral, a customer may borrow up to a maximum of 85% of its value. 6 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 detailed procedures and continuous controls further Accordingly, SBAB Bank decided to monitor the Repcontribute to reducing the risk of SBAB Bank being utation Barometer Survey conducted annually by exploited for criminal or other undesirable operations. ­Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). SBAB Bank’s goal is to be ranked among the top two finance companies in Satisfied customers the 2012 s­ urvey. The average for finance companies Long-term customer relations are achieved by providin 2011 was 59.8 (56.4), while SBAB Bank scored 63.5 ing high accessibility and exceeding customer expec(64.3). tations in terms of good service. It is also important SBAB Bank’s analysts at the Financial Secretariat that products and services are clear, straightforward communicate continuously through such channels as and competitive. By means of an active dialogue with twitter, blogs and sbab.se analyses. The areas covthe company’s customers – using customer surveys ered include economic conditions, interest-rate develand user tests, for example – SBAB Bank is able to opments, residential market trends and how bank cusconsistently improve its services and products on the tomers select interest periods, along with statistics basis of customer requirements and wishes. from estate agents and so forth. The bank thus conSBAB Bank monitors various confidence surveys tributes to improving its customers’ and the public’s conducted in the market, in which it seeks to attain a understanding of how interest rates and the residentop ranking. In the 2011 survey by the Swedish Qualtial mortgage market can impact personal finances in ity Index (SKI), SBAB Bank retained its top position as various ways. the residential mortgage company with the most satisfied institutional customers, meaning tenant-owner Key figures – results from confidence surveys associations, private property owners and property companies. SBAB Bank also has a strong posiKey figures 2011 2010 2009 tion in the retail market, where it was ranked among SKI Retail market 69.8 71.7 71.8 the top three major players in the residential mortSKI Institutional market 71.1 73.3 71.1 gage market. C ­ ustomer relations are also influenced Reputation Barometer Survey1) 63.5 64.3 67.6 by SBAB Bank’s reputation and customer confidence. 1) CR goal in the business plan SBAB Bank’s role in the reorganisation of rental apartments into tenant-owned apartments Reorganising a property and creating a functioning tenant-owner association is a complex and often lengthy process. For most people involved, this is the first time they apply for a major bank loan and, perhaps, the first time they become involved in an association. SBAB Bank is available to assist boards of tenant-owner associations and members alike, and offers relevant and comprehensible advice that contributes positively to the associations’ financial and social circumstances. Each tenant-owner association has access to a customer manager, plus an analytical and valuation team. Four times annually, seminars are arranged during which the boards of tenant-owner associations can learn from SBAB Bank and from each other in terms of economy, management, maintenance and the environment, as well as commitment to and well-being in the property. By this means, SBAB Bank contributes to stable tenant-owner associations while also creating strong, long-term client relations. SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 7 Motivated and competent employees Motivated and competent employees are an important part of SBAB Bank’s ­success and strengthen the brand. Attracting new employees while simultaneously developing existing competencies to build a new bank will be a challenge in the coming years. It is important that this challenge is met with continuing ­enthusiasm and entrepreneurialism. Building a bank Leadership and competency development During 2011, the focus was on preparing the organisaSBAB Bank is dependent on the confidence of all of its tion for the future, which resulted in a number of organstakeholders. This imposes high demands on skilled isational changes. For example, certain jobs were leadership and competent employees. SBAB Bank is moved from Karlstad to Stockholm, additional employa relatively small organisation that offers opportuniees were recruited for customer service, risk and prodties for internal flexibility and mobility. This is a key feauct development activities, along with certain changes ture of the bank, which also contributes to the comin executive management. Organisational changes petency development of the individual employee. resulted in higher personnel turnover in 2011 than in Assuming new roles and accepting greater responthe preceding year. sibility requires and builds competency. SBAB Bank’s SBAB Bank’s role in the market and the challenges employee dialogues are based on a personal busiinvolved in building a new type of bank stimulate ness plan linked to the bank’s overall business plan. the organisation. SBAB Bank is to continue to be perDuring 2011, 81% (81) of the bank’s employees had an ceived as having a clear, straightforward and attracemployee dialogue. tively priced offering. Coaching leadership Ethics Good leadership is a key factor for both business SBAB Bank’s Board sets a business ethics policy every and employees, and SBAB Bank thus continuously year at its statutory Board meeting. This policy estabdevelops the company’s managers. During the year, lishes that the bank is to be run in a manner that training courses in coaching leadership were conensures the continued confidence of the owner, cusducted for new managers, in addition to the leadertomers, business partners and society in the bank and ship days, which focused on the business plan and the finance market. It is important that all employees development of the bank. Employee perception of understand and adapt the policy to their everyday SBAB Bank’s leadership is continuously monitored operations. During the CR week in 2011, work comthrough employee surveys. The latest survey gave the menced on enhancing the dialogue around the ethbank’s management a generally high ranking in terms ics policy. During 2012, efforts to clarify current internal of feedback on work performance and indicated that and external guidelines will continue. SBAB Bank’s eththe company is good at involving and motivating its ics policy is available at sbab.se. employees. The best aspects of working at SBAB Bank Challenger Sound values Proximity Sufficiently large Variety Unity Influence Development opportunities Listen to employee opinions in Swedish at sbab.se under Jobba hos oss 8 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 SBAB Bank continuously seeks to improve its proCourses in bank confidentiality, complaints managecesses, organisation and competence. During 2011, ment, security and anti-fraud training were also held. all employees worked intensively to advance the comIn addition, training was provided in credit regulapany toward a selected joint target area. The process, tions, business methods and IT. Two different theme which was first launched in 2010, is referred to as weeks were arranged during the year. One week “VU” (operational development). The focus area durfocused on health and preventive care, while the other ing the year was “simplicity.” A key aim of VU is to proconcentrated on CR, with ethics and environmental mote commitment and participation. VU leaders are issues as the core subjects. recruited from the various operations, thereby offering an opportunity to test a leadership role. The leadHealthy workplace ers receive coaching, thus adding a training feature to SBAB Bank cares about the health of its employees. the programme. As part of its preventive care programme, the bank offers such benefits as subsidised medical insurance, Employee surveys free pharmaceuticals, a health-maintenance allowTwice yearly, SBAB Bank conducts its own internal ance, a health-maintenance hour and free access to employee survey, referred to as “Tempen.” The survey a gym. SBAB’s healthcare “ambassadors” work to is aimed at identifying areas of improvement, estabinspire employees to participate in activities that the lishing action plans and implementing the required company offers. During the past year, a health week measures. was arranged, featuring lectures and opportunities to During 2011, SBAB Bank decided to conduct an test various activities. The renovation of the bank’s two independent and more extensive survey with the assislargest offices also resulted in a superior work environtance of an external party. The purpose was to comment in terms of air, lighting, sound and aesthetics. pare the bank’s results with those of the industry and SBAB Bank works actively to prevent long-term assure the quality of the results of the internal survey. sickness. This is achieved through close contact with The external survey showed that, overall, SBAB Bank’s employees, managers, the company healthcare seremployees were more satisfied than the industry avervice, and the National Insurance Office. The bank age. This is most evident in the areas of work satisfacalso seeks to identify flexible solutions that enable tion, motivation and leadership. In the area of “Overemployees to return to work on a part-time basis. Sickall employee satisfaction,” SBAB Bank received a ness absence at SBAB Bank was 2.5% (2.5) during the value of 73, compared with the industry average of 71. year. Read more about sickness absence in Note 8 A survey value exceeding 70 is viewed as very high. of SBAB Bank’s Annual Report. It is important to be able to combine work with private life and SBAB Bank Competency development thus offers such benefits as flexible working hours and SBAB Bank continuously conducts product training prosupplemented parental pay during parental leave grammes. During 2011, selected employees also parto employees looking after children under the age of ticipated in a SwedSec licence training programme. 18 months. Results from external employee survey Key employee figures External Tempen Tempen Key figures 2011 2010 2009 survey Autumn Spring Satisfied employees 73 77* 71* Comparable questions 2011 2010* 2010* Female executives at year-end, % 39 33 39 Overall employee satisfaction 73 77 75 Positions at year-end, 399 382 360 Proud to work at SBAB Bank 80 82 82 of which, held by women 232 218 210 Immediately superior manager: Average age, years 42 42 43 Provides clear feedback 77 75 76 Personnel turnover, % 14 4 3 Good at promoting involvement and motivating 77 75 n.a Short-term sickness absence, % 1.9 1.6 1.7 Persistent in reaching set goals 81 85 n.a Long-term sickness absence, % 0.6 0.9 0.9 Total sickness absence, % 2.5 2.5 2.6 *Internal employee survey “Tempen,” recalculated for comparison with external employee survey. Use of health-maintenance allowance by all employees, % 69 65 73 Proportion of male employees, receiving parental leave allowance, % 33 16 16 *Internal employee survey “Tempen,” recalculated for comparison with external employee survey. SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 9 Equality and diversity Incentive programme SBAB Bank aims to be an equal-opportunity workSBAB Bank’s incentive programme for 2011 was based place that offers scope for diversity. A diverse work on overall company goals and the ­maximum outcome environment contributes to correct decision-making was set at one months’ pay. The p ­ rogramme encomand promotes learning in the company. At SBAB Bank, passed all employees except E­ xecutive M ­ anagement. all employees are to have equal rights, responsibilities This is in line with “Guidelines for employment terms and opportunities in every aspect involving the workfor senior executives in state-owned companies” and place, irrespective of gender, transgender identity or “Regulations regarding r­ emuneration structures in expression, ethnicity, religion or other beliefs, sexual credit institutions, i­nvestment firms and fund manageorientation, functional disabilities or age. Equality and ment companies licensed to conduct d ­ iscretionary diversity must always be considered in the recruitment portfolio management” (FFFS 2011:1). The overall process. SBAB Bank regularly conducts pay reviews to company goals were not attained and thus no incenensure that no systematic or unreasonable pay differtive payout was made for the 2011 financial year. ences exist. The bank’s goal is to have a uniform genThe Board decided in December that the incentive der distribution (50/50) among managers with HR programme would be discontinued for all SBAB Bank responsibilities. At year-end, 61% (67) of managers employees as of the 2012 financial year. were men. More information on this subject is available in Note 8 of SBAB Bank’s Annual Report. Breakdown by age Employment periods % Number of employees 35 150 30 120 25 20 90 15 60 10 30 5 0 0 20-29 years 30-39 years 40-49 years 50-59 years 60-69 years <3 years 4-6 years 7-9 years 10-12 years 13-15 years >16 years Women Women Men Men 10 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 Climate-smart bank SBAB Bank’s business model is climate smart as the bank’s products and services are mainly distributed via the Internet and telephone. A climate action plan has been established to achieve the climate goal of reducing SBAB Bank’s CO2 ­emissions by 5% annually from 2011 to 2014. The climate action plan is available at sbab.se. Bank without an office network SBAB Bank’s long-term aim is to cease the use of SBAB Bank distributes services and products p ­ rimarily paper-based bank documents where possible. via the Internet and telephone. This eliminates the ­Digital signatures and other security solutions offer environmental impact that an office network and local new potential and development is in progress in this sales offices would otherwise cause. SBAB Bank’s IT respect. infrastructure is contained on a number of c­ omputer servers. The servers are managed by an ­external Virtual meetings operations supplier in environmentally c­ ertified Most of SBAB Bank’s business travel takes the form of server centres. The bank’s energy consumption has domestic train travel. Due to the development of the been reduced through efficiency enhancements of operations, 2011 was a highly intensive year in terms IT ­operations. of meetings. During the year, SBAB Bank employees took the opportunity to make greater use of video­ Recycle and reuse conferencing. Video-based meetings totalled 192 SBAB Bank’s aim is to reuse all types of office matehours (55) per month over the course of 2011, an rials and technical equipment. One example of this increase of 252% from the preceding year. During is that used computers are donated to support the 2012, the capacity for video meetings will be further ­Stockholm City Mission charity. When material cannot enhanced through the potential to hold video meetbe reused internally or externally, the material is sent ings at personal workstations. for recycling. Dialogues with property owners are pursued on a continuous basis in an effort to find soluClimate-adjusted workplace tions to improve the sorting-at-source of household Most of the bank’s more than 400 employees work waste and materials offering no reusage potential. in two properties in Stockholm and Karlstad. These Through the use of printouts carrying a personal premises are undergoing gradual environmental code, reductions have been achieved in such areas adjustments. The Stockholm property is certified in as internal paper consumption, and thus paper waste. accordance with the Green Building standard, which Environmentally sound renovation Between 2009 and 2011, extensive renovations were undertaken at SBAB Bank’s premises in Karlstad and Stockholm. The main purpose was to optimise the available space in the premises and modernise interiors. At the same time, it was important to select materials with due consideration for the environment. By doing so, the renovation not only contributed to space-efficient and pleasant premises, but also to costs savings and reduced environmental impact. QQ LED lighting saves about 75% of electricity consumption QQ Carpeting designed to meet the maximum requirements in terms of environment, sound and hygiene QQ White goods with the highest environmental classification QQ Environmentally labelled furniture SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 11 represents high energy efficiency. SBAB Bank is purPerformance in 2011: suing a dialogue with the property owner concernQQ Internal communication on the bank’s environ­ ing individual measurement of energy consumption. mental goal and climate action plan. This type of solution would make it easier to measure QQ A CR week focusing on topics such as the environthe bank’s own consumption, thereby increasing the ment. potential to reduce climate impact. QQ Gap analysis for ISO 14001 certification. The process of selecting and cooperating with QQ Substantial increase in the use of video-conferencsuppliers is an important part of the bank’s efforts ing equipment. to effectively reduce its environmental impact. The bank has concentrated its purchasing to fewer supSince the 2008 financial year, SBAB Bank reports its pliers and thus made it easier to impose environmenclimate data in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas tal requirements when making purchases. SBAB Bank Protocol (GHG protocol). The climate report is a u­ seful strives to establish sustainable supplier relations and means of identifying actions that could effectively rewards proactive suppliers offering environmentally ­contribute to reducing the bank’s climate impact. The smart solutions. ­climate report is updated annually and is available at In 2011, a gap analysis was performed to detersbab.se. As of 2010, SBAB Bank climate offsets the net mine what steps need to be taken for the bank to emissions reported by the bank. Climate offsets take achieve ISO 14001 certification. The analysis showed the shape of what are known as certified emissions that while most of the operational requirements have reductions or CER. been fulfilled, the bank has to develop the documentation structure needed for certification. A decision Key environmental figures regarding ISO 14001 environmental certification will Key figures 2011 20103) 20093) be made in 2012. Total emissions, tonnes CO2 1) 236.8 231.3 223.9 Total business travel, tonnes CO2 102.9 101.5 98.1 Climate report and action plan Business travel, car, ten SBAB Bank is to reduce its CO2 emissions by 5% kilometres/tonnes CO2 223/27.5 211/29.4 191/30.7 annually from 2011 to 2014, in relation to the size Business travel, rail 2)/tonnes CO2 87%/8.7 83%/6.7 81%/6.9 of the operations at 31 December 2010. Since it is Business travel, air 2)/tonnes CO2 13%/66.7 17%/65.4 19%/60.5 Paper consumption, 000s 2,595 2,975 3,195 important that the entire organisation contribute, 1) CR goal in the business plan the ­environmental goal is included in SBAB Bank’s 2) Percentage of the number of business trips taken, excluding by car ­business plan. To achieve this goal, an environ­mental 3) The CO2 emissions for 2010 and 2009 were recalculated for comparison with 2011 due to the implementation of a new method of calculating CO2 from air action plan was formulated and adopted in 2010. travel and E85. The actions include fewer and more environmentally smart b ­ usiness trips, purchasing energy-efficient ­equipment, minimising paper consumption, as well as ­dialogues with property owners regarding improvement m ­ easures in such areas as heating and cooling. The ­climate action plan is available at sbab.se. 12 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 Social commitment SBAB Bank’s social partnership projects and support at the local level aim to contribute to positive social development. Over the years, SBAB Bank has supported a number of different projects and organisations. Since 2009, the bank has chosen to support BRIS (Children’s Rights in Society), Stockholm City Mission and the World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), based on the priorities of its employees. BRIS WWF SBAB Bank holds “gold company” member status SBAB Bank is a Friend of WWF and thus supports the with Children’s Rights in Society (BRIS). BRIS aims to organisation’s environmental efforts, which have been strengthen children’s and young people’s rights and conducted in more than 100 companies since 1961. to improve their living conditions. During the year, BRIS held presentations for the bank’s employees at which Local commitment BRIS described its operations and how they work to SBAB Bank’s largest office in terms of number of create opportunities for vulnerable children to talk to employees is located in Karlstad, Sweden. Here, an adult outside the home. SBAB Bank is involved in a project entitled Entrepreneur 3.0. The project is headed by the Chamber of Stockholm City Mission Commerce in Värmland and aims to bolster the interThe Stockholm City Mission conducts activities geared action between schools and the business community. toward homeless people and those suffering from Under the project, pupils in grades seven to nine are addiction. The activities are aimed at easing the acute given the opportunity to interact with various compasuffering of vulnerable individuals and providing hope nies and thus facilitate their future transition into workand the courage to face life, as well as helping them ing life. The partnership commenced in 2009 and independently take control of their lives. In addition to SBAB Bank will maintain regular contact with the class financial support, SBAB Bank has organised clothes through the ninth grade. collections and donated used computers in perfect working order, including equipment, which the StockOther holm City Mission was able to give as a present to QQ Support for the Japan Platform in conjunction with families of limited means who could not afford to buy the earthquake in Japan. a personal computer. QQ Support for UNICEF in conjunction with the famine disaster in the Horn of Africa. QQ Participated in Earth Hour, which is organised by WWF. QQ During the year, BRIS held presentations during the year for SBAB Bank employees. Trial employment application During the year, the partnership with our school class, now class 9A, continued in Karlstad. SBAB Bank employees have visited the pupils at school and the pupils have had several opportunities to see SBAB Bank’s office in Karlstad from the inside. During these occasions, the pupils have learned about the residential mortgage market and the various types of professions available at the bank. On one occasion, the pupils were given an exercise of writing an application including a curriculum vitae for a fictitious position at the bank. All applications were read by SBAB Bank’s employees and all pupils received personal feedback, thereby contributing to their understanding and knowledge of what a company considers important information and what is valued in an employment application. The exercise is intended to contribute to increased opportunities for the pupils to secure a position after completing their studies. SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 13 Responsibility, governance and reporting SBAB Bank’s CR strategy is integrated into the business plan and the bank reports on its sustainable development in accordance with the GRI reporting standard. Responsibility Reporting The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for SBAB Bank reports its sustainable development work ensuring that SBAB Bank conducts proactive, longon the basis of GRI, level C+. The report encompasses term work to achieve sustainable development. ExecSBAB Bank and its wholly owned subsidiary SCBC. utive Management is responsible for all perforThe operations in SCBC are conducted by employees mance indicators. The Communications Department of the Parent Company and the applicable rules and is responsible for coordinating the bank’s work in the guidelines apply to both companies. area of sustainable development. SBAB Bank reports on the specified indicators in full The bank has established a CR Council comprising or in part depending on the relevance and availability participants from Executive Management, all business of data and information. areas, staff functions and the CR Coordinator. The quality of the reporting is assured through independent auditing and confirmation. More information Control on sustainable development at SBAB Bank and poliSince SBAB Bank considers it important that CR is intecies is available at sbab.se. grated into all areas of operation, the bank has opted SBAB Bank has signed the UN Global Compact to assess, report and follow up its CR goals using the (GC) and thus supports the ten principles in respect same model as that used for other goals and key of human rights, labour standards, the environment data. Accordingly, CR is integrated into SBAB Bank’s and anti-corruption. SBAB Bank assumes responsibiloverall business plan. To clarify SBAB Bank’s CR stratity for annual reporting of the company’s improvement egy and shared approach, a CR policy has been programmes in line with the GC requirements. This is established and approved by the Board. Other interdone in a report entitled “Communication on progress nal CR guidelines are set by Executive Management. (COP),” which is available on the Global Compact’s Through workshops, employees have been able to website at unglobalcompact.org. participate in materiality analyses to identify the focus areas for CR work in the various units. The results are integrated into each unit’s business plan and contribute to the achievement of SBAB Bank’s overall CR goals. 14 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 GRI index Indicator Sustainability Annual Report sbab.se Comments Report Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement by the CEO 2, 3 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover 3, 7 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4, 7 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating 7, 85 companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Cover 3, 84 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Cover 3, 7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7, 84 2.7 Markets served Cover 2, 4, 8–14 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 1, 26–29 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 1 structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period No awards or recognitions were received during the reporting period. Report profile 3.1 Reporting period Cover 2 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 31 March 2011. 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover 2 SBAB Bank’s Sustainability Report is updated annually on 31 December. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents X Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report contents 3–14 Priority is assigned to maintaining an ethical, responsible approach in all areas of operation combined with sustainable financial development. 3.6 Boundary of the report 14 3.7 Specific limitations 3–14 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 3.10 Restatement of information No revisions have been made since the 2010 report. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting period Reporting was expanded to include GRI’s Financial Services Sector Supplement with the indicators FS6, FS13 and FS16 3.12 GRI content index 15–16 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 14 84–96 4.2 Chairman’s position 83–96 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent 84–96 and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4, 8–10 84–96 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 4 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 15 Indicator Sustainability Annual Report sbab.se Comments Report Performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including income, 6 operating costs and employee compensation EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 5–7 Environmental performance indicators1) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 11–12 X EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 11–12 X EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 11–12 X EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 11–12 X EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 11–12 X EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 11–12 X Supplement for the financial sector FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and sector 8–12 FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas 11 Cover 2 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy 7 Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total workforce 9 54 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 9 55 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements All SBAB Bank employees, except the CEO, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism 9 54–56 No work-related injuries were reported during the period. LA10 Hours of training per year per employee 55 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 8 development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 10 54–56, 92–95 category according to gender and age group Human rights performance indicators HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken No cases of discrimination were reported during the year. Society performance indicators SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary The organisation does not owe any sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations significant amounts nor have any sanctions imposed on it for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product responsibility performance indicators PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 4, 7 measuring customer satisfaction PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and SBAB Bank has not been fined for nonregulations concerning the provision and use of products and services compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. C C+ B B+ A A+ 1) A separate climate report and SBAB Bank’s climate action Report Application Level plan are available at sbab.se under Corporate Responsibility. Remark 1. References to Cover 1-Cover 4 pertain to the cover Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for pages 1-4 of the Annual Report. 1.1 for Level C: Level B INFORMATION Remark 2. The indicators are reported in full or in part depend2.1–2.10 1.2 G3 Profile 3.9, 3.13 ing on the relevance and availability of data and information. 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 disclosures 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Standard disclosures Not required. Management approach Management approach Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured disclosures for each disclosures for each INFORMATION G3 Disclosures indicator category. indicator category. on management approach Report fully on a minimum Report fully on a minimum of Respond on each core and of any ten performance any 20 performance indicasector supplement* indicaINFORMATION G3 Performance indicators, including at tors, including at least one tor with due regard to the SBAB Bank deems that the report fulfils the reporting indicators and sector least one from each of: from each of: economic, materiality principle by supplement persocial, economic and environmental, human rights, either: a) reporting on the requirements for the C+ application level according to GRI environment. labour practices and decent indicator or b) explaining formance indicators version 3.0. PwC has audited the report and assures that it fulfils work, society and product the reason for its omission. the requirements for the C+ application level. responsibility. *Branschspecifika tillägg i slutlig version 16 SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 Auditor’s Review Report on Sustainability Report 2011 To the readers of the SBAB Bank (publ) Sustainability Report We have been engaged by the management of SBAB Bank AB (publ) to review the Sustainability Report for the year 2011. The Board of Directors and Executive Management are responsible for the company’s activities regarding the environment, health and safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. The focus and scope of the review We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially more limited in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. a. update of our knowledge and understanding of SBAB Bank’s organisation and activities, b. assessment of the outcome of the company’s stakeholder dialogue, c. interviews with management at Group level and at selected business units in order to assess if the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, d. examination of internal and external documents in order to assess if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, e. evaluation of the design of systems and processes used to obtain, manage and validate sustainability information, f. analytical procedures of the information stated in the Sustainability Report, g. assessment of the company’s declared application level according to the GRI guidelines, h. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Report and its format, taking into consideration the consistency of the stated information with applicable criteria. Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm 22 March 2012 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Catarina Ericsson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR SBAB Bank Sustainability Report 2011 17
