We are responsible. 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Engineering the Future – since 1758. MAN SE MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Milestones in 2011 January 18 May 11 May 27 The European Union’s antitrust authoriMAN publishes its first audited corporate MAN completes its first global employee ties initiate antitrust proceedings against responsibility report drawn up in line with survey covering around 49,000 employseveral European truck manufacturers — the Global Reporting Initiative (applicaees in 34 countries. including MAN. MAN assures the authortion level B+) guidelines. ities of its full cooperation in clarifying the June 9 matter. May 13 MAN Diesel & Turbo wins the order to The MAN TGX 18.400 truck receives the supply compression technology for one January 25 Green Truck 2011 award for the lowest of Europe’s largest gas storage facilities. MAN Diesel & Turbo celebrates the topCO2 emissions in the European market. ping-out ceremony for its new emissions June 17 test center in Augsburg. May 25 The 2011 Consistently Efficient Tour is In the light of evidence indicating irregusuccessfully concluded. It demonstrates April 15 larities during the handover of four-stroke that the TGX EfficientLine saves three Four new gensets from MAN Diesel & marine diesel engines produced by MAN liters of fuel per hundred kilometers. Turbo are installed on board the hospital Diesel & Turbo, the Executive Board of ship Africa Mercy. The new auxiliary MAN SE launches an investigation, to be July 31 engines reduce fuel consumption and carried out by the Compliance function CO2 emissions by approximately 20%. together with external consultants. MAN Truck & Bus opens a center of competence for hybrid drives in Munich. April 18 May 25 After the earthquake MAN donates The European Union’s antitrust authori¥30 million (approximately €250,000) to ties launch an investigation against major the SOS Children’s Village in Japan. manufacturers of engines (including marine and vehicle engines), of which MAN is one. The Company assures the authorities of its full cooperation in clarifying the matter. August 3 October 14 November 9 MAN Latin America presents its ecoMAN Diesel & Turbo opens its new dayVolkswagen AG is majority shareholder friendly city bus with natural gas/diesel care center in Augsburg. of MAN. system in Rio de Janeiro. October 17 November 21 September 7 MAN is again listed in the Carbon DisMAN Truck & Bus agrees to take over The MAN Management Board approves closure Leadership Index of German and the former Indian joint venture MAN the Climate Strategy of the MAN Group Austrian companies. With 73 points out FORCE TRUCKS Pvt. Ltd. including a concrete savings goal for CO2 of 100, the Company scores eight points emissions at MAN’s own production more than in the previous year. November 28 sites. MAN reaches an agreement with Abu October 17 Dhabi-based majority shareholder InterSeptember 8 Together with other Dax 30 companies, national Petroleum Investment Company MAN is included in the Dow Jones MAN commits to increasing the propor(IPIC): Ferrostaal is to become part of the Sustainability World Enlarged Index, tion of female managers. MPC Group. joining the best 20% of the 2,500 largest companies listed in the Dow Jones October 21 December 21 Global Total Stock Market. However, the Company misses out on inclusion in the MAN Latin America announces record Ten variants of the MAN Lion’s City bus Dow Jones Sustainability World and the investments in the areas of production are awarded the Blue Angel environDow Jones Sustainability Europe Index and research & development. mental seal along with a “protects enviby a single point. ronment and health” tag. September 15 The CRF Institute again names MAN Truck & Bus “Top Employer”. Highlights September 19 Events An employee volunteering program is launched at MAN. Lowlights MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Vision The best people, customer orientation, as well as superior technology and services will make us number one in commercial vehicles and power engineering. Our corporate strategy aims to create sustainable value k Focus on transportation and energy MAN focuses on market segments with sustainable, global growth opportunities in the fields of commercial vehicles and power engineering. k Profitable international growth MAN operates on all five continents and relies on a comprehensive internationalization strategy as the prerequisite for sustainable, profitable growth. k Customer orientation The MAN Group places its customers’ requirements and expectations at the center of its corporate strategy. Our products and the services that accompany them throughout their entire life cycle are nothing less than high quality. k Focus on after-sales business Service and after-sales concepts tailored to customers’ requirements are an essential element in the MAN strategy. k Technology leadership Technology leadership is a strategic success factor for MAN. We recognize future requirements early on and transform these into new, pioneering solutions. 1 Contents Foreword 2 About the Company: Engineering the Future – since 1758. 4 Priority Issue: Investing in Our Employees 6 Dialog: Sharing Responsibility 8 Shaping the Future Together: Involving Employees Worldwide 10 Diversity and Involvement: Keys to Tomorrow’s Success 12 HR Development: Understanding and Taking Responsibility 14 Strategy and Management: Corporate Responsibility at MAN 16 Our CR Strategy: Living Up To Our Responsibilities 18 MAN’s Climate Strategy: Mandatory Targets 20 Our CR Management: Responsibility in Practice 22 Dialog with Our Stakeholders: A Compass for the Future 25 CR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future 29 Our Projects: Worldwide Responsibility 32 Performance Report: CR Figures 34 About this Report 36 Corporate Governance 37 Integration 40 Economy 42 Environment 45 Employees 51 Corporate Citizenship 56 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index 58 The photos were taken at various MAN sites around the world. Each photo marks the beginIndependent Assurance Report 62 ning of a new chapter of the report. The title page shows vocational trainees at MAN Diesel GRI Level Check Certificate 64 & Turbo’s Augsburg site. We would like to thank all employees who contributed to the success of the photo shoots, whether in front Credits 65 of the camera or in a coordinating role. 2 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Foreword From left: Frank H. Lutz, Chief Financial Officer / Antonio Roberto Cortes, President of MAN Latin America / Dr. René Umlauft, Deputy Member of the Executive Board / Dr. Georg Pachta-Reyhofen, Chief Executive Officer / Jörg Schwitalla, Chief Human Resources Officer “It’s our employees that make our brand strong.” The Management Board of MAN SE 3 Dear Stakeholders, 2011 was a very successful year for MAN. Focus on employees reached the required level, we have We signed off our Climate Strategy, conThis report puts the spotlight on our nonetheless made substantial improveducted our first-ever worldwide employees. Our employees make our ments over the previous year. The employee survey, and published our brand strong through their innovation, report meets the requirements of the first audited corporate responsibility their creativity, and their willingness to GRI’s A+ application level and has been report in line with the Global Reporting take on personal responsibility, as well fully checked by a firm of auditors. The Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This has as the values they respect in their everyreport underpins our commitment to taken us a good deal closer to our day contact with one another. We are the ten principles of the UN Global declared objective of acting as a driver of now aiming to anchor our corporate Compact and represents our second future-proof structures and a new way culture marked by trust and responsiCommunication on Progress. of thinking. We missed being listed in bility even more firmly at an internathe Dow Jones Sustainability Index by tional level. Because only then will we In 2011 we conducted our second intera single point, which only spurs us on be able to attract and retain the best national stakeholder survey. According to continue our efforts in this direction. and brightest minds and empower and to the respondents, resource conservaIn the long term we aim to become one encourage our employees to show tion and climate change continue to of the most sustainable companies in initiative — in the workplace and in be the biggest challenges facing MAN. our industry. their social environment. The employee We have responded by formulating our volunteering project that we launched Climate Strategy in which we commit In 2011, Volkswagen AG became our in 2011 was one step in this direction. ourselves to achieving a clear reduction majority shareholder. As of December 31, In another move to position ourselves in CO2 emissions. To achieve a sustain2011, Volkswagen AG held 59.6% of MAN as a future-oriented and responsible able reduction in our global carbon SE’s shares that carry voting rights and employer, we made the commitment footprint we depend on the support of 57.3% of its share capital. This marks the last year to increase the proportion of our customers, our business partners, start of a new chapter in our 254-year female managers. our suppliers, and their employees, history. MAN will be engaging in this who use our products every day and new and close cooperation as a strong Heading for greater transparency thus have a major influence on resource brand and an innovative partner. We are MAN is committed to sustainable value consumption. leveraging synergies above all in purcreation. How we respond to this comchasing, although in the long term this mitment in the fields of the environHelp us play our part in achieving will be extended to production operament, our employees, and society is set sustainable development! We invite tions and research & development. We out openly and in detail in this report. you to get in touch with us — via the are also swapping experiences with It shows our employees, customers and questionnaire, by calling us, or e-mailVolkswagen on successful growth in business partners as well as analysts and ing CorporateResponsibility@man.eu. emerging markets. At the same time, we investors what progress we have made, We look forward to receiving your conare also making a major contribution what we have achieved, and what we structive input. to the success of the group as a whole have failed to achieve. Even if we are not with our leading technologies. yet able to report that all indicators have The Management Board of MAN SE Dr. Georg Pachta-Reyhofen Frank H. Lutz Jörg Schwitalla Dr. René Umlauft Antonio Roberto Cortes 4 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Engineering the Future – since 1758. MAN is one of Europe’s leading industrial players in the fields of transportation and energy. As a supplier of trucks, buses, diesel engines, turbomachinery, and turnkey power plants, MAN’s divisions hold leading positions in their markets. MAN has 31 production sites in 13 counChinese truck manufacturer Sinotruk On November 21, 2011, MAN Truck & Bus tries. The main focus of our activities is and the Swedish truckmaker Scania. agreed with its Indian joint venture on Central and Eastern Europe, Latin A full list of shareholdings appears partner FORCE Motors that it would America, and Asia. The BRIC states in in our 2011 Annual Report (, page 170 acquire all of the MAN FORCE TRUCKS particular (Brazil, Russia, India, and et seq.). Pvt. Ltd. joint venture. Prior to this, China) are important markets for us on MAN held 50% of the shares. Established account of their high growth rates. Commercial Vehicles: Munich-based in 2006, the joint venture manufactures With 52,542 employees around the MAN Truck & Bus is one of Europe’s heavy-duty MAN CLA trucks for the world, MAN generated revenue of leading manufacturers of commercial Indian market and for export to Asian around €16.5 billion in 2011 in addition vehicles. Its products range from trucks and African countries. to raising its operating profit by 43% with gross vehicle weights of 7.5 to 44 t year-on-year to €1,483 million. MAN SE for all applications, special-purpose MAN Latin America is Brazil’s largest is based in Munich and listed in the Dax vehicles with a gross train weight of up truck manufacturer with a market share equity index. to 250 tons, and buses and coaches of around 30%. In 2011, it was the counthrough diesel and gas engines for try’s market leader for trucks with a Technical progress, innovative capabilvehicles, boats, and energy generation. gross vehicle weight of over five tons ities, and far-sighted thinking have For commercial vehicle customers MAN for the ninth year in succession. assured MAN’s success for over 250 Finance International GmbH offers years. The Company has invariably financing solutions such as leasing emerged from crises stronger than models. MAN Truck & Bus also has its ever. Even in times that were marked by own international sales and service raw material shortages, MAN retained network. its capacity for change. Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy with its focus on sustainability is our response to the new MAN SE challenges that result from ecological and social developments. Business areas Commercial Vehicles Power Engineering Our business areas MAN’s core business is built around MAN MAN MAN Truck & Bus Latin America Diesel & Turbo Renk groundbreaking transportation and (76%) energy solutions that offer both ecoRevenue 2011 Revenue 2011 Revenue 2011 Divisions Revenue 2011 €9.0 bn €3.6 bn €3.6 bn logical and economic benefits and are €0.4 bn Headcount 20111 Headcount 20111 Headcount 20111 geared to the needs of our customers 34,239 1,915 14,039 Headcount 20111 and society. We concentrate on two 2,013 high-growth business areas: Commercial Vehicles with MAN Truck & Bus and Equity-method Sinotruk (25% + 1 share), Scania (17.4%2) investments MAN Latin America, and Power Engineering with MAN Diesel & Turbo and 1 Including subcontracted employees 2 Voting rights Renk. MAN holds investments in the / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 5 MAN production sites Number of employees (excluding subcontracted employees) Shareholder structure Volkswagen AG’s acquisition of a majorMAN Truck & Bus MAN Latin America MAN Diesel & Turbo Renk ity stake in MAN SE was completed on Austria Brazil China Germany November 9, 2011. As a result, VolkswaSteyr: 2,228 Resende: 1,809 Changzhou: 282 Augsburg: 940 gen held a total of 55.90% of MAN SE’s Vienna: 727 Mexiko Czech Repuplic Hanover: 320 voting rights and 53.71% of its share capGermany Querétaro: 106 Velká Bíteš: 191 Rheine: 430 ital. The free float for MAN’s common Munich: 7,819 Denmark Switzerland shares was 44.10%. Apart from its largest Nuremberg: 4,125 Copenhagen: 1,285 Winterthur: 95 single shareholder, Volkswagen AG, Plauen: 458 Frederikshavn: 471 MAN SE still has an international Salzgitter: 2,243 France investor base. In our most recent survey India Saint-Nazaire: 654 of our shareholder structure in winter Pithampur: 1,054 Germany 2011, we were able to identify over 94% of Poland Augsburg: 3,232 the holders of MAN’s common and preCracow: 428 Berlin: 457 ferred shares. The findings revealed that Poznań: 1,108 Deggendorf: 397 foreign institutional investors hold Starachowice: 1,756 Hamburg: 561 about 21% of the share capital and that South Africa Oberhausen: 1,753 these investors are predominantly based Olifantsfontein: 111 India in the United Kingdom and the United Pinetown: 154 Aurangabad: 258 States. As of December 31, 2011, VolksTurkey Switzerland wagen AG held 59.6% of MAN SE’s shares Ankara: 1,601 Zurich: 869 that carry voting rights and 57.3% of its As of December 31, 2011 share capital. MAN enables its shareMAN Truck & Bus holds a minority leading manufacturers of turbomaholders to participate in the Company’s interest of 49% in Munich-based Rheinchinery. The company develops twosuccess by distributing an appropriate metall MAN Military Vehicles GmbH. At and four-stroke diesel engines, which share of its profits, bearing in mind the the end of 2011, MAN and Rheinmetall are manufactured in its own production economic environment. MAN generally implemented the second step in their facilities or built by licensees. Its range aims to distribute between 30 and 60% joint venture agreement. This involved of products also includes gas and steam of net income. At €2.30, the dividend for the integration of the two production turbines, compressors, turbochargers, 2011 is therefore higher than that for facilities in Kassel (Rheinmetall) and controllable pitch propellers, locomo2010. Vienna (MAN) into the Rheinmetall MAN tive engines, and gas engines, as well as Military Vehicles (RMMV) joint venture. chemical reactors. MAN Diesel & Turbo Shareholder structure* As of December 2011 also offers complete marine propulsion MAN is a strategic investor in Sinotruk systems, turbomachinery for the oil, Others 7% Volkswagen AG German insti54% Ltd., Hong Kong, China, holding a stake gas, and processing industries, and tutional shareof 25% plus one share in the truckmaker. turnkey power plants. Under the MAN holders 7% Under the new SITRAK brand, the two PrimeServ brand, after-sales services are Private investors 11% companies will manufacture trucks delivered to customers around the Foreign institutional designed to meet the requirements of world. shareholders 21% emerging markets in Asia and Africa. *Basis: 140,974,350 common shares and 6,065,650 preferred shares MAN holds a majority stake of 76% in Source: IPREO Power Engineering: Augsburg-based Augsburg-based Renk AG, a globally MAN Diesel & Turbo is one of the renowned manufacturer of high qualFurther information on the Internet world’s leading provider of large-bore ity special gear units, propulsion comMAN SE www.man.eu diesel engines for marine and stationponents, and testing systems. MAN Truck & Bus www.mantruckandbus.com ary applications and one of the three MAN Latin America www.man-la.com MAN Diesel & Turbo www.mandieselturbo.com Renk www.renk.biz 6 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Priority Issue: Investing in Our Employees 7 MAN Diesel & Turbo, Copenhagen, Denmark “At MAN, when I have an idea I can act on it.” Dorthe Marie Sveistrup Jacobsen (44), a mechanical engineer, has been with MAN Diesel & Turbo in Copenhagen for 13 years. She works in R&D, where she is responsible for fuels and lubricants. 8 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Dialog: Sharing Responsibility What part does codetermination have to play; what does the internationalization of our business mean for employer and employees; and what challenges do we need to master together? These were the topics on the agenda when Jürgen Dorn, Chairman of the MAN SE Group Works Council met with Jörg Schwitalla, Chief Human Resources Officer of MAN SE. J. Dorn: I’m convinced that codetermiagreement and say: that’s how we’re ple like working for MAN and are proud nation — employee participation in corgoing to tackle this! We always approach of their company. And that leads to a porate management through the works our discussions with the attitude that, strong sense of belonging. At MAN council and supervisory board — is a at the end of the day, a meaningful conTruck & Bus’s Munich site, for example, key asset and helps safeguard the future cept must emerge for the Company. we have employees from 69 different of our company. We’ve seen that to be That’s one of the traditional strengths countries who all see themselves as part the case, particularly in times of crisis. of MAN and an important aspect of livof a single team working towards a Because codetermination provides a ing our responsibilities. shared goal. solid foundation that we can build on together to implement robust solutions. J. Dorn: That’s also reflected, for examJ. Schwitalla: That’s why I think it’s ple, in the many different health and important to broaden the base of these J. Schwitalla: Yes, it’s important for both safety measures which we see as an intesuccessful relations as the internationparties to know they are dealing with a gral part of our employee-driven culalization of MAN goes forward. The strong partner with a clear and resilient ture. It’s no coincidence that our appointment of two employee repreposition. This lets us come to a rapid employee turnover is so low. Our peosentatives from Austria and Poland to / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 9 Dialog: Sharing Responsibility the Supervisory Board in the course of theless, we still have a lot of convincing Resolving that issue is part of our corthe change of legal form to an SE — a to do when it comes to globalization. porate responsibility. company under European law — is just one example. Because the broader the J. Dorn: And that’s a challenge, because J. Dorn: On the labor side, that’s somespectrum of countries represented in we have to win the trust of more than thing we actively support through joint the executive bodies of the company, 50,000 employees worldwide. Together works agreements on equal opportunithe better we can understand what is we have to convince them that they are ties and on combining a career and famgoing on “out there.” working for a company that is forwardily. And we also get involved personally, looking and fair. So the recently consuch as through employee volunteerJ. Dorn: At the same time this helps give cluded agreement on job security for ing in cooperation with SOS Children’s our employees at sites outside Germany the Munich site, which will serve as a Villages. I was glad to lead by example a firmer sense of inclusion. In addition benchmark for other locations, was very and join you in becoming a patron of to representatives from eleven EU counimportant to me for this reason. Of this initiative. And we also agree on the tries, our European SE Works Council course there is still room for improveissue of female managers: we want meetings are also attended by colment in wages, in Germany and elsemore women in management roles but leagues from Switzerland and Turkey as where. without introducing a quota. One of the guests. We need to ensure that biggest challenges we’re now facing, to employee rights benefit from globalJ. Schwitalla: But wherever we operate, my mind, is how to continue employization and we also have to set uniform our wages reflect market standards and ing older people suitably and efficiently. standards. The International Framework performance and are well above the Agreement that MAN concluded with average. There is no such thing as wage J. Schwitalla: This is definitely more difthe International Metalworkers’ Federexploitation at MAN, even if, underficult with employees who have been ation (IMF) will help us do just that. standably, employees in Brazil or India working shifts for 40 years than it is with earn less than in Germany. The wage employees who have spent 40 years J. Schwitalla: We now all know that opencomponents are the same everywhere. working in an office. We are already doing ing production plants in Poland, Brazil, Also, we apply the same standards a lot in the area of health in terms of or India does not mean reducing our worldwide in our recruiting and other comprehensive preventive care and output in Germany by a single truck. On HR processes. When it comes to comergonomic workplaces. One key task is to the contrary, we benefit from our plants parable provisions for retirement and introduce new approaches to foster lifein these countries by providing them healthcare, there is still some room for long learning, but I’m sure that together with technology from Germany. Neverimprovement in quite a few countries. we’ll find the right answers here, too. 10 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Shaping the Future Together: Involving Employees Worldwide Our people make MAN what it is and represent our most important potential. Their skills, their creativity, and their motivation determine our future success. We involve our employees, we talk and listen to them, and we act on their feedback. Living the MAN values around the globe, we work together to shape change within our organization. Complex challenges diversity reflects the societies in which by open communication. This ensures MAN’s worldwide activities present us we work, it can also present us with chalthat we recognize potential for improvewith complex global challenges. Many lenges. At the same time, the effects of ment and act on it together. can only be mastered using targeted HR demographic change are also making development initiatives, while others themselves felt. The number of workFirst global employee survey must be directly addressed by HR maning-age individuals in Europe will In May 2011, MAN conducted the first agement. As the bar is set increasingly decrease by 23% in the next 40 years, a worldwide employee survey, which at high for companies, new demands are development that is already contributthe time covered around 49,000 people also placed on the workforce in terms ing to a shortage of qualified job appli— a mammoth undertaking. The quesof the necessary skill-sets. Innovation cants in Germany, for example — while tionnaire, consisting of 62 questions, cycles are growing shorter, for example, Latin America will see a 26% increase. was translated into 23 languages and requiring employees to process new made available online and in hard information rapidly and make decisions A Group-wide HR strategy is required to copy. Around 80% of our employees in quickly. Effectively, the working envitackle these issues and develop solu34 countries chose to take part. We welronment of each individual — whether tions. In light of growing competitive comed this high participation rate as in management, customer service, propressure, it is important to attract and evidence of our workforce’s dedication duction, or administration — is subject retain the best and brightest employees and strong identification with MAN. to constant change. worldwide — and ensure they always have the necessary skills to respond to Thanks to the high participation rate, In a globally active company such as new challenges. An open, motivational, the results provide a substantive basis ours, a diverse group of people work inclusive corporate culture is an imporfor identifying MAN’s strengths and together under the same roof — their tant factor here. Shared values and where there is room for improvement. ethnicity, religious beliefs, sexual oriactive responsibility create a stable The analysis was broken down in seventation, and age differ. Although this foundation for teamwork, underpinned eral different ways, yielding results for the Group as a whole, for the subgroups, Participation in employee survey by subgroup and for individual divisions and departments. Anonymity and data protection MAN Group 80% were given the highest priority. In every MAN SE 85% team where at least five people MAN Truck & Bus 81% responded to the survey, the manager MAN Latin America 91% received an evaluation report for their MAN Diesel & Turbo 78% team. The overall findings were pubRenk 77% lished on the Group intranet. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 11 Shaping the Future Together: Involving Employees Worldwide Overview of results Chain of improvements Across the Group, the greatest number of employees agreed with the following Based on the Group-wide results, the MAN Management Board identified a “Knowing items, ranking them highest: series of top aims for the entire Comwhere we Clarity in terms of what is expected pany. They are central to MAN’s continof employees (79%) ued progress and to boosting employee need to Respectful interaction between satisfaction. All MAN companies also act in the employees and direct superiors defined additional topics that will facilHubert Altschäffl (77%) itate specific improvements, while manHead of Compensation & Benefits, future.” Working together as a team (75%) agers were also asked to analyze the MAN SE Identification with MAN as an evaluation reports of their teams. employer (66%) Together with their employees, they disHaving joined the MAN Truck & Bus Human cussed their strengths and where there Resources department straight after his The following items received the lowis room for improvement and acting on degree, today Hubert Altschäffl is Head of est scores: the findings. Compensation & Benefits at MAN SE. Why Recognition and rewarding of did he choose MAN as an employer eleven performance (26%) Around the globe numerous team workyears ago? “At MAN I was able to take on Opportunities for personal develshops have already been held to discuss responsibility from an early stage, have opment (34%) the results of the employee survey, always had interesting work to do, and am Open and honest communication ensuring that improvements are compart of a great team.” Altschäffl considers (35%) municated from the bottom up as well. it important to bring people together and to Making use of customer feedback “The survey offers us a genuine oppornetwork. He knows from experience that (41%) tunity to continue improving in key this is especially important when working areas at MAN. However, we need every at international level. “The name of the Jörg Schwitalla, Chief Human Resources single employee to get involved,” says game is maintaining contacts and promotOfficer of MAN, was pleased with the Jörg Schwitalla. The manager of each ing teamwork. Face-to-face meetings, like high participation and the positive culteam will present the measures identithe HR Summit, are an essential part of ture of teamwork, but also recognized fied in the team workshop to their this.” Altschäffl believes the employee surthat the survey revealed a number of immediate superior, who will in turn vey was a highlight of the past year. “Our weaknesses. “In the future, we must inform their boss of all proposals within goal was to identify where we need to act bring more honesty and openness into their sphere of responsibility. This in the future — and to find it out from the our communication. And we need to ensures that all activities are recorded, people who are directly involved.” MAN become more customer-centric in our bundled, and communicated all the way wants its employees to enjoy coming to activities.” to the Management Board. Managers work and feel proud of the company. “When will regularly review the implementathey tell that to their friends, it is the best tion of the measures and report to their possible advertisement for us as an Top aims supervisors, resulting in an overview of employer,” he says. all improvements across the Group. To communicate openly and honestly A summary of all the measures defined To become more customerin the team workshops was presented focused in our activities to 484 managers from 44 nations at To practice MAN’s leadership the MAN Summit in November 2011. culture more visibly The next Group-wide survey, planned for 2013, will show how the employees assess the effectiveness of these measures. 12 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Diversity and Involvement: Keys to Tomorrow’s Success Responsibility for our employees is deeply rooted in MAN’s corporate culture. We are mindful of the diversity of our workforce and attach great value to international networking. This strengthens the foundation of respect that enables us to work together successfully around the world. A culture of cooperation ing an Executive Board and a SuperviLiving shared values Codetermination has a long tradition in sory Board, of which half the members As MAN becomes increasingly internaGermany. At MAN, one of the oldest are representatives of the workforce. The tional, national laws and regulations can German industrial firms, employee SE Works Council comprising 26 no longer serve as the only guidelines involvement, solidarity among coworkemployee representatives from all for our activities. It is important to ers, numerous supplementary benefits, MAN’s European sites regularly meets establish and reinforce a global culture and works agreements have all left a sigwith the Executive Board to discuss curof cooperation that also respects divernificant mark on the corporate culture. rent issues. In addition to the eleven EU sity within the Company. As we stipulate Through their elected representatives countries, the workforces of Turkey and in MAN’s Corporate Responsibility on the works councils, employees parSwitzerland are represented on the Strategy, our shared values and active ticipate in dialog with the Executive European work councils as guests. We responsibility for our employees are at Board and play a role in shaping their see room for increased employee parthe heart of our culture — and give it own working environment. This culture ticipation at our major sites outside Gerexpression. While not every country can of cooperation was maintained by MAN many in Brazil, Russia, India, and China. be measured by the same yardstick, we after its change of legal form to a SociComparable forms of codetermination nevertheless aim to maintain a certain etas Europaea (SE), a stock corporation are not yet in place in these countries, parity in our treatment of our employees under European law, and appointed two so we give priority to our corporate culand their rights, remuneration, and other employee representatives from Austria ture of involvement, even when this is benefits. Today our employee reward and Poland to the Supervisory Board. not required by local law or tradition. packages around the world are already MAN has a two-tier structure comprismade up of comparable components, with provisions for country-specific differences such as pension systems. MAN again named outstanding employer Respect as a basis for Once again, MAN Truck & Bus has been named Top Automotive internationalism Employer of 2011/12. The CRF Institute gave the company high Treating other cultures, religions, and marks in the categories of primary benefits, innovation manlifestyles with respect is an important agement, secondary benefits and work-life balance, and aspect of working in international teams corporate culture. and is therefore essential to market success. The more closely the workforce For the second time in a row, MAN Latin America was honored reflects the diversity of the general popas a Great Place to Work by the Great Place to Work Institute ulation, the better a company can underof Brazil. This ranking also takes account of employee ratings stand the challenges and opportunities for trustworthiness, respect, fairness, pride, and emphasis of the markets and the specific needs of on teamwork. its customers and society at large. In 2010, MAN also became a signatory to / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 13 Diversity and Involvement: Keys to Tomorrow’s Success the UN Global Compact, demonstrating which our targets are met, and the iniits commitment to diversity — respecting and granting opportunities to tiatives we have planned and/or carried out. The promotion of women is also “Cooperation employees regardless of age, sex, relione objective of MAN’s management is all in gion, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. recruitment policy. Introduced in November 2010, this emphasizes the the mix” Diversity and exchanges at MAN importance of diversity and prescribes The upper levels of management at that due consideration be given to Nina Gutzeit Head of MAN are not as diverse as we would female candidates. At 7.3%, the proporCommunications wish. 69% of our managers come from tion of female managers is still low. MAN Truck & Bus Germany (as of March 31, 2011; not Mentoring and coaching programs are including Renk). Overall, our managers in place to help increase the proportion Nina Gutzeit got her start at MAN Truck & come from 36 different nations. When of women in management roles to Bus in 1998 as a freelancer in Marketing. filling management positions at our 12% by 2014, a figure that reflects the She has a degree in business and cultural sites outside Germany, we give preferpercentage of women in our workforce studies and held several different positions ence to local talent whenever possible. in 2010. with the company before becoming its Our HR development programs Spokeswoman and Head of Communicastrengthen intercultural underThe opening of a company daycare faciltions. Within a very short time, MAN standing and promote employee ity at MAN Diesel & Turbo in Augsburg, assigned her a great deal of responsibility. exchanges between our sites. 207 Germany, marked one important step “It has to do with trust,” says Gutzeit — employees are currently working as towards enabling a better balance because having a lot of responsibility goes expatriates on international assignbetween career and family. The new hand in hand with needing creative space to ments in other countries. Our vocacenter was opened in October 2011 by develop or rework ideas. Gutzeit, 41, calls tional training programs also have Christine Haderthauer, Bavarian Minisfor such opportunities to be granted to an international focus: starting in ter for Social Affairs. It was modeled on women and men alike. However, she does their third year, vocational trainees at MAN Truck & Bus’s daycare center in not believe a quota for women is necessary. MAN Diesel & Turbo receive English Munich, which was opened in 2009 and “Women and men often have different language instruction. Foreign assignhas since been making a tangible constrengths that complement each other — ments at MAN plants in other countries tribution to the work-life balance of our regardless of the level; it’s the mix that are designed to strengthen their lanemployees. Now the Augsburg facility counts.” The right balance can also be guage and intercultural skills. In 2011, also offers daycare for 76 children, achieved through voluntary targets that vocational trainees had the opportunity directly opposite the company grounds companies set themselves. Nina Gutzeit to gain work experience in China for the — with two-thirds of the places reserved considers it important to build on the measfirst time — at the MAN Diesel & Turbo for children of MAN employees. Flexiures that MAN has already put in place. Service Center in Shanghai. ble hours are among the advantages the “New parents in particular would profit from center offers, with care provided from a more flexible working environment — for More women in 6:45 a.m. to 7 p.m. every working day, instance more opportunities for job sharmanagement positions including school vacations. ing, in which two women could each work October 2011 saw MAN underscore its part-time in the same management posigoal of significantly increasing its pertion, or allowing people to work from home,” centage of female managers by signing says Gutzeit. After all, striking a better bala declaration on women in manageance between a career and family life not ment positions together with other Dax only benefits women, but men as well. 30 corporations. In becoming a signatory, we committed ourselves to creating more transparency about opportunities for women at MAN, the degree to 14 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report HR Development: Understanding and Taking Responsibility MAN’s HR development activities are geared to encouraging and equipping our employees to exercise responsible behavior and show initiative. In this way, we empower the people who work for us to make a decisive contribution to the Company’s success. What sets MAN apart Schwitalla makes a point of discussing from the almost 50 attendees — who MAN is known for giving employees corporate responsibility and the conincluded representatives of sites in Ausresponsibility at an early stage. We tribution individuals can make — tria, Poland, and Turkey — inspired encourage them to take on new chalwhether with employees and managers, MAN Truck & Bus to develop a dedilenges and grow with the job. Our interin executive bodies and committees, or cated CR training program for managers national working environment has also at events hosted by the MAN Executive and launch it in 2012. shaped our reputation as an employer. Academy. As one of the leading European indusEmployee volunteering trial corporations we have a presence in In October 2011, MAN Truck & Bus MAN employees are invited to actively 36 countries, with 22,355 (43%) of our organized its first meeting on the topic participate in the Company’s commu52,542 employees working outside of of responsibility, inviting all managers nity service initiatives. With this objecGermany. Our Group-wide job rotation who work in environmental protection, tive in mind, we have launched an program allows employees to gain expeenergy management, and occupational employee volunteering program in rience in different divisions and locahealth and safety. This brought a varicooperation with our partner of many tions. For example, an engineer could ety of perspectives to the discussion of years, SOS Children’s Villages. start his career with MAN Truck & Bus in the goals outlined in the CR strategy; Germany and later move to MAN Diesel participants were also able to develop The program places a spotlight on top& Turbo in Denmark or MAN Latin concrete applications for their spheres ics that are important to us and builds America in Brazil. of responsibility. The positive feedback bridges to the community. MAN has We need a first-class team to keep us at the head of the pack in the transportation and energy sectors. We offer seminars, soft-skills training courses, one-on-one coaching, and other development programs to help our employees grow their social and professional skill sets. We target the development of our junior managers and this helps us to fill most management openings in house. Raising awareness of responsibility MAN Chief Human Resources Officer Jörg Schwitalla is not only responsible for HR, but for corporate responsibility Jörg Schwitalla and Jürgen Dorn at the kick-off event for the employee volunteering program at the daycare facility of the SOS Vocational Training Center in Nuremberg. (CR) as well. As our ambassador for CR, / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 15 HR Development: Understanding and Taking Responsibility “It only took two clicks to sign up!” Georg Grüneißl Graduate Trainee Engineering, MAN Truck & Bus Georg Grüneißl started as a graduate trainee at MAN Truck & Bus immediately after completing his degree in mechanical engineering at Munich’s Technical University. ParJörg Schwitalla, Chief Human Resources Officer of MAN SE, looks through picture books with the ticipants in the trainee program learn about children at the daycare facility. the MAN value chain by working in a series of different positions. “At university everyengaged with SOS Children’s Villages on of the young people already have chilthing was very abstract, but at MAN I was numerous occasions. For example, we dren of their own, the vocational trainable to see how trucks and buses were support an SOS Children’s Villages vocaing center also has a daycare facility. developed and how people were working tional training program in Ethiopia on resource-efficient innovations,” says and contribute to disaster relief efforts At the start of the pilot project, MAN Grüneißl. During job assignments in like those following the Japan earthinvited its employees to register on the Sweden and Brazil, Grüneißl, 27, learned quake in March 2011 (, page 56). Now betterplace.org Internet platform. Here what it means to work with foreign we are encouraging our employees to they can sign up as helpers for one of colleagues in a different country. “In get involved as well, experiencing our four projects: renovating the student Resende, I was entrusted with a big job from commitment to social responsibility for living quarters, working on the grounds day one — I was responsible for setting up themselves and bringing it to life. of the daycare facility, assisting with job the software endurance test that was used application training, or reading aloud. to test prototypes.” Back in Germany, he Successful pilot project in Nuremberg Honorary patrons Jörg Schwitalla and learned about the MAN employee volunSince October 2011 MAN employees Jürgen Dorn (Chairman of the MAN SE teering program. “Getting involved in comhave had the opportunity to volunteer Group Works Council) kicked off the munity service wasn’t difficult at all — at the SOS Vocational Training Center volunteering project personally with it only took two clicks to sign up on in Nuremberg and — with the permisa storytime hour at the daycare center. betterplace.org.” Together with seven other sion of their superior — to use a half-day After an overwhelming positive response, trainees, Georg Grüneißl volunteered for of work to do so. At present the center is we have expanded the Nuremberg pilot a day at the “Rennmäuse” daycare center providing support to almost 800 disproject. In 2012 we will be launching in Nuremberg. “We raked leaves and made advantaged young people as they start similar projects with SOS Children’s some repairs,” he explains. “The kids even their working lives. In addition to remeVillages in additional locations in drew pictures for us.” Georg Grüneißl has dial education they can take advantage Germany. been working as a test engineer at MAN of vocational training in almost 20 difTruck & Bus in Munich since March 2012. ferent professions, ranging from Further information on the Internet machine operator to cook. Since some www.betterplace.org 16 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and Management: Corporate Responsibility at MAN 17 MAN Latin America, Resende, Brazil “I work for the market leader and a part in that success is down to me.” Over the past seven years, Anderson Ribeiro Crispim (32) has worked in different positions on the assembly line at MAN Latin America in Resende. In 2012 he’s starting a degree program in mechanical engineering. 18 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our CR Strategy: Living Up to Our Responsibilities MAN’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy is its response to global challenges and the associated megatrends — a response closely linked to our corporate strategy. Our initiatives here find concrete expression in four fields of action. Rooted in values We aim to make a first-class contribution to the fields of transportation and energy with our products and to offer our customers innovative solutions with which to meet current and future challenges. This is why we are actively confronting the consequences of climate change, globalization, and urbanization — and addressing their impacts on market needs. Four MAN corporate values guide us in everything we do. They are the foundation for our responsibility, shaping not only our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, but also our CR Roadmap and diaMAN published its Corporate Responsibility Strategy in 2010 log with our stakeholders. MAN principles of Stakeholder dialog Reliable — We fulfill expectations and corporate responsibility Intensive dialog with all of our stakekeep our promises. As we anchor corporate responsibility holder groups ensures that we underin all areas and at all levels of MAN, we stand their expectations and enables Innovative — We create new solutions are guided by the following principles. the continuous development of our CR through fresh, creative, and expert strategy and programs. thinking. Employee awareness Our employees live corporate responsiCR as an element of Dynamic — We identify potential and bility in their day-to-day work and act corporate strategy we are flexible and problem-solving. as CR ambassadors. MAN’s CR strategy, finalized in 2010, outlines our responsibility for the enviOpen — We work together closely Product responsibility ronment, our employees, and the comwithin the Group and swap new ideas Given the nature of our product and munity. Ongoing activities are bundled and information. This openness is a key service portfolio we have a special in the CR strategy and taken forward. prerequisite for dynamic action. responsibility towards people and the After the strategy was published in our environment. Environmental care and 2010 CR Report, we received a substansafety form integral parts of our CR tial positive response to these themes strategy and programs. from our stakeholders, who include employees, investors, customers, and business partners, as well as the communities in which our sites are located. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 19 Our CR Strategy: Living Up to Our Responsibilities Corporate responsibility is part of oriented practices also make good greater resource efficiency and safety, MAN’s corporate strategy; together with economic sense, and has defined four we enable the realization of sustainable our focus on profitable international fields of action. transportation concepts and futuregrowth in the Commercial Vehicles and proof energy supplies. Power Engineering business areas, it is Integration: We at MAN believe that aimed at achieving technology leaderan integrated approach is the key to People: At MAN we take our responsiship, customer orientation, and sussuccess when it comes to fully living up bility for all our employees worldwide tainable value creation. Especially in to our responsibility within the Comseriously. Together, demographic change this last area, the MAN CR strategy has pany and in our business environment and our internationalization are drivan important role to play — shaping on a daily basis. ing the activities which position us as business processes to be responsible an attractive employer worldwide, capaand assessing ecological and societal Economy: MAN’s success is founded ble of recruiting and retaining the best opportunities and risks in dialog with on sustainable value creation. This is minds. our stakeholders. documented by our history and will continue to guide us in the future. OperSystematic implementation of our CR The CR fields of action ating in all key regions and product strategy requires clear objectives, which MAN is committed to facing global chalsegments in our industry worldwide we have set for all four fields of action lenges and addressing key megatrends ensures MAN’s lasting success and in the CR program. They are accompasuch as climate protection and urbancreates added value for all our stakenied by measures and specific deadlines ization. We are responding with energyholders. (, page 29 et seq.). At the annual MAN efficient innovations and new techSummit in November 2011, the Mannologies for hybrid buses, wind Environment: Climate change, globalagement Board reported on how well turbines, clean marine engines, and ization, and urbanization are core drivthe targets are being reached and introsolar energy plants, to name just a ers of MAN’s range of products and servduced the newly drawn up Climate few. MAN is certain that such futureices. By developing solutions that offer Strategy. MAN’s CR Strategy Corporate Citizenship Integration Economy Integration of corporate responsibility Risk management into corporate and business strategies Innovation management as well as operating processes Supplier management Integration into vocational training and continuous professional development Systematic stakeholder dialog and open communication Environment People Climate strategy with clear Employer branding and objectives talent management Resource-efficient product and Promoting diversity service portfolio Occupational health and Resource efficiency in production safety management and administration Corporate Governance 20 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report MAN’s Climate Strategy: Mandatory Targets Climate change is one of the most important global challenges faced by governments, businesses, and society. And anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions — those generated by human activities — are among the primary causes. Today the transportation sector is responsible for approximately 15% of global CO2 emissions, a figure that is expected to reach 22% by 2020. By now, many nations have set mandaments — and resource efficiency has September 2011 and presented to MAN tory climate protection targets. At the long since become a competitive factor. Group managers at the MAN Summit. It same time, many European Union now forms part of the MAN CR strategy member states are applying increasMAN is aiming to make a significant conand supports the attainment of our ingly stringent Euro emissions stantribution to cutting CO2 emissions while corporate goals. dards for trucks and buses, while the using the associated business opportuUnited Nations has issued Tier III nities to its advantage. With this in mind, Cornerstones of our Climate Strategy standards for marine engines. Our CO2we commissioned an internal team of As a globally active corporation in the efficient product and service portfolio experts to draw up a climate strategy. fields of transportation and energy, facilitates compliance with climate proThe resultant strategy was approved by MAN bears responsibility for its protection targets and regulatory requirethe Management Board of MAN SE in duction processes and for its products. MAN’s Climate Strategy Acknowledge responsibility Dilemma and approach The transportation and energy The interaction between our sectors are contributing to own product development, our climate change to an eversuppliers, legislation, and our greater extent. customers and their customers is complex. MAN’s Climate Strategy Climate change is among the greatest challenges to humanity. MAN is fully aware of and acknowledges its responsibility to contribute to reducing the global carbon footprint of the transportation and energy sector. MAN has set itself the target of reducing its own CO2 emissions by 25% by 2020. (baseline: 2008). Vision By 2020, our aim is to be Commitment recognized as one of the Our target: reduce our own CO2 industry players to have dealt emissions by 25% by 2020 with the challenges of climate (baseline: 2008). change the best. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 21 MAN’s Climate Strategy: Mandatory Targets Core initiatives for Climate Strategy implementation 1. 25% reduction in CO2 emissions at We will reduce CO2 emissions at MAN sites by improving energy efficiency, using renewable energy sources MAN sites by 2020 (baseline: 2008) (solar, wind, geothermal), generating energy using combined heat and power (CHP) plants, and through integrated energy-management technology and organization. 2. Consistently Efficient product portfolio We position ourselves in the commercial vehicles and power engineering sectors with sustainable products and services. 3. Customer involvement and dialog We involve our customers and talk to them about ways to reduce the global carbon footprint. After all, many of our customers have already set themselves ambitious targets for cutting CO2 emissions. 4. Potential for reducing CO2 emissions To identify potential for reductions, we measure CO2 emissions along the entire product life cycle. along the product life cycle 5. Climate strategy management We manage the implementation of our Climate Strategy and have defined KPIs that are regularly measured and published. Sites: MAN has 31 production sites in 13 duction halls. In 2012 we will analyze optimizing the way in which they use countries. These facilities consume raw the feasibility of using our own MAN our products, our customers can cut fuel materials and electricity and use combined heat and power (CHP) plants consumption even further, a process we resources to generate energy, which to generate electricity at the sites with support by offering training courses for causes CO2 emissions. the highest energy consumption levels. professional drivers and operators of In the coming years we will also inveslarge-bore diesel engines. Reducing carProducts: MAN develops products and tigate the potential for using CHP at all bon dioxide emissions during the servservices for the transportation of pasour sites. In addition, we will step up our ice life of our products goes hand in hand sengers and goods, as well as for energy efforts to use renewable energies such with cutting the total cost of ownership generation. These are high-growth secas geothermal, biomass, wind, and solar for our customers. tors, which implies rising CO2 emissions. energy at all our sites. This will allow us to cut our CO2 emissions and keep our Lowering the CO2 emissions of our prodWe can make an important contribution energy costs from rising, sharpening ucts by 20% or more is one of MAN’s to climate protection, not only at our our competitive edge. largest undertakings, one in which we sites, but through our products and must take due account not only of the services as well. MAN takes this responOur products regulatory environment but also of the sibility seriously. As a first step, we In order to reduce the carbon footprint of pressures of international competition. have set ourselves the goal of cutting our products, we analyze the product life However, we believe this is a realistic goal CO2 emissions at MAN sites by 25% cycle — from the procurement of raw and we will be doing our utmost to meet (baseline: 2008) by 2020 — a target we materials to recycling — to determine at this challenge — not least by making our intend to meet by implementing the core what stage they produce the most CO2 Climate Strategy an integral part of our initiatives developed by our Climate emissions. As we found in the fourth core managers’ annual performance reviews Expert Team and launched in 2011. initiative of our Climate Strategy, up to and defining a specific reduction target 90% and more of emissions are generfor our products in 2013. Our sites ated during the service life of the prodOur climate goal for our production ucts. This means that the most effective sites will be met by making them more way for us to cut CO2 emissions is by energy efficient and improving the using energy-efficient technologies in energy-management technology and our products. This objective is part of our organization in our buildings and prosecond and third core initiatives. By 22 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our CR Management: Responsibility in Practice A CR strategy can only succeed when everyone in the company puts its principles into practice. MAN has integrated CR elements into its current management systems, reworked Group-wide policies, and launched new initiatives. Responsible management in our business practices. The principles our Compliance Helpdesk answers our At MAN, corporate governance means fall under the headings of human rights, employees’ questions on our Code of responsible, transparent management labor rights, environmental protection, Conduct, our compliance policies, and and supervision of the Company. Comand anticorruption. This CR report also related issues. Our Internet whistlepliance with rules and regulations is represents our second UN Global Comblower portal “Speak up!” went live in only one relevant aspect of corporate pact Communication on Progress. February 2011. It allows MAN employgovernance. Sustainable value creation ees and business partners to report that takes account of the legitimate Integrity and compliance compliance violations at any time — interests of the different stakeholders is MAN does not tolerate illegal or irreguanonymously if desired. of primary importance here. lar conduct. We offer our employees and business partners relevant information To ensure conformity with all applicaIn its approach to corporate governance and guidance on compliance. The MAN ble laws, internal policies, and internaand reporting, MAN complies with the Code of Conduct outlines standards of tionally recognized standards of conrecommendations of the German Corbehavior that are binding for all our duct, the subgroups have also named porate Governance Code (, 2011 Annual employees in their daily work. Our poli“compliance champions” to suppleReport, page 11 et seq., page 16 et seq., page cies on handling gifts, invitations, and ment the work of the Compliance func164). The Code requires the Executive donations and sponsoring also provide tion. These are managers who, in addiBoard and the Supervisory Board to concrete instructions for handling tion to their regular responsibilities, ensure the continued existence of the ambiguous situations. Our Code of Conassist the subgroup’s compliance officompany and the sustained creation of duct for suppliers and business partners cer and compliance manager in implevalue in accordance with the principles regulates relationships with our associmenting the compliance program. of the social market economy. This ates and requires them to comply with means the Executive Board must manbasic principles of corporate responsiViolations of our compliance policies age the company in a far-sighted manbility, transparency, fairness, and data are examined on a case-by-case basis ner, accepting monitoring by and advice protection. either centrally by employees from the from the Supervisory Board. The ExecCase Management department or at utive Board must consult the SuperviAt the beginning of 2010, we introduced local level by the responsible team at sory Board on important decisions, has a compliance program that applies the relevant subgroup. a duty to inform the Supervisory Board across the Group. It assists us in comat regular intervals, and can call an ad bating corruption as well as preventing The Disciplinary Sanction Committee is hoc meeting of the Supervisory Board violations in the areas of antitrust law the body responsible for imposing interto discuss important decisions. and data protection (prevent), identifynal sanctions in the event of compliance ing non-compliance early (detect), and violations. In individual cases, the govOn December 6, 2010, MAN became a reacting quickly, effectively, and conernmental investigating authorities in signatory to the United Nations Global sistently (respond). Since mid-2010 we charge are informed of violations. The Compact. We thereby committed ourhave been holding classroom training findings of misconduct investigations selves to complying with and actively courses on compliance for our employ— as well as the findings of the annual supporting the Compact’s ten principles ees worldwide. Also launched in 2010, compliance risk assessment — are used / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 23 Our CR Management: Responsibility in Practice by the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Each year, the CR Excellence Team preEnvironmental and occupational and his team to improve our complipares the data for CR reporting and safety management ance program and introduce selective monitors the implementation of the CR At MAN environmental management is compliance measures. The CCO reports strategy. The team met six times in 2011. part of our integrated management systo the Executive Board as well as to the One milestone was the finalization of tem, which covers environmental Audit Committee of the Supervisory the Climate Strategy by the Climate protection, occupational safety, fire Board. The Company is now organized Expert Team in addition to preparation safety, hazard abatement, quality manin such a way that the incidents of the of the 2010 CR Report. agement, and information security past can be avoided. management. Regular external audits Our values and MAN’s CR principles are held at all production sites to verify MAN has been a corporate member of (, page 18) aim to interpret corporate the effectiveness of this management Transparency International, an interresponsibility as an ongoing managesystem. Internal audits are used to idennational organization aimed at comment process, facilitate its implementify any need for improvement, which bating corruption, since 2010. tation across the Company, and ensure we then take measures to address. Our regular progress reports. In their role as goal is to have all sites certified under CR organization and coordination CR ambassadors within the Company, the ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (enviJörg Schwitalla, Chief Human Resources all members of the CR Excellence Team ronmental protection) and OHSAS Officer of MAN SE, is ultimately responare committed to furthering these 18001 (health and occupational safety) sible for CR at MAN. The Management principles. standards by 2015. In addition, aspects Board of MAN SE is the Steering Comof environmental protection and safety mittee. The CR Manager is in charge of Supplier management are embedded in MAN’s vocational the ongoing development and coordiMAN spends approximately €9.3 billion training and continuous professional nation of the CR strategy. Supported by annually on raw materials, goods, and development programs. All vocational the CR Excellence Team, he is the censervices. We therefore hold our suppliers trainees receive an introduction to the tral point of contact for all CR issues in to similarly high standards when it Group’s environmental management the Company. The team is made up comes to environmental protection, system. of experts from Corporate Human employee rights, and preventing corResources, Investor Relations, Corporate ruption. Our Group-wide purchasing MAN Truck & Bus evaluates environCommunications, Environmental Manand procurement policy requires the mental performance using its own capaagement, and the divisions. prohibition of forced or child labor, bility maturity model, which assesses compliance with internationally recogthe status quo and defines goals and The MAN CR organization nized human and employee rights, and actions to be taken in all its production adherence to environmental standards sites (except India). The model is already and anticorruption regulations. The used for energy management, and will Steering Committee policy is based on our Code of Conduct, be applied to occupational safety manMAN SE Management Board the labor standards outlined in the agement in the future. MAN Diesel & conventions of the International Labour Turbo has created a HSE-Q handbook CR Manager Organization (ILO), and the ten prinwhich combines health, safety, environMAN SE ciples of the UN Global Compact. In mental, and quality aspects in a single 2011 we launched a pilot project at reference work to guide employees in CR Excellence Team MAN Diesel & Turbo to evaluate key suptheir daily work. MAN Group pliers in line with CR criteria (, page 40). MAN divisions Central functions 24 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report To protect the health and safety of our future. As a globally active corporation, — we aim to reduce this environmental employees, we conduct workplace hazwe are aware that the prevailing social impact as much as possible through forard assessments and regularly hold parameters in the locations where we ward-looking product development. internal workplace safety audits. operate can vary greatly — educational Important criteria here are the effisystems and population structures, for ciency and marketability of the prodOccupational health measures are instance, differ from country to counucts as well as their quality and safety. organized by the subgroups or by the try. That is why each subgroup works Successful, future-oriented planning individual sites. This allows health manwithin the framework of the Group HR depends on analyzing trends in techagement to be adapted to specific workstrategy to develop measures that best nologies, energy, and raw materials, as ing conditions and health concerns. To suit the cultural and demographic chalwell as relevant legislation and customer encourage employees at our German lenges encountered at its sites. The needs. Accordingly, the product creation sites to get in shape, we have launched Corporate Center initiates Group-wide process at MAN Truck & Bus breaks a campaign focusing on preventative strategy processes, coordinates the vardown into five stages: health, exercise, and nutrition. In addiious measures, and ensures that the 1 Analysis of future scenarios and tion, many facilities have concluded subgroups learn from each other’s technological trends their own works agreements on health experience. 2 World market forecasts and safety, and set up workplace safety 3 Identification of future business committees. Group-wide guidelines for management segments hiring were introduced in 2010 to 4 Harmonization with portfolio Security management promote diversity and take due account strategy Almost around the globe, MAN employof women. We keep abreast of science 5 Identification of customer needs ees install, service, and repair products and research through our close contacts on site. This calls for a system of preand partnerships with universities, colAt MAN Latin America, the product ventive, global security management. leges, and other institutions. This is not process follows the MAN Truck & Bus To meet this challenge, we have been only important to the development of model coordinating security measures across our high-tech products, but also facilithe Group since 2011, offering a central tates the recruitment of top talent. At MAN Diesel & Turbo, the product point of contact for these issues. A uniAround the world, we collaborate with development process is closely aligned form approach to security allows inte110 universities, colleges, and research with customer requirements: grated strategies to be defined. By coninstitutes. 1 Analyses of economic, market, tinuously monitoring the international competitive, and product situations security situation, we can also make Product responsibility 2 Generation of ideas based on quick decisions about matters such as The coming years will see a worldwide prognoses and customer dialog travel advisories. increase in the transportation of people 3 Evaluation according to technical and goods. At MAN, future scenarios and economic criteria Industrial espionage is another focus of and (technological) trends are impor4 Definition of product concepts security management. To minimize the tant factors in our strategic product 5 Prioritization of projects risk of knowledge leaks, we are working development. In the product life cycle to raise employee awareness. of large-bore diesel engines and commercial vehicles, over 90% of the enviHuman resources management ronmental impact is generated during Dedicated, responsible, and competent the use phase — through energy conemployees are essential to the continsumption, emissions, use of lubricants, uing success of our innovative products maintenance, and servicing. Because and technologies. And to achieve this, most of our products have a very long our HR management must look to the service life — and are used intensively / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 25 Our CR Management: Responsibility in Practice Dialog with Our Stakeholders: A Compass for the Future Dialog with Our Stakeholders: A Compass for the Future At MAN our goal is to understand and address the expectations of all stakeholder groups with which we have a close relationship: customers, employees, suppliers, and business partners; analysts and investors; science and government; municipalities and nongovernmental organizations. Handling our stakeholders’ International stakeholder survey Challenges for MAN expectations In 2010 we conducted our first webAs in the previous year, resource conMAN’s stakeholders have a wide variety based international stakeholder survey. servation (73%) and climate change of expectations for the Company. This We repeated and expanded the process (61%) were identified by participating provides us with important input for in the year under review. Of the almost stakeholders as the greatest challenges our corporate strategy and helps us to 500 stakeholders selected (2010: approx. facing MAN — although the relevance identify opportunities and risks. We can 400), around 40% responded to the of climate change as a challenge was only maintain trust and acceptance by questionnaire. So although the particirated eight percentage points lower this taking stakeholder concerns seriously pation rate was similar to that of the time. 38% of respondents (2010: 49%) and addressing them in our business previous year, the overall number of still consider globalization to be an issue practices. That is why stakeholders and replies increased from almost 140 to 192. that MAN must address. The percenttheir interests play an important role in The largest number of responses came age of participants who see diversity our Guiding Principles. from Germany (30%); 14% were from and equal opportunity as a challenge China and 11% from Brazil. for MAN rose from 27 to 34%. We use a variety of channels to communicate with our stakeholders and to Stakeholder survey participants by Group discover and analyze their expectations. Government 3.1% In 2011 we not only carried out a GroupAnalysts 3.1% Academia 3.7% wide employee survey, but our second NGOs 3.7% international stakeholder survey as well. Media 4.2% Our 2010 CR Report included a quesAssociations 6.8% MAN employees 32.8% tionnaire that allowed readers to provide us with direct feedback — as does this report. MAN customers 10.9% Identifying stakeholder expectations MAN business partners 31.7% and suppliers 31,7% and new challenges is the responsibility of the CR Excellence Team. All MAN divisions are charged with integrating these diverse needs into our business processes and mediating when conflicts of interest arise. 26 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Challenges for MAN From the viewpoint of our stakeholders 73% Resource conservation 75% 61% Climate change 69% 40% Urbanization & megacities 42% 38% Globalization 48% 34% Diversity & equal opportunity 27% 29% Health 26% 24% Human rights 21% 21% Poverty 16% 17% Access to water 19% 13% Demographic change 23% 12% Biodiversity 13% 8% Population growth 24% 2011 2010 Assessment of our CR activities concerned our performance in the catMateriality analysis The majority of our stakeholders rated egories of community involvement & The annual stakeholder survey is an MAN’s CR activities as appropriate or corporate citizenship and employees. important instrument for identifying above average. They attested to the However, more than three-quarters of CR fields in which stakeholders place Company’s great commitment to prodall stakeholders believe that MAN has a particularly high expectations on MAN. uct responsibility and compliance. The credible approach to sustainable busiBoth the CR Excellence Team and the aspects most frequently rated as weak ness practices. Climate Expert Team discussed and valAssessment of MAN’s CR commitment Sustainable value creation 29% 54% 3% 14% Environmental protection 35% 54% 4% 8% Product responsibility 42% 47% 4% 8% Compliance 44% 40% 3% 13% Human rights 26% 47% 3% 24% Social commitment & coporate citizenship 27% 49% 7% 16% Employees 34% 48% 7% 11% Corporate governance 35% 45% 6% 14% Above average Appropiate Not enough Don’t know Due to rounding, the figures presented here may not add up to exactly 100%. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 27 Dialog with Our Stakeholders: A Compass for the Future Fields of action Findings of our materiality analysis Stakeholder expectations Product-related Occupational health environmental protection & safety high SO2 emissions Diversity & equal Production-related opportunity environmental Product safety protection Vocational training and CPD Attractiveness Supply chain as employer Customer Compliance & Human rights information corporate governance medium Stakeholder dialog Dialog with policymakers low Donations & sponsoring low medium high Relevance to MAN’s business 2010 2011 Change in expectations/relevance idated these CR fields. In our materiality most significant challenges and opporthe government and the opposition. We analysis, we have supplemented these tunities. For topics that are particularly also represent our interests through our topics with a number of industry-sperelevant for our stakeholders as well as memberships in various industry and cific sustainability criteria and issues to our business success, we have defined professional associations (e.g. ACEA, that are assessed by the Global Reportgoals and activities in our CR Roadmap VDA, VDMA; , p. 41). ing Initiative (GRI). (, page 29 et seq.). The future holds many challenges that Compared to last year, the topics of Dialog with politics apply to the transportation of both pasproduct-related environmental protecMAN works actively with others to find sengers and freight. These include tion, diversity & equal opportunity, and solutions to sustainability problems. To designing mobility solutions with envicustomer information have increased this end we also contribute our knowlronmental compatibility and resource in importance to our stakeholders. In edge and expertise to the ongoing politconservation in mind — while at the contrast, they consider compliance & ical debate. Our focus here is on topics same time maintaining affordability. corporate governance, product safety, relating to our core business, such as MAN participates actively in the releand human rights to be of less relevance reducing worldwide carbon dioxide vant committees of international organthan in the previous year. The emphasis emissions caused by the transportation izations and advises government minon different topics within this report is of passengers and freight. To this end, istries with the aim of promoting the guided by our stakeholders’ expectations. we maintain an ongoing dialog with the use of innovative and cost-effective responsible ministries at state, national, vehicle concepts and technologies The materiality analysis helps us to and EU levels, as well as with elected reparound the world. align our CR management with the resentatives and opinion leaders from 28 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report We are contributing our experience in and Austrian companies that particiIndex and we are listed in the Dow Jones overarching CR topics to the German pated in the survey, 30 qualified for Sustainability World Enlarged Index. Federal Ministry of Labour and Social inclusion in the CDLI. Although we showed significant Affairs’ working group on corporate improvements in the areas of economy, social responsibility. At the first meetIÖW/future: With the support of the environment, and society, we fell one ing in 2011, MAN exchanged ideas with Council for Sustainable Development point short of being relisted in the Dow representatives of government and and the German Federal Ministry of Jones Sustainability World Index and other corporations. Labour and Social Affairs, every two the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe years the Institute for Ecological EconIndex. We have analyzed this result and Sustainability ratings and rankings omy Research (IÖW Institut für ökoloidentified areas for improvement, parThe sustainability performance of comgische Wirtschaftsforschung) and the ticularly in innovation management panies is regularly evaluated by differfuture e.V. business association evaluate and product responsibility, that we plan ent institutions — in the interests of the the sustainability reports of the largest to act on in 2012, enabling us to return public as well as of investors and analysts. 150 German companies. In the 2011 to the DJSI. ranking, the MAN CR Report placed 43. Carbon Disclosure Project: The Carbon oekom research: In its Corporate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) evalSustainable Asset Management: Responsibility Rating oekom research uates the transparency of company data According to the assessment performed again awarded MAN a score of C+, mainrelevant to climate protection. In 2011 by Sustainable Asset Management taining its “prime” investment status. MAN improved its score by eight points for the Dow Jones Sustainability MAN received especially high marks for over the previous year, scoring 73 points Indexes (DJSI), in 2011 MAN improved its reduction of energy and fuel conout of 100. As the industrial sector by 16 points compared to the previous sumption, its development activities in average rose from 44 to 48.5 points, year, earning a score of 64 points. This the field of alternative fuels, as well as however, despite the Company’s overputs us in the top 20 percent of the its safe handling of products. oekom all improvement, MAN was only ranked 2,500 largest companies listed in the research sees room for improvement at 28th (2010: 26th). Of the 128 German Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market MAN in the avoidance of hazardous substances and in product life cycle assessMAN sustainability ratings ment — two areas being addressed by our Climate Strategy. Rating agency Index Rating Transparency rankings Sustainalytics: Sustainalytics performs Carbon Disclosure Project Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 73 of 100 points; listed for the a sustainability analysis that rates the (CDP) (CDLI) second time in a row ESG (environmental, social, and goverIÖW/future Ranked 43 out of 150 nance) performance of companies. Performance rankings In 2011 MAN was ranked 15th out of Sustainable Asset Management Dow Jones Sustainability 64 of 100 points; not listed (SAM) Indexes (DJSI) 82 companies. oekom research Prime C+ Sustainalytics Ranked 15th out of 82 / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 29 Dialog with Our Stakeholders: A Compass for the Future CR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future CR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future Our CR Roadmap includes specific ures are derived from these objectives. CR Roadmap, agreed with the Manageobjectives extending to 2015 to ensure The following overview outlines our ment Board of MAN, represents a core continuous improvement in our CR perachievements in the year under review basis for the future development of our formance. For each year, specific measand what we are working on in 2012. The activities. CR Roadmap Objectives Deadline Status in 2011 Measures in 2012 Integration Integration of CR into business strategies, 2015 CR anchored in the strategies of the divisions as part of Integrating CR into MAN’s brand image business operations and internal the respective strategy meetings Introducing an IT tool for systematic acquisition of processes CR strategy and Roadmap evaluated as part of a CR data and to optimize the data collection process second stakeholder survey focusing on customers CR strategy, Roadmap and initiatives evaluated in the international employee survey Road show to communicate CR strategy in key departments of divisions continued CR enshrined in network and expert meetings at Group level CR integrated into due diligence procedures for M&A processes through questionnaires 2010 CR Report presented to the general public at a media event with the Chief Human Resources Officer CR website updated Integration of CR into vocational training, 2015 CR integrated into the MAN Executive Academy’s manDeveloping a CR “Manage responsibly” training continuous professional development agement development programs for the Group’s top concept for all other managers and implementing it (CPD), and management development managers at MAN Truck & Bus MAN Truck & Bus sales training courses on the topics Implementing the concept for integrating CR into of CO2 reduction and environmental protection further vocational training developed Plan developed for integrating CR into vocational training. CR integrated into MAN competencies Further development of CR structure by 2015 Regular CR Excellence Team meetings held Expanding the CR Excellence Team to include CR managers in the divisions Climate Expert Team appointed and established to managers from other CR-related areas design and implement MAN’s Climate Strategy Appointing a CR manager at MAN Diesel & Turbo Integration of CR Report and annual report 2015 2010 CR Report published including attainment of GRI Publication of 2011 CR report including attainment with assurance by external auditor B+ application level and assurance by external auditor of GRI A+ application level and fully audited by an Quantitative KPIs incorporated into CR reporting in auditor 2011 Annual Report Improving CR reporting in the Annual Report Start of systematic stakeholder dialog 2015 Findings of the stakeholder survey presented to the Integrating CR into trade-fair questionnaire and Management Board, internally communicated, and booths at the IAA Commercial Vehicles and SMM published in the 2010 CR Report 2012 CR issues regularly addressed in internal and external Strengthening customer dialog on CR and Climate communications Strategy by swapping experiences with at least four key customers Economy Identification and monitoring of non-quan2015 Assessment of opportunities and threats with an Integrating CR into risk management tifiable risks impact on climate brought into focus by adoption of Climate Strategy Trend Radar installed at MAN Truck & Bus for analysis of opportunities and threats arising from global trends Energy trends evaluated annually for the MAN Group by the MAN energy expert team 30 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Objectives Deadline Status in 2011 Measures in 2012 Economy Introduction of a supplier evaluation 2015 Self-assessment questionnaire on corporate responsiExtending the pilot project to MAN Truck & Bus and system bility drawn up for suppliers Group-wide Purchasing Pilot project for CR self-assessment carried out at Evaluating suppliers on the basis of CR criteria MAN Diesel & Turbo in Augsburg Integrating CR into award criteria Systematic acquisition of CR data and 2015 Sustainability Asset Management evaluation Return to the Dow Jones Sustainability monitoring of performance indicators significantly improved World/Europe Index Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability World Enlarged Index achieved Environment Implementation of a climate strategy 2015 Climate Expert Team consisting of managers and Implementing Climate Strategy in the MAN Group experts from the MAN Group appointed and put in place Communicating the Climate Strategy internally and Climate Strategy and core initiatives for implementation externally devised, presented to the Management Board and Adopting the policy on environmental and safety adopted management Climate Strategy communicated to top managers at 2011 MAN Summit Policy on environmental and safety management revised Target to cut CO2 emissions from production by 25% enshrined in the target agreement process for managers in the MAN Group Expansion of the portfolio of resource2015 Fuel saving of three liters across 100 kilometers Starting pilot phase of the portfolio of resourceefficient products and services demonstrated by the Consistently Efficient Tour efficient products and services Requirements defined for a Group-wide portfolio of resource-efficient products and services ISO 14001 certification for all European 2015 Deggendorf site certified to ISO 14001 Obtaining ISO 14001 certification for production sites and all sites in BRIC countries sites at St. Nazaire, Augsburg and Rheine (Renk) Obtaining ISO 14001 certification for central spare parts warehouse at Dachau Preparing for ISO 14001 certification at production sites in Brazil and China Developing a supervisory and support system for preparing international MAN Truck & Bus sites for certification People Measurement of employee satisfaction 2015 MAN Truck & Bus again recognized as a top German Implementing the top aims from the employee and worldwide implementation of findings employer survey of employee survey MAN Latin America again recognized as a Great Place Preparing for the 2013 employee survey to Work Worldwide employee survey carried out, workshops on the findings set up in the organization, and employee satisfaction measured Introduction of a diversity management 2015 Key indicators on women in management analyzed and Further increasing the proportion of women in program target derived management to 12% by 2014 Voluntary pledge by Dax-30 companies signed OHSAS 18001 certification for all sites 2015 Managers briefed about OHSAS 18001 in a workshop Obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification for the at a summit on health, occupational safety, energy, Resende site (MAN Latin America) and the environment Preparing for OHSAS 18001 certification of the Augsburg site (MAN Diesel & Turbo) Drawing up a roadmap for OHSAS 18001 certification of MAN Truck & Bus sites / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 31 CR Roadmap: A Blueprint for the Future Objectives Deadline Status in 2011 Measures in 2012 People Strengthening employee volunteering 2015 Plan for volunteering devised and agreed with the Extending the initiative to more SOS Children’s VilManagement Board of MAN lages institutions in Germany Patronage of the scheme taken on by Chief Human Providing at least a further 100 hours of voluntary Resources Officer and Chairman of the Group Works work Council Pilot project with SOS vocational training center in Nuremberg carried out and evaluated MAN pages set up on betterplace.org as internal communications platform 100 hours of voluntary work provided in a three-month pilot project Corporate Governance Making the compliance program a 2012 2010 compliance program implemented Further development of the compliance program, in permanent part of MAN’s corporate Further compliance measures implemented Group-wide particular in the decentralized Group organization of culture and globally in business units and sales regions business units and sales regions Code of conduct for suppliers and business partners Implementing an e-learning program on the Code of adopted Conduct, anticorruption, antitrust, and data protection Group-wide “Speak up!” whistleblower portal introduced Conducting “Data Protection Reviews” Business Partner Approval Tools for auditing the Conducting “Compliance Audits” integrity of business associates implemented worldwide Repeating the survey of managers on compliance Network of around 120 “compliance champions” topics established in Group companies to act as further Carrying out special training courses specific to multipliers subgroups on antitrust, anticorruption, and data Group-wide policies adopted for compliance with protection antitrust legislation, for case management, for compliance investigations, and for data protection Automated monitoring system (Continuous Controls Monitoring) introduced for purchasing and payment processes Audit process established for compliance and CR requirements in the due diligence audits for the acquisition and disposal of companies or equity holdings Survey of managers on compliance topics carried out Second compliance risk assessment conducted 1,405 questions answered by the Compliance Helpdesk Compliance awareness training provided for 5,470 employees Commitment of MAN Group to comply 2012 First UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Signing the International Framework Agreement for with international regulations submitted basic human and employee rights Corporate Citizenship Expansion of cooperation with SOS 2015 Internal communications on cooperation with SOS ChilStarting a collaboration in Brazil to educate children Children’s Villages to the BRIC countries dren’s Villages enhanced (betterplace.org platform) and young people Around €250,000 donated to the SOS Children’s Village in Fukuoka and use of funds checked on site Initial discussions held on cooperation in Brazil 32 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Projects: Worldwide Responsibility Wherever we at MAN operate around the world, we aim to add value for society through concrete local projects and our employees volunteering in the community. Adding value for society Involving employees MAN sees itself as part of society. Through its activiThe diversity of our projects reflects the international ties, the Company not only safeguards its own future nature of our operations as well as the diversity of our and that of its employees, but also creates present and employees and the causes they support. For our part, future benefits for those around it in its role as an we explicitly encourage and foster employee volunemployer, a trainer, and a business partner as well as teering in the community, even if it is not associated a good corporate citizen at all sites worldwide. Adding with business opportunities. We are convinced that value for society is an important part of our corpoin the long term we will invariably reap the benefits of rate responsibility as we see it and one of the objecthese activities in terms of trust and acceptance, the tives of our CR strategy. Wherever we work, we aim to motivation of our employees, and inspiration for be a reliable partner and contribute to sustainable innovations. value creation. Some of the projects described here would never have As an international corporate player we consider ourhappened without the dedication of individual selves under a special obligation to contribute to susemployees. Enthusiasm and passion are defining chartainable development worldwide, through concrete acteristics of our employees, which is why they also local projects wherever we are needed or our expershow such impressive commitment outside their tise is in demand. Many of the projects that our dividirect area of responsibility — be it in their commusions, our subsidiaries, or our production sites have nity, in society at large, or in the interests of the enviinitiated or are supporting are directly related to our ronment. Since 2011 we have been fostering such core business. Others have arisen to meet an urgent engagement even more strongly through an need for fast and practical help. The outcome is a kaleiemployee volunteering program that we have created doscope of social projects across the globe, only a few in cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages (, page of which are portrayed in our annual CR reports. You 14 et seq.). Because employees who assume responsiwill find an interactive overview, updated annually, bility and live up to it are the best ambassadors that on the Internet at www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR. we can have as a Company. Innovations arise out of interacting with society and learning about its needs. With the following overview of our projects, we hope to inspire and encourage our employees around the world to get involved in adding value for society and helping the environment. Our projects , / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 33 Our Projects: Worldwide Responsibility Project 3: Brazil — “Atlantic Forest is Here!” traveling exhibition Project 6: China (Shanghai) — Scholarships for marine engineers The tropical rain forest is one of the earth’s most diverse ecosysShanghai Maritime University and Damian Maritime University tems, yet it is also more endangered than nearly any other part are the two largest educational institutions in China that train of the planet. MAN Latin America is working to increase peomarine engineers. To improve the exchange of ideas between ple’s awareness of the threat to the rain forest and preserve academia and industry, MAN Diesel & Turbo has established a endangered habitats. Since May 2009 the “Atlantic Forest is program to support students, professors, and universities in Here!” traveling exhibition, which is set up in a trailer, has visthe field of marine engineering. Every year, the program makes ited a total of 127 cities. It has covered a distance of over it possible for each university to grant scholarships to four out25,000 kilometers and attracted more than 380,000 visitors. standing students from low-income families. Two professors The truck that transports the exhibition was provided by MAN and a university also receive funding for their research. MAN Latin America free of charge under a leasing agreement. The Diesel & Turbo has given each university 60,000 renminbi project partner is the Mata Atlantica foundation, which focuses (approx. €7,500) per year. A committee of MAN employees on protecting the rain forest. and university representatives volunteer their time to select the scholarship recipients. Project 4: Japan — SOS Children’s Village in Fukuoka Project 7: Poland — “Social Day” in the Niepolomice forest After the major earthquake in Japan in March 2011, many children were left orphaned. MAN provided quick and unbureauCovering almost 110 square kilometers, the Niepolomice forcratic aid for these children in the form of a 30 million yen est is located approximately 20 kilometers east of Cracow, (around €250,000) donation. This facilitated the construction Poland. The area is home to six nature preserves, providing a of the first SOS Children’s Village in Fukuoka, providing the habitat to many different species of birds and wild animals such orphans with a new home. In addition, MAN’s financial supas wolves, lynxes, and the European bison. The employees at port helped create a professional fundraising campaign to pubMAN Truck & Bus spent their Social Day picking up litter in part licize a foster-parent system (a practice which had previously of the forest, volunteering a full working day for this project. been unfamiliar to the Japanese) and help build other SOS ChilThe activity strengthened the employees’ team spirit and sense dren’s Villages. The managing director of MAN Diesel & Turbo of environmental awareness. The project was supported by the Japan has visited the SOS Children’s Village in Fukuoka and is county of Niepolomice and the local forest service. convinced that MAN has made a significant contribution in Japan, most notably to its children. Project 8: Denmark — Workplace health Project 5: China (Changzhou) — Energy Efficiency Network Changzhou In Denmark the retirement age has been raised to 70. As a result, employee health issues are becoming more and more relMAN Diesel & Turbo joined forces with 12 partners in the Chievant at MAN. In addition to the measures which were already nese province of Changzhou to found the Energy Efficiency in place, such as health checkups, massages, and information Network. In meetings coordinated by MAN Diesel & Turbo, local on weight loss, we invited employees at MAN Diesel & Turbo companies exchange ideas about ways to conserve energy. in Copenhagen (Denmark) to voluntarily take part in a specially Initial energy-saving measures have already been rolled out at designed six-week health seminar. The goal of the pilot project MAN: air conditioners cool to no less than 26°C, and printers was to improve the physical and emotional wellbeing of the 15 automatically go into hibernation mode. Lights now go on as participants by modifying their lifestyles. This involved regular needed rather than illuminating the entire office space. In protraining and monitoring during their working hours. As part of duction areas, the air pressure in pipes has been set one bar the project, we also made changes to the menu in the cafetelower. This makes the Changzhou factory one of the most ria. Two students of nutrition and health care collaborated in the energy-efficient in China. In addition, MAN Diesel & Turbo joined initiative. forces with the German and European chambers of commerce to set up a working group which published a book on the 100 most effective ways to conserve energy. MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Project 08 Employee health is an increasingly important issue at MAN. A pilot project was launched at MAN Diesel & Turbo in Denmark to improve health among staff members. Project 07 MAN employees spent their Social Day cleaning up the forest in Niepolomice. They volunteered a full working day for the project. Project 02 A family-friendly workplace is important to more and more employees. MAN Diesel & Turbo opened a daycare center for 76 children at its Augsburg site. Project 03 Since May 2009 over 380,000 visitors in 127 cities have seen the “Atlantic Forest is Here!” traveling exhibition, which is set up in a tractor-trailer. Project 1: Turkey — Emergency aid for earthquake victims food, clothing, shoes, blankets, towels, and cleaning products. Almost 4,000 donated objects were then packaged by On October 23, 2011, Turkey experienced the strongest employees during their lunch breaks. The employee volunearthquake it had felt in over a decade. Six hundred peoteers also took responsibility for delivering the emergency ple lost their lives and some 2,000 buildings were fully supplies. Only a few days after the earthquake, eight MAN destroyed. Immediately after the disaster, MAN Truck & employees drove a truck down to the crisis-afflicted region. Bus initiated a campaign on site in Ankara (Turkey) to help There they distributed the goods to the mayors of three vilthe thousands who were left homeless. Volunteer employlages, Kasimoglu, Gülsünler, and Citönü. ees collected much-needed items such as diapers, baby Project 01 Project 04 After the major earthquake in Turkey, After the earthquake in Japan, MAN MAN employees held a charity drive for donated around €250,000 to the SOS victims and brought supplies to the Children’s Village so orphaned children affected area. could have a new home. This money also made it possible to pursue professional fundraising. Project 05 Project 06 In China, MAN Diesel & Turbo founded MAN Diesel & Turbo created a scholarthe Energy Efficiency Network. The ship program to support students and cost-savings measures are already professors at China’s two largest unibearing fruit: the factory ranks among versities for marine engineering. the most energy-efficient in China. Project 2: Germany — New daycare center in Augsburg cated to children whose parents work at MAN Diesel & Turbo, while the remaining third are for other Augsburg families. Four Employees are placing increasing importance on a familyspaces have been reserved for children from socially underfriendly workplace. This is one reason why MAN Diesel & Turbo privileged families. In addition to their backgrounds in early opened a daycare center at its Augsburg site in October 2011. childhood education, the daycare providers have additional It accommodates a total of 76 children: 42 aged between nine training in areas such as music education, speech therapy, and weeks and three years; and 34 between the age of three and nutritional counseling. A total of €2 million was invested in the school enrolment age. Around two-thirds of the slots are alloproject. 34 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Performance Report: Corporate Responsibility Figures 35 MAN Truck & Bus, Ankara, Turkey “When I tell my friends that I work for MAN, it always makes a good impression.” Since the beginning of 2011 Kürşat Şenol Güzel (25) has worked in the warehouse at MAN Truck & Bus in Ankara, supplying materials to the assembly line. 36 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report About this Report With its 2011 CR Report MAN meets the requirements of the highest reporting category (A+) of the Global Reporting Initiative for the first time. MAN has also had the entire report verified by a firm of auditors. How this report was drawn up erage compared to the previous year. Compared to 2010, the To respond to the various needs and expectations of our consolidated figures for 2011 in the Environment section also stakeholders, we have divided our 2011 Corporate Responsiinclude the Aurangabad (India) site. We report indirect emisbility Report into three sections: the Priority Issue section sions in line with the emission factors of the International on “Investing in Our Employees,” descriptions of the MAN Energy Agency and direct emissions in line with the emisCR strategy and CR management, and the Performance sion factors of the German Federal Environment Agency. Report. In this year’s report, the Priority Issue section is addressed primarily to our employees. As a company listed Financial data is presented in euros, with foreign currencies in the Dax 30, through our report we also reach out to translated at annual averages for 2011. investors and analysts, customers, policymakers, local authorities, and NGOs, as well as to people who live in the regions Independent assurance report where we operate. We have voluntarily submitted our entire 2011 CR Report for comprehensive and independent verification by the auditIn its 2011 CR Report, MAN gives an account of its performance ing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers in line with the Internain the area of corporate responsibility/sustainability. The tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Thus, report provides all our stakeholders with a detailed and comfor the first time their audit included all copy and indicators parable overview of our performance in this area. In preparfor the 2011 reporting period (limited assurance). The indeing this report we adhered to the guidelines of the Global pendent assurance report appears on pages 62 and 63. Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) published in 2006 and have met the requirements of the highest reporting level (A+). Wherever Editor’s note possible, we provide indicators for the past three years. Thus, This report is published in German, English, Portuguese, and this report complements our Annual Report for 2011 and at French. The closing date for contributions was January 31, the same time represents our second Communication on 2012. Events with CR relevance were included through March Progress for the UN Global Compact. The report was drawn up 31, 2012. In the future we will continue to publish these reports in conjunction with the CR Excellence Team, which comprises annually. The next report will appear in early 2013. In the the persons responsible for all areas with a bearing on CR. interests of readability, we have not used the full legal names This report has been approved by the Management Board of of MAN SE and the subgroups. MAN SE. Additional information Reporting period and boundary This printed report is supplemented by additional informaThe 2011 reporting period is identical to the 2011 fiscal year, tion on our website at www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR. Crosswhich ran from January 1 through December 31, 2011. Except references in the report facilitate direct access to the relevant for the environmental data, the information in this report information. On our CR website we report continuously relates to all divisions of the MAN Group. To compile it, we colon current developments concerning our corporate responlated data from 28 production sites of our MAN Truck & Bus, sibility. MAN Latin America, MAN Diesel & Turbo, and Renk divisions. Together they represent approximately 87% of the revenue of MAN, an improvement of seven percentage points in cov/ About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 37 About this Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance MAN has enhanced its uniform Group-wide integrity and compliance program focusing on combating corruption, antitrust law, and data protection and has rolled it out around the world. Management and monitoring Remuneration of the Executive Board In its management and reporting activities, MAN SE comThe Supervisory Board’s objective and duty is to set Executive plies with the recommendations of the German Corporate Board remuneration at an appropriate amount. The criteria Governance Code with only one temporary exception and for doing so include in particular the tasks of the respective has issued the appropriate Declaration of Conformity. MAN Executive Board member, their personal performance, the SE departed temporarily (until January 21, 2011) from the Code economic situation, the performance and outlook of the Comwith regard to the number of Supervisory Board positions pany, and how customary the remuneration is when measheld by Prof. Dr.-Ing. Ekkehard D. Schulz. The Company’s ured against its peer group as well as the remuneration strucSupervisory Board has 16 members with equal numbers of ture that applies to other areas of MAN. The remuneration shareholder representatives and employee representatives. of Executive Board members comprises fixed salary payments In the reporting period the Supervisory Board held seven regand noncash benefits, pension and other benefit contribuular meetings and one constituent meeting. The attendance tions, and performance-related components. The variable perrate at the Supervisory Board meetings was 96%. The Chairformance-related components comprise components linked man of the Supervisory Board does not hold any other posito business performance and long-term incentive compotions within the MAN Group. Our subsidiary Renk AG has nents that entail an element of risk. Against the backdrop of also issued a Declaration of Conformity with the German Corsustainability considerations, part of the remuneration is conporate Governance Code. To document the absence of contingent upon the future success of the Company. flicts of interest among members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards, their memberships in other governing bodies Values, goals, and policies are listed in the 2011 MAN Annual Report (, page 174 et seq. The reporting period saw the development of three additional of the 2011 MAN Annual Report). compliance policies that apply across the Group. Our policy on compliance with antitrust regulations primarily comprises Duties and responsibilities rules for dealing with competitors. With the policy on data The distribution of duties and responsibilities at the MAN protection, we have established uniform and globally binding Group is defined by our Industrial Governance System: The protection for personal data in line with the high European strategic management of the Group lies with the Managestandard. This was preceded by a data protection risk assessment Board of MAN SE in which all divisions are represented. ment covering 78 Group companies. At the same time, we set Operational management is the responsibility of the respecup a worldwide network of data protection coordinators. tive subgroups. In this, MAN strikes a balance between central There is now a contact person for data protection issues at strategic management and decentralized operating responall larger MAN companies. Our policy on case management sibility, complemented by an open leadership culture. This and compliance investigations ensures that reported cases is founded on shared values for the brand and our corporate of compliance violation are dealt with and systematically culture, and a commitment to corporate responsibility. Implecleared up by the appropriate function in the Group. In addimentation is the responsibility of the Chief Human Resources tion, MAN has issued a code of conduct for suppliers and busiOfficer; decision-making authority rests with the Manageness partners that contains minimum ethical standards that ment Board. As a result, CR topics regularly appear on the MAN’s suppliers and business partners undertake to observe. agenda of MAN SE Executive Board meetings. Finally, a project was also initiated to revise all MAN Group 38 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report policies with the aim of creating Group-wide standards for ance organization, align the compliance program with the policies. To this end, in the reporting period MAN introduced needs of MAN, and derive further measures to prevent comthe MAN 0.1 Policy, designed to facilitate simplification and pliance risks. harmonization across the MAN Group. Selected compliance measures MAN’s clear commitment to the UN Global Compact is underpinned by the Joint Declaration on Social and Corporate Helpdesk 1,405 questions were asked and dealt with Responsibility in the MAN Group, which the Executive Board Training 5,470 employees (10%) worldwide were trained in 238 on-site compliance awareness sessions of MAN signed with the International Metalworkers’ FederaBusiness Partner Approval Tool 1,258 employees were trained to use this tool tion in March 2012 as an international framework agreement. and 1,509 business partners checked Compliance organization The new Compliance function established in 2010 was furThe Compliance Helpdesk answered 1,405 compliance-related ther expanded in the reporting period. The function is manquestions by phone or e-mail during the reporting period. aged by the Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly This brings the total number of questions dealt with since to the Chief Executive Officer of MAN SE and additionally to the Helpdesk was launched in February 2010 to 2,512. the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. The Compliance function currently comprises 43 staff, 17 of whom work On-site training courses on compliance issues are held for in the subgroups. employees who are potentially exposed to compliance risks. These compliance awareness training sessions, which last The Compliance Board (previously: Compliance Steering Comseveral hours, introduce the employees to MAN’s Complimittee) met four times in the reporting period. The purpose ance organization and teach them the fundamentals of comof these meetings was to inform MAN SE’s Executive Board bating corruption, antitrust law, and data protection. In addiand the heads of other functions on the progress of the develtion, we stage a number of special antitrust law training opment of the Compliance organization and the introducsessions, each lasting several hours, in which employees who tion of new compliance measures. In addition, further steps come into closer contact with competitors and antitrust in the ongoing development of the MAN compliance proissues learn about the contents of the new antitrust policy. gram were also agreed. Additionally, half-day training sessions on the policy on hanA survey on compliance issues was conducted among mandling personal data were conducted for the newly appointed agers in the reporting period. The findings confirmed the data protection coordinators. knowledge and acceptance among management of compliance measures across the organization. The Business Partner Approval Tool developed in 2010 was rolled out globally in 2011. The policy on engaging business Compliance program partners requires it to be used to check the integrity of a busiIn the reporting period, MAN updated its uniform Group-wide ness partner. A total of 1,258 employees have been trained to integrity and compliance program addressing the issues of use this tool and 1,509 business partners checked. combating corruption, antitrust law, and data protection, and rolled it out worldwide. Toward the end of 2011, the second We want to ensure that purchasing and payment processes at Group-wide compliance risk assessment was conducted, the MAN comply with the policies, and that compliance risks in results of which will be available early in 2012. The assessment these areas are identified at an early stage. In 2011, MAN therecovered and evaluated a total of 72 Group units across the four fore started introducing an electronic monitoring system divisions (MAN Truck & Bus: 41, MAN Diesel & Turbo: 28, called Continuous Controls Monitoring (CCM) that suppleMAN Latin America: 2, Renk: 1). The aim is to identify potenments the internal control system. If specific process test tial compliance risks affecting business models in the various items do not correspond to the prescribed procedures, the business units and/or sales regions. The results of the assessCCM system generates an alarm for the appropriate funcment will be used to determine the structure of the complitions. The system thus ensures that any compliance risks and / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 39 Corporate Governance Number of employees trained in compliance ization received three reports of suspected workplace bullyMAN Group 5,470 4,397 ing. The organization also received a further 14 reports on general HR issues, all of which were fully resolved. Africa 33 163 Germany Violations and investigations 2,226 2,757 No fines or sanctions on account of the violation of legal proAsia 319 154 visions were imposed on MAN in Germany in the reporting period. In the antitrust proceedings concerning several European truck and/or engine manufacturers, including MAN in each case, the Company is cooperating fully with the antitrust Americas 917 119 Europe authorities of the European Union. (excluding Germany) 1,975 1,204 In view of suspected irregularities in the handover of fourstroke marine diesel engines at MAN Diesel & Turbo SE, the 2010 values in gray Executive Board of MAN SE launched an investigation by the MAN SE Compliance function and external consultants. In policy violations in the MAN Group’s purchasing and paythis case too, MAN is cooperating with the relevant authoriment processes are detected at an early stage. In all of its ties. export business, MAN complies rigorously with all national and international export regulations. No fines were paid for environmental incidents in the reporting period. Our reporting of such fines covers production CR and compliance risks can ensue from the acquisition or sites that together account for approximately 87% of revenue. disposal of equity investments. MAN has therefore laid down specific CR and compliance requirements for the due diligence review of the companies concerned. Thus, we also check on certification and require the provision of environmental and social indicators to enable any compliance risks to be identified at an early stage. At the quarterly meetings of the Compliance Board the Groupwide compliance measures are agreed with the Executive Board and the heads of department. In addition, we also meet regularly with industry and academic experts to discuss current compliance-related topics, thereby contributing to the public debate. The MAN compliance program is currently focused on the topics of combating corruption, antitrust law, and data protection. If, however, the Compliance organization receives a report of suspected workplace bullying, for example, or other violations of Compliance rules, these reports are treated in confidence and with sensitivity, and passed on to the HR or specialist function responsible. In 2011, the Compliance organ40 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Integration With the aim of integrating CR into its operations and internal processes, MAN has certified additional sites, started to request information from key suppliers, and expanded its communication with stakeholders. Quality, environmental, and occupational Supplier management safety management MAN takes responsibility along its supply chain as well. With The MAN Group has set up an integrated management systhe goal of integrating CR in its operational purchasing tem which includes environmental protection, occupational processes, in 2011 MAN introduced its code of conduct for safety, fire safety, hazard abatement, quality management, and suppliers and business partners to regulate relationships with information security. The effectiveness of this management them. As part of communicating the code of conduct for supsystem is verified on-site by regular external and internal pliers, a pilot project for supplier self-assesment has been audits. The latter are also carried out at our non-certified sites. launched by MAN Diesel & Turbo at its Augsburg site, affectAt the end of the year under review, 24 sites in the MAN Group ing purchasing for engines and components as well as power had ISO 14001 certification, while six sites were certified under plants and marine propulsion systems. Using a questionnaire EMAS (the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme). jointly developed with MAN SE, suppliers are asked to provide information about their corporate responsibility. The The MAN Diesel & Turbo division has ISO 9001 certification, questionnaire was sent to 305 suppliers in the purchasing and some sites have already been certified to ISO 14001 and segments of engines and components (55% of the volume of OHSAS 18001. The Deggendorf site received ISO 14001 certifibusiness) and power plants and maritime propulsion syscation for the first time in 2011. All MAN Truck & Bus productems (95%). The participation rate was 30%. Our goal is to tion sites have ISO 14001 certified environmental management raise CR awareness among our suppliers and evaluate consystems. In addition, the production facilities in Munich, crete CR risks along the supply chain in the medium term. Nuremberg, Salzgitter (Germany), Steyr (Austria), and Cracow When suppliers meet very few of the criteria or give them(Poland) all comply with EMAS standards and regularly publish selves a negative score, depending on the degree of complisite-specific environmental statements. The percentage of ance we will enact a variety of measures which will be speciemployees covered by management systems is lower due to the fied in 2012. increase in the number of employees in the year under review. Percentage of employees covered by management systems Suppliers participating in pilot project by country Management system Distribution 2009 2010 2011 Number of Number of ISO 9000/9001 Number of sites 27 27 28 Country suppliers Country suppliers Employee coverage 84% 82% 80% Austria 3 Korea 1 ISO 14001 Number of sites 21 22 24 Czech Republic 1 Netherlands 2 Employee coverage 79% 77% 76% Denmark 8 Poland 1 EMAS Number of sites 5 5 6 France 2 Sweden 1 Employee coverage 36% 36% 35% Germany 62 Switzerland 3 OHSAS 18001 Number of sites 3 5 5 Italy 2 United Kingdom 3 Employee coverage 8% 7% 6% Japan 1 / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 41 Integration Stakeholder communication in 2011 Target group Media Topics Customers and 2010 CR Report 2011 Consistently Efficient Tour Alternative drive technologies, business partners Customer Relationship Management MAN Corporate Website Euro VI technology, CO2 reduction, FENATRAN 2011 transportation trade fair MAN Forum — the MAN Group Magazine CR strategy, CR management, (Brazil), Challenge Bibendum 2011 (Germany) MAN Truck & Bus smartphone app CR performance, CR projects Employees 2010 CR Report Employee newsletters, MAN intranet, CR strategy, CR management, MAN Summit, HR Summit, meetings of the MAN TV, manager newsletter, CR performance, CR projects, Group Works Council, workforce meetings, MAN Forum — the MAN Group Magazine employee volunteering, internal information fairs Presentations in departments results of employee survey, International employee survey MAN page on betterplace.org employee satisfaction MAN career page on Facebook Suppliers 2010 CR Report Trucknology Supplier Award by Environmental protection and efficiency, Code of conduct for suppliers and MAN Truck & Bus CR strategy, CR management, business partnersr MAN Corporate Website CR performance, CR along the supply chain Analysts and 2010 CR Report Annual report, Annual General Meeting, CR strategy, CR management, investors Corporate responsibility fact sheet Capital Market Day, road shows, conferences CR performance MAN Factbook Policymakers 2010 CR Report Membership of associations CR strategy, CR management, MAN Politics Newsletter Face-to-face meetings CR performance, environmental protection, MAN Corporate Website competitive behavior Media 2010 CR Report and press event to MAN Forum — the MAN Group Magazine Alternative drive technologies, mark publication Press releases, press newsletter, CO2 reduction, CR strategy, 2011 Consistently Efficient Tour articles in trade journals, interviews CR management, CR performance, Challenge Bibendum 2011 (Germany) MAN Corporate Website CR projects, employee volunteering General public 2010 CR Report MAN Corporate Website CR strategy, CR management, Press releases CR performance, CR projects, climate Sponsorship activities protection, employee volunteering, women in management positions NGOs 2010 CR Report Press releases, press newsletter, CR strategy, CR management, MAN Forum — the MAN Group Magazine Face-to-face meetings CR performance, CR projects, climate MAN Corporate Website protection, employee volunteering The results of the pilot project will be presented to the responAssociation of Employers’ Associations for the Metal sible purchasing officers from MAN Diesel & Turbo at a workand Electrical Industry shop in the first quarter of 2012; follow-up activities for the Bavarian Business Association suppliers will be developed and concrete supplier manageDEKRA ment processes defined. We plan to implement self-assessEuropean Automobile Manufacturers’ Association ment by suppliers in other subgroups as well, with MAN Truck Federation of German Industry & Bus following in 2012. German Association of the Automotive Industry German Association of Business, Transportation Stakeholder communication in 2011 and Logistics In 2011 our stakeholders were provided with targeted inforGerman Association Materials Management, mation on various CR topics using a variety of media. The Purchasing and Logistics table above gives an overview of our stakeholder communiGerman Transportation Forum cations in the year under review. German Engineering Federation International Chamber of Commerce Germany Memberships Transparency Deutschland MAN is a member of numerous associations that support dialog and communication between industry, policymakers, and society. Our most important memberships are: 42 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Economy The MAN Group enjoyed a successful year: record revenue of €16.5 billion, operating profit up by 43%, and capital expenditure up by approximately 70%. Business performance Taxes and subsidies The MAN Group posted record revenue of €16.5 billion in 2011. MAN pays its taxes wherever value is added. In 2011, MAN This represents an increase of more than 12% compared with paid income taxes amounting to €294 million. We do not the prior year and is approximately €1.6 billion higher than take extensive measures to optimize our taxes. Expenditures in boom year 2008. The increase was primarily driven by the for order-related R&D activities and for projects receiving Commercial Vehicles business area. Generating 54% of the public-sector subsidies totaled €175 million. Approximately Group’s total revenue, MAN Truck & Bus is the main source 47% of internal funds were invested in basic research and the of revenue. MAN Latin America accounted for 22% of total development of new products. Unlike in the prior year, we only revenue and posted its best-ever year. Most of the revenue made minimal use of short-time working and therefore received of the Power Engineering business area was generated by the limited state allowances to support employment in 2011. MAN Diesel & Turbo division. Operating profit increased by 43% compared with the prior year to €1.5 billion. In 2011, We Capital expenditures paid out total dividends to our shareholders of €294 million The MAN Group’s capital expenditures in 2011 amounted to or €2.00 per share for the 2010 fiscal year. Net interest €671 million, which is approximately 70% more than the expense amounted to €134 million. Further information on €396 million invested in the prior year. Investments in the financial performance is available in our 2011 Annual Report Commercial Vehicles business area amounted to €567 mil(, 2011 Annual Report, page 30 et seq.). lion in 2011, a significant increase on the prior-year figure (€283 million). MAN Truck & Bus made the necessary replaceBusiness performance in 2011 ment and maintenance investments and invested in enhancing productivity and quality, as well as in developing new € million 2010 2011 products (e. g. engines that comply with the Euro VI emisOrder intake 15,072 17,145 sion standard). Investments were made in a new production of which: Germany 3,489 3,646 facility in St. Petersburg and the enlargement of the logistics of which: other countries 11,583 13,499 center in Salzgitter, as well as the expansion of the sales and Revenue 14,675 16,472 service network, among others, to leverage growth potential. of which: Germany 3,058 3,515 of which: other countries 11,617 12,957 MAN Latin America’s capital expenditures were driven by Operating profit 1,035 1,483 the changeover to the Euro V emission standard and the technical integration of products and components with Revenue by region MAN Truck & Bus. Investments were also made in the Resende production site to expand capacity and leverage potential € million MAN Group 16,472 14,675 synergies with MAN Truck & Bus. Australia and Oceania 143 118 Africa 625 618 Other EU countries Investments in the Power Engineering business area 4,164 3,777 amounted to €117 million in 2011 compared to €108 million Other European countries 1,744 1,092. in the previous year. MAN Diesel & Turbo made necessary replacement and maintenance investments and invested in Asia 2,166 2,106 increasing the efficiency and expanding the capacity of its Americas 4,115 3,906 production sites, as well as in its after-sales network. One of Germany 3,515 3,058 the most important projects in fiscal year 2011 was investing to meet future emission standards in the Engines & Marine Figures for 2010 in gray / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 43 Economy Capital expenditures August 2011 and is supplying valuable feedback for the optimization of hybrid drive in the delivery sector. € million 2010 2011 Property, plant, and equipment, 235 355 MAN’s pioneering Concept S study vehicle includes ideas for and investment property optimizing the aerodynamics of the long-distance vehicles Intangible assets 156 246 of the future. Its aerodynamic design alone allows the ConInvestments 5 70 cept S to consume up to 25% less fuel — when combined with Total 396 671 an appropriately modified semitrailer — than a comparable, of which: acquisition of additional interest – 50 conventional 40-ton semitrailer tractor. For such a vehicle to in EURO-Leasing GmbH be produced and sold, however, certain registration rules of which: acquisition of Sinotruk 1 – within the EU would have to be amended. of which: other capital expenditures 395 621 of which: Germany 264 438 Reducing emissions is a major driver of R&D activities in the of which: other countries 131 183 Power Engineering business area as well. In January 2011, Depreciation, amortization, and 368 353 impairment* MAN Diesel & Turbo held the topping-out ceremony for a Capital expenditure ratio in % 107 176 new emissions test center in Augsburg. This new facility will * Excluding earnings effects from purchase price allocations (2011: €99 million, 2010: €99 million) and be used to test various possibilities for reducing emissions excluding write-downs of investments of €677 million. such as catalytic technology, exhaust-gas recirculation, and particulate filters. Capital expenditures by business area Research and development € million 2010 2011 Commercial Vehicles 283 567 € million 2010 2011 Power Engineering 108 117 R&D expenditures 626 740 Others/Consolidation 5 –13 of which: Commercial Vehicles 328 403 MAN Group 396 671 of which: Power Engineering 313 345 of which: consolidation – 15 –8 Systems strategic business unit. In addition, the second R&D expenditures of the manufacturing areas 4.3 4.5 (% of revenue) expansion phase at the Changzhou production facilities in Internally funded R&D 469 565 China started operation in May 2011. Manufacturing capacity R&D employees (annual average) 3,944 4,443 for components for several MAN Diesel & Turbo and Renk activities were expanded or merged. Climate-related risks and opportunities Renk’s expenditure on replacement items and rationalizaMAN is indirectly affected by climate change, that is, by the tion measures focused on cutting-edge technologies for manresulting regulatory changes and the development of energy ufacturing vehicle transmissions and special gear units. prices. According to estimates by the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, European manufacturers of comResearch and development mercial vehicles will have to spend between €6 billion and MAN invested €740 million in research and development in €8 billion solely to meet Euro VI emission standards. With 2011, which is 18% more than in 2010. In relation to revenue, the Climate Strategy adopted by MAN in 2011, there will be a R&D expenditure was unchanged at over 4%. The main focus closer focus on climate-related risks and opportunities of research and development was on reducing fuel con(, page 20 et seq.). The direct impact of climate change is sumption and emissions in the Commercial Vehicles busilimited, however. We have no production facilities in areas ness area. Due to the growing importance of alternative drive threatened by flooding, for example. The consistent continconcepts, MAN combined its R&D activities in this area in uation of the European climate-protection policy and the 2011 in a newly created competence center for hybrid drive gradual implementation of similar policies in the BRIC counsystems in Munich with increased staffing. The TGL Hybrid tries will yield new growth opportunities for MAN. delivery truck has been on field trials with customers since 44 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Product responsibility Customer focus MAN’s key challenge in product development is to reduce the MAN provides its customers with comprehensive product fuel consumed per ton of goods transported — accompanied information and user guides showing the safest and most by a corresponding reduction in CO2 emissions. Our response environmentally compatible way to operate MAN products. to this challenge involves alternative drive concepts, aerodyFor example, we inform our customers in the Trucks Product namic optimization, and innovative key technologies such Catalog about the turn-off assistant and in the MAN Effias exhaust-gas recirculation and selective catalytic reduction. cientLine Brochure about how to save fuel and reduce CO2 emissions. We take customer complaints very seriously and MAN Truck & Bus launched the TGX EfficientLine truck, which use them as important indicators of ways in which we could optimizes both aerodynamic drag and payload and results improve our products and services. MAN Truck & Bus set up in savings of up to three liters of diesel fuel per 100 kilometers, an integrated complaint management system in 2008 so that equivalent to a reduction of up to 10% in energy consumption all complaints can be processed as smoothly and speedily as per ton of goods transported. The MAN Lion’s City Hybrid is possible. On all accounts, we act as partners to our customers an example of how the hybrid strategy can be successfully throughout each product’s entire lifecycle: MAN Diesel & implemented. It has been on the market as a series-produced Turbo, for example, provides worldwide after-sales service vehicle since 2010 and is already in use as a public service under the MAN PrimeServ brand. MAN Support offers fleet bus in various European cities. The MAN Lion’s City Hybrid operators a mobile tracking and vehicle management tool in uses up to 30% less fuel and produces correspondingly less the form of TeleMatics, as well as comprehensive fleet manCO2 than city buses with conventional diesel engines. MAN is agement support. And MAN Truck & Bus is involved in a the market leader for CNG (compressed natural gas) buses. research project exploring smart traffic-assistance systems These buses are almost carbon neutral when operated with with the aim of allowing more efficient use of infrastructure biogas, which can be burned cleanly and without any probin order to make driving easier and enhance road safety. lems in their standard natural-gas engines, making for lower emissions of pollutants. Customer satisfaction Customers are our most important stakeholders because they In 2011, MAN Diesel & Turbo presented an all-new 6-megawatt drive our business success. In order to maintain close congas turbine featuring outstanding efficiency for its class of tacts with our customers and to identify their needs, we conwell over 30%. Central considerations in the development of duct regular surveys in all our business areas to find out how this product were climate-friendly and cost-effective operasatisfied customers are with our products and services. MAN tion as well as reliability — key purchasing criteria for indusTruck & Bus, for example, has been tracking customer loytrial and municipal energy providers. And a new gas engine alty and customer satisfaction relating to sales and service in the 10-megawatt class will be launched soon. In the twoeach year since 2006. We also address specific customer stroke engine segment, MAN Diesel & Turbo’s second-genrequirements in our product studies. For the eighth year in a eration exhaust-gas recirculation technology makes it the row, MAN Latin America led the field for customer satisfaction first provider in the world to meet the IMO Tier III emission in the light and heavy truck market segments in 2011 standard, which will not become effective until 2016. Product marketing It is our goal to reduce the proportion of less efficient prodAs in all of our actions, we observe the provisions of the law ucts in our portfolio (, page 21 et seq.). also with regard to advertising and product marketing. In Germany, we follow the recommendations of the German Advertising Council, and ensure that any information we provide to customers complies with the relevant legal requirements. MAN did not receive any complaints in this respect in 2011. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 45 Economy Environment Environment Although revenue was up 12% in the year under review, MAN’s energy consumption rose by only 3%. Indirect CO2 emissions remained constant at the previous year’s level and CO 2 emissions decreased from 30 to 28 tons per €1 million revenue. Energy consumption Direct energy consumption by primary energy source As revenue growth of 12% indicates, the MAN Group produced Gigajoules 2009 2010 2011 considerably more in 2011 than the year before. This is Heating oil 420,002 337,825 346,379 reflected in our resource consumption; as a result, the impact Natural gas 1,276,352 1,449,428* 1,412,854 of the measures we took to improve our environmental manDiesel 348,977 555,821* 694,623 agement and boost energy efficiency is not readily visible in Gasoline 2,095 5,697 7,684 an absolute reduction in consumption. In 2011 MAN’s total LPG 7,502 5,864 4,643 energy consumption showed a year-on-year rise of 3%, to Acetylene 1,233 1,206 1,351 5.3 million gigajoules. An increase in test runs of our engines Hydrogen 38 6 11 in Nuremberg, Augsburg, St. Nazaire (France), and Resende Methanol 2,253 2,925 3,063 (Brazil) means that our diesel consumption was 25% higher Heavy fuel oil 0 11,280 0 than in 2010. As a result of increased production in our hardLubricating oil 1,173* 0* 0 ening plants, our hydrogen consumption almost doubled in * These figures reflect a subsequent correction due to a data collection error and do not agree with the figures 2011, from six to eleven gigajoules. In 2010 MAN Diesel & published in the 2010 CR Report. Turbo consumed heavy fuel oil for test runs with marine diesel engines. During the period under review we replaced tions in consumption. This implementation was particularly this completely with diesel or light oils. In 2011 our consuccessful at the Munich, Salzgitter, and Steyr (Austria) sites. sumption of diesel fuel was around 695,000 gigajoules. We The Steyr factory even received an award from the Austrian succeeded in reducing our LPG consumption by 21% comEnvironment Ministry for its engine test bench heat recovery pared with 2010. concept. With the aim of progressively reducing CO2 emissions at the production sites, MAN Truck & Bus introduced an Energy consumption integrated energy concept as part of the core initiatives for implementing the Climate Strategy (, page 21). This comGigajoules prises improvements in energy efficiency, use of renewables, 2011 5,340,997 internal energy generation, and energy management. Plauen 2010 5,176,342* is the pilot site for the application and implementation. In 2009 4,589,319* order to document and sustain these successes, we are rolling Direct energy Indirect energy * This figure reflects a subsequent correction due to a data collection error and do not agree with the figures out an IT tool in 2012. published in the 2010 CR Report. At MAN Truck & Bus and MAN Diesel & Turbo, energy experts By 2020 we aim to achieve a 25% reduction in CO2 emissions regularly meet to discuss lessons learned from efforts to by MAN sites compared to 2008 (, page 20 et seq.). Since improve energy efficiency and optimize energy management. 2011 we have been working on site-specific measures to meet At the Augsburg, Hanover, Frederikshavn, and Holeby (Denthis target. To reduce energy consumption in production, mark) sites, we improved the energy efficiency of our buildings MAN is focusing on measures in the fields of heat recovery, in the course of modernization measures. In Changzhou, China, compressed air systems, and production shop heating and we almost halved energy consumption per working hour from lighting systems. Innovative heat projects were implemented 48 to 27 kilowatt-hours during the year under review by means at several MAN Truck & Bus sites, leading to marked reducof a needs-based central building control system. We are cur46 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report rently examining the possibility of using renewable energy from Our customers can make a contribution to resource conservaphotovoltaic systems and combined heat-and-power generation tion by operating our products correctly. We therefore inform (, page 21). them about the influence of factors like rolling resistance and drag on the fuel consumption and emissions of their vehiIndirect energy consumption by source cle. Our MAN Support ProfiDrive courses provide training to Gigajoules help professional drivers adopt a fuel-saving driving style. In 2012 some 6,000 drivers took part in such courses, enabling 2011 2,870,388 them to then reduce fuel consumption — and hence costs — 2010 2,795,188 by about 5% while cutting CO2 emissions at the same time. 2009 2,529,694 Electricity District heating MAN Diesel & Turbo provides training for both customers and employees in optimum, fuel-efficient operation of largeEnergy efficiency at the service-life stage bore diesel engines. Last year, eleven MAN PrimeServ AcadAs part of our core initiatives for implementing the Climate emies offered 14 different courses and training programs Strategy, we are investigating CO2 emissions throughout the worldwide. entire product life cycle with the aim of identifying savings potential. It has been found that in the Commercial Vehicles Greenhouse gas emissions business as much as 90% or more of energy consumption While our revenue was up 12% in 2011, our direct CO2 emisand CO2 emissions occur during the service life of the vehisions increased by only 6% and our indirect CO2 emissions cles. We are therefore undertaking intensive research into remained at the previous year’s level. As a result, we reduced efficient, low-emission solutions. With the focus on the total our emissions per €1 million revenue from 30 tons in 2010 cost of ownership approach, which identifies and documents to 28 tons in 2011. This was largely due to the replacement of costs and energy consumption for the entire product life heavy fuel oil by diesel or light fuels in MAN Diesel & Turbo. cycle, MAN systematically integrates environmental considerations into the product development process. The Nuremberg and Munich sites with their heating plants are subject to the European Emissions trading scheme. The Efficient and eco-friendly innovations Munich heating plant runs on natural gas and heating oil. A service provider operates the Nuremberg heating plant. Model Market launch Environmental benefit Of the 24,004 annual permits allocated to the Munich site Commercial Vehicles for the second trading period, 16,424 were used by the end CNG 2003 Exceeds Euro V standard of 2011. (compressed natural gas) bus EEV Enhanced Environmentally 2008 Exceeds Euro V standard Friendly Vehicles TGX EfficientLine 2010 3 liters of diesel less per 100 km Lion’s City Hybrid bus 2010 30% reduction in fuel consumption Dual Fuel Truck 2010 90% CO2 less when operated with biodiesel Power Engineering VTA turbocharger technology 2008 500 ton reduction in annual fuel consumption Exhaust gas scrubber 2009 90% reduction in SOX emissions Diesel Combined Cycle 2010 28,000 ton reduction in annual fuel consumption Selective catalytic reduction 2011 80% reduction in SOX, 100% reduction in NOX / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 47 Environment Direct emissions as video or telephone conferencing. Wherever economically Tons of CO2 equivalent feasible, the most environmentally friendly form of transportation should always be used. During the year under 2011 157,538 review, MAN employees’ air travel that was booked by the 2010 149,275* central travel office gave rise to 31,317 tons of CO2 emissions 2009 129,487* — twice the previous year’s figure. This was due to the increase * These figures reflect a subsequent correction due to a data collection error and do not agree with the figures published in the 2010 CR Report. in employee flights to our overseas locations in Brazil, China, and India. On the occasion of our first CR-related expert conIndirect emissions ference on the topic of responsibility, attended by some 60 Tons of CO2 equivalent experts from MAN Truck & Bus and MAN Diesel & Turbo, we compensated for the CO2 emissions generated by investing in 2011 297,815 climate protection projects. For our employees’ commute to 2010 296,600 and from work, we offer concessionary tickets or bus transfers 2009 291,357 depending on the infrastructure situation. Indirect emissions from electricity consumption Indirect emissions from district heating Emissions due to air travel Emissions per €1 million revenue Tons of CO2 equivalent Tons of CO2 equivalent 2011 31,317 2011 28 2010 15,000 2010 30* 2009 35 Pollutant emissions * These figures reflect a subsequent correction due to a data collection error and do not agree with the figures published in the 2010 CR Report. By replacing heavy fuel oil at MAN Diesel & Turbo, we succeeded in reducing our sulfur dioxide emissions by 47%. Refrigerants containing chlorine that represent a hazard to Emissions due to transportation and logistics the ozone layer and are still used in some old equipment at Since 2008 MAN Truck & Bus has been collecting data on CO2 a small number of sites are finally being phased out. Small emissions in the logistics sector. At 75%, truck transportation quantities of chlorodifluoromethane (R22) are used in closedaccounts for the largest proportion of emissions from logiscycle systems to operate the air-conditioning equipment at tics operations. In the year under review MAN Truck & Bus those sites. During normal operation this does not cause any gave rise to 77,194 tons of CO2 in the course of component emissions. However, secondary products within the producsupplies and 79,998 tons of CO2 through deliveries of its prodtion process may contain traces of other ozone-depleting ucts. To reduce CO2 emissions within our own transportation substances. We reduced consumption of solvents (volatile chain, we supply our regional freight forwarders via freight organic compounds, VOC) by 4% during the year under hubs, which consolidate shipments, optimize vehicle capacity review. These are used for surface cleaning, coating, and adheutilization, and avoid vehicles having to make empty runs. sion purposes. In 2011 MAN Truck & Bus also introduced a As a commercial vehicle manufacturer, we expect our service standard Group-wide specification for registering the conproviders to use state-of-the-art trucks that conform to the sumption of solvents. This permits better identification of latest emissions standards. the potential for reduction throughout the Group. Our Group-wide travel policy, which took effect in 2011, lays down rules for our employees regarding travel by air, rental car, and train. Journeys should only be undertaken when unavoidable and only after first considering alternatives such 48 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report SO2 emissions Noise Noise pollution is a potential problem for neighboring comTons munities mainly at sites where, for historical reasons, pro2011 30 duction buildings are situated in immediate proximity to res2010 57* idential areas, as is the case for example at the Munich, 2009 28* Nuremberg, and Steyr (Austria) sites. In the past these prob* Owing to changes in the method of calculation, these figures do not agree with those published in the 2010 CR Report. lems have been solved by organizational and structural measures, such as the erection of noise barriers. We immediately NOX emissions investigate any new complaints about noise, track down the Tons source, and take steps to prevent any further spikes in noise levels. 2011 576 2010 471* Raw materials consumption 2009 375* * Owing to changes in the method of calculation, these figures do not agree with those published in the Economical use of raw materials and consumables is a Group2010 CR Report. wide objective at MAN. The principal raw materials used in production are steel, copper, aluminum, and various plastics. CO emissions Owing to the rise in commodity prices at the beginning of Tons 2011, our expenditure on materials increased from €8.1 billion to €9.3 billion in the year under review. MAN is aware 2011 159 that rising prices and supply shortages in the commodities 2010 155* market pose a potential risk. To reduce copper consumption, 2009 91* we are increasingly replacing copper with fiber optic cables in * Owing to changes in the method of calculation, these figures do not agree with those published in the 2010 CR Report. data cables and electrical wiring in our trucks. We are also increasingly substituting stainless steel for copper intercooler Particulate emissions piping in marine engines. Tons Cost of materials 2011 32 2010 29* € million 2009 2010 2011 2009 72* Commercial Vehicles 4,485 6,329 7,674 * Owing to changes in the method of calculation, these figures do not agree with those published in the Power Engineering 1,949 1,853 1,722 2010 CR Report. Other/consolidation – 98 – 87 – 82 Total 6,336 8,095 9,314 Solvents Tons Cost of materials in relation to revenue 2011 1,224 2010 1,275* Percentage of revenue 2009 2010 2011 2009 1,050* Commercial Vehicles 57 60 61 * Owing to changes in the method of calculation, these figures do not agree with those published in the Power Engineering 46 44 43 2010 CR Report. MAN Group 53 55 57 Emissions of other substances (e.g. CH4, N2O, SF6, PFCS, HFCS), expressed in terms of CO2 equivalent, account for less than 1% of total CO2 equivalent emissions and are therefore not shown separately. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 49 Environment Waste and recycling Water and wastewater Products manufactured by MAN have a very long life The water used at our production sites mainly comprises expectancy which may often span several decades. It is thereprocess water for washing and cooling purposes, and drinkfore a long time before they need to be disposed of, or rather ing water for sanitary purposes. Despite the increase in prorecycled, since essentially they are made of materials that are duction output during the year under review, total water conreadily recycled. In the interests of resource conservation, sumption was down by more than 2% to approximately 5.7 the MAN Group attaches great importance to the use of recymillion cubic meters. Our consumption of drinking water cled metals in its foundries. In 2011 we purchased and used rose by 17% compared with the prior year. This was due to the some 20,000 tons of scrap from external recycling processes. increase in employee numbers and the integration of proIn the same period, we also returned some 1,800 tons of swarf duction processes such as surface treatment into the drinkand scrap from our own production lines to the production ing water network because of the need to satisfy higher qualcycle. ity criteria. The total quantity of waste in the year under review came to We return any water that we take from surface water 193,780 tons, of which 95% was recycled. This means that the unchanged. In the year under review we extracted about 5% quantity of waste was 86% higher than in the prior year. 81% less water from surface waters than in 2010. The volume of of the total amount of waste was generated by MAN Truck & wastewater remained around the prior-year level, with an Bus, mainly in the form of non-hazardous waste for recycling. increase of about 2%. A large number of sites use groundwaIn view of the unusual amount of construction work within ter for cooling purposes, and this is drained away again after MAN Truck & Bus in Germany, and particularly in Nuremuse. At other sites, water from nearby streams is used. Some berg, the non-hazardous waste increased by 163% in the form sites also use cooling water in closed-loop systems. The of excavated soil. At all plants, hazardous waste for disposal Ankara (Turkey), Munich (Germany), Nuremberg (Germany), and hazardous waste for recycling was dealt with in accorStarachowice (Poland), and Steyr (Austria) sites operate their dance with waste legislation. The relevant certificates were own treatment plants for contaminated wastewater from obtained from the waste management contractors. No waste painting operations. The Group also operates many other was exported. types of wastewater treatment facility, such as neutralization systems, osmosis systems, and separators, all of which are Waste by type of treatment monitored. The in-house and external monitoring mechanisms ensure reliable compliance with wastewater standards. Tons 2009 2010 2011 Total non-hazardous 29,115 45,457 119,817 Water consumption of which: recycled 24,254 40,403 114,030 Cubic meters of which: disposed of 4,861 5,054 5,787 Total hazardous 12,300 12,188 16,628 2011 5,681,147 of which: recycled 8,047 9,103 12,843 2010 5,810,202 of which: disposed of 4,253 3,085 3,785 2009 4,130,438 Metal scrap 42,931 46,425 57,335 Drinking water Well water Total 84,346 104,070 193,780 Surface water extraction Recycled waste Cubic meters Tons 2009 2010 2011 2011 8,820,687 Total waste in tons 84,346 104,070 193,780 2010 9,305,944 of which: recycled 75,232 95,931 184,209 2009 6,249,443 Recycling ratio (%) 89 92 95 50 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Wastewater Environmental protection investment and expenditures In the year under review we invested €7.7 million in environCubic meters mental protection. This was 27% more than in the prior year. 2011 1,165,253 In this way we ensure that our production facilities conform 2010 1,136,208 to the highest standards of environmental technology and 2009 1,019,161 resource efficiency. We also invest in systematically integrating environmental considerations into the development Nature conservation and biodiversity of our products. The production sites owned by MAN cover a total area of around 6.4 square kilometers. No operational areas at these Environmental incidents sites are located in protected natural areas, water catchment In 2010 a minor incident occurred at MAN Truck & Bus while areas, or areas of high biodiversity. In 2010, because of the a tank was being filled with diesel fuel. In the year under great importance we attach to species conservation and bioreview there was a minor accident during loading operations diversity, MAN Truck & Bus submitted to a biodiversity check at the same company which resulted in very small quantities devised by the European Business and Biodiversity Campaign of emulsion escaping from a container. In both cases, clean(EBBC). Here attention was drawn, for example, to the small up measures were carried out in consultation with the authordistance of 100 meters separating our Munich site from ities. At no time was there any risk of environmental conseAllacher Forst, which is covered by the European Union’s quences from the incidents in 2010 or 2011. Appropriate Habitats Directive. It was considered unlikely that the proemergency response plans are in place at all sites, and the duction activities at our site would have any impact on the major sites have well equipped works fire services to coordiarea. We were, however, recommended to take the precaunate and deal with incidents of these and other magnitudes. tion of calculating the potential influences. This suggestion was included in the Environment Program as a measure with a deadline of 2014. At our Berlin site, environmental safety considerations prompted us to apply a special coating to the entire workshop floor area of approx. 300 square meters. This prevents groundwater pollution arising from the use of substances dangerous to water. At another of our German sites, our own efforts to provide a suitable breeding environment have resulted in peregrine falcons nesting on the factory site for the past four years. The peregrine falcon appears on the Red List of endangered species. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 51 Environment Employees Employees In 2011 MAN conducted its first Group-wide employee survey, increased its workforce by 10% year-on-year, and employed a higher proportion of women — including at management level. Employee structure €2,542 million (2010: €2,187 million) on salaries and wages As of December 31, 2011, the MAN Group employed 52,542 and €551 million (2010: €462 million) on social security conpeople. This represents a 10% increase over the previous year, tributions, pensions, and other benefits in 2011. both nationally and internationally. Our workforce grew by 10.3% in Germany and 10.0% in the rest of the world. Women Employee turnover (excluding subcontracted employees) make up 13 % of our total workforce. The number of employ2009 2010 2011 ees with fixed-term contracts increased by 26%; as a proporNew hires 2,692 3,906 8,486 tion of the total workforce, it rose by 0.6 percentage points in Persons leaving 6,361 4,510 4,326 the year under review. Across the Group, we spent around Employee turnover in % 14.0 9.9 8.6 Employee structure Employee satisfaction 2009 2010 2011 In 2011 we conducted a Group-wide survey of our employees Total 47,743 47,669 52,542 for the first time (, page 10). The main area of focus was Germany 26,768 27,354 30,187 employee satisfaction in the workplace. We will utilize the Other countries 20,975 20,315 22,355 results, which are outlined in the Priority Issue section of this Women 5,662 5,943 6,846 report, to develop follow-up measures to further improve Subcontracted employees 1,643 1,976 2,364 employee satisfaction. Part-time employees 764 709 787 Employees on fixed-time contracts 2,002 2,035 2,581 The MAN Executive Academy feedback instruments contribute to an open culture of constructive feedback within the ComEmployees by region (excluding subcontracted employees) pany. We support our high standard of leadership, for example, by anchoring the four leadership qualities (competence, trans2009 2010 2011 parency, commitment, behavior) in the MAN annual perGermany 25,962 26,046 28,589 formance reviews for managers and evaluating the degree to Europe (excluding Germany) 16,433 15,407 16,604 which they are practiced. This benefits not only the Company Africa 791 827 925 and the employees, but the managers as well. Asia 805 1,193 1,453 Americas 2,067 2,174 2,559 Remuneration Australia 42 46 48 Remuneration at MAN is based on market rates and perTotal 46,100 45,693 50,178 formance. Participation in Company profits on the part of employees, managers, and the Executive Board is founded Age of employees (excluding subcontracted employees) on the same criteria across the Group. Remuneration is equal for women and men; it is calculated on the basis of profes< 30 31– 40 41– 50 51– 60 > 60 Total sional and personal qualifications, degree of responsibility, 10,811 14,490 14,201 9,455 1,221 50,178 and performance. Internal comparisons of the salaries and 52 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report wages paid to our female and male employees have confirmed Balancing work and family this equal treatment. A uniform system for ranking manBuilding on the example of the MAN daycare center at our agement positions has been in place since 2007. It factors in Munich facility, MAN Diesel & Turbo opened a company dayemployee competencies, contribution to value creation, and care center in Augsburg in October 2011. It offers care to 76 management and budget responsibilities. Around the world, children of MAN employees and Augsburg families. In Latin employee remuneration packages are made up of comparaAmerica, we offer employees six-months’ maternity leave. ble elements, with provisions for country-specific differences (e.g. in pensions). At our German sites, salaries and wages are Flexible working hours governed by collective bargaining agreements. We meet local A Group-wide model of flextime accounts to increase the flexminimum wage requirements at our international sites and ibility of our employees. Flextime allows employees to work ensure that this represents a living wage. more or fewer hours per day as their current workload demands, and to be compensated for overtime with time off. Diversity and equal opportunity Compared with the previous year, the proportion of employOur guidelines for management hiring specify that diversity ees with flextime accounts was unchanged despite the and the placement of qualified women in particular are to be increase in our workforce. In Germany, the average hours given special consideration. With the aim of further increasworked per week are governed by collective bargaining agreeing the proportion of women in management positions, we ments. At MAN, permanent employees may also request to offer mentoring and coaching programs, compile a pool of work from home. In the year under review, the number of female candidates, and agree with executive search firms on telecommuters increased slightly, while the number of a specific percentage of female candidates for management employees on sabbatical decreased by approximately 70%. positions. In the year under review, MAN employed 25 more Sabbaticals were primarily taken by MAN Truck & Bus women managers than in the previous year. For the third employees as part of the short-time working program in 2010, year in a row, the proportion of women in management posiwhich was discontinued at most sites in the year under review. tions rose by an average of over one percentage point, to almost 7%. Our goal is to increase the percentage of women Telecommuting and sabbaticals in Germany in management positions to 12% by 2014. There are no women (excluding Renk; excluding subcontracted employees) on the Executive Board of the MAN Group; one woman sits on 2009 2010 2011 the MAN SE Supervisory Board. Telecommuters (number) 5 5 8 Employees on sabbatical (number) 5 37 11 In our Company we work to integrate people with disabilities. In 2011, 5.3% of the MAN workforce in Germany consisted of severely disabled employees. This places us above the Flextime accounts (excluding Renk) legally required employment quota for disabled people, which 2009 2010 2011 is 5% in Germany. MAN Latin America has launched a proNumber of employees Germany 24,247 24,391 26,808 gram for their integration and has hired 22 disabled people. Total 44,232 43,784 48,234 Employees with flextime accounts Germany 23,746 23,749 26,116 Women in management positions (excluding subcontracted employees) Total 29,880 31,720 35,036 Percentage Germany 98.0 97.4 97.4 2009* 2010* 2011 Total 67.6 72.5 72.3 Level 1 – – 3 Level 2 – – 17 Level 3 – – 68 Total 41 63 88 Percentage 5.0 6.1 7.3 * During these years we only recorded the total number of women in management positions and not the distribution across the different management levels (level 1 to 3). / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 53 Employees Vocational training and continuing professional opment and continuing education. To evaluate and continudevelopment ously improve the performance of our workforce, all employMAN is known for its effective vocational training and conees subject to collective bargaining agreements undergo an tinuing professional development programs, which it offers annual employee appraisal, while level 1 to 3 managers parat all of its sites. In fall 2011, 1,973 young people in Germany ticipate in an annual performance review. Performance manand 2,769 across the Group started vocational training in agement takes account of the degree to which Group and submore than 30 primarily technical trades. With a view to our group targets are met, achievement of individual objectives, future success, for many years we have been training more and, since 2011, how well management behavior aligns with young people than we need. In the year under review, MAN the MAN leadership culture. (excluding Renk) took on more than 80% of its vocational trainees permanently in Germany. In the previous year this Continuing professional development hours per employee figure was almost 50%. 2009 2010 2011 Vocational training (excluding Renk; excluding subcontracted employees) MAN Truck & Bus 58 38 10* (Germany only) 2009 2010 2011 MAN Diesel & Turbo 15 13 16 International Number of employees 44,232 43,784 48,234 MAN Latin America 40 54 48 Number of vocational trainees 2,730 2,740 2,769 * The system of calculation has been changed to show continuing education hours actually completed rather than the estimated length of the training measures. Percentage of total 6.2 6.3 5.7 Germany Number of employees 24,247 24,391 26,808 At ten hours per employee, MAN Truck & Bus recorded a Number of vocational trainees 1,951 1,962 1,973 significantly lower number of continuing education hours Percentage of total 8.1 8.0 7.4 in 2011 than in the previous year (38). This is in part due to the revised system of calculation and in part to the disconAs part of our HR development system, our employees are tinuation of short-time working, which was used as an regularly given the opportunity to attend continuing educaopportunity for continuing professional development, at tion and professional development courses in keeping with most German sites in the reporting period. their individual levels of education and experience. In Resende, Brazil, MAN Latin America not only sponsors a oneDemographic change will make itself felt in Europe in the year vocational training program for young people from form of an aging workforce and a shortage of qualified proimpoverished families that qualifies them as assembly line fessionals. In this context, a culture of lifelong learning is technicians, but also offers continuing professional developabsolutely essential. We are working with our employees to ment for young talents with university degrees. A dedicated promote such a culture, supporting them in their continucontinuing education center was established in 2009 with ing professional development and education. the primary goal of training managers for MAN Latin America. In addition, MAN Latin America offers its employees postParticipation in professional training courses, MAN Truck & Bus graduate management courses at a professional training cenNumber of employees ter. 40 employees participated in the program in 2010; in 2011 Subject matter 2009 2010 2011 38 took part. In the year under review, MAN Diesel & Turbo Leadership/soft skills 889 974 2,498 held on-site intercultural training in India for the first time, IT 1,820 2,577 2,393 in which 43 employees took part. In another first, our proManagement and organization 452 3,418 1,120 gram for employees identified as having management potenHealth/labor law 740 1,179 843 tial was launched in Hong Kong for our staff in Asia. 145 canLanguage training 758 904 1,020 didates from our international program for employees Technical/quality 8,707 5,783 2,037 identified as having management potential took part in 2011. Total 13,366 14,835 9,911 MAN considers it important to provide its employees around the world with the same opportunities for professional devel54 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Occupational health and safety In the year under review we continued with a campaign at Across the MAN Group, the number of workplace injuries that our German facilities to encourage employees to get in shape. resulted in the employee missing work for more than three It focuses on preventive health measures, exercise, and nutridays decreased by 2.6% compared to the previous year despite tion. At our international sites we have launched a variety of an increase in production output. This improvement can be health measures, such as vaccination programs, quit-smoktraced to measures that were rolled out in our different sites. ing campaigns, and providing first-aid kits. For example in Posen (Poland) the safety of all workstations was reassessed and monthly production manager meetings Young talents were initiated to address occupational safety issues, while in An outstanding team needs great leaders. On an international Steyr (Austria) the routes through the production hall were level, we aim to attract top male and female talents at an early straightened. Through our works councils and workplace stage. We offer internships, a graduate program, scholarships safety officers, today the interests of all employees of the for MBAs and PhDs. Our Campus Initiative gives talented MAN Group in Germany are represented in the legally young people the chance to get to know MAN while still required workplace safety committees. The MAN Truck & Bus attending university. MAN offers students at Munich Techfactories in Austria, Poland, and Turkey have similar arrangenical University the opportunity to participate in projects, a ments. lecture series, and a scholarship program. MAN Latin America has launched a scholarship program to support outIn 2011 there was a fatal accident at the MAN Truck & Bus standing employees in their continuing professional develfacility in Starachowice (Poland), which we deeply regret. The opment as well as MBA and PhD programs. In 2011 63 Executive Board was informed of the incident and the entire employees took advantage of these scholarships. An assesssite was reassessed for hazards. The results of the analysis ment system is in place at MAN to identify employees with were passed on to all relevant sites. In addition, we have organleadership potential at an early stage. These programs tarized international meetings and joint working groups to facilgeting young talents have allowed us to fill most manageitate the exchange of information and lessons learned by our ment openings internally. safety experts. MAN Diesel & Turbo has stepped up its efforts to achieve OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety cerEmployee rights tification of its sites by the end of 2014. Five of its sites had The MAN Code of Conduct guides our daily actions and activbeen certified by the end of 2011. We have also planned a zeroities. We respect human rights, do not tolerate discriminaaccident initiative for 2012 with the goal of continuing to tion, and are committed to transparency. No cases of dissignificantly reduce the number and severity of workplace crimination were reported in the year under review. MAN accidents recognizes the rights of workers to form and participate in unions and to conduct collective bargaining. Due to the acquiLost-time injuries* (excluding MAN SE) sition of new companies whose employees are not all covered by collective bargaining agreements, the coverage rate 2009 2010 2011 in Germany was lower in the year under review than in the Lost-time injuries resulting in more than 781 871 848 three days of missed work (number) previous year. These companies are currently being evaluLost-time injuries resulting in more than three 18.0 16.8 14.3 ated in cooperation with the Group Works Committee. days of missed work per million hours worked (proportion) * In accordance with the Sozialgesetzbuch (SGB — German Social Code), workplace accidents are defined as injuries incurred by the insured while carrying out their insured employment. These injuries are events of a limited duration which are inflicted on the body by an external source and which result in impairment of health or death. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 55 Employees Employees with collective-bargaining agreements Social security (excluding MAN SE; excluding Renk; excluding subcontracted employees) Retirement provision that goes beyond the statutory pension systems is usually essential for MAN Group employees 2009 2010 2011 to ensure the standard of living to which they are accustomed Number of employees Germany 24,070 24,968 26,482 when they retire. The MAN Group therefore contributes to Europe 16,182 15,070 16,466 (excluding its employees’ retirement provision by granting pension comGermany) mitments and similar benefits that are structured to counAfrica 791 722 1,013 try-specific and market requirements. Asia 805 650 1,365 Americas 2,043 2,064 2,531 Once their active working life finishes, employees in Germany Australia 42 0 48 receive benefits provided by a modern and attractive occuTotal 43,933 43,474 47,905 pational pension system that constitute a key element of Number covered by Germany 24,070 24,968 26,243 MAN’s remuneration policy. These benefits offer a reliable collective-bargaining Europe 14,348 13,227 12,016 additional income on retirement and also provide cover for agreements (excluding Germany) the risk of permanent disability or death during their active Africa 152 152 186 employment. Employees receive employer contributions Asia 0 0 0 that are tied to their remuneration and can make additional Americas 745 804 1,030 provision through deferred compensation — which is Australia 0 0 0 employer-subsidized for staff subject to collective bargainTotal 39,315 39,151 39,475 ing agreements. Comprehensive provisions for disability and Percentage Germany 100.0 100.0 99.1 old age do not exist in many other regions, spotlighting the Europe 88.7 87.8 72.3 need for MAN as an internationally active companies to set (excluding minimum standards that apply to its employees around the Germany) globe. For employees at sites outside Germany we currently Africa 19.2 21.1 18.4 contribute to third-party pension plans, retirement investAsia 0.0 0.0 0.0 ment funds, or defined-benefit pension plans. MAN has not Americas 36.5 39.0 40.7 yet defined uniform minimum standards. Australia 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 89.5 90.1 82.4 Part of our sustainable HR policy concerns maintaining a transparent relationship of trust between the Company management, the workforce, and labor representatives. In the different countries where MAN is active, relations with its employees are structured in accordance with national law, as are communications with employees regarding fundamental changes within the organization. The employees of our subgroups are represented by their own works councils, which have negotiated numerous works agreements with the management of the respective subgroups. These agreements cover issues ranging from voluntary benefits to dialog with management and regulation of working hours. This establishes a dependable overall framework for MAN Group employees and encourages a relationship of trust between management and the workforce. 56 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate Citizenship MAN creates benefits for the regions where the Company is active. We work with suppliers from the area, hire local employees, and show our commitment to the community through donations and sponsorships. Responsibility for the community Vocational Training College, an accredited technical college in As a globally active corporation, we believe it is our duty to Kality, Ethiopia. In this institute, young people have the contribute to sustainable development around the world. opportunity to learn a technical trade. MAN experts are proWherever MAN creates value, we want the people of that viding ongoing technical training for the college’s instrucregion to profit as well. At MAN we see ourselves as part of tors, adding to the long-term benefits of our involvement. society, and our goal is to be a good corporate citizen in all Furthermore, in 2011 we supported the SOS vocational trainsites and regions where the Company operates. ing center in Nuremberg, Germany. Half of the funding went towards financing vocational training for five disadvantaged MAN’s numerous activities to support the well-being of the young people who would not have been able to learn a trade community are adapted to the specific needs of each locawithout this assistance. As part of our emergency relief protion. Some are centrally managed, whereas others are initiated grams, we provide targeted assistance following natural dislocally. Most of our activities are closely related to our core asters in specific regions, such as in Japan and East Africa in business areas and run over an extended period of time. This the year under review. Our donation of approximately includes the relief fund that we maintain through MAN €250,000 made it possible to establish an SOS Children’s VilTrucker’s World, our international drivers’ club. It provides lage in Fukuoka, Japan, where eight children who were immediate financial assistance to professional truck drivers orphaned by the earthquake were placed with foster parents. or their direct families if legally mandated benefits prove Our financial support is also enabling the SOS Children’s Vilinadequate following accidents. Since the fund was set up in lages organization to expand its own fundraising activities 2007, MAN has contributed €130,000 to the Trucker’s World in support of its long-term goal of financial independence. Drivers helping Drivers program. Regional responsibility Run by MAN Latin America, the Trailer Odontológico project The companies of the MAN Group are closely integrated in is another example of our corporate citizenship. Truck drivtheir regions and involved in their communities. Wherever we ers are provided with free dental services in a converted truck create value, we aim to make a contribution to economic and that travels along the highway between São Paulo and Rio de social development as well. As an employer, MAN creates Janeiro in Brazil. Approximately 5,880 truckers have taken skilled, fairly paid jobs for local employees and managers at advantage of this offer since 2008. In addition, MAN Latin our sites. Similarly, suppliers and service providers profit America supports the annual Friendship Games between from our presence in the region. In China we have numerous employees of eleven companies in Resende and surroundlicense agreements with local suppliers. In April 2011 MAN ing towns. This athletic event was held for the eleventh time signed a memorandum of understanding with the governor in the year under review, with 2,000 employees taking part. of St. Petersburg, Russia, under which MAN Truck & Bus will invest around €25 million in a local production facility and Partnership with SOS Children’s Villages MAN will found a production company in St. Petersburg. An For many years MAN has been a partner to SOS Children’s annual production capacity of approximately 6,000 vehicles Villages, a non-governmental development assistance organis planned for the St. Petersburg site in the medium term. ization. In 2011 we extended this long-term international partAround one quarter of Russian truck sales are set to be pronership for another three years, pledging annual financial duced locally. In addition, MAN will increase the percentage support of €150,000. Since 2008 we have sponsored the SOS of local suppliers used in its operations there. / About the Company / Priority Issue / Strategy and Management / Performance Report 57 Corporate Citizenship Donations and sponsoring Guidelines for lobbying As a good corporate citizen, MAN donates to charitable organWhen the government and society discuss current issues that izations and sponsors community projects. All donations and affect our core business areas, we contribute our expertise, sponsoring activities must comply with a policy that applies ideas, and project proposals on environmental protection, Group-wide and define permissible areas of support. For energy, transportation, and foreign trade. The MAN guidedonations, these include education, the sciences, culture, and lines for lobbying are defined in the MAN Code of Conduct welfare programs — especially social welfare, charitable, and and apply Group-wide. This Code explicitly outlines our comhumanitarian projects, and disaster relief efforts. Sponsormitment to nonpartisanship and to making our positions ships may also include industry and sports. Activities that transparent. In 2011 MAN spent around €80,000 on direct could damage our reputation are not acceptable, nor is suplobbying activities. To promote transparency, we advocate a port for political parties and their affiliated institutions or mandatory registry of all lobbyists. MAN has been listed in for religiously motivated organizations. MAN discloses all the EU lobby register since February 2009. expenditures for donations and sponsoring in a yearly report. In the year under review, our cash and non-cash donations Our positions totaled approximately €1.5 million. MAN mobility concepts contribute to the sustainable and efficient transportation of passengers and goods. The mobilCash and non-cash donations by area ity concept we have developed for passenger transport com€ Total: 1,525,328 854,142 bines different modules. People only travel short distances using individual forms of transportation — driving, cycling, Culture 15,370 11,085 Education or walking — and then transfer to bus or train. When it comes Academia 1,006,811 276,314 to transporting freight, it is equally important to unite cli18,190 10,044 Other mate protection and efficiency. 119,765 189,446 The German federal government has set a target of having one million electric vehicles on the roads by 2020, of which Welfare 365,192 367,253 50,000 are to be electric commercial vehicles. MAN is involved in working groups and research projects on electromobility Figures for 2010 in gray with the aim of developing new technological approaches to meeting climate targets. In addition, MAN is involved in two This year our sponsoring activities focused on sports. MAN proposals submitted under the program launched by the Gerextended its ongoing premium partnership with German man federal government to showcase electromobility. The Bundesliga team FC Bayern Munich for three years; other projects represent a systematic approach to making the new Bundesliga clubs are supported as part of our “Bundesliga technologies come alive for citizens and businesses. In the travels MAN” campaign. MAN also provided around €1 million Bavaria-Saxony showcase region, for example, MAN is workin funding for educational partnerships, usually long-term. ing with partners to develop a city logistics concept that inteThis included scholarship programs at Munich Technical Unigrates a number of MAN hybrid commercial vehicles. Tests versity and RWTH Aachen. In 2011 MAN Latin America suphave demonstrated fuel savings — and an associated reducported BIOSforum, an initiative that brings together importion in CO2 emissions — of up to 15%. tant private and public players to promote sustainable growth in Brazil. 58 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report UN Global Compact Communication on Progress MAN has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Comthe measures we have implemented and the results we have pact since 2010. We thereby made an express commitment to achieved or are aiming to achieve. In this context, our activithe ten principles of the Compact in the areas of human rights, ties are aligned with the Guiding Principles of the MAN Group, labor, the environment, and anticorruption. This report repour CR strategy, and our International Framework Agreement resents our second Communication on Progress. The table for basic human and employee rights. below provides an overview of the systems we have rolled out, CR Program Principle Systems Implementation Achievements Principle 1 MAN Code of Conduct (p. 22) Code of Conduct for Suppliers and 82% of employees worldwide are covSupport for human rights Business Partners introduced ered by collective bargaining agreeCode of Conduct for Suppliers and (pp. 22, 37, 40 et seq.) ments (p. 54 et seq.) Principle 2 Business Partners Exclusion of human rights abuses (pp. 22, 37, 40, et seq.) Pilot project for supplier self-assessment launched (p. 40 et seq.) Principle 3 Purchasing and procurement policy Ensuring freedom of association (p. 23) Compliance and CR requirements included in due diligence reviews (p. 39) Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced labor Principle 5 Abolition of child labor Principle 6 MAN management hiring policy (p. 13) With other Dax 30 corporations, we No reported cases of discrimination Elimination of discrimination became a signatory to the declaration on (p. 54) women in management positions (p. 13) Proportion of women in management positions increased by 1.2 percentage points (p. 52) Proportion of severely disabled people employed by MAN in Germany is 5.3% (p. 52) Principle 7 Integrated management system Continued establishment and verification of 76% of workforce is covered by Precautionary environmental (pp. 23, 40) environmental management systems at ISO 14001 certification (p. 40) protection MAN sites (p. 40) 80% of workforce is covered by Compliance and CR requirements included ISO 9000/9001 (p. 40) in due diligence reviews (p. 39) Principle 8 MAN’s Climate Strategy (p. 20 et seq.) MAN’s Climate Strategy drawn up and Increase in energy consumption lower Initiatives to promote greater adopted (pp. 20, 23) than increase in revenues (p. 45) environmental responsibility Core initiatives for implementing MAN’s Decrease in fuel consumption (p.44) Climate Strategy defined (p. 21) Principle 9 MAN’s Climate Strategy (p. 20 et seq.) Core initiatives for implementing MAN’s TGX EfficientLine cuts energy Diffusion of environmentally Climate Strategy defined (p. 21) consumption per ton transported by up friendly technologies to 10% (p. 44) Bundling of R&D activities for alternative drive concepts in center of competence for Newly developed 6 MW gas turbines hybrid drives (p. 43) with efficiency of well over 30% (p. 44) Eco-efficient and eco-friendly innovations (pp. 44, 46) Principle 10 Compliance program Group-wide compliance risk assessment Helpdesk received 1,405 questions Measures to combat corruption (pp. 22, 38 et seq.) conducted (p. 38) and 5,470 employees (10%) worldwide were trained in 238 compliance awarePolicies on handling gifts, invitations, Business Partner Approval Tool rolled out ness training sessions (p. 38 et seq.) donations, and sponsoring (p. 22) worldwide (p. 38) Whistleblower portal “Speak up!” launched on the Internet (p. 22) Compliance and CR requirements for due diligence reviews formulated (p. 39) 59 GRI Content Index This index shows where the relevant information can be GRI-G3 application level A+. This self-assessment has been found in the 2011 CR Report. All standard indicators are checked and confirmed by the GRI (, page 64). A complete included. Non-consecutive numbering is due to the fact that GRI index with information on the supplementary indicano information is provided on supplementary indicators. tors that are relevant for us can be found on the internet at According to our own estimate, this report complies with www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR/. GRI Content Index (G3 standard indicators) Reported Page 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO or the supervisory board chairperson fully 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities fully 18-21, 29-31 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the company fully 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and services fully 4 et seq. 2.3 Operational structure and divisions fully 4 et seq. 2.4 Location of headquarters fully 4 2.5 Countries with major operations fully 4 et seq. 2.6 Nature of ownership fully 4 et seq. 2.7 Markets served fully 4 et seq. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization fully 4 et seq., 42, 51; AR 104 2.9 Significant changes in the reporting period fully 4 et seq., 42 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period fully Cover flap, inside, 12, 28 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period fully 36 3.2 Date of previous report fully May 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle fully 36 3.4 Contact for questions on the report fully 65 3.5 Processes for defining report content fully 25-27, 36 3.6 Boundary of report fully 36 3.7 Specific limitations on scope fully 36 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourcing fully 4 et seq., 36 3.9 Data acquisition fully 36 3.10 Explanation of any restatements of information fully 45, 47, 48 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary or measurement methods fully 36 3.12 GRI index fully 59-61 3.13 External verification fully 36, 62 et seq. 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure fully 12, 22, 37; AR 9 et seq. 4.2 Independence of the supervisory board chairperson fully 37 4.3 Supervisory board or independent directors fully 12 4.4 Mechanisms to provide shareholder and employee recommendations to the board/supervisory board fully 12, 41 4.5 Link between senior management compensation and company performance fully 37, 51 et seq.; AR 21 et seq. 60 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index (G3 standard indicators) Reported Page 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided fully 37; AR 11 et seq., 18 4.7 Sustainability expertise of the board/supervisory board fully 23, 37 4.8 Vision, corporate values, and codes of conduct fully Cover flap, outside, 18, 22 et seq. 4.9 Board-level processes for overseeing sustainability performance fully 23, 37 et seq. 4.10 Processes for evaluating board performance fully 37; AR 23 et seq. 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary principle fully 23et seq., 40, 43 4.12 External initiatives that the organization endorses fully 13, 23 4.13 Memberships in industry and business associations fully 27 et seq., 41 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization fully 25, 41 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to engage fully 25 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder dialog (type/frequency) fully 10 et seq., 21, 25 et seq., 41 4.17 Response to key concerns raised by stakeholders fully 10 et seq., 25 et seq. 5. Management approach and performance indicators Economics — Management approach fully 4 et seq., 13-15, 18-21, 29, 42-44, 55 EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed fully 42, 51, 57; AR 41 EC2 Financial implication of climate change1 partially 20 et seq., 43 et seq. EC3 Coverage of benefit pension plan obligations fully 55; AR 140-143 EC4 Financial assistance received from government fully 42 EC6 Payments to locally-based suppliers fully 56 EC7 Local hiring for senior management positions2 partially 13 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit fully 14 et seq., 56 Environment — Management approach fully 20 et seq., 30, 39, 45 et seq. 3 EN1 Weight/volume of materials used partially 48 EN2 Percentage of secondary raw materials used4 not 49 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary sources fully 45 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary sources fully 45 et seq. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source fully 49 EN11 Land use in protected areas fully 50 EN12 Impacts of activities on protected areas fully 50 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions fully 46 et seq. EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions fully 47 EN19 Ozone-depleting substances by weight fully 47 EN20 NOX, SOX, and other significant airborne emissions by weight fully 47 et seq. EN21 Water discharge5 partially 49 et seq. EN22 Waste by type and disposal method fully 49 EN23 Number and volume of significant spills fully 50 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services fully 20 et seq., 46 EN27 Percentage of recycled products and their packaging materials6 not EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations fully 39 61 GRI Content Index (G3 standard indicators) Reported Page Labor practices and decent work — Management approach fully 10, 12-15, 19, 24, 29-31, 52-55 LA1 Total workforce by employment conditions and region fully 51 LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender, and region7 partially 51 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements fully 54 et seq. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes fully 55 8 LA7 Injuries, absentee rates and work-related fatalities partially 54 LA8 Prevention and risk-control programs for serious diseases fully 23 et seq., 54 9 LA10 Training hours by employee category partially 53 LA13 Composition of senior management and breakdown of employees (age/gender/ethnicity)10 partially 51 et seq., AR 14 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category fully 51 et seq. Human rights — Management approach fully 12, 22 et seq., 29-31, 38-41, 54 HR1 Investment agreements with HR clauses or screening fully 39 HR2 Proportion of suppliers that underwent screening on human rights and action taken fully 23, 40 et seq. HR4 Incidents of discrimination and action taken fully 54 HR5 Operations with significant risks to freedom of association fully 12, 22 et seq., 38, 40 et seq., 54 HR6 Operations with higher risk of child labor and action taken fully 22 et seq., 38, 40 et seq. HR7 Operations with higher risk of forced labor and action taken fully 22 et seq., 38, 40 et seq. Society — Management approach fully 22 et seq., 27 et seq., 31, 38 et seq., 56 et seq. SO1 Policy to manage impacts on communities fully 56 SO2 Proportion of business units analyzed for risks of corruption fully 38 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption fully 38 et seq. SO4 Action taken in response to instances of corruption fully 38 et seq. SO5 Positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying fully 27 et seq., 57 SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations fully 39 Product responsibility — Management approach fully 22, 24, 29 et seq., 37, 39, 44 PR1 Product life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts are assessed fully 24 11 PR3 Principles/measures related to product labelling partially 44 PR6 Programs for compliance with laws and voluntary codes in advertising fully 44 PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with regulations governing the use of products and services fully 39 1 We are currently unable to report on the financial impact of climate change as we do not have quantitative data available. Reporting on this point will remain difficult in the future as well, since it is determined by factors outside our sphere of influence. 2 We are currently unable to quantify the proportion of managers sourced from the local population as we do not have the relevant data. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 3 We are currently unable to indicate the amounts of materials used as we do not have the relevant data. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 4 As we have no data on the total amounts of material used, we cannot indicate the percentage of secondary raw materials. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 5 We are currently unable to indicate the wastewater pollutant load as the relevant data are not available to us. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 6 We do not indicate the percentage of packaging taken back as this is not relevant in our business. 7 We do not break down employee turnover by gender and age at Group level as this is not relevant. 8 We are currently unable to provide a breakdown by region and data on contractors as these data are not available. We are aiming to report on this point in 2013. 9 We are currently unable to provide a breakdown by employee category as these data are not available. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 10 We are currently unable to indicate the proportion of minorities as these data are not available. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 11 We are currently unable to indicate the percentage as these data are not available. We are aiming to report on this point in 2015. 62 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Independent Assurance Report The audit performed by PwC relates exclusively to the German print version of the CR Report. The following text is a translation of the original German Independent Assurance Report. To MAN SE, Munich We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagethe Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. We ment on the data for the financial year 2011 in the Corporate also have been engaged to make recommendations for the Responsibility Report (the “CR Report”) of MAN SE, Munich. further development of CR management and CR reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement. Management’s responsibility The Executive Board of MAN SE is responsible for the prepaWe conducted our work in accordance with the International ration of the CR Report in accordance with the criteria stated Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This stanin the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7–17) of dard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): plan and perform the assurance engagement to express our Materiality, conclusion with limited assurance. Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering Completeness, procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance Balance, engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements Clarity, in accordance with § [Article] 317 HGB [„Handelsgesetzbuch“: Accuracy, „German Commercial Code“]), and therefore less assurance is Timeliness, obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. Comparability and Reliability. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst This responsibility includes the selection and application of others the following procedures: appropriate methods to prepare the CR Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability Inquiries of personnel in the corporate function respondisclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Fursible for the preparation of the CR Report regarding the thermore, the responsibil ity includes designing, impleprocess to prepare the CR Report and the underlying intermenting and maintaining systems and processes relevant for nal control system; the preparation of the CR Report. Inquiries of personnel in the central functions that are Practitioner’s responsibility responsible for the topics included in the CR Report; Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether any matters have come to our Inspection and sample testing of the systems and process attention that cause us to believe that the CR Report for the documentation for collection, analysis and aggregation of financial year 2011 has not been prepared, in all material sustainability data; respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of 63 Site visits as part of the inspection of processes for colEmphasis of matter — recommendations lecting, analysing and aggregating the selected data: Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the folin the corporate center, lowing recommendations for the further development of CR at the national production sites management and CR reporting: · MAN Truck & Bus AG, Munich, · MAN Diesel & Turbo SE, Augsburg, Further integration of CR aspects in core processes such · MAN Diesel & Turbo SE, Oberhausen, as procurement or sales; at the international production sites · MAN Truck & Bus Österreich AG, Steyr (Austria), Further improvement of standardized CR reporting · MAN Türkiye A.S., Ankara (Turkey), processes and controls to all reporting areas, especially on · MAN Diesel & Turbo France SAS, Saint Nazaire division and site level; · (France), · MAN Diesel & Turbo Schweiz AG, Zurich (Switzerland), Support of reporting processes by IT solutions. · MAN Diesel & Turbo SE, Copenhagen (Denmark). Inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices/ Munich, March 26, 2012 reports of external service providers; PricewaterhouseCoopers Analytical Review of CR data; Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the MAN SE 2011 Annual Report; Petra Justenhoven Hendrik Fink Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer Inspection of documents regarding the description and (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) approval of the CR strategy and CR programme as well as understanding the CR management structure and the stakeholder dialogue of MAN SE. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data for the financial year 2011 in the CR Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7–17) of the GRI. 64 MAN 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Level Check Certificate If the “Responsibility for Our Climate — MAN’s Climate Strategy” brochure is missing here, e-mail CorporateResponsibility@man.eu to request a copy. Responsibility for Our Climate MAN’s Climate Strategy Engineering the Future – since 1758. MAN SE 65 Credits Published by Concept, texts, and layout MAN SE akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich Corporate Responsibility Ungererstr. 69 Photo credits 80805 Munich, Germany Front cover: Hauke Dressler www.man.eu Front flap: Mercy Ships 2004, Conny Stein, MAN E-mail: CorporateResponsibility@man.eu pp. 2, 8 – 9: Andreas Pohlmann pp. 6 – 7, 16 – 17, 34 – 35: Hauke Dressler Contact pp. 11, 13, 15: MAN Yvonne Benkert p. 15: Mike Krüger Head of Corporate Responsibility p. 20: Sandor Jackel, Günter Lenz, Steven Pepple, MAN Phone: +49. 89. 36098-226 Inside flap (p. 33): altrendo images, MAN E-mail: yvonne.benkert@man.eu Printed by Editorial deadline Medienhaus Biering GmbH, Munich January 31, 2012 Paper Copyright Hello fat mat © 2012 MAN SE This is a translation of the German original. In the event of any discrepancies between the German language version and any translation thereof, the German language version will prevail. MAN SE Ungererstr. 69 80805 Munich, Germany Telefon: +49. 89. 36098-0 Fax: +49. 89. 36098-250 Corporate Responsibility at MAN online www.man.eu www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR Corporate Responsibility at MAN online MAN SE Ungererstr. 69 80805 Munich, Germany Phone: +49. 89. 36098-0 Fax: +49. 89. 36098-250 www.man.eu www.man.eu/MAN/en/CR
