2 BY FULFILLING ITS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES, 3 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES IS BECOMING A COMPANY THAT IS RESPECTED AND ADMIRED Ceo Message Woori Investment & Securities BY ITS STAKEHOLDERS. Consistent Growth and Success through Sustainability Management The world’s leading companies are being called upon First, we are implementing an efficient, effective susto fulfill their responsibilities to the environment and tainability management system that will make us a society and to look beyond merely boosting their leading company in every respect. To this end, we own economic performance. Indeed, sustainability will complete the formation of special units and a management is no longer just an option; it is crucial company-wide education system for sustainability to a company's survival and success, guaranteeing management, and we will monitor these systems constant growth. through an evaluation framework. In so doing, we will With a deep understanding of the importance of susreflect non-financial factors in our management strattainability management, Woori Investment & Securiegies, thereby addressing environmental and social ties has steadily sought mutually beneficial growth issues and embedding sustainability management in with all stakeholders, whether economic, environour corporate culture. mental, or social. Second, we will enhance our eco-friendly, green In 2010, Woori Investment & Securities actively management for future generations. Acknowledgparticipated in socially responsible investment. For ing our responsibility to future generations, we will “I would like to express my deepest gratitude example, it raised KRW 110 billion in funding for inprovide a line-up of additional green products and dustries designated as new growth engines, includservices. We will also directly or indirectly invest in as our company publishes its first sustaining energy providers and those assisting the environgreen businesses and projects, creating additional ability report, a fitting way to mark our 42nd ment. We also launched an Office of Corporate Social business opportunities in eco-friendly areas. Through Responsibility to support the scholarship of students these socially responsible management activities, we anniversary. As we fulfill our responsibilities from low-income families and to implement volunteer will raise the level of customer satisfaction and furactivities for underprivileged neighbors, thereby fulther assist in the growth of eco-friendly businesses. to the economy, the environment, and sofilling our responsibility as corporate citizens through Last, but not least, we will listen to the voices of our a wide range of corporate social contribution (CSR) stakeholders through a range of communication ciety, we are strengthening our reliability as activities for socially marginalized people. Furtherchannels. Acknowledging the importance of open a partner for our customers, shareholders, more, through an electronic approval system and communication in earning the trust and interest of mobile communications, we have become a leader in stakeholders, we will voluntarily disclose our inforand employees, seeking mutually beneficial the low carbon, green growth movement by creating mation to them through a variety of media, including paperless business processes. sustainability reports and expanded participation in growth.” As a result, the Company received a Minister of Soglobal initiatives. Additionally, we will more accuratecial Welfare Award in the social promotions category ly reflect their suggestions and opinions in our manat the 2010 Korea Sustainable Management Awards. agement strategies. It has also been included in the DJSI Korea and the Another Step to Becoming One of Asia’s Leading Korea Exchange Social Responsible Investment Dear Stakeholders Investment Banks (KRX SRI) index, thereby signaling official, internaAs we commence the publication of sustainability reDuring 2010 and 2011, despite the European debt and M&As. This dominance is the result of our untional recognition of the Company for its leadership ports, we declare our commitment to becoming adcrisis and provocations from North Korea, Woori Inmatched competencies in investment banking and in sustainability. mired corporate citizens, inculcating the awareness vestment & Securities achieved results that attest to our superior advisory expertise. of sustainability in the Company's daily operations. its reputation as a “company of many firsts” in its The world faces lingering uncertainties, including a A Corporate Citizen Leading by Example We continue to seek a stronger position as a respectbusiness areas. deepening in the European financial crisis, a downAs 2011 is the first year in its implementation of sustained company with which customers want to trade. With state-of-the-art asset management schemes grade of the U.S. credit rating, and emerging signs of ability management, Woori Investment & Securities is On behalf of everyone at Woori Investment & Securiand a wide array of innovative financial products, a double-dip recession. As we encounter these pomaking concerted efforts to become a corporate citizen ties, I thank you for your steadfast support and conwe have surpassed other major players in our share tential hardships, we will find opportunity in crisis – that dedicates itself to the active pursuit of sustainable tinuing encouragement, and I look forward to further Sustainability Report 2010 of the brokerage market, and as of March 2011, we the opportunity to achieve our objective of becoming growth along with its stakeholders, including sharegrowth with you. have retained more than KRW145 trillion in assets Korea’s best overall financial investment company. holders, customers, employees, partner companies, Thank you. 2011. 11 under management (AUM). This achievement is a Moreover, through constant innovation, systematic regional communities, and the government. We are laySung-Ho Hwang clear sign of our clients’ implicit trust in us. approaches, and a stronger presence in overseas ing a firm groundwork for sustainability management President & CEO Moreover, we have reinforced our dominance in bond markets, we are preparing ourselves for a position as through three strategies, and we look forward to sharWoori Investment & Securities underwriting and other key IB sectors such as IPOs one of Asia’s leading investment banks. ing the results of our performance with stakeholders. 06 Global Mega Trends : Issues of Sustainability Management 08 Introduction to Woori Investment & Securities 10 Sustainable Corporate Governance 12 Sustainability Management at Woori Investment & Securities 14 Communication with Stakeholders 18 Sustainability Performance Our Approach Woori Investment & Securities continually monitors factors in the external financial environment such as global mega trends, and determines appropriate countermeasures and opportunities, thereby laying a base for sustainable growth. The Company also links its vision and core values with its sustainability management framework. To achieve its vision, it also provides a roadmap for growth toward becoming a leading company in sustainability performance. Progress & Achievement Established Sustainability Management Strategies and Roadmap Selected Sustainability Management Action Plans Commitment to Sustainability Management Proclaimed Defined Seven Stakeholder Groups Expanded Communication with Stakeholders Major Issues Selected through the Materiality Test Strategic Direction Establishing a Special Unit and a Management System for Sustainability Management Strengthening Related Education and Training and Raising Employees’ awareness Implementing a System for Evaluation of Sustainability Management Performance Expanding Participation in Global Initiatives Global Mega Trends : Issues of Sustainability Management Major Global Mega Trends To guarantee sustainable growth, a corporation must sense future changes as early as possible and secure the competitive edge in order to adapt to those changes. As it conducts sustainability management activities, Woori Investment & Securities recognizes globalization, management integrity, demographic shifts, and climate change as major global mega trends. Globalization Management Integrity Demographic Shifts Climate Change Venturing into Global IB Markets p.50 Streamlining Risk Management p.22 Industry-leading Products and Services p.33 Eco-friendly Products Introduced p.28 Raising Ethical Awareness toward Transparent Management p.38 Corporate Culture Improvement Programs p.48 Green Management and the Response to Climate Change p.54 As the world enters the 21st century, the center of the world’s ecoCompanies now pay increasing attention to non-financial factors such Economically advanced countries, including Korea, are facing an inThe Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement linked to the United nomic growth, which has been dominated by the industrialized as ethical management, the commitment of the top management, creasingly aging population, attributed to lower population growth Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, was introduced countries, has shifted to other countries and regions. Developing brand management, and partnership with other companies. They rates that are in turn the result of low birth rates and higher life exin 2005. Following the Korean government's unveiling of its new countries, as emerging markets, have shown consistent toward assess the health of their management by looking beyond financial pectancies. These shifts are causing significant changes in their “Low Carbon, Green Growth” policies in 2008, a Framework Act on growth based on higher productivity, expanded infrastructure, rising data, including other factors apart from current stock price indexes, economies and societies. These changes may directly lead to slugLow Carbon, Green Growth was promulgated in 2010 to cope with consumer power, and improved lifestyles. This growth is expected disclosure of financial information, and industry growth projections. gish economic growth due to shortages in key labor supply. In parclimate change, save energy, and nurture green businesses. Furtherto continue accelerating due to relaxation of international trade and The Enron scandal in early 2000 led to the decline of investor confiticular, the financial industry must address the prospects of an aging more, the government introduced specific policies under the lowconstant progress in information and communication technologies. dence in corporate accounting and auditing. The BP oil spill in April society in order to sustain and develop investment opportunities, carbon, green-growth initiative, including a system for new targets Based on the competitiveness of the real economy, the developing 2010 damaged that corporation's public image as an eco-friendly funding activities, and product sales to individuals – areas that comto reduce energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in 2011. countries are expected to stabilize and open their financial markets. company. Thus, corporations today are keenly aware of the necesprise the largest portion of business success. On the other hand, as As the financial industry relies knowledge-intensive services and Meanwhile, developed countries, which show somewhat stagnant sity of an integrated risk management system that covers intangible a more positive result, so-called silver businesses will offer increashuman resources that cause little impact on the environment, until growth, are expected to further concentrate on monetary soundassets, including trustworthiness and corporate image, to retain ing promise, especially with financial products and services aimed recently it has merely approached climate change issues from the ness and public spending cuts to ensure economic stability. As a sound management. Recently, the significance of long-term risk at the aging. perspectives of risk management and brand management. These result, the financial markets and corporate management environmanagement has gained more attention from a rising number of days climate change is occupying an important position in corporate ment are expected to change gradually, and the world’s financial opinions that attribute the European financial crisis and the downActivities of the Company business strategies as demands increase for the financial industry to markets are expected to become more advanced as they focus on grade of the U.S. credit rating to short-sighted policies that focus Woori Investment & Securities seeks business opportunities by congive greater emphasis to CSR activities and green growth. the growth and development of the emerging markets. on temporary solutions. sidering the continuing influence that the aging have on society. The Company is accelerating the development of special products tarActivities of the Company Activities of the Company Activities of the Company geting the aging, while also leveraging its market-leading expertise Woori Investment & Securities has already sought opportunities Along with the in global markets, the Korean domestic financial inUnderstanding the fact that the trustworthiness of a corporation in retirement pensions. to influence the amelioration of climate change. As of July 2011, dustry has transformed itself through constant innovation. Through significantly influences its performance and even survival, Woori As part of an agreement with employees, the Company will introthe Company has developed 17 financial products related to green strategic globalization, Woori Investment & Securities also contribInvestment & Securities embeds ethical management in its daily opduce a salary peak system from 2013, thereby extending the retiregrowth and eco-friendliness, categorized into three areas, including utes to the development of the domestic market. Since the launcheration. In addition to its Ethical Management Committee and Ethiment age of branch heads to enable them to work into their 60s. The eco-friendly industry, green/clean energy, and industries assisting ing of Korea’s first investment banking center in Singapore in 2007, cal Management Office, and appointments of ethical management Company has introduced a group mentoring system to encourage agricultural. In 2010, Woori Investment & Securities raised KRW 110 the Company has expanded its presence in Southeast Asia, includofficers, the Company has provided guidelines for internal control the retirees to pass their expertise to the next generation, greatly billion in funds for industries designated as new growth engines, ing Indonesia and Vietnam. There, it has expanded its business and ethical issues, including the code of ethics and internal complicontributing to the future success of the Company. including energy and environment. Although Woori Investment & scope into investment financing, hedge funds, and onand off-line ance guidelines. Through self-inspection, the fulfillment of ethical Securities is exempted in government targets from reporting on brokerage services. It has also sought new business opportunities performance is voluntarily monitored by individual employees or emission volumes as promptly as is required of other industries, it through strategic alliances and M&As with local companies. Furteams. Each year, the company also assesses the level of undernevertheless voluntarily compiles greenhouse gas inventories along thermore, the Company has accelerated its forays into other global standing and practice of ethical management in each department with other subsidiaries of the Woori Financial Group, and it manages financial markets based on its overseas networks, including eight and branch. resource consumption as it participates in the nation-wide “low carlocal subsidiaries in major global cities such as Hong Kong, New Furthermore, the Company focuses on long-term risk management bon, green growth” movement. York, London, and Beijing, and two major representative offices in to prevent risks that may arise if management concentrates on Shanghai and Kuala Lumpur. Following several years of strategic short-term performance. The Company operates a Risk Manageplanning and effort, the Company's global network has achieved ment Committee, a Risk Management Council, and a Risk Managerecognition around the world, and it now plays a role as a financial ment Center, and conducts an integrated risk management system consultant for the overseas marketing activities of Korean compawhich is designed to share risk management information at every nies, as well as overseas companies who enter the Korean market. level, from executive to clerical, in a timely manner. Introduction to Woori Investment & 8 Securities 9 Since its inception in 1969 under the name Hanbo Securities, Woori Investment & Securities has played a leading role in the Organization Change for Sustainability Woori Investment & Securities development of the Korean capital markets. The result of merger between LG Investment & Securities and Woori Securities Led by the CEO, Woori Investment & Securities has four divisions, four departments, and a Compliance Officer. Each division in 2005, the Company has since strengthened its fundamentals to develop into a premiere financial investment institution, is managed organically to boost efficiency in operation and maximize synergy with other subsidiaries of the Group. solidifying market leadership in its core business areas. Shareholder’s Meeting Board of Directors Vision and Core Value Woori Investment & Securities provides an outstanding, Corporate name Woori Investment & Securities globally competitive line-up of products and services. With a vision of becoming the best overall investment financial Woori I&S Bldg. 23-4 Yeouido-dong, Headquarters Audit Committee Product Approval Committee Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-725, Korea company, it makes every effort to fulfill employees’ dreams Non-executive Director Nomination Committee New Business Approval Committee through mutually beneficial growth. Date founded January 16, 1969 Management Committee CEO Assets Liabilities Committee Management Compensation Committee Office of Achieving # 1 To become the best overall investment financial company, CEO Sung-Ho Hwang Risk Control Committee Office of Corporate Social Responsibility all employees at the Company strive to fulfill their duties with three core values: proactive spirit that embraces challenge, 117 branches in Korea Network 8 overseas subsidiaries professionalism that increases each one’s own competitive5 overseas offices ness, and goal-oriented teamwork. Despite the unfavorable market conditions that resulted Market capitalization KRW 2.8 trillion (Including preferred stocks) Wealth Business Risk Compliance ManageWholesale Trading IB Research Product Admin., Global from the global financial crisis, Woori Investment & SecuWoori Financial Group: 30.6% Strategy Management Officer Major shareholders ment Strategy rities has maintained stable growth through its unique IB(35% of common stock) type business model based on market-leading performance Total assets KRW 19,359.2 billion in its core businesses, including IB, trading, and WM, as Total shareholder KRW 2,628.7 billion well as proactive risk management. As financial institutions equities are required to fulfill their social responsibilities even more No. of Employees 2,965 following the financial crisis, the Company actively copes Fitch : BBB+ (Long-term Foreign Currency Issuer Overseas Network with environmental and social issues in addition to financial Default Rating) As part of strategies for globalization, Woori Investment & Securities launched a London subsidiary in 1991, followed by local performance. Moody’s : Baa2 (Long-term Foreign Currency subsidiaries in New York and Hong Kong, establishing a base for entry into the most advanced financial markets by focusing Hereafter, based on these visions, goals, and core values, Issuer Default Rating) Credit ratings on institutional brokerage and sales. The Company also began to make rapid strides in Asia by opening a Shanghai office in AA for corporate bonds from 3 domestic credit Woori Investment & Securities will continue to lay a firm rating agencies 2003, followed by establishment of a presence in Singapore, Ho Chi Minh, Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta. base for its sustainable performance and the society’s sus※Highest rating among Korean securities Woori Investment & Securities continues to strengthen its global presence with the aim of becoming a top-tier financial intainable growth, thereby becoming the best overall investcompanies vestment company in Asia. ment financial company from every perspective. * As of march, 2011 (The number of employees as of the 1st half, 2011) Vision To become the best overall investment financial company Goal A company that fulfills dreams, with the company and its employees helping each other realize the corporate vision and individual aspirations 2 8 A 1 Employee aspirations = To become the industry’s best experts Company vision = To become the best overall investment financial company B 3 Core Values 7 A proactive spirit that Pursuit of professionalism Goal-oriented C embraces challenges by increasing one’s own teamwork Sustainability Report 2010 competitiveness D 4 5 Local Subsidiaries Representative Offices 1. New York A. Beijing Research Center 6 E · Take initiative in facing challenges · Continuously study and research · Clearly recognize team goals and 2. London B. Shanghai Office and make commitment to action the task at hand gear one’s performance towards 3. Hong Kong C. Ho Chi Minh Office · Seek new and creative methods · Take full responsibility for one’s the attainment of the goals 4. Singapore D. Kuala Lumpur Office from a positive standpoint own work · Cooperate with team members to 5. Woori Absolute Partners E. Jakarta Office (Asset management company for · Always aim for higher results improve team effort hedge funds) 6. Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia 7. Woori CBV Securities Corporation 8. Woori Asia Investment Advisory Co.,Ltd. (Beijing) 10 Sustainable Corporate Governance 11 Board of Directors Board Committee Evaluation of BOD Performance Change for Sustainability Woori Investment & Securities To enhance the professionalism and transparency of the The BOD assesses its own operations and the participation BOD Composition and Status BOD Meetings and Roles BOD and build sound corporate governance, Woori Investof its members, as well as disclosing assessment results As the highest decision-making body, the board of direcThe BOD discusses and resolves issues stipulated in rement & Securities operates five committees : Audit, Nonprior to general shareholders’ meeting. The performance of executive director Recommendation, Management Comexecutives is evaluated abiding by the Group’s guidelines tors approves and deliberates overall management stratelated regulations and the Articles of Incorporation or BOD mittee, Management Development and Compensation, and on subsidiaries management. Each year, Non-executive digies and guidelines. Chaired by the CFO of Woori Financial regulations, including general shareholders' meetings, genRisk Management. rectors must be evaluated in terms of their levels of particiGroup, the BOD consists of two executive directors, includeral management, financial management, and BOD manIndependently operated, the committees manage and monpation in BOD meetings, professionalism, and other activiing the CEO, a non-managing outside director and five Nonagement. itor businesses and risks. ties. The results of the evaluation are used as criteria for the executive directors, as of 2011. Regular BOD meetings and extraordinary board meetings recommendation of Non-executive directors. In 2010, the Company more clearly delineated the roles of are held separately to discuss and resolve major manageAudit Committee Through clear evaluation of BOD members, the Company the chairman of the BOD and the CEO, thereby reinforcing ment issues. The Audit Committee consists of at least three directors strives to maintain healthy corporate governance. the system of checks and balances within the BOD as well In 2010, the BOD convened four regular meetings and 10 appointed at general shareholders’ meetings. At least two as the transparency of corporate governance. The Compaextraordinary meetings to resolve 26 out of 28 reported isof the directors are independent. The committee enhances Major Roles of Committees ny appoints the CFO of Woori Financial Group as the BOD’s sues. The outside director participated in 98.4% of meetaccounting and auditing practices, ensuring clean managechairman, and thus expects to create additional synergy ings. ment company-wide. within the Group. Besides general management issues, the BOD also handles Board of Directors Non-executive Director Nomination Committee The Non-executive directors are appointed from candidates sustainability-related issues and makes effort to instill the Comprised of at least two directors, at least half of whom who have in-depth knowledge and strong ethical beliefs in value of sustainability management in the corporate culare Non-executive directors, the Non-executive Director Audit Committee Accounting and auditing the financial industry. To ensure the independence of the ture. Nomination Committee nominates candidates for Non-exBOD and fairness in election procedures, the Non-executive ecutive director posts at general shareholders’ meetings. All director Recommendation Committee screens candidates five incumbent Non-executive directors were nominated by Non-executive Director Recommendation of Non-executive direcNomination Committee tors at general shareholders’ meeting in observance of related regulations. The Non-executive diBOD Meeting Agenda in 2010 the committee. rectors are appointed at the general shareholders' meeting. Date Resolution of management issues as Classification Major agenda Management Committee Management Committee opened delegated by the BOD Composition of the BOD The Management Committee deliberates and resolves manExtraordinary 1st 01. 07 Asset revaluation (draft) approved agement-related issues, which are delegated by the BOD. Classification Name Responsibility and position Management ComEvaluation and compensation Composed of at least two directors, the committee was conpensation Committee procedures for top management Financial statements (drafts) for 3rd quarter Dong-Hyuck Regular 1 st 01. 28 Shin(Lead nonFormer Chairman, Korea Federation FY 2009 approved, and two other issues vened 26 times to resolve 33 issues in 2010. executive director) of Banks Early repayment of treasure bonds (draft) Risk Control Committee Supervision of risk management Chairman, Korean Economic Extraordinary 2nd 02. 19 approved Management Compensation Committee Sung-Keun Ha Association By assigning performance targets for top management, the Non-executive Parc.1 investment (draft) approved, and one Management Development and Compensation CommitFormer Executive Vice President, Extraordinary 3rd 03. 03 Directors Byung-Rak Han other issue Chohung Bank tee manage evaluation and compensation systems. With at Composition of Committees Operating report (draft) and financial stateleast three directors whose terms are restricted to one year, In-Hak Jung Former Editorialist, Seoul Shinmun Extraordinary 4th 04. 15 ments (drafts) for the Audit Committee the committee guarantees the transparency of evaluation and No. of Directors approved Sung-Kyun Lim Former Director, Gwangju Regional compensation procedures for top management. Sustainability NonTax Service Committees NonDirectors Extraordinary 5th 04. 19 KoFC New Growth Engine Fund GP investmanagement matters will be included in the criteria for evaluExecutive managing ment (draft) approved executive Sung-Ho Hwang President & CEO, Woori I&S ation later. Directors directors Outside Directors Directors Convocation of general shareholders’ meetDuke-Hee Lee Standing Auditor, Woori I&S Regular 2nd 05. 12 ing determined, and two other issues Risk Control Committee Byung-Rak Han, Non-managing Hyun-Jin Jung Sung-Kun Ha, CFO, Woori Financial Group Appointment of BOD chairman and lead The Risk Control Committee supervises and resolves issues Audit Committee 1 3 Sung-Kyun Lim, Outside Director (BOD’s Chairman) Extraordinary 6th 05. 28 Non-executive director, and four other issues in observance of its guidelines, as well as risk issues as Duke-Hee Lee BOD Performance in 2010 Financial statements (draft) for 1st quarter FY delegated by the BOD. The committee consists of at least Regular 3rd 07. 30 Non-executive Sung-Ho Hwang, 2010 approved, and two other issues three directors, and at least one Non-executive director. Director Nomina1 2 Dong-Hyuk Shin, Details Unit Performance tion Committee In-Hak Chung Disposal of Olympic Building (formal IT Extraordinary 7th 09. 03 % of non-executive directors % 38 center) approved, and one other issue Management Sung-Ho Hwang, 1 1 Committee Hyun-Jun Jung No. of non-executive directors Persons 5 Amendment to regulations of Management Sustainability Report 2010 Extraordinary 8th 09. 29 Development and Compensation Committee Management Dong-Hyuk Shin, No. of regular meetings per Year Times 4 (draft) approved, and one other issue 2 1 Compensation Hyun-Jun Jung, 14 (including 10 Committee In-Hak Chung Financial statements(draft) for the 1st half of No. of meetings convened in 2010 Times extraordinary Regular 4th 10. 29 2010 fiscal year approved Sung-Ho Hwang, meetings) Sung-Kun Ha, Extraordinary 9th 11. 24 Three extraordinary issues reported Risk Control 1 4 Byung-Rak Han, No. of issues resolved in 2010 Issues 26 Committee In-Hak Chung, No. of issues reported in 2010 Issues 28 Extraordinary 10 th 12. 14 2011 Management plan (draft) approved Sung-Kyun Lim % of non-executive directors’ % 98.4 participation Sustainability Management at 12 Woori Investment & Securities 13 Strategies for Sustainability Management Roadmap for Sustainability Management Change for Sustainability Woori Investment & Securities In 2011, Woori Investment & Securities reorganized its previous environmental, social and governance (ESG) activities, and To increase efficiency in its sustainability management, Woori Investment & Securities has provided a phased roadmap to promulgated the objectives and action plans for its sustainability management. accomplish Vision 2015. To be the Best Overall Financial Investment Company Present Midto Long-term Sustainable Growth Vision Growing with and Respected by Customers and Employees Phase 3 Top Tier Phase 2 Maturity ~ 2015 Phase 1 Introduction 2012 ~ 2013 ~ 2011 Top Tier in Sustainability Top Securities Most Preferred Securities Goals Management Evaluations by Company in CS by Company by • Vision and roadmap • System for management of issues • Employment satisfaction 2015 2015 2015 • Organization of sustainability • Education and training management • Awareness of sustainability • Monitoring system • Performance evaluation system Framework for Sustainability Customer Value Stakeholder Communication • Energy and resource reducmanagement Direction Management Strengthened Enhanced Framework for tion programs • Low-carbon corporate culture Sustainability • Greenhouse gas emission • Use of low-carbon green MRO* · Continue to improve related frameManagement management system · Develop green product and service · Enhance external communication works line-up · Strengthen corporate citizenship · Become a part of corporate culture · Raise CS levels activities • Consumer communication • Competency in green financing • CS system upgrade · Implement related management systems Customer Value • Green financing products and Strengthened services · Implement low carbon, green growth Specific Direction systems Stakeholder • Information required by • Global initiatives participation • CSR activities evaluation Communication stakeholders • CS program systemization Enhanced Core Values Professional & Synergetic Excellent & Proactive Harmonious & Responsible * MRO : Maintenance, Repair and Operation Objectives and Direction of Sustainability Management Framework for Sustainability Management To become a leader in sustainability management, a corporation is required to establish a strong internal sustainability manIn the introduction phase, Woori Investment & Securities nancial leader in sustainability management. Through existagement system first. Thus, Woori Investment & Securities has clearly declared its commitment to sustainability managehas first laid a firm base for full-scale sustainability manageing “No.1 Indicators,” the Company will measure and moniment, and has provided a framework for sustainability management. To this end, the Company is operating special units, as ment by promulgating its vision and roadmap, establishing tor quantitative performance regarding ESG issues, thereby well as conducting a company-wide education program in sustainability management. Furthermore, it is monitoring quantitaa system to manage greenhouse gas emissions, and furincreasing the satisfaction levels of all stakeholders, includtive performance and establishing an assessment system for that monitoring to reinforce its sustainability management. ther strengthening customer communication. By the end of ing employees and customers. 2011, the Company will complete the formation of special Customer Value Strengthened units for sustainability management, and will begin publishThrough its sustainability management, Woori Investment & Securities seeks growth opportunities and a stronger position as a ing sustainability reports to actively fulfill the demands of respected company with which customers want to trade. stakeholders for related information. The Company is developing “green growth” related financial products and nurturing talent to secure a portfolio of green products In the maturity phase, from 2012 to 2013, the Company will * As a barometer for the Company's fulfillment of its vision of becomand services. It also enhances customer satisfaction by developing and implementing a wide array of CS programs. focus on embedding sustainability management in its coring Korea’s best overall financial investment company, the criteria porate culture. It will streamline its sustainability manageof “Number-One Indicators” include profitability, soundness, staSustainability Report 2010 Stakeholder Communication Enhanced ment system and raise employee awareness by implementbility, size, turnover, risk management, and CS, as well as its weight ing a special mechanism to handle practical issues directly in markets and the philosophy of the CEO. See “No.1 Indicators” Open communication with outside stakeholders is essential to earning their trust. Acknowledging the importance of open related to daily operation, introducing various education on page 49 for details. communication, Woori Investment & Securities will respond to demands for disclosure of stakeholder information, and parand training sessions, and cultivating a low-carbon culture. ticipate in various global initiatives for sustainability management. In accordance with its long-term strategies, the Company By 2015, Woori Investment & Securities will grow into a fiis also building an image as an admirable corporation that fulfills its social responsibility. 14 Communication with Stakeholders 15 Definition of Stakeholders Change for Sustainability In accordance with the Company's core values, stakeholders are categorized into seven groups : customers, shareholders, Prior to the publication of this sustainability report, Woori Investment & Securities conducted in-depth interviews with each stakepartner companies, employees, regional communities, the government, and the next generation and the environment. The holder group. Through the interviews, the Company collected their suggestions and reflected them in this report as much as Company actively communicates with stakeholders through a variety of channels. These categories are defined as follows, possible. in terms of core value, group, roles and responsibilities of the Company, and communication channels : Communication Corresponding Definition and Responsibilities Interviewees Opinions and Suggestions of Stakeholders Sections Channels BE Placing the highest priority on customer satisfaction and well-being, the VOCs, CS surveys, · Focus on streamlining services and diversifying CS programs rather than enhancing · Sustainability PerforCompany provides high-end products and services. The customer base inCustomer Service Center, Soon-Hyuk Park, EXCELLENT cludes individual investors and corporate clients of various industries and on-line bulletin board for Customer with an competitiveness in transaction fees mance Customers · Enhance “A Company with Many Firsts” image and disclose sustainability performance · Premier Services to & sizes. The Company strives achieve customer respect and admiration as a outstanding customer Outstanding · Contribute to society by developing SRI funds and eco-friendly products which guaranSatisfy More Custombrand through strong ethical awareness and security of customer informasuggestions, complaint Suggestion PROACTIVE tion. center for fund sales, etc. tee stable profits ers Regarding them as its most fundamental responsibility, the Company reGeneral shareholders’ · Enhance the corporate image through sustainability management as part of the Ki-Hwa Jung, · Sustainability Manspects the rights of shareholders and reflects their opinions in management meeting, annual reports, domestic securities industry, which is vulnerable to market volatility and has a passive Executive Director, agement at Woori Inby considering them to be owners of the Company. homepage IR section, tendency in social responsibility Shareholders Strategic Planning vestment & Securities Through timely disclosure and efficient management, the Company maindomestic and overseas ·A  void misrepresentation of data in sustainability reports to provide shareholders and Department, Woori · Corporate Citizenship tains and develops its assets and distributes gains fairly, maximizing the conferences, analyst investors with meaningful, useful information Financial Group for Win-win Growth value of investment. meetings, etc. ·C  ontinue sustainable growth by linking various non-financial activities with the Group ·C  reate ideas to develop financial products that maintain balance between maximization Woori Investment & Securities seeks the advancement of the financial indus· Premier Services to Kyeong-Sik Ryu, of customers’ personal gains and expansion of social value by understanding changes try with various partner companies. Internally, it creates synergy with other Satisfy More CustomIn-company broadcasting, Manager, Marketing in society and the markets, although difficult to do so given the nature of financial prodPartner subsidiaries of the Group, including banks and asset management compaers Group homepage, presenDepartment, Mirae ucts, which emphasize personal gains Companies nies. Externally, it has signed strategic alliances with domestic and overseas · Green Management tations, workshops, etc. Asset Fund ·H  old CSR and sustainability management education programs for asset managers, financial institutions in supply chains for product development, manageand the Response to Management enabling them to explain SRI funds to customers with in-depth professional knowledge ment, and sales. Climate Change ·D  evelop flagship products by organizing related information BE ·A  cknowledge the importance of active external disclosure of data on sustainability · Sustainability ManBy acknowledging its employees as valuable assets and growth engines, the performance agement at Woori InPROFESSIONAL Company takes full responsibility for the most reasonable compensation and Labor unions, intranet ·E  xpand into new business areas including PIs in renewable energies and special funds vestment & Securities & rewards of employees’ efforts and performance. (Wing), grievance system, for carbon offsetting · Fostering ProfessionEmployees 2,965 Employees SYNERGETIC Woori Investment & Securities is building a desirable workplace that respects luncheons with the CEO, ·D  evelop the industry's best corporate welfare system based on industry-leading indicaalism and Pride each employee and his or her competencies, thereby elevating pride in the etc. tors, including welfare expenses per employee and annual leave credits · Green Management Company. ·E  xpand sustainability management education programs to raise the company-wide and the Response to awareness Climate Change BE The Company’s regional communities include beneficiaries of social contriSe-Youn Kim, ·F  ocus on long-term sponsorship in specific areas rather than multiple and simultaneous bution activities, local communities near branches, and the citizens directly Woori Social Volunteer Manager, HARMONIOUS Regional CSR activities in the short-term · Corporate Citizenship or indirectly influenced by financial markets. By fulfilling its corporate citizenGroups, Social ResponsiSponsorship ·A  dapt promptly to social issues, including greenbelt construction projects for carbon & Communities ship, it curtails unnecessary social expenditure, thereby upgrading stakebility Report, etc. Development Team, offsetting and emergency aid for regions suffering from climate change for Win-win Growth RESPONSIBLE holders’ trust toward the financial industry as whole. World Vision ·D  evelop varied programs to encourage the participation of employees and customers · Premier Services to ·U  se the preferred benefits of the Korea Stock Exchange for listing green and newSatisfy More Customgrowth engine businesses The government provides and institutional and social base to encourage Meetings with the Dong-Ok Kim, ers ·S  ecure expertise in the carbon emissions rights market in response to planned introcompanies to manage their businesses as consistently and smoothly as government, conferences Partner, Green Growth · Raising Ethical AwareThe duction of a carbon emissions trading system possible. organized by the governPlanning Team, Green ness toward TransparGovernment ·A  s a leading IB, play an active role in fund-raising for green financing and the entire The Company complies with regulations and fulfills its obligations within the ment, joint cooperative Growth ent Management green industry boundaries required under government guidelines. programs, etc. Committee · Green Management Sustainability Report 2010 ·M  aintain the highest ethics and transparency, fulfilling the requirements of the governand the Response to ment, as well as avoiding conflicts of interest with customers Climate Change · Encourage other companies to participate by raising funds for eco-friendly businesses As a mediator in capital markets, the Company encourages corporate clients Jong-O Lee, through green financing services, and by developing green financing products to fulfill their responsibilities for the next generation and the environment. The Next Data disclosed to CDP, Executive Secretary, ·A  ctivate communication with a variety of stakeholders who may be effected by climate · Green Management In particular, to address the impact of climate change on future generations Generations and Green Financing Council, Korea Sustainabilchange to fulfill their demands for related information and the Response to and the environment, the Company seeks new investment opportunities in Environment etc. ity Investment Forum ·C  arry out practical green management based on a greenhouse gas emissions manageClimate Change renewable energies and clean energy projects, and strictly controls green(KoSIF) ment system house gas emissions. 16 Communication with Stakeholders 17 Materiality Test Results of the Materiality Test Change for Sustainability Woori Investment & Securities Unlike an annual report, which focuses primarily on economic performance, the scope of a sustainability report extends into Based on the results of the materiality test, this report emcoverage of environmental and social issues. Thus, a sustainability report must report risk factors, potential opportunities, and phasizes certain major issues, while also covering other isperformance related to sustainability issues, which are associated with major businesses of the reporting company and are sues to maintain the overall balance in sustainability reporttherefore of the highest importance to stakeholders. A materiality test, the most significant process in the reporting of sustaining. Information related to the major issues is highlighted ability performance, helps a company and its stakeholders to prioritize sustainability issues. In August 2011, Woori Investment More Important through use of an icon called a Sustainability Navigator & Securities conducted a materiality test and selected major issues to be addressed in this report, thereby demonstrating its Security of Customer Information so that they are easier for the reader to find. responsibility in issues of interest to stakeholders. A D Economic Performance of the Company Step 1 · GRI index reorganized By reorganizing 84 indexes of the GRI Guidelines and 16 indexes in the GRI Development of Indica· 28 indicators developed Financial Service Sector Supplement, 28 indicators were selected according I Cooperative Labor-Management Relations · IT survey developed to appropriateness for the Company and ease of comprehension. tors for Materiality Tests F High C CS Activities Important Ethical Management, Compliance with Regulations and Laws Step 2 · Target groups selected J G Employees Education and Administration of · Materiality test conducted through 22 Employees and 5 outside stakeholders took surveys and evaluated the importance of each issue B E Training visits, email, IT surveys Materiality Tests Internal and External Partnerships Results of evaluation by external stakeholders Treatment of Complaints and Grievances H Social and Environmental Risks and Opportunities Employee Welfare Policies Step 3 · Results of internal/external test compared and analyzed 11 Key indicators were selected through comparison and analysis of results Analysis of Results · 11 Key indicators selected from internal and external tests. Step 4 · Key indicators reorganized From the 11 key indicators, 10 issues were selected through reorganization Selection of · 10 Major issues selected for report and combination of overlapping indicators. Major Issues Low Less Important Important Step 5 · TFT sustainability workshop for related managers of each department Special Cases, activities to be emphasized in a sustainability report, were Selection of · Special Cases selected through determined through voting by the related managers of each department. Low Results of evaluation by internal employees High Special Cases voting Indicators Details Pages in Report A Value Distributed by Stakeholder, Key Financial Performance Indicators 18, 24 SPECIAL CASE Economic Performance of the Company Special Cases Social and Environmental Risks and B Providing Sustainable Products and Services, Eco-friendly Businesses 28, 56 Opportunities Customer Satisfaction Activities, Collecting Customer Opinions, Treatment of Customer C CS Activities 30-32 In August 2011, a TFT workshop was held for the sustainability managers of each Complaints, Avoiding Mis-selling, CS Levels Increased department. At the workshop, participants voted on the activities they preferred for D Security of Customer Information The Security of Customer Information 32 inclusion in a sustainability report aimed at outside stakeholders. The activities were E Treatment of Complaints and Grievances Treatment of Customer Complaints, Complaint Management System 32, 41 renamed “Special Cases,” when in turn become special sections in this report. Sustainability Report 2010 Ethical Management, Compliance with Implementing an Ethical Management System, Promoting Ethical Awareness among Officers F 38-40 Regulations and Laws and Employees, Programs of Ethical Management, Enhancing the Compliance Level Octo and Premier Blue, Asset Management Brands p. 29 G Employees Education and Training The WIS University System, Talent Development School, Fostering Core Talent, etc. 43 Industry-leading Products and Services p. 35 Welfare System, Employee Satisfaction Improvement Program, Employee Satisfaction and H Employee Welfare Policies 45-46 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) p. 46 Engagement Survey Cooperative Labor-Management The Woori Angel Fund p. 60 I Cooperative Labor-management Relationship 49 Relations Strengthened the Domestic and Overseas Part¬nerships, Creating Synergy within Woori J Internal and External Partnerships 50-51 Financial Group ※ The Issues are not listed in order of importance but in accordance with the table of contents 18 Sustainability Performance 19 Value Distributed by Stakeholder The Level of Sustainability Management Change for Sustainability Woori Investment & Securities Woori Investment & Securities meets its economic responsibilities by distributing the value created by its management activities to inside and outside stakeholders. In 2010, the Company generated KRW 701.9 billion from its net operating revenues Internal Survey on Sustainability Management (NOR), consisting of stock brokerage, asset management, and corporate financing, and distributed the NOR to shareholders, employees, partners, the government, and regional communities through various means. For the Company to achieve its vision and goals, the awareness and solidarity of all employees on the value of sustainability The Company shares its corporate value with stakeholders by seeking mutually beneficial growth with partners including management is extremely important. Thus, Woori Investment & Securities conducts surveys for all employees and measures partner companies, associations, and related institutions, and through CSR activities such as the Woori Angel Fund. It protheir levels of awareness, thereby reinforcing its ability to establish and implement action plans. The results of these surveys motes the sustainable growth of its partners, which in turn contributes to the development of society as whole. consistently reflect the Company’s overall sustainability management while also serving to regularly assess changes in their awareness. Results of Internal Survey Target : 2,965 Employees 2010 Economic Value Distribution Participants : 19 Officers / 756 Employees Unit : KRW billions 1. Do you know about sustainability 2. What are the goals of the Company in 3. What is the ﬁrst action the Company management? sustainability management? should take in sustainability management? 701.9 Net Operating Revenues Stock brokerage, operating income, asset management, and corporate financing, etc. 83% 78% 20% 34% 64% Partners Partner companies, associations and 131.7 308.8 (42%) Employee Employee salary and severance pay, 31% related institution, various expenses for (18%) welfare and benefits, training costs media Survey said that the awareness level of ofSurvey reported that most employees hope Survey stated that the commitment and ficers is higher than that of employees. the Company will become more globalized leadership of the CEO is the first action through sustainability management. to take in earning a reputation and trust from society. Society / NGO 1.5 Woori Investment & Securities 41.2 (6%) Government Income tax and The Company's Reputation Donations and CSR activities expenses (0.2%) other taxes 2010 Korea Sustainable Management Inclusion in the DJSI Korea Inclusion in the KRX SRI Awards The Dow Jones Sustainability Index The Korea Exchange Social ResponsiIn recognition of its proactive corpo(DJSI) is the world’s first sustainability ble Investment (KRX SRI) index fosters Non-operating Income 31.0 96.4 rate citizenship, the Company received a Minister of Social Welfare award in management index, jointly developed by Dow Jones, a leader in news and social responsible investment (SRI) activities and awareness in Korean comGains on disposal of tangible assets and the social promotions category at the business information worldwide, and panies. equity method valuation, rental income Operating Expenses 2010 Korea Sustainable Management SAM, a global investment boutique Woori Investment & Securities was inAwards organized by the Korea Ecoheadquartered in Switzerland that focluded in the KRX SRI in September 153.3 46.0 Operating costs, building rental fee, insurance premium, depreciation nomic Daily and superintended by cuses on sustainability investing. 2011, thereby demonstrating its outStockholder the Korea Sustainable Management In 2011, Woori Investment & Securities standing sustainability performance Net Income Evaluation (KSME). was included for the first time in the externally. Dividend payout (6%) DJSI Korea, which exclusively evalu107.3 ates 200 top-tier Korean corporations. This inclusion signals official, internaSustainability Report 2010 tional recognition of the Company for Internal Reserves its leadership in sustainability. 22 Increasing Corporate Value for Greater Economic Benefit 28 Sustainable Portfolio Strategies toward Global IB 30 Premier Services to Satisfy More Customers Our Approach Woori Investment & Securities aims to become the best overall financial investment company. The Company enhances shareholder value through proactive risk management and voluntary IR disclosure, creates synergy with partner companies through close cooperation, and places the highest priority on the customer to create prestige services and brand value. Progress & Achievement Launched a Mission Office Called Office of Achieving #1 Achieved a No. 1 Ranking in Advisories for Domestic IPOs and M&As Expanded AUM for Three Consecutive Years Opened Korea’s First Local Subsidiary in Singapore Be Signed MOUs with Overseas Financial Institutions Jointly Developed Products with Domestic Financial Institutions Excellent & Strategic Direction Enhancing Profitability by Developing the Industry’s Best Green Financing Products Seeking Opportunities for Business and Joint Product Development with Domestic or Overseas Financial Institutions Proactive Monitoring Sustainability Issues according to Core Business Areas for Greater Economic Effect Securing Customer Trust by Expanding CS Services and Customer Information Securities Increasing Corporate Value for Greater 22 Economic Benefit 23 Streamlining Risk Management Countermeasures by Risk Factor Be Excellent & Proactive Woori Investment & Securities As financial markets change, securities companies are deof the risk management guidelines, the management of acveloping and selling a broader range of financial products. ceptable levels of risk, promulgation and withdrawal of risk Identification and Determination of Plans for Management Integrated Risk Management System This extension inevitably raises concerns over risks, and management guidelines, reviews of financial soundness, of Risks In January 2009, Woori Investment & Securities completed therefore risk management has taken a more significant and principal investments of more than KRW 5 billion. For securities companies, risks are classified as tangible development of an integrated risk management system to role. In particular, due to fluctuations in interest and foreign The Risk Management Center is comprised of the Risk and intangible. Tangible risks, which include those of credit, respond preemptively to changes in capital markets and to exchanges rates, countermeasures for potential losses are Management Department, Credit Analysis Department, and market, interest, liquidity, and operations, are measured comply with the minimum standards of risk management for required for sound management of financial companies. Financial Engineering Department. The Risk Management using objective indicators. Intangible risks, which include securities companies as prescribed by the FSS. Woori Investment & Securities proactively measures and Department supervises risk management as related to conthose of legal, reputation, and system, are not measured The integrated management system addresses a widecontrols risk factors in its business operations, such as trol, reporting, and procedure. The Credit Analysis Departwith objective indicators. range of risks, including market, credit, operational, asset revenue shortfalls, losses incurred from lower asset values, ment executes strategies and guidelines for credit reviews liability management (ALM), and net-capital ratio manageand losses on debt burdens. By doing so, the Company and credit risks, while the Financial Engineering Department Tangible Risks ment. The Company applies the system to risky assets, maximizes its corporate value and reinforces the soundness examines product reliability by analyzing product structure The Company defines as credit risk those losses that may contingency analysis, and risk-adjusted performance meaand stability of its financial management. and developing standards and evaluation models. result from a counterparty’s refusal to honor a contractusurement (RAPM). It is designed to share risk management al credit obligation. Through an engine to measure credit information at every level, from executive to clerical, in a Risk Management System Processes of Risk Management risk, the Company ascertains the daily levels of exposure timely manner. The Company’s risk management process consists of four of financial products, including loans, investment securities, Woori Financial Group has introduced the first enterprise Organizations of Risk Management steps : identification, measurement and evaluation, control, and derivatives, to credit risks. By setting credit limits, it risk management system (ERMS) among Korean financial The Company operates a Risk Management Commitand monitoring and reporting. All decisions proceed through also intensively manages credit risks from trading countergroups. ERMS integrates a wide range of risk management. tee, which formulates and manages overall risk manageindividual departments, the Risk Management Council, the parties and large corporate affiliates. The system also is used in the Company as well as the ment guidelines, and a Risk Management Council, which Risk Management Committee, and the BOD. These proThe Company defines market risk as the threat of losses on Group’s other subsidiaries, including Woori Bank, Kwangju is empowered by the Committee with responsibility for risk cesses are rationalized. a trading position that may result from market fluctuations. Bank, Kyongnam Bank, Woori Aviva Life Insurance, and management. Furthermore, the Risk Management Center, Through daily back-testing, the Company gauges the maxiWoori Financial. a special unit, is full charge of company-wide risk manage· Identification : Potential risks arising from business operation are mum loss a portfolio may incur during a fixed period of time, Through the integrated risk management system, the Comment. identified and analyzed. as well as market risks arising from changes in interest rates pany continues to discover its vulnerabilities in risk man· Measurement and evaluation : Methods for measurement are and the values of equities and trading positions in foreign agement, to actively communicate with other subsidiaries, Organizational Chart for Risk Management selected according to risk type, followed by determination of acexchanges. Through contingency analysis it also identifies and to raise awareness of risk by providing sales teams with ceptable limits for risk, and evaluation of the appropriateness of exceptional events that may lead to market risks and mearisk-related information. methods used in determining those limits. sures potential losses due to such events. BOD · Control : Risks are controlled through selection of items to be reThe Company defines liquidity risk as losses that may result Integrated Risk Management System ported on a daily, monthly, and quarterly basis to avoid, minimize, from a temporary shortage in funds; such shortages may Risk Control CEO Committee and maintain acceptable levels of risk. result from a maturity mismatch or an unexpected capital Executive Risk Dashboard outlay. The Company conducts liquidity analysis for all as· Monitoring and reporting : Risk levels are monitored to cope with Risk Management sets and liabilities. By assessing the effectiveness and acExecutive Summary CRO changes in risk conditions; the paths, contents, and cycles for reCouncil ports are also determined. tual steps of a contingency plan, it also provides counterKey company-wide Asset management measures for each phase of crisis. Key loan information key information information Risk Management Operational risks are defined as exposure to losses arising Council Four Steps of Risk Management Processes · Exposure · Position · Financial data from inappropriate or faulty work processes, internal work· Delinquency ratio · OTC · High risks Risk Management force or systems, or certain external factors. To prevent such · Asset quality · Market risks · Interest/liquidity Measurement Monitoring and · PI Center Identification and evaluation Control reporting risks, each department implements its own check-list, such · Loan loss provision · Early warning as Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA), and monitors Risk Management Credit Analysis Financial Engineering · Data collection · Determination · Identification · Core risk business performance based on core risk indicators. Risk Monitoring of Employees Department Department Department and analysis of acceptable of acceptable indicators · Process risk limits risk limits · Monitoring of Asset management Company-wide · Scenario · Selection Intangible Risks Loan analysis analysis indicators analysis analysis Chaired by the CEO of the Company, the Risk Control Com· Business analysis of control · Reports to top In addition to tangible risks, the Company operates intemethods · Exposure · Position · Financial data environment · Evaluation of management mittee consists of four outside directors. This committee foranalysis the appro· Monitoring of grated risk management to cover intangible risks. Intangible · Customers’ credit · OTC · ALM mulates basic risk management guidelines to coincide with priateness of task fulfillment risks include legal, such as when a counter-party is not lesoundness · Market risks · NCR those limits · Delinquency ratio · PI · High risks management strategies and determines appropriate limits gally able to enter into a contract or legal obligation, risks to · Threat level · Gain/loss · Tolerance limits for risk tolerance. It also enacts and rescinds risk managereputation, such as those caused by complaints or defama· Asset quality · Market data · Early warning ment regulations and deliberates on major business risks, tion of character, and systemic risks arising from bankrupt· Bankruptcy/collection Sustainability Report 2010 such as the determination of equity investments of more Regulations of Risk Management cy or temporary shortages in the liquidity of counter-parties than KRW 20 billion. Woori Investment & Securities operates the Risk Control participating in a settlement. Total Exposure Chaired by the CRO, the Risk Management Council is Committee and Risk Control Council, in accordance with Portfolio Overlap borExposure Tolerance limits composed of seven members to make decisions regardrelated regulations and management guidelines. For interanalysis rowers check ing major issues in risk management and financial stability. nal risk management, the Company also observes special The council also deliberates on the company’s fulfillment guidelines for market and credit risks in the guidelines. Increasing Corporate Value for Greater 24 Economic Benefit 25 Key Financial Performance Indicators Maximization of Shareholder Value Be Excellent & Proactive Woori Investment & Securities In 2010, Woori Investment & Securities achieved the industry's best performance by fostering a corporate mindset emphaBased on the reputation and competency accumulated over years, Woori Investment & Securities has become a top player sizing excellence in its major business areas with more than KRW145 trillion in assets under management (AUM), state-ofin its traditionally competitive businesses, such as IB and asset management. While maintaining its dominance in these arthe-art wealth management schemes, and a wide array of innovative financial products. eas, the Company is also creating an innovative, market-leading business model and securing new growth engines for the future. FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 The Company also maximizes shareholder value by striking a balance between revenue structure and business growth and by enhancing corporate value through proactive risk management. Based on these approaches, the Company maintains the Statements of Income (KRW billions) confidence of its shareholders as it offers them attainable goals for the future. Operating Revenue 6,204.8 5,430.9 3,779.2 Composition of Shareholders Operating Expense 5,967.1 5,236.6 3,614.2 Major Shareholders Ownership Structure Operating Income 237.7 194.3 165.0 0.26% 0.08% Income before Income Tax 246.4 228.6 194.5 30.60% 7.21% 0.02 % Net Income 181.8 180.5 153.3 Woori Financial Group No. of shares issued : (30.6%) 151,384,831 Statements of Financial Position (KRW billions) No. of common stock : No. of shares: 46,342,981 132,513,863 Total Assets 17,831.4 18,406.6 19,359.2 % of ownership (common 29.98% No. of preferred stock : stock) : 34.96% 18,870,968 Total Liabilities 15,467.5 15,883.4 16,730.5 69.40% 62.43% % of total shares : 30.6% Total Shareholder Equities 2,363.9 2,523.2 2,628.7 Individuals Investment trusts Pension funds Banks Merchant banks, credit cooperatives, and other financial institutions ROE * 7.6% 7.4% 6.0% WFG Others Other corporations Stock (KRW, number of shares) * Based on the total number of shares issued as of March 2011 Outstanding Shares 151,384,831 151,384,831 151,384,831 Protecting Shareholders Value As the largest shareholder in the Company, Woori Financial Group provides constructive input and feedback on the ComCommon Stock 132,513,863 132,513,863 132,513,863 pany’s management, in compliance with the Group’s guidelines for the management of subsidiaries. In addition, all minority Preferred Stock 18,870,968 18,870,968 18,870,968 opinions expressed at the general shareholders’ meetings are actively reflected in management. Dividend Payout IR Activities Common Stock 550 350 300 Woori Investment & Securities regards investor relations and communications as interactive processes to upgrade corporate value. With this understanding, the Company communicates actively with shareholders through timely consultation with Preferred Stock 600 400 350 analysts and investors, conferences in Korea and abroad, non-deal roadshows, and meetings with analysts and journalists. Net Income per Common Share 1,287 1,305 1,108 * ROE : Return On Equity Number of IR Activities Held Organized ‘Woori Investment Forum’ Unit : Times 1 half of st Classification Activities 2008 2009 2010 2011 Since 2002, Woori Investment & Securities has regularly held Woori conferences 2 3 3 2 Woori Investment Forums for domestic and overseas institutionTotal Client Assets Total Shareholder Equities ROE al investors and outstanding clients. Through these forums, the Unit : KRW trillions Unit : KRW billions Unit : % Analyst meetings 2 1 1 0 Company has provided in-depth analysis and overviews of stock Disclosures Regular disclosures markets and the economy, and it has recommended promising 12 7 4 1 (earnings releases) stocks to investors. FY08 90.0 FY08 2,363.9 FY08 7.6 Others (organized 1 1 0 0 by other companies) Sustainability Report 2010 FY09 115.1 FY09 2,523.2 FY09 7.4 Woori conferences 4 4 3 2 Analyst meetings 2 2 2 0 FY10 148.9 FY10 2,628.7 FY10 6.0 Events NDRs 0 0 2 1 IR meetings 44 103 112 47 Others (organized 1 3 2 0 by other companies) 26 Sustainable Portfolio Strategies toward 27 Global IB Be Excellent & Proactive Woori Investment & Securities Business Strategies of Woori Investment & Securities Introduction to Key Businesses Woori Investment & Securities has set its sights on becoming Asia’s top-tier investment bank by 2015. Along the way, it is near to achieving its 2011 management objective of becoming Korea’s leader in financial investment, with consistent innovation in its business model. IB Trading WM Strategy Roadmap · Providing corporations with full solutions for · Proprietary trading of equities, bonds, and · Brokerage and asset management consultfunding activities derivatives, and client trading of ELS, DLS, ing services through development and sales Business Portfolio Business Model Innovation Asian Market Leadership · Improving clients’ corporate value through and RP of diverse financial products consultations on acquisitions · Maintaining portfolio stability and profitability · Service areas including beneficiary certifiKorea’s no. 1 full-service · Service areas including bond underwriting, through risk management and in-depth cates, mutual funds, ELS, CP, RP, Wrap acCompletion of investment ‘Asia's Top Tier market analysis counts, CMA, trust, retail bonds, and MMF financial investment secondary offerings, structural financing, banking business model Investment Bank’ company global finance, M&A advisories, PEFs · Service areas including IRS, CRS, Swap, ELW, ELS, DLS, and RP 2010 2013 2015 · No. 1 in M&A consultations for three con· First to launch USD RP · Octo : Best customer value product in asset Market Leadership secutive years · No. 1 in RP sales management With the synergy the Company creates among its major businesses, including investment Bank (IB), trading, and sales, it · Best equity linked bond house for the 3rd · No. 1 in ELS sales · No. 1 Market share in retail brokerage continuously seeks additional opportunities in complex M&A deals, active principal investment, private equity fund investyear in a row ment, and global coverage, thereby achieving consistent innovation in its business model. · Best derivatives leader in 2010 · No. 1 in landmark deals in the IPO market Additionally, the Company constantly creates additional revenue sources by expanding the scope of financial investment · Outstanding professional dealer for governproducts, which has been dominated by investments developed domestically and externally but located in Korea, toward ment bonds those located overseas, and by developing and supplying innovative products, such as those structured according to the Company’s competencies in IB and trading. In 2010, the Company led in both domestic In 2010, using its strengths in the structurIn 2010, the Company achieved its goal of DCM and ECM. Despite volatile market interest ing and management of equity derivatives, dominating the brokerage market. Woori Investment & Securities is making every effort to become one of Asia’s top-tier investment banks by 2015. The Comand sluggish real estate markets, it successfulthe Company issued 3.8 trillion won worth of In the wholesale sector, the Company expandpany will share returns, including 25% in ROE targeted for 2015, with the society, shareholders, and employees, as well as ly played a leadmanagement role in corporate ELSs, garnering 13% of the market. In particued the coverage of its sales and research serpreparing for the future through internal reserves, thereby growing into one of Asia’s top tier investment banks. bond issues for LG Electronics and GS Caltex. lar, with regard to the public offerings of ELS, vices for mediumand small-asset managers, The Company was selected for the Hyundai it has ranked first for four consecutive years advisory firms, and global funds. In the retail Home Shopping IPO despite an industry stansince 2007. Having established the first units in sector, the Company strengthened its channel dard where overseas investment bankers are the industry specialized in FICC (fixed income, competitiveness in cooperation with its Woori Unique Business Model chosen due to their abilities to solicit global currency, and commodity) in 2006, the ComFinancial Group affiliates while bolstering the Woori Investment & Securities pursues sustainable growth through a unique IB-type business model based on effective, investors, thereby showcasing its international pany has made remarkable progress in the equity consulting proficiency of its sales force. organic combination of three core areas : wealth management, investment banking, and trading. The model is unique and sales competencies. non-equity derivatives sector, particularly in The Company provides quality services by ofeffective in that the characteristics of the three business activities complement one another to create the right product for The Company’s unsurpassed excellence in SWAP trading and the underwriting and sales fering a variety of purpose-specific portfolios, the right investor at the right time. The Company secures choice investment deals through its IB operations, uses its trading M&A advisement continued in 2010. The of structured bonds. Furthermore, the Comincluding ‘Woori Stock Manager,’ an online arm to package the investments as structured products, and then sells the products to high net-worth customers through Company played an advisory role in POSCO’s pany is the undisputed market leader in ELW stock portfolio investment solution introduced acquisition of Daewoo International and CJ trading as a liquidity provider, thereby greatly in 2010. its wealth-management sales network. Group’s consolidation of its media businesses. contributing to the boom in the domestic ELW The Company became the first in the domestic 2010 Achievement It jointly advised in the sale of Hyundai Engimarket. financial investment industry to import PSR Business Model : Organic Combination of IB, Trading, and WM neering & Construction, a landmark M&A deal In addition, the Company has improved its (portfolio strategy & risk) analysis and launched projected to be worth KRW 5.5 trillion. global investment capabilities by expanding its a ‘Fund GPS System’ based on that analysis. The Company also collected earnings in the product coverage with establishment of global The new system enables the Company to proCorporate Financial Needs Lead to Product Diversification through Taiwanese multi-system cable operator TBC, trading and multi-asset trading systems. By vide an asset management portfolio ideal for Restructuring by the Trading Division reaping a 50% return in its four-year venture, signing ISDA (International Swaps and Deeach customer by analyzing more than 200 thereby becoming the first Korean securities rivatives Association) / CSA (Credit Support types of leading domestic funds. As a result, house to successfully make a direct overseas Annex) contracts with around 40 international the Company attracted KRW97.9 billion in net Deal sourcing Financial engineering Distribution channel investment. In addition, the Company is exIBs, it has reinforced its base for developing a asset inflow as of March 2011, the industry’s Corporate panding its global reach to premium sectors, wide range of globally competitive products. largest. IB Trading WM Investors such as lead management of domestic IPOs The Company manages and sells a variety of In October 2010, the Company launched a Clients of global corporate and overseas bond issubond products based on its predominant bond ‘WoW’ (Wrap of Wrap) system, an advanced · Advance IB business · Expand the scope of trad· Expand client base, espeance, that previously have been the exclusive sourcing capabilities and large customer base. Wrap account platform that enables a multiple model by fostering advisory ing assets and the scale of cially HNW clients Sustainability Report 2010 territory of foreign players. In particular, the Its RP book is the largest one in the industry investment from one Wrap account into varibusiness client assets by focusing · Enhance product line-up Company has been focusing on China to gain that has earned a stable interest income. The ous products. In November 2010, the Compa· Reinvigorate PI and PEF on structured products and develop high margin a head start in overseas presence. Company focuses on securing stability in profit ny launched ‘Premier Blue,’ its asset manageinvestment · Maintain stability in trading products trading through stringent risk management. ment and life care services brand exclusively through risk management In institutional bond sales, it leads in domescreated for high-net-worth customers. tic bond markets, especially bond underwriting and brokerage, driven by Korea’s largest Provide Competitive Pricing and Solutions to Reflect the Diverse Needs of Investors customer coverage and experienced, top-tier sales talent. Octo TIP See glossary on page 74 of this report Premier Services to Satisfy More 28 Customers 29 Providing Sustainable Products and Services Be Excellent & Proactive SPECIAL CASE Woori Investment & Securities Woori Investment & Securities develops financial products Products for the Agricultural Sector Octo and Premier Blue, Asset Management Brands that acknowledge the influences of its management activiBy investing in companies developing agricultural techties on environment and society. The Company develops nologies, biofuels, and fertilizer, the Company continues to Octo : The Company’s Representative Asset Management Brand special products that invest in projects to minimize the imintroduce exceptional products for the development of the Introduced two years ahead of its competitor, Octo is the industry’s may be difficult for the consumer to assess. One of the features pact of climate change and to develop renewable energy, agricultural sector. first asset management brand, gathering the Company’s collecof this advertising is character marketing. For the first time in the thereby assisting eco-friendly corporations and developing tive expertise in asset management. Octo began as an integrated Korean financial industry, Octo has successfully used character socially responsible products as a part of its CSR activities. Social-responsible Product Developed trading account combining eight services, including total collateral marketing and consistent communication to accompany its prodWoori Investment & Securities raises society's awareness To adapt to rising interest in non-financial value derived from loans, Auto Money Back, check cards, integrated checking account uct-line expansion. The introduction of character is creating a senof environmental and social matters and plays a role as a social and ethical performance, Woori Investment & Securibalances, transfer/settlement/payment, bank deposit/withdrawal, sation among financial products, which are difficult for the average sustainable financial institution that encourages sustainable ties develops products that emphasize social responsibility stock trading, and financial product investment. With this expanded customizer to understand. The use of character has provided Octo investment from the private sector. and corporate governance. scope of products and services, Octo is now positioned as one of with a level of public recognition that sets it apart from the marketthe most popular brands in the domestic industry. Through a family ing strategies of competing companies. Eco-friendly Products Introduced Children Product branding strategy, Octo now covers asset management products With brand communication based on stronger brand essence, the The Company complies fully with the Korean government's The Company provides a set of products specialized in ecoincluding Octo CMA and Octo Wrap, as well as services including Company continues to develop the branding of Octo, thereby reGreenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System, nomics education for children, cultivating their sense of apOctofolio and the Fund GPS System. taining the public perception of the brand as a leading asset manwhich prescribes targets for reductions in greenhouse gas propriate economic activity and relating to their knowledge Though continual advertising and customer communication, Octo agement product. emissions and energy consumption by large companies, and as the leaders in the economy of the future. also helps customers understand complex financial products that the Renewable Portfolio Standard, which requires increases in production of energy from renewable sources. As part of Support for Low-income Families its compliance program, the Company develops and sells To assist low-income families in their economic activities, eco-friendly products to promote and support “low carbon, the Company provides special products to stabilize housBrand Communication of Octo Brand Logo Brand Character green growth” management in the corporate sector. ing markets, solve housing issues, and stabilize consumer prices. Active asset growth through Products Invested in Eco-friendly Industries multiple product options Active The Company develops special products to invest in “low Contribution to Regional Communities Multiplier carbon, green growth” businesses. These businesses inThe Company returns profits from its product sales to dicrease efficiency in resource and energy usage through verse groups in society through a set of region-friendly green technologies, as well as providing products and serproducts to assist in the living expenses of the less fortuBrand Stretching (product and services) vices that minimize environmental effects. nate in those areas, as well as special products to support Credible, friendly Credible Flexible asset management Friendliness Expert cultural activities. brands Products for Green and Clean Energy Woori Investment & Securities provides a range of products Evaluation of Corporate Governance Expert provide appropriate to invest in companies that excel in their response to cliThe Company understands the importance of corporate solutions for each case mate change, whether in their development of alternative governance in the growth of the corporate sector, and it entechnologies for fossil fuels, renewable energy sources, or courages corporations to place the highest priority on creatclean energy sources. ing shareholder value by considering corporate governance Premier Blue : Asset Management Services for High-net-worth Clients practices as criteria in establishing fund portfolios. Premier Blue is an asset management and life care services brand created exclusively for high-net-worth customers at all Company branches. By offering asset management products and services customized for each target group, as well as membership services providing create a Major Social Responsible Products deep impression on clients, the Company is positioning Premier Blue as a premium asset management brand that provides premium value and fulfills the expectations of clients. No. of Sector Size of fund Details products Eco-friendly industries 7 KRW 8.7 billion Nurture next-generation core growth engines, including LED and secondary batteries. To cope with rising demands in water resources, invest in industries for smart gauges, wastewater Green/Clean energy 7 KRW 10.4 billion treatment, and water conversion. Invest in products that hedge inflationary risks due to short supply of agricultural products under global Targeted Financial Products Brand Essence : PRIDE Agricultural 3 KRW 8.3 billion Sales Channels warming and climate change. and Services Brand Slogan : No.1 Value Management Children 7 KRW 7.8 billion Cultivate children’s sense of appropriate economic activity and economic independence. Sustainability Report 2010 Support for low-income Provide benefits such as loan support for mortgage-linked funds and participation in children's Exclusively confidential / 1:1 customer services 11 KRW 1.8 trillion Real private families economics camps. (Guarantee of customized investment information, exclusive privacy) Contribution to regional 2 KRW 8.0 billion Assist large-scale cultural events organized by general programming channel businesses. communities Exclusive Exclusive membership services differentiated from more general services Evaluation of corporate Improve fund profitability through the improvement of corporate governance and the growth of green 4 KRW 24.7 billion Highest expert Asset management provided by top-tier experts in the Company governance businesses. Premier Services to Satisfy More 30 Customers 31 Customer Satisfaction Activities Collecting Customer Opinions Be Excellent & Proactive Woori Investment & Securities Through its guiding vision of “Growing with Clients by DelivCS Education Programs Woori Investment & Securities operates a Voice of Customer VOC Rewards ering the Best Financial Value,” Woori Investment & SecuriTo standardize customer service throughout the Company, (VOC) system to collect feedback and then to resolve cusEach month, Woori Investment & Securities rewards custies conveys a strong commitment to its customers, who are Woori Investment & Securities conducts several educatomer issues promptly. By understanding customer comtomer who offer outstanding suggestions. These rewards its first priority. The Company emphasizes two approaches tion programs for employees working at customer contact plaints, the Company also considers ideas for improving raise customer awareness of the influence they may have to enhancing customer satisfaction. It provides a comprepoints at the head office and branches. Topics include CS management company-wide. It collects positive feedback through direct participation in the Company’s management hensive product line, and it collects and resolves customer mindset, telephone etiquette, image consulting, and dealing and suggestions during consultations with customers. activities. This suggestion system has earned a reputation complaints in the timeliest manner. with customer complaints. To bring CS education programs VOC data is classified by type and used to address comas a representative example of a program to collect and closer to actual workplace experience, it also publishes plaints and understand the real needs of the customer. implements the input of customers. CS Consulting System manuals that cover basic service attitudes and the handling Through VOC reports, the Company shares the data with As part of its comprehensive customer service, the Comof private information, particularly in sensitive CS situations. employees, thus making VOC an essential part of CS acMajor VOC Input in 2010 pany provides the CS Clinic, a branch-to-branch consulting The Company provides monthly CS information and educativities. Suggestion that customers receive SMS notification of froservice led by a group of in-company experts in customer tion sessions for the business support managers (BSM) of April zen accounts satisfaction. The consultants visit each branch to observe each department, thereby raising company-wide interest in Collection and Treatment of VOC Data and collect data on the levels of customer service, proCS and improving the attitudes of employees. VOC data is collected through a variety of channels, includSuggestion that features be added to the homepage for the June customer to download and save transaction histories as Micedures at customer contact points, and service environing Internet websites, home-trading systems, branches, crosoft Excel files ments. Based on their findings, they then provide solutions Evaluation of CS Levels the Client Service Department, and customer letters. It is Suggestion for an investment calendar with information on to any problems they may discover, thereby assisting in CS To encourage employees to improve their attitudes toward compiled in the database of an integrated VOC manageJuly secondary offerings, execution rights, and public offerings improvement activities company-wide. customer service, Woori Investment & Securities evaluates ment system, where it is categorized into compliments, Suggestion that applications and proxy subscription agreeThe entire CS consultation process takes five days, includCS levels at each branch every six months. To ensure that complaints, suggestions, inquiries, and consultations. The September ments for public offerings be simplified at branches ing branch inspection, cause analysis, workshops, design evaluations are held under the most realistic conditions Client Service Department or related departments address Suggestion that reports provided by other six securities of action plans, and provision of solutions. Follow-up serpossible and reflect actual employee attitudes, the Comparticipating customers through on-line bulletin boards, eDecember companies during the year be used in Company data for vices continue for one month after the initial consultation. pany employs assessors from outside research institutions mails, and other on-line channels. The Company reports development of marketing strategies and products to visit each branch as if they are customers. procedures for treating issues to customers in a way that is CS Consultation Process In results for the CS Level Evaluation in the second half of convenient to them. 2010, 109 branches scored 97.4 points on average, an imIn 2010, the Company collected 9,370 VOC instances. It VOCs Reflecting on the Company’s Management Process Details provement over the 75.5-point average of 116 branches in responded in 9,149 of these instances, comprising 97.6%, By streamlining the VOC system, the Company enhances Pre-service inspection: CS surveys, telephone sound 1st Day the first half of the year. This improvement was attributed and used them to design improvements. its ability to resolve customer issues. Acknowledging the quality checks, VOC analysis Branch 1st worksite inspection: video recording at branches, to a more thorough understanding of duties by employees. The Company holds monthly meetings among departments value of customer opinions as assets in business developInspection surveys, employee interviews, monitoring of environment Evaluation results are used for assessing each branch and to share the results of Client Service Department consultament, it also reflects VOC input in its overall management and employees for improving CS education courses. tions and other VOC consultations, thereby improving CS activities. 2nd worksite inspection: video recording at branches, activities in the workplace. 2nd Day monitoring of environment and employees Cause Analysis Analysis of problems at branches, preparation for CS Evaluation Results, 2010 workshops Unit : Points Collection and Improvement of VOCs Major Improvements in VOC Unit : Cases Benchmarking of others (Securities companies, banks, 3rd Day and other financial institutions) Classification 2008 2009 2010 1st half of 2011 Workshops Workshops (VTR feedback, problem reviews, brain1st half 75.5 1 VOC website implemented, enabling employees to check VOC storming for problem analysis) No. Collected 8,445 9,664 9,370 3,783 status and recommended treatment on one screen : Company-wide interest in VOC generated through encouragement to 4th Day No. of resolved, share more VOC management information Benchmarking others 2nd half 97.4 closed VOCs 8,354 9,580 9,149 3,460 Action Plans Design of action plans by branch, team, and individual VOC unit launched within Client Service Department to manage 2 VOC processes more systematically and consistently 5th Day Reviews on action plans : Customer complaints resolved more promptly through one-call serSolutions Consultations and education at working sites vices, preventing secondary complaints. Follow-up One month of monitoring 3 Formation of teams to resolve VOCs directly, reflecting actual Services Feedback to branches after evaluation customer needs more accurately : Issues addressed more promptly, with more specific resolution for each case Performance of CS Education Programs Unit : Number of persons Collection and VOC Treatment Process Program Details 2008 2009 2010 1st half of 2011 Defining customers, changes in CS, understating customer desire, awareness CS mindset 137 91 182 106 Sustainability Report 2010 of changes Collection of VOCs Integrated VOC management system Sharing and using data The importance of telephone etiquette, gentle telephone answers, feedbacks Telephone etiquette 186 66 237 106 and individual coaching The importance of image making, attractive facial expressions, feedback and · Collection channels · Collection channels · Sharing of cases Image consulting 195 162 384 121 individual coaching Internet websites Registration in database Daily sharing with client service Branches Classification as compliments, complaints, department Greeting visitors Warmheartedness, gracious gestures, guiding, welcoming manners 141 147 223 195 suggestions, inquiries, or consultations Client service department On-line bulletin boards Customer letters Assignment to client service department Understanding complaints by customer type, the three steps of a complaint, Customer complaints 189 101 60 and related departments · Customer suggestions role plays Premier Services to Satisfy More 32 Customers 33 Treatment of Customer Complaints The Security of Customer Information Customer-friendly Services Be Excellent & Proactive Woori Investment & Securities Woori Investment & Securities has developed its own sysWoori Investment & Securities has launched an Information Woori Investment & Securities initiates industry-leading products and services, and provides online services with a clear tem to treat each complaint separately, designing a process Security Committee to solve issues in customer information market separation. In particular, the Company has achieved significant public attention for Octo, an advanced asset manageto resolve each case promptly by understanding the nature and provide education programs on information security, ment product, and it has sharpened its edges in customer service through customer-friendly events to appeal to their needs of the complaint and the factors that have led to it. All comthereby raising awareness of the importance information in a variety of areas. plaints are resolved within 14 days after they are received. security. To prevent a recurrence of the most major issues, the ComThe Company has in place an array of protection systems, Industry-leading Product and Services pany selects some complaints and their resolutions as case including server technology to prevent hacking, Internet firestudies in employee CS education programs. walls, a security control center, a password-protected dataOcto CMA Providing Additional Customer Benefits base for customer information, filters for dangerous traffic, Octo CMA, an advanced asset management product, combines all eight core financial trading services in one product. In Complaints Treatment Process 2008, the product completed the full elimination of transfer fees, thus increasing the level of customer satisfaction, and and an intrusion detection system. As a result, no penalties or complaints have been recorded against the Company's attracted significant customer interest with its easy deposit and withdrawal process and high interest rates, which are comComplaint requisition Letters, e-mail customer information security in the last three years. parable to the rates earned in many timed deposits. Octo CMA also enables customers to manage all their securities and general services in the same account through the addition of services, including deposit/withdrawal, automatic salary deposits, and direct debits, similar to general banking accounts. Thus, Octo CMA offers customers the ability to apply benefits Fact-finding Report, recording, other data CS Levels Increased from other subsidiaries of the Woori Financial Group, including banking services, credit loans linked to Woori Card, and other The National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) is an indicredit card products. cator presenting the level of satisfaction in Korean customer Inducing agreement with who have had direct experience with products and services Negotiation Octo Retirement Pension complainants in Korea or overseas. To address the issues posed by Korea’s aging population, Woori Investment & SeIn 2010, Woori Investment & Securities posted 70 points in the NCSI, slightly higher than the average of other securicurities calls on its industry-leading expertise in retirement pensions. On the Octo Reply ties companies, a rating attributed to its efforts to fulfill risRetirement Pension website, the Company provides convenient services for pension ing consumer expectations and levels of recognition since subscribers, including a guide to retirement pension plans, a pension mall for com2008. The Company is carrying out divisional improvement parison of products, trading of products, and additional services. Penalty after Dismissal inspection of the NSCI by setting up internal action plans. In addition, the Company operates the Octo Asset Management Research Center to Violations discovered No violations discovered provide information to customers according to their individual investment tendenNCSI Survey Results Unit : Points cies and share current investment news. The center offers a variety of education programs, such as investment classes and a retirement pension school, to assist http://pension.wooriwm.com Avoiding Mis-selling 2008 61 customers in understanding their retirement pensions. Woori Investment & Securities recommends and sells products appropriate to the investment tendencies of each cus2009 67 Superior Online Services tomer, based particularly on a customer's desired revenue The Mug Club structure and acceptable risk level. After a sale is made, 2010 70 The Mug Club is a membership-only service provided by Baristas, consultants for the Company continues to provide timely information on the product, such as changes in yield rates and notification of investment information, and offering customers the opportunity to share a full range countermeasures against unfavorable conditions in financial of financial information, both with the Company and with each other. markets. It conducts other follow-up services as needed. Action Plan by Work Unit To understand the factors that may lead to mis-selling and Key services of the mug club Department Action plan prevent the problems caused by it, the Company conducts 1 Investment information : stock recommendations through online bulletin boards, realinspections of fund sales at each branch. This practice also Call Center services improved, including ARS with consultants time stock market data and SMS services promotes consumer rights through post-sales services and Client service Services for handling VOC enhanced reinvigoration of marketing activities. In the second half of department 2 Investment consultation: advice on investing and holding stocks, either through teleCare services for non-controlled customers strengthhttp://mugcafe.wooriwm.com 2010, the Company scored an average of 89.8 points on ened phone consultation or one-to-one instant messaging, along with more customized approaches measures to prevent mis-selling, 8.4 points higher than in WM Business prothe first half of the same year, based on FSS guidelines. Environments in underperforming branches improved 3 Customer communities and investment presentations motion department These figures were also 4.4 points higher than the financial Customer events and promotional activities expanded industry’s average. The Company continues to improve the Marketing departPromotional activities strengthened for asset management management of branches to avoid mis-selling. ment brands and products TX : The Next Generation Online Trading System Sustainability Report 2010 Results of Measures to Prevent Mis-selling in 2010 Convenience and security of the home-trading system TX is an online trading system made by the synergy between the Company and the Unit : Points upgraded e-Business group Woori Financial Group. The system boasts its flexible fee structure varied by investInformation in cyber-trading updated Online trading for financial products upgraded ment style, innovative trading system to help better decision-making, and compensa1st half 81.4 Infrastructure for service improvement expanded tion program to return 10% of stock trading fee. Operations & The home-trading system used for an information 2nd half 89.8 technology channel www.mytx.com/tx/index.jsp Financial industry 85.4 Public relations average Company reputation enhanced through advertising department Premier Services to Satisfy More 34 Customers 35 Customer Loyalty Program Communication Channels SPECIAL CASE Be Excellent & Proactive Woori Investment & Securities Woori Investment & Securities provides preferential benefits Through diverse social networking services, Woori InvestIndustry-leading Products and Services and monthly services for prime customers through a digiment & Securities assists its customers in beginning investtalized marketing system. ment activities more easily, bringing investment information down to their level. Auto-Money Back Woori WM Pension Trust Financial Investment Presentation Investing idle “Money” and “Auto” Matically Giving the The Industry’s First Pension Trust that Preserves Principal Gains “Back” to Customers and Protects Depositors Through cooperation with journals, the Company organizes Woori Investment & Securities has introduced an Auto-Money Woori WM Pension Trust is a retirement savings product in which off-line presentations throughout Korea. At these presenBack service to assist customers in investing idle money into Customers deposit less than KRW tations, the Company provides investment information, inRPs, and to return the gains automatically to customers. Such 3 million per quarter for 10 years. cluding economic issues, stock market data, and financial services are already been common for preferred customers in At maturity, the trust provides products in the news, as well as major issues of the time. Since 2008, it has held seven presentations with an average + Facebook countries such as the U.S. During 2010, enrolled customers earned a 2.65% yield through pension benefits to depositors for more than five years beyond the of 2,000 participants, demonstrating their popularity. the Auto-Money Back service, higher than 1% of annual returns age of 55. from interest on regular deposits. Thus, the Company has seAlong the rising demand for Premier Blue Members cured greater customer trust in its commitment to putting them pension-type products and the In April 2011, Woori Investment & Securities launched the first by returning interest income to them. pressures of an aging population, Premier Blue service for its high-net-worth customers. Twitter www. wooriocto.com public interest in attaining a healthy retirement has increased. The Company became the first securities institution to link Automatic Automatic SalThe public is starting retirement savings earlier, and they are now Settlement ary Deposits concierge services with VIP benefits. The service provides Accounts seeking vehicles for more than 10 years of long-term pension Securities VVIPs with exclusive preferential benefits, including life-care Official Blog Launched Brokerage RP linking to contributions, thus, the number of pension trust subscribers is Accounts Woori Bank services through alliances with more than 100 companies, Through an official blog (www.wooriocto.com) launched in expected to continue growing. Automatic Card Payment and customized one-to-one concierge services through the March 2011, the Company provides a range of investment Investment industry’s first concierge center. information and financial product knowledge, along with Woori Stock Manager : timely posts offering information on current issues. Daily, A Standard for Portfolio Investment the blog provides morning news, market briefings at the Korea Life Cycle Fund Korea’s First On-line Stock Portfolio System close of trading, as well as other in-depth financial inforAs Korea’s first on-line stock-focused portfolio system, Woori mation on financial markets and investment technologies. An Asset Management Service for Each Milestone in Life Stock Manager offers trading solutions that are more differentiAdditionally, the blog covers non-financial topics such as As Korea faces an increasingly aging society, a lower retirement ated that those of other total-asset management services. With in-company news and social issues. age, and rising education expenses, marriage funds, and housing features such as portfolio setfunds, interest in early investment and long-term investment has up, performance management, Twitter and Facebook Accounts risen. As a fund for a lifelong financial plan, the Company’s Korea and re-balancing, customers Life Cycle Fund provides customers with a designated maturity In 2010, the Company launched a feed on Twitter (@wooare able to build and systematperiod for each milestone in life, including housing, children's riocto) to offer information on stock market conditions, ically manage their own highly educations, and retirement savings. market previews, corporate analysis, as well as a variety of optimized portfolios. marketing activities, such as “Cheering for the World Cup event”. Twitter enables to address errors and complaints http://wsm.wooriwm.com that occur on other blogs or portal sites, thus also strengthening its relationship with customers. In 2011, the Company An Introductory Page Found on the Premier Blue Website also opened an official account at Facebook (www.faceThe Financial Fund Management Method : Smart Investor book.com/wooriocto), further expanding its communication The Industry’s First Patented Product Petitioned by an Employee VIP Invitation Event with customers. In August 2008, Woori Investment & Securities introduced the Financial Every month, Woori Investment & Securities holds several Fund Management Method, a patented trading system that buys or sells invitation events for preferred customers in consideration of “I never knew that an stocks by setting a designated range for the decline of a stock price inthe latest issues and trends in the markets. asset management system dex. This system, developed and patented by an employee in the New The Company’s VIP invitation events are unique in the crecould receive a patent. Business Strategy Department, was launched in conjunction with the ativity of their contents and organization and in their wide The petition was suggested by Woori Smart Invest fund for trading solutions and pension products. variety of service items. These sophisticated, high-end one of my clients who is a Focusing on authentic workplace experiences rather than the backevents have generated significant interest among customuniversity engineering ground of the developer, the patent was granted based on the system’s ers, thereby boosting sales with a higher frequency of cusprofessor.” contribution to stable customer asset growth and relief of stresses on tomer contacts. Sustainability Report 2010 sales agents. Since the patent for the Financial Fund Management Method was registered, the number of patents for financial products or services in Korea has increased from 40 in 2008 to 3,000 in 2011. The Company continues to enhance its competitiveness in developing products and services similar to the Financial Fund Management Method. 38 Raising Ethical Awareness toward Transparent Management 41 Fostering Professionalism and Pride 47 A Corporate Culture Innovating toward Openness 50 Advanced Partnership with Maximum Synergy Our Approach Based on strong ethical awareness and industry-leading professionalism, Woori Investment & Securities continues to march forward. By building desirable workplaces for employees, the most valuable assets of the Company, and cooperative networks with partnering companies domestically and abroad, the Company achieves maximum synergy. Progress & Achievement Promulgated the Guidelines for Internal Compliance Practices Conducted Programs to Help Employees to Keep Balance between Work and Life Be Implemented the Industry’s Best HR Development System Embedded Innovation Activities in Corporate Culture Strategic Direction Professional & Enhancing the Transparency Management Based on Corporate Citizenship Strengthening Long-term Strategies by Fostering Professionals in Sustainability Management Leading the Sustainability of the Industry by Attracting Talent through Open Communication and Synergetic Varied Welfare Programs Raising Ethical Awareness toward 38 Transparent Management 39 Implementing an Ethical Management System Guidelines for The Handling of Issues in the Financial Industry Promoting Ethical Awareness among Officers Programs of Ethical Management Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities By considering ethical responsibility as a fundamental part and Employees of its corporate identity, Woori Investment & Securities enBribery sures that all decisions and daily operations conform to · Officers and employees shall not be provided or given any money, Ethics Education Monitoring for Unfair Trading fulfill its principles of corporate ethics. The Company disvaluables, entertainment, unfair benefits, or extraordinary gifts by Twice a year, the Company holds periodic ethical manageBy indentifying suspicious transactions and taking approcloses information on ethical management on its website, members of the government, related authorities, or other interested ment education programs for all officers and employees, priate measures, Woori Investment & Securities prevents parties in exchange for favorable or preferential consideration in the demonstrating its commitment to ethical management to especially for persons in charge of ethical management. unfair trading at the earliest stages. To do so, the Company course of their duties. inside and outside stakeholders. · Officers and employees shall not accept bribes, ask for unjust faIn addition, the Company provides a variety of on-the-job monitors accounts based on 10 criteria, including simultavors, or request any preferential consideration from each other. training programs for new recruits, new branch managers, neous deposits or withdrawal of large-scale funds, frequent Organizations of Ethical Management · Ceremonies and occasions common under Korean custom are exbranch sales team leaders, and the CFOs of local subsidiarinflows and outflows of stock, and activities that exceed the The Ethical Management Committee, Ethical Management empted from the prohibitions above, including birthdays or family ies. The Company also holds group and on-line education limits imposed on financial transactions by the supervisory Office and Ethical Management Officers organically cultivate events. In unavoidable cases apart from these, employees must resessions on ethical management. institutions. port to the Compliance Officer on their activities. a culture of ethical management throughout the Company. These programs cover general topics including ethical manChaired by the CEO of the Company, the Ethical ManageInformation Leakage agement policies, guidelines, and related laws, as well as Prevention of Money Laundering ment Committee consists of five executive officers. As the · In disclosing information on business operations, officers and emspecific topics of interest such as the prevention of conflicts In order to prevent the acceptance of illegal assets and highest decision-making body regarding ethical manageployees shall not pursue personal gain or communicate in any way of interest, mis-selling, and money laundering. Through case money laundering, the Company classifies clients accordment, the Committee enacts policies on ethical managethat may cause problems in society. studies of complaints as well as outstanding performance, ing to their risk of engaging such activities. It also monitors ment, maintains and enforces the code of conduct and · Internal Company information shall not be disclosed to a third party the ethics education system enables employees to undersuspicious transactions and large cash transactions. unless done so in adherence to appropriate procedures as mandated other regulations, and evaluates the fulfillment of ethical stand and apply ethical management in their own duties. in laws or regulations, nor without prior approval of the Company. management. The Company provides one hour a year in ethical manageReporting of Bribery or Unfair Favors Under the Compliance Department, the Ethical ManageFair Trade ment education for all officers and employees. In adherence to the guidelines on the reporting of bribery ment Office oversees the guidelines for ethical manage· To abide by the principles of the open market and free and fair comor unfair favors, all officers and employees must report to ment, and conducts education and compliance programs. petition, the Company shall observe the domestic and international Reward and Penalty System the Office of Ethical Management if they accept monetary At least twice a year, this office assesses the Company's business conventions and shall participate in the prevention of unfair Woori Investment & Securities provides a system of rewards instruments, valuables, or favors which exceed the amounts trading practices. ethical management system and reports the results to the and penalties to encourage ethical management. Through common in social custom. · The Company shall observe domestic and overseas anti-corruption Ethical Management Committee. this system, the Company rewards employees who excel in laws and regulations, including the Convention on Combating the Reported Instances of Bribery or Unreasonable Favors In addition, 201 compliance managers (CMs) assigned to Bribery of Foreign Public Officials, promulgated by the Organization ethical management, while imposing penalties on employUnit : Cases branches and the main office have been appointed as Ethiof Economic Corporation and Development (OECD). ees with violations. cal Management Officers to monitor the compliance of em· Officers and employees shall not manipulate stock market prices to Rewards are given to those who generate significant benYear Number of reports Results ployees with ethical management policies. obtain unjust profits through falsification of information or improper efits or who prevent losses to the Company, as well as to conduct. 2008 14 those who contribute to the company’s reputation as ethiLetter of compliance officer · The Company shall not be entrusted with false orders, which attempt Code of Ethics cal role models and who promote the advancement of the 2009 9 sent to find unfair advantages in trading through the submission of a large To become the highest rated financial investment company amount of bids on unpromising trades and through repetitive adjustethical management system. On the other hand, penalties Points added to branch in terms of transparency, Woori Investment & Securities ments or cancellations of orders to affect market prices. are imposed against those who violate ethics guidelines, 2010 18 evaluations must first become a company respected by its customers, discourage whistle-blowers, or engage in other misconduct Education program introduced Political Intervention First half of 2011 7 shareholders, the nation and society. It is quickly achieving that may lead damage or loss in the Company. This system · Officers and employees shall not demand support from any politithese goals through the code of ethics promulgated by the of rewards and penalties applies to all officers, employees, cal party or candidate, nor make illegal political contributions or enWoori Financial Group in 2002. and management alike. The holding company determines dorsements in any form. Political contributions made by officers and The code of ethics includes codes of conduct and guidelines employees must adhere to laws and company regulations. rewards and penalties for the top management. The Whistle-blower System for the responsibilities and obligations of the stakeholder · The political rights of officers and employees shall be respected. During 2010, 14 officers and employees were rewarded, To minimize impact from unethical behavior, the Company group. In particular, the code covers issues of improper However, officers and employees are strictly prohibited from issuing and no penalties were recorded. has established a system to encourage employees to reconduct, including bribery, leaks of customer information, any political statements or engaging in political activities while using port on activities that may violate ethics guidelines, comthe company name. Compliance Newsletter fair trade, political intervention, personal monetary transacpany regulations, or work procedures. Whistle-blowers tions, and money laundering, through which a financial instiPersonal Monetary Transactions Every quarter, a newsletter is sent to all officers and employmay report via telephone, e-mail, written documents, or the tution may negatively influence society if left unchecked. · Employees are prohibited from entering into agreements with each ees to promote their understanding of compliance and ethiCompliance Plaza on the company intranet. The security of other on lending or with financial or mutual guarantee. They are also cal issues. Through the newsletters, the Company encourwhistle-blowers is guaranteed. Code of Ethics Framework of the Woori Financial Group prohibited from entering into money transactions or guarantees on ages its officers and employees to learn in greater depth debt with customers. about ethical management and related laws, as well as to · Employees shall not participate in brokerage or loan transactions, Promise to Promise to practice them in their daily business. whether between customers or between customer and employee. Customers Sustainability Report 2010 Shareholders Universal Money Laundering financial network · Officers and employees or the Company shall raise awareness of growing with cusillegal money laundering. tomer happiness · Officers and employees shall report suspicious transactions to the Promise of Promise to Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) through appropriate processes and Woori Employees methods. Promise to the Nation and Society A Introductory Page of Compliance Plaza Raising Ethical Awareness toward 40 Transparent Management 41 Fostering Professionalism and Pride Monitoring of Ethical Management Enhancing the Compliance Level Protection of Human Rights Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities Woori Investment & Securities actively conducts education In adherence to internal control standards and the compliAs of June 2011, 2,965 officers and employees worked at Diversity programs of ethical management for all officers, employees, ance manual, Woori Investment & Securities complies with Woori Investment & Securities, including 2,340 (78.9%) in In line with policies to diversify its business structure, Woori and management. The Company also monitors everyone to laws, thereby contributing to stability in the capital markets. full-time positions and 625 (21.1%) in temporary, fixed term Investment & Securities hires talented individuals of variensure that they fulfill related laws and regulations. During the reporting period, no penalties or fines were impositions. From 2010 to the first half of 2011, the Company ous nationalities through its global networks. Under a set posed for unfair competition practices. Furthermore, no hired 165 new recruits, while 1.82% of those new recruits of policies called ‘Harmony in Diversity,’ the Company is Self-inspection of Internal Control gifts or contributions, monetary or material, were given to left the Company during the same period. In compliance implementing a personnel system optimized to encourage Woori Investment & Securities designates Compliance political parties, and there were no illegal political activities. with the Labor Standards Act and the Equal Employment cultural values in each employee's daily duties, thereby deManagers (CMs) for each division and branch to promote Opportunity Law, Woori Investment & Securities pursues veloping the competencies required for globalization. AddiCompany-wide participation in internal control. Through Fulfilling Its Tax Obligations reasonable recruiting procedures. tionally, to protect the right to equal employment of persons self-inspection checklists and abiding by internal control Woori Investment & Securities fully meets its responsibilities with disabilities, the Company is expanding recruitment of Unit : % standards, CMs identify violations which occasionally occur to pay taxes as a corporate citizen. the disabled. in sales and general operations. The results are recorded 1st half of Taxes paid by the Company 2008 2009 2010 2011 Unit : % of workforce each month in daily inspection notes and reported to the Unit : KRW millions Compliance Department. Number of officers 1st half of Classification 2008 2009 2010 2,748 2,793 2,915 2,965 2008 2009 2010 and employees 2011 Key Criteria for Self-inspection Corporate tax 46,801 54,609 67,576 % of positions that 81.0 80.4 77.7 78.9 Employees with disabilities 0.2 1.2 0.5 0.0 are full-time / % Inspect details in applications and /19.0 /19.6 /22.3 /21.1 Residence tax 4,680 5,461 6,758 that are fixedterm Inspect goods and real balances obtain approval from the person in charge Special tax for % of fixed-term Inspect accounts that require the farming and fishing 3 employees Ban on Child Labor and Forced Labor communities 16.3 25.0 8.9 9.6 transitioning into Abiding by the International Labour Organization's Conconfidentiality of customer informaInspect futures and options accounts full-time tion, including balance and transacTotal 51,484 60,070 74,334 vention Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action tion records * The Company pays taxes twice each year : in November and during the first % of employee toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour 10 8 11 3 half of the following year. resignations and requirements in Korea’s Labor Standards Act, Woori Inspect performance of daily closing Inspect the management of cusduties tomer credit information Full-time employInvestment & Securities strictly prohibits any form of child Inspect anti-money laundering Abiding by Regulations in Advertising ees resigning / labor or forced labor. Inspect uncollected margin accounts 7/24 4/27 7/25 2/10 The advertisement of financial investment products signififixed term employmechanisms ees resigning cantly affects the choices that potential customers and inPrevention of Sexual Harassment Inspect sales and promotional Inspect credit management and loans activities vestors make. Accordingly, Woori Investment & Securities Woori Investment & Securities is conducting a variety of observes legal requirements for advertising, such as the activities to prevent sexual harassment, thereby protecting requirement to convey precise information. Gender Equality women’s rights and cultivating a healthy corporate culture. Evaluations of Ethical Management With the guidelines for the production of advertisements for Woori Investment & Securities guarantees equal opportuThrough distribution of an HR counseling bulletin over corEach year, the company assesses the level of understandinvestment products and services, Woori Investment & Senity to men and women in all personnel management pracporate intranet and the activities of a Grievance Committee, ing and practices of ethical management in each departcurities establishes a legal basis for screening of such adtices including promotion and appointment of managers. the Company collects reports on incidents of sexual harassment and branch, which are graded in five levels: excellent, vertisements and clarifies criteria for their contents and forAs part of its efforts to address Korea’s low-birth rate, the ment. It appoints managers in charge of sexual harassment satisfactory, average, poor, or risky. The results of these asmats, as well as raising the level of understanding of related Company offers 120 days of pre-and post-maternity leave. prevention to provide discrete channels for counseling, and sessments are used to improve the ethical management. personnel by illustrating examples of such advertisements. It also guarantees a year-long maternity leave regardless of conducts frequent monitoring through certified internal laIn results for these evaluations in 2010, the number of Complying with the Financial Investment Services and Capgender. bor attorneys. Once a year, the Company holds a one-hour branches graded as satisfactory increased by 14% comital Market Act, all such advertisements of the Company As a member of the financial industry, where male employeducational session on prevention of sexual harassment for pared to the previous year. The number of departments at include the name of the financial investment companies, ees have traditionally predominated, Woori Investment & all officers and employees. the head office graded as excellent also rose by 3% inthe details of financial investment products, and risk factors Securities actively nurtures female specialists. As of June crease in the same period. Woori Investment & Securities arising from investment. The Company also observes the 2011, female workers comprised 41.9% of all officers and Complaint Management System regards these results as an outcome of active employee mandatory notice provision required in the business regulaemployees, including executives, and 3.1% of top manageUnderstanding and resolving the individual difficulties that participation in education and related programs, and contions of the Korea Financial Investment Association for its all ment, including executives and department heads. all employees occasionally face is a significant responsibiltinues to improve the quality of its evaluations through conadvertisements. There were no cases of violation or fine in ity for companies, and efforts to do so enhance efficiency tinual inspection. the past three years. Unit : % of workforce and create a quality work environment. Woori Investment & Securities provides a complaint management system with 1st half of Strengthening of EMS Process 2008 2009 2010 features such as online HR counseling and a Grievance Performance of Ethical Management by Criteria 2011 Woori Investment & Securities conducts the E-Marketing Committee. In particular, the Company protects the privacy Sustainability Report 2010 Unit : Points System (EMS) for its customer relationship management Male employees / of complainants through a confidential, restricted commuLevel of 58/42 58/42 59/41 58/42 Criteria Level of action Female employees recognition and other marketing activities. The Company also holds nication channel with human resource staff. In conjuncEthical Female managers, e-Test for ethical manageSocial conTotal pre-screening services to weed out advertising phrases tion with the Department of Human Resources and Labor Standards Compliance incl. executives and 1.8 2.9 3.1 3.1 management ment tribution from contents of e-mails or SMS via the EMS. In July 2011, department heads Unions, the Grievance Committee plays an essential role education the Company restricted the contents of investment adverin communicating with employees through a wide range of Score 50 10 20 20 100 tisings via the EMS to pre-approved ones only and prohibchannels. distribution ited editing processes of such advertisements. 42 Fostering Professionalism and Pride 43 Hiring Talented Individuals Nurturing Professionals Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities Through a variety of education programs, Woori Investment Employee Education Programs The Right People for Woori Investment & Securities The Internship Program & Securities supports its staff and employees with the aim Individuals Determined to be the Best In its internship program, Woori Investment & Securities ofof attaining the industry’s highest level of professional comClassificaUnit 2008 2009 2010 1st half of To become the best overall financial investment company, fers interns the opportunity to participate in activities betion 2011 petency in every respect, including knowledge, skills, and all officers and employees of Woori Investment & Securities yond office clerical duties with high-quality on-the-job trainParticiPersons 17,019 31,310 13,821 7,068 attitudes. As part of its efforts, the Company introduced the pants* aim to improve themselves and to attain high standards of ing. It has garnered positive responses from participants. Woori Investment & Securities (WIS) University, a unique HR Education KR W/ excellence in their fields. Rather than focusing only on indiThrough four to six weeks of orientation sessions and oneexpenses Person 163,055 79,043 176,668 135,533 viduals who demonstrate outstanding talent, Woori Investon-one training with supervisors in each field, interns gain management system that trains employees in growth stratInstrucment & Securities seeks individuals who also demonstrate in-depth understanding of work-site operations. The interns egies and corporate culture. The University currently holds tional Hours/ 9.1 5.1 3.1 10.5 Person unlimited potential and determination to be the best. also gain valuable experience in job interviews and work two education courses in leadership and professionalism. Credits ** projects. Furthermore, the Company extends the horizons * Number of participants is cumulative. Individuals with the Market Competitiveness and of its human resources as it offers favorable consideration (Participants who completed 10 courses = 10 Persons) Professionalism to recruits who have completed the internship program, ** One credit equals eight hours of instruction Woori Investment & Securities seeks individuals who enthereby securing talent that has been verified as outstandThe WIS University System hance their personal and organizational competitiveness ing while also contributing to job creation. through continual self-development, even in a busy working WIS University environment. In so doing, the Company’s business grows Attracting Experts in Various Fields with the competence of talented individuals in the everWoori Investment & Securities maximizes job opportunities Leadership Course changing capital market environment and regulations. for individuals with no experience in the financial field, but Enhancing the competence of each Professional Course who possess specific knowledge in other fields. To attract employee and developing an innovaFostering the most competitive professionals in each field tive corporate culture Individuals who Contribute to Organizational Synergy high-caliber experts in various fields, the Company conWoori Investment & Securities is transforming itself into a ducts a dual recruitment channel system, including recomWM Value & top-tier company by utilizing the synergy created by emmendations from each department and open recruitment. Group Core Talent Vision PB HQ Selfmanagement ployees who put the well-being of their communities over Planning Product Relationship individual interests. The Company's business structure by Leaders Forum Statistics / Investment planning Stock research its very nature emphasizes cooperation among teams rather Adavanced Individual financial Stock managethan individual abilities, and it thus nurtures employees who Leader Support for Top analysis ment outsourced Retirement plans Derivatives value teamwork and harmony with others. education manager Tax / Real estate (intensive) courses (intensive) PB Clinic Introduction to Industry (Education leadership Economic indexes research customized to Woori Leadership Academy, a Space That Nurtures Talented Individuals Financial analysis Derivatives competence) Intermediate Shared compeCS (intensive) Proposal prepara(basic) Developtencies Psychology OA / Ethics/ tion BC (intensive) ment of HR Programs of VIPs Foreign Compliance/ TVM Fixed income programs outsourced CRM language / In April 2010, the Company launched the Woori Leadership AcadTeam leadership Sexual Tax / Real estate (intensive) according by units at harassment (basic) Products of Culture / emy. As the name suggests, the Academy aims to become a leadto core the head prevention/ other companies Refresher business office ing human resources development (HRD) center to nurture the incourses Non-Leader Teamwork area FX / Interest Rates dustry’s leaders and promote the Company's vision of becoming Orientation for MBA Macroeconomics Basic/Technical DM/TM/ODS the best financial investment company. In two buildings, including new employees programs Investment PB School analysis Consulting/ComNew recruits theories/Financial Client assets a three-story training center and a resident hall, the Academy proBC (basic) pliant treatment Orientation to Statement Portfolio asset ELS (basic) CS (basic) vides lecture rooms in 12 sizes, including a main auditorium with Basic tasks Mastering management Fixed income VIP culture Orientation Microsoft Excel for Monitoring / a capacity of 600 seats and 53 accommodation facilities with a for experienced (basic) Compliance Re-balancing financing Trust/Pension (general) capacity of 120 visitors a day. It is equipped with sports facilities, employees Mastering MicroInsurance Teamwork PB advisories including a natural grass field that meets global standards and other soft PowerPoint for financing auxiliary sports fields. With these facilities, the Academy has earned accolades as the most prestigious HR training center in the Korean Talent Development School Fostering Core Talent financial sector. Woori Investment & Securities encourages employees to The competitiveness of a company depends greatly on how In 2010, along with the opening of the Academy, the Company venture further into their fields of expertise and to fulfill their it discovers and fosters talent in its human resources. Woori also introduced other intensive programs, including an IB/Trading School and an economics camp for children, and further supported www.woorileaders.com/leaders/intro.jsp desire for growth as professionals. The Talent DevelopInvestment & Securities seeks out talent through the Woori Sustainability Report 2010 the activities of in-company informal clubs. ment School offers all employees opportunities to particiTalented Individual program, an HR development plan that pate in on-the-job training programs that can be customhelps talented individuals find the right career path accordized to each field, such as IB and trading. The Company ing to their performance and potential. holds group education sessions one weekend every three The School selects participants through the recommendamonths, featuring internal professional lecturers and outside tion of each department and the approval of personnel manexperts. Through practical case studies, the School enables agers. Participants are screened and counseled on their fuemployees to better understand their own duties and obtain ture careers through face-to-face meetings with the Council in-depth knowledge of the financial industry. on HR Development and based on their performance, competence, and the strength or weakness of their potential. 44 Fostering Professionalism and Pride 45 Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation Welfare System Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities By regarding its officers and employees as the most sigRetirement Benefits Performance Appraisal System Performance Compensation nificant assets, Woori Investment & Securities offers a wide To strengthen the vested rights to retirement benefits and For fair performance management, Woori Investment & Fair compensation for individual performance encourages range of welfare programs to guarantee a stable living for its guarantee the stability of employees after retirement, Woori Securities encourages officers and employees to set their the active participation of officers and employees in boostemployees, thereby contributing to their self-development Investment & Securities provides a retirement benefit sysown Individual Key Performance Indicators (KPI), which are ing a company’s overall performance into the future. Thus, as well as the strength of the Company’s business. tem. Employees are able to choose from two types of retirebased on divisional Management by Object (MBO). Thus, fair compensation is fundamental to sustaining a company’s ment plans : defined benefit (DB) and defined contribution the Company is able to assess how the performance of leadership in the market. Accordingly, Woori Investment each employee is appropriate to the goals of the organiza& Securities maintains a reasonable, performance-based Vacation and Leave (DC). Employees may change their plan from a DB to a DC tion. The Company assesses the performance of all officers compensation process that relies on general consensus In addition to annual and menstrual leave required by law, the only once during their employment. and employees twice a year. among employees and is therefore embedded in its corpoCompany guarantees employees additional leave, including Through self-assessment and preliminary meetings, the rate culture. that granted for physical training and fitness, afternoons Company continually improves the level of satisfaction of off, and refreshment breaks. It also supports childbirth and Employee Satisfaction Improvement Program employees with their performance evaluations. In addition Compensation Committee childcare by providing 120 days of preand post-childbirth to quantitative analysis, the system measures multifaceted Consisting of two outside directors and a member of the leave, maternity leave, and the operation of breastfeeding Family Day aspects such as individual competence and personality to Risk Management Committee, the Compensation Commitrooms. In 2010, 101 female employees took preand postOn Family Day, a monthly event to encourage family bonds, maintain a balance between the two. tee oversees regulations for all compensation. The Comchildbirth leave, while 61 male employees took three days employees leave their offices at 5 p.m. Woori Investment mittee assesses the performance of the top management, Procedures for Performance Evaluation each of parental leave. & Securities regularly promotes the event through the acevaluates, and deliberates on the appropriate design and tive participation of top managers and monthly rewards operation of compensation. It also gauges the level of fulSabbatical Leave to outstanding teams, thereby inculcating it throughout Selection of criteria and objectives fillment of FSS guidelines on compensation practices for financial investment companies, checks annual compensaWoori Investment & Securities grants days of sabbatical the corporate culture. Since event day was moved from tion, and reports the results to the FSS. leave equivalent to the unused days of annual leave, thereWednesday to Friday in February 2010, participation rates Individual KPI and multifaceted evaluation by providing employees with the opportunity for longer vahave increased. Salary Systems and Performance Related Pay cations. Long-serving employees are able to apply for such Through the rational attribution of the Company’s overall leave every five years. Every January, the Company comInformal Clubs Evaluation of department and divisional heads performance based on individual contribution, the salary poses a list of employees eligible for sabbatical. At Woori Investment & Securities, employees may particisystem of Woori Investment & Securities focuses on enpate in 26 informal clubs for hobbies and interests, fitness hancing long-term performance. To control risks, the ComResidential Assistance and health, mountain climbing, and social contribution acFinal evaluation of the CEO Divisional evaluation and grading pany has introduced schemes for flexible compensation, Woori Investment & Securities provides special housing tivities. At least 1,406 officers and employees, or 48% of after 1st and 2nd evaluation Overall evaluation and grading by long-term performance-linked compensation, and deferred loans for employees who do not own homes. The following the total workforce, participate in more than one of these department heads compensation. employees are eligible to apply for the loans: those who are clubs. The Company pays new recruits 380% of the minimum Team member evaluation married, or planning to be married, and who have more than wage required by law. All officers and employees are comInformal Clubs by Area two years of continual employment; unmarried first sons pensated according to their abilities, regardless of basic salary, job position, or gender. over 55 years of age, or first daughters over 50 years of Classification Informal clubs Final evaluation of department heads Overall evaluation and grading age, with dependent parents. The Company also supports Playing goh Scuba diving after 1st and 2nd evaluation by individuals monthly rental payments for employees who are deployed Hobbies and Travel and photography Fishing to regional branches and who cannot rely on friends or faminterests Wine In-line skating and skiing Theater and concerts Criteria for Multifaceted Evaluation ily for support. Running Baseball Classification Competency Details Fitness and Tennis Basketball Health and Medical Assistance health Soccer Bicycling Proactive challenger Does the subject of evaluation take initiative in facing challenges and commit to action? Through health and safety indicators, the Company proMountain climbing spirit Does the subject proactively seek new and creative ways to obtain better performance? Does the subject continue study and research for given tasks? vides medical expenses, sick leaves, and health exams for Keepers for sharing Paper airplane Professionalism Social Does the subject accept full responsibility for and commitment to duties? employees who suffer for diseases. Through group casucontribution Sharing of love Blue sky Choir Goal-oriented Does the subject understand team goals and prepare team members to performance toward those goals? alty insurance, the Company pays insurance premium upon General teamwork Does the subject cooperate with other team members to improve performance? death or three serious diseases including cancers, strokes, criteria Customer-focused Does the subject create customer value by understanding customer needs and by promptly and accurately providing them management with solutions? and acute myocardial infarction. The Company also supDoes the subject understand rules and regulations regarding given duties? ports medical expenses and provides health exams for emSustainability Report 2010 Ethical awareness Does the subject think and act in adherence to regulations and codes of ethics? ployees’ family. Does the subject use opportunities and solve problems with originality, optimism, and creativity? Innovative mindset Does the subject consistently seek innovation to improve work processes and productivity? Does the subject nurture team members through appropriate empowerment, motivation and performance evaluations to Education of Children Department Leadership obtain substantial results? Woori Investment & Securities assists the children of emheads Does the subject serve as a role model with a high sense of responsibility? ployees with admission and tuition fees for middle and high Activities of Various Informal Clubs Team Does the subject actively follow the direction of team heads? Followership school and university. The Company assists preschoolers members Does the subject succeed in changing and improving performance by offering creative, constructive ideas? with KRW 1.2 million annually for two years prior to entering schools. A Corporate Culture Innovating 46 Fostering Professionalism and Pride 47 toward Openness Employee Satisfaction and Engagement Survey OneDo, a Group-wide Corporate Culture Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities To cope with major changes in the management environCriteria of Employee Satisfaction and Engagement Survey Innovation Campaign ment and to understand employee commitment to the vision Launched in 2010, OneDo is the slogan of the corporate The OneDo Emblem of becoming Korea's best financial investment institution, · Competitiveness of the organization : top culture innovation campaign of the Woori Financial Group. the Company conducts surveys on employee satisfaction management, core competitiveness, HR, A compound word, it is formed from One, which repreinnovation, the balance between work and and engagement*. life, etc. sents both “each individual” and “the number one financial The criteria of the survey include the level of satisfaction group,” and Do, which signifies “action-oriented innovaand engagement, competitiveness of the organization, clar· Clarityof duties : understanding of duties, tion.” The slogan conveys the strong commitment of all emEmployee satisfaction contribution to management goals, etc. ity of duties, leadership, personal satisfaction, and overall ployees to achieve their highest goal by sharing one vision corporate culture. With such criteria, the Company may · Leadership : fair performance evaluation, and by enhancing efficiency and competitiveness in their Employee engagement The OneDo System better understand the factors that influence employee enfostering of team members, communication, daily operations. teamwork, etc. gagement, while also documenting the Company’s major issues and the corporate culture from the perspective of the · Personal satisfaction : safety, compensaOneDo Programs Objective Embedding innovation in the workplace through the creative thinking and voluntary participation of each employee employees. tion, sense of belonging, personal growth WhyDea potential, etc Organized and implemented annually by the Corporate InWhyDea, incorporating Why and Idea, is a system that Action Starting with Shifting Gathering Reducing novation Department, all officers and employees participate encourages each employee to begin each task by asking Principles “Why” paradigms ideas waste · Changes in employee perceptions of corpoChanges in perceptions anonymously in the survey, which is followed by analysis of rate culture as demonstrated in assessments “why.” When employees have ideas for further improvement of corporate culture WhyTing responses according to rank. Thus, it provides a significant in their own duties, they may submit proposals to departWhyDea Maestro (Small group channel for the voices of employees, and the results are · Strong and weak points of the Company ment or branch heads through the WhyDea system. Pro(Proposals) (Innovation leaders) meetings) used for the improvement of the corporate culture. Major issues for employposals are then put into practice after approval from the Programs · Opinions about productive commuting and ees of the Company use of annual and monthly leaves management. The system enables employees to better OneDo Tasks * Through the combination of two criteria-clarity of duties and sense of duty-the survey measures the amount of additional hours and energy, or the level of inunderstand their own duties by reflecting on their personal tellectual power, that employees contribute toward the Company’s success. performance, ultimately gaining a broader sense of their duties within the corporate context through examples shared The WhyTing Process company-wide. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) SPECIAL CASE Maestro Selecting tasks for departments and branches Appointed by departments and branches, Maestros are All Recognizing that employment in the financial industry may creAreas of EAP Consultation Selecting more than one task every quarter leaders in innovation within their local workplaces. Currentemployees ate significant stress and emotional difficulty, rather than risk of Appointing task leaders ly, 180 officers and employees are designated as Maestros. Establishing detailed action plans physical harm, Woori Investment & Securities provides a sysClassification Topic In consideration of performance, leadership, and reputation, tem for mental health, in addition to physical care. Workplace conflicts, stresses felt by middle The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is the Company’s Maestros are selected from among the most active and creWorkplace managers, dealing with complaints, leadership, Registering tasks unique mental health management program to help employees issues nurturing subordinates, career development, time ative personnel to play leading-roles in innovation. Holding WhyTings regularly to resolve problems arising from performance of duties and permanagement, motivation, etc. Recording progress on tasks in a timely manner sonal issues. In 2010, the Company became the first among Psychological Human relations, communication, mental health WhyTing Maestro Korean securities companies to introduce such a program. and emo(depression, anxiety, anger), social phobias, Led by Maestros, a WhyTing is a small-group meeting held tional issues stresses from duties, etc. Recording progress on tasks Beyond basic issues such as human relations in the workplace in a department or branch. At a WhyTing, employees conand career development, the EAP offers consultation services Education and career, growth (including adolesduct brainstorming activities to gather ideas for improveAssessing the level of task fulfillment with experts in a wide range of fields, including financial manChildcare Department Reviewing completed tasks cence), behavior disorders, personality, etc. ment of the company’s operations. agement and legal assistance, as well as family relations and and branch Quarterly approval for completed tasks by department childcare. Relationships with spouses, living apart from family heads and branch heads To assist employees showing signs of severe stress, the EAP Spouse and because of work or education, dependent parents, Performance of OneDo family enlists professional counselors from consulting institutions to dealing with mental illness in the family, etc. Since OneDo was introduced, some 700 WhyTings have provide in-depth guidance and effective resolutions. Each emLegal advice, financial consulting, real estate, been held, and 11,500 proposals have been submitted and Rewards for OneDo ployee is allowed to apply for the counseling services up to Others health (including smoking, drinking, obesity), implemented through the WhyDea system. Outstanding exeight times a year, with expenses fully paid by the Company. medical information, tax information, etc. amples that have demonstrably contributed to innovation Classification Frequency Details Rewards With services outsourced to a range of institutions, the EAP within the company have been rewarded. The Company guarantees the privacy of employees seeking assistance and EAP Procedures designates every first and third Tuesday as OneDo Day, WhyTing Quarterly Teams that excel in Prize money the confidentiality of counseling. Employees may also ask for performance of tasks additional management by professional individual coordinators. during which employees are encouraged to select tasks Furthermore, the EAP enables employees to maintain a balance Linking with Linking to at WhyTings and to engage in reflective self-examination WhyDea Quarterly Individuals who excel in Prize money Appointment professional A/S proposals regarding selected tasks. It holds Best Practice events to Sustainability Report 2010 between work and life, thereby improving overall efficiency. coordinators consultants The Company monitors the operational status of the EAP along reward teams and individuals who excel in OneDo activities Maestro who excel in Maestro Annually Overseas training five criteria: effectiveness of problem resolution; the attitudes · Telephone ·S  cheduling ·F  ace-to-face · Happy Call and to share outstanding examples company-wide. leadership of consultants and issues addressed in consultations; proappointment consultation · Happy e-mail · E-mail As a result of OneDo activities, the Company posted KRW · Telephone (CS survey) Outstanding Individuals or teams who cesses for linking with consultants; the consultation environ· Homepage consultation 48.1 billion in financial performance created from expanded teams or indiHalf-yearly excel in performance Prize money ment, and the number of consultations. In results of July 2011, viduals related to proposals the Company scored 92.3% for satisfaction from participating · E-mail conincome, cost-savings, and lower opportunity costs. sultation employees, higher than the average of 82% scored by other companies. A Corporate Culture Innovating 48 toward Openness 49 Corporate Culture Improvement Programs Fostering a Corporate Mindset to Be the Best Communication with Employees Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities Through an advertising campaign entitled “A Company of The Smile & Hello Campaign “Exciting Quaility” Many Firsts,” Woori Investment & Securities enhances pubOpen Communication with the CEO Greetings are the most basic and easiest ways to show reTo accomplish its goal of becoming Korea’s best overall filic recognition of its excellence in businesses and services. CEO’s Homepage spect and friendliness toward customers and colleagues. In nancial investment institution by 2011, the Company has In 2010, the Company received recognition as the best inThrough the CEO’s homepage, Woori Investment & Securithe first half of 2010, Woori Investment & Securities implechanged many of its work processes. Under the slogan of dustry performer in 26 areas due to its efforts to foster a ties provides a platform for sharing the management phimented a Smile & Hello Campaign with the participation of “Exciting Quaility”, customers are provided with products corporate mindset that is more appropriate for a best alllosophy, vision, and other important messages with emall officers and employees, thereby promoting courteous and services that exceed their expectations and extend around financial investment company. ployees. The homepage is also used as a channel to collect etiquette throughout the Company and reinvigorating the their imaginations. Corporate officers and employees, as employee complaints via interactive, direct communication work environment. well, cultivate their work environments in ways that add to Office of Achieving # 1 with the CEO. The campaign encourages the use of expressions of detheir own happiness. Every quarter, the Company selects In December 2010, Woori Investment & Securities introlight, cheerful greetings, kindness in telephone conversaideas from employees and rewards their excellence as exduced the “Office of Achieving # 1” under the CEO to carry Hofday tions, and polite elevator etiquette. Since the introduction amples demonstrating the concept of Quality that Excites in out strategies to become the best in every respect. The To cultivate an open-door corporate culture, the Company of the campaign, the Company has obtained positive reacsales, CS, and relations with colleagues Office consists of core working groups representing the holds “Hofdays with the CEO,” an event between the CEO tions from employees, including warmhearted greetings in Company’s key business units, including WM, wholesale, and employees at work sites. Held at the main office and main lobbies, elevators, and hallways between employees Group Mentoring and Open Lectures trading, and IB. regional branches, the event focuses on open-hearted conwho had not met each other before. In 2010, Woori Investment & Securities introduced a group The Office informs employees the direction of the CEO and versation without formalities. mentoring system covering a wide range of topics. Through manages a database of “Number-One Indicators.” To consmall-scale mentoring groups and outdoor activities to augtinue playing a leading-position in the market, the office also Harmonization among Employees ment regular lectures, the system fosters horizontal comdiscovers and activates new businesses, determines deals Woori Dream Talks munications within the organization. which influence the Company’s reputation, and ensures the In May 2010, “Woori Dream Talks,” an event to encourage The Company also offers lunch-hour lectures on various creation of synergy between business units. unity among employees, was held at the Woori Leadership topics, thereby helping employees develop their knowledge Academy. Through this event, the Company provided emof new areas and to better understand major trends within No.1 Indicators ployees with opportunities to rethink their visions of their the financial industry. Every first Friday, such lectures are Woori Investment & Securities mainown lives and the Company under the topic of “dream.” offered on a wide range of topics, including humanities, scitains “Number-One Indicators” clasence, culture, management, philosophy, and the arts. The sified into 58 criteria, including ROE, Company continues to improve these lectures through emproduct diversification, individual proployee surveys. ductivity, and asset size. The indicators are more broadly classified into three categories: Operations, financial & productivity, and others. A Poster for the Smile & Hello Campaign Cooperative Labor-management Relationship “My Workplace Influences Me” In 2010, approximately 70% of employees participated in The workplace is the largest part of an employee's daily labor unions. By renewing collective agreements with labor life, and engagement and pride in the workplace depend on unions each year, the Company guarantees the freedom of A Scene from the 2010 Woori Dream Talks how organized and clean one keeps the workplace. Thus, association and the right to collective bargaining and proWoori Investment & Securities has launched a campaign motes reliable and cooperative relations between labor and called “My Workplace Influences Me,” which aims to create management. Amigote a positive, productive environment that enables employees The Labor-Management Committee convenes every quar“Amigote” means “buddy” in Spanish. It is a monthly peto concentrate on their duties. Led by Maestros, all employter and on demand. In the event of major changes in laborriodical of the Company to the family of employees. The ees voluntarily participate in the campaign by cleaning up management relations, all members of the committee meet periodical shares the company’s vision and provides news A Picture of “Delicious Sandwich,” an Open Lunch-hour Lecture to open briefing sessions. Labor unions receive notice of all of employee activities and milestones. It also covers a full and organizing desks, drawers, and bookshelves, minimizing the number of documents, and prohibiting smoking in collective bargaining meetings at least seven days prior to array of practical information for life, including travel, culoffice areas. convening. Major changes in labor conditions and regulature, and social issues. tions are promptly reported to the labor unions. Fun Day www.woorinojo.or.kr Once a month, the Company holds a Fun Day to encourSustainability Report 2010 age employees to leave the office on time and enjoy culParticipation in Labor Unions by Rank and Gender tural activities together. By assisting in cultural expenses Unit : Number of persons and in-company promotional activities, the Company helps Assistant Assistant General employees to create a happy, productive work environment general Managers Total managers employees managers and to enhance teamwork. Twice a year since it was introMale 373 336 159 208 1,076 duced in 2010, the Company has held an open contest for Female 56 123 130 685 994 Fun Day. Total 429 459 289 893 2,070 * As of June, 2011 Advanced Partnership with Maximum 50 Synergy 51 Strengthened the Domestic and Overseas Creating Synergy within Woori Financial Group Be Professional & Synergetic Woori Investment & Securities Partnerships Woori Financial Group was established as Korea's first fiSynergy among Key Businesses Woori Investment & Securities continues to strengthen its Extending Business Horizons nancial holding company in April 2001 with the objective of In addition to the creation of Group-wide synergy, the Comdomestic and overseas cooperative relationships, thereby Woori Investment & Securities is also expanding its partnerevolving as a global player with a world-class competitive pany is also implementing internal activities to create synreinforcing its business competencies. ships with general agencies (GAs) to provide its customers edge. As of 2011, the Group had 11 subsidiaries and 38 ergy between its businesses. For instance, the Company is in the process of expanding with more professional, leading-edge financial products and sub-subsidiaries. Through the creation of synergy among To strengthen synergy within the Company, it shares its core its MOUs with partners as part of efforts to create greater systematic, tailored asset management. all subsidiaries, the Group has grown to become the largest competencies among its key businesses, leading to better customer and shareholder value, as well as developing The Company launched the industry’s first joint branches financial conglomerate in Korea. cycles for the generation of profits. For example, a matrix products and attracting investors through an array of cowith a GA in 2008, when it entered into a strategic alliance As one of these subsidiaries, Woori Investment & Securities management system helps encourage its overseas offices operative relationships. It is strengthening its investment with the Korea Financial Group (KFG) for the sale of prodplays a pivotal role in the development of the Group into a and domestic departments to share expertise. network both globally and domestically and implementing ucts and the management of joint branches. Since then, it world-class financial institution, as well as in maximizing the a wide range of investment activities to maintain its edge has signed MOUs with other GAs including Hankook Rich, creation of synergy within the Group. in the Korean IB market – all major steps toward becoming Cais Investment, Bank Asset, and Dongbu Savings Bank. one of Asia’s foremost regional players. Maximizing the Creation of Synergy Group-wide Woori Investment & Securities develops business models The Group’s Integrated Data Center Cooperation to Develop Products and Services that contribute to the synergy with other subsidiaries, while Through an MOU with Naver, Korea’s largest Internet poralso applying those models in its own business. As a result In May 2010, the Company’s IT center merged with the Group’s Intal, the Company has developed Woori Junior Naver Installof this Group-wide synergy, the Company is able to provide tegrated Data Center. ment Fund, a product to promote healthy consumer habits customers with comprehensive financial solutions. It operAs a top-tier smart data center equipped with green IT technologies, among children and teenagers, thereby cultivating a sound ates six complex branches and 17 joint branches with the the integrated data center features an earthquake-resistant design investment culture from the earliest age. Group’s banking subsidiaries. In 2010, the Company also rated to withstand magnitude-7 tremors. The Center also minimizes In cooperation with the Korea Land & Housing Corporation implemented the Woori Bonus Family System, a loyalty the risk of electrical power failures through a 24-hour emergency (LH), the Company has also introduced the first mortgageprogram that rewards customers with preferential services power generator array and dual power resources for overloads. An MOU with Korea Financial Group linked fund in the Korean investment industry, an initiative when they conduct transactions with more than one subsidThe center also provides excellent security for its customer services that corresponds with the Korean government’s policies to Venturing into Global IB Markets iary. The system provides these customers with summaries through the latest systems, including a joint monitoring system. assist low-income families. By combining LH's mortgage The company continues to expand its presence in Southof their transactions across the Group. Through the Integrated Data Center, Woori Investment & Securities loans with the Company's fund products, the fund helps east Asia. It launched its first joint local subsidiary in the The Company holds the highest synergy with Woori Bank, expects to utilize its synergy from across the Group to protect cuslow-income families attain their dreams of owning homes. region in Vietnam in 2007. Since then, it has opened an ofwith which it maintains close links in several business artomer information, while also sharing Group-wide infrastructure in Under the program, the Company sets aside a portion of its fice in Kuala Lumpur and a local subsidiary in Indonesia, eas. In 2010, the Company launched the Bank-Securities the development of products and services, and providing a unified commissions as loan support for Customers who apply to thereby participating actively in the region's IB and linking One Card, which links the Company’s CMA services with response to data errors. LH for mortgages. local investors with their counterparts in Korea. To lay a the Bank’s credit card service. The Company also launched Through an MOU with the Construction Association of Kobridgehead for entering local IB markets in Southeast Asia, services linked to Group accounts, a unity that enables rea, the Company also assists construction companies in the Company signed an MOU in 2007 with the AmBank its customers to deposit into, withdraw from, and transfer achieving more effective asset management. The Company Group, Malaysia’s premier financial services conglomerate, money across multiple Bank accounts. sells the housing bonds of member companies through followed in 2010 by an agreement with Bahana Securities In 2010, due in part to close cooperation with the Bank, special windows at branches. Preferential interest rates and in Indonesia. the Company scored the highest points among securities customized financial consulting services are given to memBy signing an MOU in 2011 with China International Capital companies in bidding for a housing fund wrap from the ber companies to help them improve their convenience and Corporation Limited (CICC), a leading player in China, the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs. Besides economic value. Company established a total coverage base for the financial its relationship with Woori Bank, the Company also continThrough these close cooperative relationships, the Commarkets of Greater China centered at a local subsidiary in ues to expand IB-linked businesses through the networks of pany continues to develop its financial services and create Hong Kong. Thus, it also gained the opportunity to expand Kwangju Bank and Kyongnam Bank. greater customer value. into other East Asian IB markets beyond the Southeast In 2011, the Company contributed to the Group's effective Asian region. funding activities through a series of outstanding trade opA Picture of the Group’s Integrated Data Center erations. Depending on the credit ratings obtained by the Group, these operations may evolve into the Company’s strategic business model. The creation of synergy also affects domestic branches, as well as overseas local subsidiaries. Sustainability Report 2010 The Scene Inside a Complex Branch Opening Ceremony for the Group’s Integrated Data Center An MOU with Korea Land & Housing Corporation An MOU with China International Capital Corporation Limited 54 Green Management and the Response to Climate Change 57 Corporate Citizenship for Win-win Growth Our Approach The scope of the Company's sustainability management broadens the environmental awareness of all members of society. Based on active participation of employees, the Company conducts various green management Programs and expands sharing as a part of the local community. Progress & Achievement Established a Green IT System Expanded Opportunities for “Low Carbon, Green Growth” Businesses Be Continued Diverse CSR Activities Strategic Direction Harmonious & Reinforcing Systems to Cope with Climate Change and Assist in Expanding “Low Carbon, Green Growth” Activities Conducting Full Strategic CSR Activities and Programs Responsible Green Management and the Response 54 to Climate Change 55 Management of Energy and Greenhouse Green Offices Saving Resources Be Harmonious & Responsible Woori Investment & Securities Gas Emissions Although its own operations have very little impact on the Woori Investment & Securities assesses its annual energy An IT System to Control Greenhouse Gas Emissions Resource Consumption environment, Woori Investment & Securities actively parand resource usage, reduction plans for all of its main buildAlong with other subsidiaries in the Group, Woori Investment In 2010, Woori Investment & Securities consumed 89,029 ticipates in the Korean government’s low-carbon, greenings, and the resulting reductions in expenses. The Com& Securities measures and sets targets for the reduction of ㎥ of water and 9,826 boxes of paper. By recognizing those growth policy. The Company conducts a variety of activipany is expanding its monitoring activities in order to save greenhouse gas emissions. In 2010, the Company installed two as major resources, the Company manages the related ties to limit energy usage, greenhouse gas emissions, and additional energy in the future. an IT system specifically to regulate emission sources and data. resource consumption. levels. The system detects emissions and gathers data at Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water and Paper Consumption each branch. Using this data, the Company identifies sourcEnergy Usage In 2011, the Korean government promulgated new targets es of high greenhouse gas emissions then provides speUnit 2008 2009 2010 Woori Investment & Securities obtains its energy primarily for reductions in energy usage and greenhouse gas emiscific rates and methods of reduction. The system includes a from electrical power and liquid natural gas. Company vesions. These targets required companies or workplaces Water ㎥ 96,585 99,016 89,029 carbon calculator which enables employees to check emishicles use gasoline and diesel fuel. which emit large amounts of greenhouse gases to report in sions from daily operation and to pursue appropriate reducPaper Box 10,435 10,174 9,826 To address rising concerns over energy consumption around a timely manner on emission volumes. tions, thereby elevating their awareness of emissions. * 1Box=2,500 Pages of Paper the world and the inevitable connection between that conAlthough Woori Investment & Securities is exempt from sumption and greenhouse gas emissions, the Company these targets, it voluntarily installed a greenhouse-gas conmakes every effort to control and save energy. trol system linked to the Group-wide system. Resource-saving Activities In September 2011, using this control system, the ComWoori Investment & Securities makes every effort to reduce Energy-savings pany measured the volume of greenhouse gases emitted its water usage, particularly cold water, in each of its main Every year, Woori Investment & Securities monitors energy between 2008 and 2010 in 150 branches and facilities buildings. savings in all of its main buildings. Based on the data it and completed third-party verification. Based on the enThe Company also implemented an electronic approval sysobtains through monitoring, the Company conducts costergy consumption data it obtained, and with the volume tem in 2010 to reduce the volume of paper used for photobenefit analyses to compare the energy-saving targets set of greenhouse gas emissions as a sum of direct (Scope copying, printing, and contract forms. During 2010, 55,230 by each building with current usage. 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2), the Company emitted proposals were approved electronically, thereby reducing The Company reduces energy consumption by adjust29,475tCO2 in greenhouse gases in 2010, revealing an inconsumption by 348 boxes compared to 2009. ing schedules for cooling and heating systems, turning off crease from 2008. Introductory Page for the IT System Controlling Greenhouse Gas Emissions unnecessary lights at offices, and installing LED lighting. Woori Investment & Securities is expanding its targets for Woori Office, a Mobile Office System the monitoring of greenhouse gases to include all workplacIn 2010, the Company launched Woori Office, a mobile sysEnergy Savings at Buildings es, both owned and rented. tem to increase efficiency, reduce resource consumption, and minimize the impact caused by the movement of emBuilding Energy-saving activities Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit : tCO2 ployees. Through this system, the Company is adapting to rapidly changing markets and providing timely solutions to Schedules adjusted for coolHot water supplied on 2008 2009 2010 customers, increasing customer satisfaction and minimizHead ing, heating, and air filtration ground floors office ing the effect on the environment. Heat exchangers installed Floor lamps replaced Scope 1 1,420 1,365 1,365 Schedules adjusted for coolUptime curtailed for ventilaScope 2 24,357 26,010 28,110 Picture of a Carbon Calculator Gwangju ing, heating, and air filtration tion systems in underground Building Hours of hot water supply parking lots Total 25,777 27,375 29,475 reduced Downtime increased for Daejun Downtime extended for electrimany machine rooms and Carbon Disclosure Project Building cal signs hydroelectric power rooms Energy Usage Uptime curtailed for ventilaWith 60 countries participating, the Carbon Disclosure Project Ulsan Schedules adjusted for cooling tion systems in underground Unit 2008 2009 2010 (CDP) is a global project in response to climate change. Among Building and heating parking lots and machine rooms the participants are many of the world’s leading financial and inLNG N㎥ 288,648 265,626 275,319 vestment institutions, including major pension funds. Currently, A Monitor for the Mobile Office System ChunSchedules adjusted for coolDowntime extended for Diesel ℓ 113,221 106,947 80,947 more than 2,500 corporations around the world disclose data on cheon ing, heating, and air filtration electrical signs their carbon emissions in surveys as requested by the project, Building Kerosene ℓ 165 including crisis and opportunity factors and countermeasures to Wonju Schedules adjusted for coolUsage of lamps reduced at climate change. Building ing, heating, and air filtration offices Gasoline ℓ 214,993 221,330 242,368 Woori Invest ment & Securities joined the CDP as a signatory in Sustainability Report 2010 Power factors managed Electricity MWh 51,828 55,314 59,767 2011, and each year since 2009, it has disclosed information on Schedules adjusted for adSchedules adjusted for coolits carbon emissions in order to respond to rising demands for Busan ditional cooling and heating Heating ing, heating, and air filtration Gcal 976 1,059 1,192 corporations to play a greater role in addressing climate change. Building Downtime extended on lightSystems Conventional lighting replaced ing fixtures In so doing, it also increases its role as a responsible member of with energy-efficient systems the financial sector. Power factors managed Septic tank aeration times Switching systems separated Suyeong reduced CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Footlights replaced Building Downtime extended for lightSchedules adjusted for cooling fixtures ing, heating, and air filtration Green Management and the Response Corporate Citizenship for Win-win 56 to Climate Change 57 Growth Eco-friendly Businesses Direction and Organizations of Social Be Harmonious & Responsible Woori Investment & Securities In response to the Korean government’s policy of low carInvestment in Green Companies and Projects Contribution bon, green growth and the rising interest in environmental Woori Investment & Securities indirectly invests in green In 2005, Woori Investment & Securities unveiled “Bright Social Volunteer Groups issues domestically and overseas, Woori Investment & Seprojects, including the overseas projects of Korean comworld with us,” a slogan for its social contribution programs. In addition to company-wide CSR activities led by the Ofcurities creates business opportunities in the environmental panies possessing high potential in nuclear technologies, The slogan conveys the Company’s commitment to the fice of Corporate Social Responsibility, the Company also sector and contributes to green growth. projects that acquire carbon emission rights, and projects happiness of its customers as a good neighbor and faithprovides support for employees in volunteer groups. This Accordingly, the Company is exploring new business opthat produce propellers for wind power generation. ful partner. Under this slogan, the Company implements a support strengthens the sense unity among employees, inportunities in renewable energy and carbon emissions, as In addition, the Company activates principal investment in wide range of corporate social contribution (CSR) activities, creases their sense of pride in the Company, and promotes well as aggressively expanding investment in green induspromising green businesses. In 2011, as an example of efincluding social welfare, scholarships and academic financactive communication with regional communities. tries. In so doing, Woori Investment & Securities continues fective principal investment, the Company invested KRW ing, culture and the arts, sports, and volunteer activities for to establish cooperative relationships with overseas corpo20 billion in a green company that produces photovoltaic regional communities. Social Volunteer Groups and Activities rations and to contribute to the growth of green industry as power systems, as well as KRW 5 billion in a manufacWoori Investment & Securities continues to grow with its a part of the global IB market. turer of photovoltaic cell modules. The Company assists stakeholders through differentiated CSR systems and proMemDate Annual Groups volunteer Major activities the funding activities of green businesses which possess grams to encourage employee participation, and through bers created hours Korean Government Policy on Green Financing promising technologies in the renewable energy sector, but active communications with regional communities. FurtherIn January 2009, the Korean government declared 17 induswhich have difficulty obtaining funding, through a variety of more, as Korea’s representative securities institution, the Keepers for Free meals, sharing of coal, sharing kimchi sharing, free bevertries in 3 categories to be new growth engines for economic methods in financing, such as underwriting of convertible Company strives to become a workplace where employees 72 July 2005 26 hours (Daegu reages to regional nursing development. Accordingly, the government has implementbonds. can dream and take pride. gional HQ) homes, and donations ed a range of action plans to reinvigorate related financial Meal service to aged at a activities, which include the raising and management of an An Example of Renewable Energy Investment Special Office for CSR social welfare center on investment fund for new growth engines, establishment of a In November 2010, the Company launched the Office of Paper 68 Oct. 2005 80 hours every Wednesday, and airplane fund inflow system in pace with green industry growth, and Corporate Social Responsibility for efficient communication support for facility and In 2010, Woori Investment & Securities raised KRW 110 bilmeal expenses the launch of a green certification* system. of its CSR activities. The office is in charge of planning all lion in funds for industries designated as new growth engines. Currently, action plans are proceeding in two categories: company-wide CSR activities, as well as assisting each deSharing of new year’s day policy and private financing, and financial infrastructure and Through these investment activities, the Company has greatly partment and division in pursuing CSR activities. Ultimately, food with senior citizens investment environments. Through these plans, the governcontributed to the development of the nation’s new growth the office embeds CSR activities into the corporate culture. who live alone, kimchi Sharing of engines, including energy, environment, and IT, thereby main42 Feb. 2006 25 hours sharing, financial supment seeks to motivate companies that show promise in love port for living expenses, green technologies with reliable financial support and to taining its reputation as a leading fund manager for these inEncouraging the CSR Activities of Employees support to children from develop a friendlier investment environment, particularly in dustries. Through the Volunteer Management System (VMS), Woori broken families capital markets, for new growth fields. As a leading private Investment & Securities encourages employee participation Sisterhood with orphaninvestment company that understands these changes in the Investment in New Growth Engine Businesses in CSR activities and raises the awareness of employees Blue sky 62 Dec. 2005 70 hours ages for gift-giving to financial markets, the Company makes every effort to supwho do not participate. The system enables the Company to orphans port businesses that qualify as new growth engines. Industries Investment targets manage its CSR activities with systematic approaches and to certify CSR activities. With the firm base laid by the system, Manufacturers of equipment and materials for Green Industry Investment Fund electric power generation the Company expects that participation targets will extend to Major Performance of CSR Activities Social Responsible Investment (SRI) funds are invested priEnergy Manufacturers of equipment and materials for the families of employees and even to customers. photovoltaic power generation Details Results marily in companies that fulfill their social responsibilities The Company also assists employees in charge of CSR Manufacturers of equipment and materials for from the perspectives of environment, social development, wind power generation activities in outside personal education programs, and enNo. of participants in CSR activities in a year 3,617 people and corporate governance. Woori Investment & Securicourages employees to share opinions on CSR activities Companies handling greenhouse gas emissions Hours of CSR activities in a year 12,521 hours ties has developed a Green Industry Investment Fund that through informal meetings. Companies possessing water treatment mostly invests in eco-friendly businesses, including comEnvironment technologies Hours of CSR activities per employee 3.47 hours / person panies that participate in green projects or produce ecoCompanies possessing waste treatment technologies Expenditure for CSR activities KRW 963 million friendly products, and suppliers in the renewable energy industry. Developers of equipment and materials for Woori Investment & Securities sells 17 financial products, miniature semiconductors Support for Multicultural Families amounting to KRW27.4 billion, related to green growth and Companies possessing domestically developed IT technologies for 4G telecom and smartphones eco-friendliness. Companies possessing 3D TV technologies, To demonstrate its respect for cultural minorities in Korean society, Woori Investment & Securities developers of LCD materials offers support to multicultural families. Assisting in Financing Green Businesses Manufacturers of equipment and components In January 2010, the Company organized a group wedding ceremony for multicultural couples Through precise value reviews provided by an investment Sustainability Report 2010 for LED and AMOLED at a sports complex in Daegu. Through the variety of events, contests, and recreational activities Others information center, the Company advises investors on how Companies related to secondary battery techfeatured, the Company provided some happy memories for the just-married multicultural couples to buy stock in undervalued green businesses that use nologies and fuel cell vehicles – memories that removed linguistic and cultural barriers. green technologies. It also assists undervalued green busiIn April 2010, the Company held a song contest for multicultural families to encourage understandnesses in obtaining capital increases or making initial public ing of diverse cultures in regional communities. The contest also provided an occasion for employofferings. ees to enjoy folk games and traditional food from six countries, including China, Vietnam, and the Philippines, thereby contributing to meaningful exchange and understanding of cultures. * Green Certification is a government initiative to relieve the burden on private investment through verification on green technology and a feasibility test of green businesses. It also encourages voluntary investments from the private sector, thereby promoting the rapid growth of green technologies, markets, and industries. Corporate Citizenship for Win-win 58 Growth 59 Social Welfare and Regional Communities Supports Financial Education and Scholarship Be Harmonious & Responsible Woori Investment & Securities One Company, One Village Children's Economics Camp Open Investment Competition for University Students Each year, Woori Investment & Securities holds a campaign called “One company, one Since 2003, the Company has offered Economics Camps To cultivate a healthy investment culture, the Company held village” to reinvigorate Korean rural economies. During this campaign, the Company for the children of customers. With a hands-on, experiential an open investment competition for university students in provides KRW 60 million to purchase agricultural products. The agricultural products approach, these educational camps help guide children in November 2010. For students who attained the highest purchased in the campaign are given to underprivileged neighbor during holidays, fuldeveloping healthy views of economics and consumerism rankings in the competition, the Company provided scholfilling the true meaning of CSR activities. – values that are not commonly taught in most educational arships and internship opportunities. The Company expects In May 2010, some 70 employees volunteered to help farming families at the Comprograms. Through such programs, the Company helps the competition to provide a model for solving the high unpany’s Sisterhood Village. The Company is planning additional volunteer activities to children develop into leaders for the next generation. employment rates that currently affect college graduates. continue helping rural families. Nurturing the Next Generation Culture and Arts, and Sports In August 2010, the Company signed a sisterhood agreement with “Hansarang local youth center” to help teenagers and children in low-income families. The Wholesale Support for Sports Events Division of Woori Investment & Securities coordinates activities. In August 2010, under this sisterhood agreement, the Company organized a program Since 2008, the Company has sponsored a women’s golf called Happy Summer Camp, with 10 employees participating as marshals. championship, which has in turn contributed to the discovery of talented players in women's golf. In April 2011, the Octo Junior Economics Camp Held in August The “Rice of Charity” Campaign Company introduced a professional golf team featuring nine In November 2010, in cooperation with the Global Together volunteer organization, the players. During off-season, the players will participate in a Company helped organize a campaign called “Rice of Charity,” during which it delivTree of Hope Scholarship Program variety of CSR activities, including volunteer activities and ered rice to low-income families in an area that had recently suffered heavy rain. Between 2005 and 2010, the Company supported 143 high financial donations. In May 2011, they visited unfortunate In December 2010, the Company held a “Rice of Charity” event at a social welfare censchool students from needy families with a total of KRW patients in a hospital and presented donations. ter, where 250 bags of rice were delivered to 50 senior citizen centers. 460 million through a scholarship program called Tree of Hope. In March 2011, the Company held a home-coming day to celebrate the students' entrance into universities with assistance from these scholarships. With academic assistance programs such as Tree of Hope, the Company demonstrates its respect for students – respect which outlasts the financial support. The Company’s Professional Golf Team Visited Unfortunate Patients A Letter of Thanks from a Tree of Hope Scholar An MOU to Support the Theater Industry “I will return this In June 2010, the Company signed an MOU with the Seoul Helping Our Underprivileged Neighbors Theatre Association (STA) to provide financial support for kindness to society.” Jun-hyuk Han, high school student theater troupes. Under this MOU, the Company regularly purchases admission tickets from these theater groups, During the 2010 holiday season, the Company held a charity event for First, I would like to express my gratitude which are associated with the STA. In particular, by allocatthe underprivileged called “Let’s Make Love Lunch Sets” in the auditoto everyone who has helped me. I am ing 20% of ticket purchases to financially struggling theatre rium at its headquarters. With 70 employees participating, lunch sets always especially thankful for my pargroups, the Company seeks to support the theater industry were delivered to 2,226 recipients in conjunction with World Vision, an ents, who work hard to give their three and to promote art among its staff, employees, and cusinternational relief organization. children opportunities to study despite unfavorable economic conditions. I do tomers. The Company also participated in a volunteer activity organized for not know how to repay the interest and consideration that everythe elderly by the Woori Financial Group. During the event, employees one gave me when I felt discouraged. Thanks to their helping hand, treated recipients with special meals and New Year's Day gifts. As part I was able study hard without worrying about the financial burden, Sustainability Report 2010 of its “One Company, One village” campaign, more than 1,200 bags of and I was finally able to enter Korea University. I am so proud of all apples and rice were also purchased and delivered. the contributors to the Tree of Hope at Woori Investment & Securities. You provide so much help to students like me who come from The Company is seeking additional opportunities to visit the underneedy families. privileged during holidays, thereby better understanding and support(An excerpt from the student's letter) ing them. Corporate Citizenship for Win-win 60 Growth 62 Independent Assurance Statement on Sustainability Management 64 Independent Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Inventory 66 GRI Index 70 UNGC Principle SPECIAL CASE Be Harmonious & Responsible The Woori Angel Fund 71 ISO26000 Standard 73 Awards / Memberships In partnership with the international relief organization World 74 Financial Terminology Vision, each month since 2005 the Company, together with 2008 89,280 75 Voice of Stakeholders its staff and employees, has provided financial support 829 107.7 to the needy through the Woori Angel Fund. By matching 2009 94,731 contributions from its staff and employees, the Company 820 115.5 donates a monthly average of KRW 1.6 million to various 2010 101,465 social service organizations. 802 126.5 The Woori Angel Fund is an essential financial resource for 2011 106,172 World Vision in its many relief programs, and as such it is 814 130.4 earning a reputation as a role model for various other inFunds raised (in thousands of KRW) Number of participants stitutions. Donation per employee (in thousands of KRW) Inside the Company, the Fund has become a part of corpo* The numbers are anticipated based on data as of the first half of 2011 rate culture through the active participation of employees. Beyond indirect involvement in fund-raising, employees are able to participate directly in CSR activities as they give to people in need. Currently, 800 employees participate in the Fund, raising KRW 106.2 million since 2008. The amount of donation per employee has also grown year by year. The Company will continue to encourage employee participation in the Fund as an important part of their CSR activities, thereby further increasing the volume of CSR activities. Management Process of Woori Angel Fund Participation of Emergency aid to Donation accumulated employees children in needs Donation delivered to “Lunch of Love” World Vision Company’s donation Child sponsorship at accumulated through Korea and abroad matching grant system Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix 62 최상의 금융서비스를 통한 Assurance Independent 고객감동 실현 Statement on 63 Sustainability Management Appendix Woori Investment & Securities To the Readers of the Sustainability Report of Woori Investment & Securities 6. Conclusion 1. Introduction The auditor has judged that the report strictly follows the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and GRI Financial Services Sector SuppleThis auditor was asked by Woori Investment and Securities Co. (Woori I&S) to independently review information specified in ment (FSSS) and does not have any significant errors or biases. The following are evaluations in accordance with detailed its 2010 Sustainability Report. The management of Woori I&S is responsible for the production of this sustainability report. assurance principles of the CAU-APSR. The responsibility of the auditor is to express his or her opinions on whether this report is produced in conformity with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement (FSSS). · Materiality : The auditor has found that the demands of stakeholders are properly satisfied by the ten core issues selected through the materiality evaluation. · Completeness : In terms of the scope, boundaries and period of the report, the report does not omit important information 2. The Scope of Assurance and deals with diverse information in a balanced manner. The sustainability report of Woori I&S contains the company’s efforts at sustainability management and performances of the · Neutrality : This report provides neutral and unbiased information by minimizing the room for error, distortions or biases activities of core issues for stakeholders in three areas: the economy, society and the environment. This auditor reviewed about the selection and report of information related to performances of sustainable management. the following: · Reliability : The accuracy and comparability of information in the report is well maintained. The quality of information collection, recording and delivery systems stands at a reliable level. · Whether financial data was properly extracted from Woori I&S’s 2008, 2009 and 2010 financial reports or not, and · Responsiveness : The level of information disclosure of the report and the company’s explanations of policies, strategies · Whether information in the social and environmental sectors is correct and unbiased and data management systems are and plans are judged to be thorough enough for the readers to evaluate the company’s capabilities to reliably managed or not. deal with sustainability issues and efforts at sustainability. · Stakeholder inclusiveness : The company selected stakeholders and encouraged them to take part via effective and systematic methods. Stakeholders’ demands are appropriately feedback to corporate strategies 3. Assurance Criteria and goals. The auditor reviewed the report in accordance with Chung-Ang University’s Assurance Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (CAU-APSR). * The CAU-APSR is based on the following: 7. Opportunities for Improvement · Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.1 In accordance with an assurance process conducted as stated above, we have suggested following recommendation to be · AA1000AS(2008) Assurance Standard from Accountability improved and Woori Investment & Securities has accepted to implement. · International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000(ISAE3000) from IFAC · Woori Investment & Securities has established sustainability management strategy and rearranged corporate ESG activities with an objective of being Top Tier sustainable company By 2015. However, in order to incorporate sustainability performance 4. Independence into corporate value, it is required to keenly integrate sustainability management strategy with existing corporate management Except for the third-party assurance report, the auditor has no relationship for a commercial purpose with Woori I&S. strategy and to reflect to management systems throughly so that Woori Investment & Securities can create substantive corporate performance. · To become a Global leading Investment Bank, It is required for Woori Investment & Securities to find out diverse strategic tasks and to reflect them into ‘Vision 2015 sustainability management road map’. 5. Major Assurance Procedures The auditor carried out assurance activities by following these steps. · Phase I : The auditor conducted an overall evaluation by drawing up an assurance plan with the management of Woori I&S, reviewing the draft and searching various sources. · Phase II : The auditor interviewed the management and key staff members of Woori I&S at the headquarters of the company and together, the auditor and company personnel checked the draft. At the same time, the auditor carried out an September, 2011 evaluation of the quality of the data management system. Ji-in Jang, · Phase III : The auditor put results of reviews and analyses together, wrote the content of analyses and discussions in docuDirector, Accounting Research Institute, Chung-Ang University, Sustainability Report 2010 ments and in the final step, produced the assurance report. Chairman of CDP-Korea, Ph.D. Business Administration 64 최상의 금융서비스를 통한Assurance Independent 고객감동 실현 Statement on 65 Greenhouse Gas Inventory Appendix Woori Investment & Securities 1. Introduction 4. Conclusion DNV Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “DNV”) was commissioned to verify Greenhouse Gas Emissions from the As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that calendar year of 2008~2010, based upon a limited level of assurance. Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. (hereinafter the GHG emissions data indicated below are not materially correct except the qualificationgiven below. The GHG Emissions referred to as “Woori Investment & Securities”) is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis of Woori Investment & Securities for the year from 2008 to 2010 wereconfirmed as below : set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol : 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1 : 2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of Woori Investment & Securities only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with * Recommendation : It is recommended that the responsible for GHG data gathering be trained and QA/QC be performed on a regular basis. them. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. Unit : ton CO2-eq Operational boundary Yr. 2008 Yr. 2009 Yr. 2010 2. Scope of Verification The emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct GHG Emissions(Scope 1 emissions, emissions from StaDirect emissions(Scope 1) 1,420 1,365 1,365 tionary combustion, Mobile emission) and Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions, Emissions from purchased electricEnergy indirect emissions(Scope 2) 24,357 26,010 28,110 ity and steam) at the following scope in Korea as provided in the statement : Total 25,777 27,375 29,475 · Reporting period : Calendar year of 2008~2010 · Reporting boundary : Head office and 149 branch offices 3. Verification Approach The verification was conducted by DNV in June, August, and September 2011 and performed in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3 : 2006. DNV planned and performed the verification work to obtain all the information deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence so that verification opinion can be concluded regarding the completeness of the statement dated on 17th August 2011 and the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. The verification team carried out the desk review on the statement as well as the relevant evidences and conducted the site visits as parts of the verification activities. Tae-Ho Kim In-Kyoon Ahn Lead verifier Country Manager Sustainability Report 2010 16th September 2011 DNV Certification Co., Lt Seoul, Korea 66 최상의 금융서비스를 GRI Index 통한 고객감동 실현 67 Abiding by the G3.1 guidelines Appendix Level of Woori Investment & Securities GRI Index Description Reference Page disclosure The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines have Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and ● 10-11 been developed in response to the increasing numbers of organizations that pubprinciples lish sustainability reports. While following the G3 guidelines promulgated in 2006, Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social perfor4.10 mance ● 11 the GRI has witnessed the difficulties that organizations have in measuring indica4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 22-23 tors of social issues. The GRI has also faced challenges encouraging organiza4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses ● 55, 70 tions to disclose information on their efforts to diversify, including gender equality. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● 73 Thus, the GRI introduced the G3.1 guidelines in March 2011 as a result of years 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 14-15 of research by working groups covering comprehensive areas in human rights, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 14 local communities, and gender issues. In adherence with G3.1 guidelines, Woori 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 14-15 Investment & Securities also publishes sustainability reports to play a leading role Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and in sustainability management. 4.17 concerns, including through its reporting ● 15 Economic * Founded in 1997 mainly by the Boston-based non-profit CERES and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization Disclosure on Management Approach 21 that produces a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework widely used around the Distribution of economic value by stakeholder, Economic value generEC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 18, 24 ated directly by the Company world. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Risk management, Eco-friendly products development, Green busiEC2 ◑ 22-23, 28, 56 activities due to climate change nesses supports EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations Welfare and benefit program (including retirement pension) ◑ 45 ●-Fully reported, ◑-Partially reported, ○-Not reported EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Zero ● Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local miniEC5 ◑ 44 Level of wage at significant locations of operation mum wage (basic salary besides incentives) GRI Index Description Page disclosure Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6 Internal management system development in process ○ significant locations of operation Strategy and Analysis Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from EC7 Internal management system development in process ◑ 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 2-3 the local community at significant locations of operation 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 6-7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Social welfare, Local communities supports, Financial education, ScholEC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro ● 58-60 Organizational Profile arship, Sports or cultural and Arts supports bono engagement 2.1 Name of the organization ● 8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, includEconomic value distributed by stakeholder, Eco-friendly and socialEC9 ● 18, 28 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 27-28 ing the extent of impacts friendly products development Environmental 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures ● 8-9 Disclosure on Management Approach 53 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters ● 8 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Use of paper ● 55 2.5 sustainability issues covered in the report ● 8-9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials No use of recycled input materials ○ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 25 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Energy consumption, including gas, gasoline, diesel, etc. ◑ 54 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 8-9 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Energy consumption, including electricity ◑ 54 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 8 Energy-savings at the head office and other buildings, Resource 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 10-11, 25 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 54-55 reduction programs 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 73 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Report Parameters EN6 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these Not applicable (Excluding new growth engine businesses investment) ● initiatives 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● Front cover Energy-savings at the head office and other buildings, Green offices 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● Front cover EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 54-55 by saving resources 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● Front cover EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Use of water ◑ 55 3.4 Contact point for questions ● Back cover EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable (Use of public water supply) ● 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 16-17 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused No reuse or recycle of water ● Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guid3.6 ance ● Front cover Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, proEN11 Not applicable (No ecological reserves) ● 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness Principle for explanation of scope) ● Front cover tected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 3.8 from period to period and/or between organizations ● Front cover EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Not applicable (No ecological reserves) ● protected areas Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation 3.9 of the Indicators and other information in the report ● Front cover, 54 EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable (No ecological reserves) ● Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on 3.10 ● First time reporting EN14 Not applicable (No ecological reserves) ● (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) biodiversity 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report ● First time reporting Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 Not applicable (No ecological reserves) ● habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 66-69 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Greenhouse gas emitted from management activities ● 54 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● Front cover, 62-65 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Greenhouse gas emitted from management activities ● 54 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Greenhouse gas emission management IT system, Energy-savings at Sustainability Report 2010 4.1 ◑ 10-11 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ◑ 54-55 strategy or organizational oversight the head office and other buildings, Resource reduction programs 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 10 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not applicable (No emissions of ozone-depleting substances) ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not applicable (No NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions) ● 4.3 non-executive members ● 10 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not applicable (Integrated sewerage treatment system) ● 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ● 10 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives ● 11 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method All waster material treated in compliance with laws ● 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 10 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Not applicable (All waster material treated in adherence with laws) ● Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on 4.7 economic, environmental, and social topics ● 10 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardEN24 ous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Not applicable (No transported, imported, exported, or treated waste) ● Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 4.8 and the status of their implementation ● 12, 38, 57 68 최상의 금융서비스를 GRI Index 통한 고객감동 실현 69 Appendix Level of Level of Woori Investment & Securities GRI Index Description Reference Page GRI Index Description Reference Page disclosure disclosure Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption poliEthical management education program, Sexual harassment prevention SO3 ● 39, 41 EN25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's Not applicable (No ecological reserves) ● cies and procedures program discharges of water and runoff SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Ethical management program, Monitoring of ethical management status ● 39-40 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, EN26 Greenhouse gas emitted from management activities ● 54 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and extent of impact mitigation SO5 Participation in the government’s public policy to promote green financing ● 56 and lobbying Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are EN27 Not applicable (No packaging materials due to the industry) ● Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, reclaimed by category SO6 Political intervention related guidelines are included in the code of ethics ● 38 politicians, and related institutions by country Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 No violations recorded in compliance with environmental laws and regulations ● Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Compliance with regulations in investment advertisement, Enhancement of sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SO7 ● 40 and monopoly practices and their outcomes EMS process Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN29 goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transUse of oil used for the Company’s vehicles ◑ 54 SO8 Enhancement of compliance ● 40 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations porting members of the workforce Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Development and sales of green industry investment fund, Investment in green SO9 No workplace recorded for negative influences ● EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ◑ 56 communities businesses and projects Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Labor SO10 No workplace recorded for negative influences ● significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Disclosure on Management Approach 37 Product Responsibility LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ● 41 Disclosure on Management Approach 21 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover ◑ 41 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and and region PR1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant Not applicable ○ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to tempoproducts and services categories subject to such procedures LA3 Welfare and benefits program, Employees satisfaction improvement program ● 45 rary or part-time employees, by major operations Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Labor union activities, Labor–management council ● 49 PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and No such incident ● Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes LA5 Notice about significant operational changes, minimum notice period ● 49 including whether it is specified in collective agreements Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementPR3 percentage of significant products and services subject to such informaBusiness performance and portfolio disclosed ● 25, 27 LA6 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on Composition of employees represented labor unions ● 49 tion requirements occupational health and safety programs Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and volRates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and PR4 untary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, Mis-selling of financial products avoided ● 32 LA7 Internal management system development in process ◑ by type of outcomes number of work-related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 CS program, VOC system, CS survey ● 30-32 LA8 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community Welfare and benefits programs, EAP ● 45-46 measuring customer satisfaction members regarding serious diseases Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related Development of guidelines for advertisement, abiding with Capital Market and LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Labor unions activities, Labor-management council ◑ 49 PR6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and ◑ 40 Financial Investment Service Act and the guidelines of KSDA sponsorship LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Annual education hours per employee, expenses ◑ 43 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Development of guidelines for advertisement, abiding with Capital Market and WIS University, In-company HR development school, Core talent development PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including ● 40 LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing ◑ 43 Financial Investment Service Act and the guidelines of KSDA program advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes career endings Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of cusNo. of data loss of customer information, violations for information securities Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Rate of employees targeting for performance evaluation and career developPR8 ● 32 LA12 ● 41, 44 tomer privacy and losses of customer data regulation, penalty amount development reviews ment Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and No. of data loss of customer information, violations for information securities Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per PR9 ● 32 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services regulation, penalty amount LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Rate of disabled, female workers, female managers ◑ 41 and other indicators of diversity Financial Service Sector Supplement LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Rate between genders for basic salary ● 44 Disclosure on Management Approach 5, 21, 37, 53 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Pre-and post-maternity leaves, Childcare leave ◑ 41, 45 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to FS1 Sustainability management of the Company ◑ 12 business lines Human Rights Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks Integrated risk management system, Greenhouse gas emission management Disclosure on Management Approach 37 FS2 ◑ 22-23, 55 in business lines system Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance HR1 include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights Participation in UN Global Compact, Fulfillment of 10 principles ● 70 Assessment of CS level, VOC system, Grievance treatment system, Financial FS3 with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or ● 30-32 screening product with post-sale services transactions Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 Participation in UN Global Compact, Fulfillment of 10 principles ● 70 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environscreening on human rights and actions taken FS4 CS education program, Ethical management education program ● 30, 39 mental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Ethical management education programs, Sexual harassment prevention Eco-friendly product development, Development and sales of funds green HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the ● 39, 41 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environeducation FS5 industries investment funds, Investment in green businesses and projects, ● 28, 56 percentage of employees trained mental and social risks and opportunities Assist of capital increases of green businesses HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken No discrimination recorded ● The weight of eco-friendly products in total sales of products and services, Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of associaPercentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size FS6 Development and sales of funds green industries investment funds, Investment ◑ 28, 56 HR5 tion and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions No labor disputes recorded ● (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector in green businesses and projects taken to support these rights Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific The weight of socially responsible products in total sales of products and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child FS7 ◑ 28 HR6 Child labor prohibited ● 41 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose services labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced FS8 The weight of eco-friendly products in total sales of products and services ● 28, 56 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of Forced labor prohibited ● 41 forced or compulsory labor Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environFS9 Risk management system, Integrated risk management system ◑ 22-23 mental and social policies and risk assessment procedures Percentage of security employee trained in the organization's policies HR8 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Internal management system development in process ○ Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio operations FS10 with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental Internal management system development in process ○ Sustainability Report 2010 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous or social issues HR9 Not applicable ● people and actions taken Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or FS11 Internal management system development in process ○ Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to social screening HR10 All nations and major workplaces of the Company ● 8-9 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which HR11 FS12 over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or ◑ 10 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Grievance treatment system ● 41 the Company holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting advises on voting. Society Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas FS13 Network with Woori Bank, as well as Kwangju Bank and Kyungnam Bank ● 51 Disclosure on Management Approach 37, 53 by type Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that asInitiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged CSR strategies and organizations, Social welfare, Local communities supports, FS14 Development of mortgage-linked fund, Tree of Hope scholarship program ● 50, 59 SO1 sess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including ● 57-60 people Financial education, Scholarship, Sports or cultural and Arts supports entering, operating, and exiting FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. Monitoring of unfair trade, Money-laundering prevention system ◑ 39 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related SO2 Ethical management program, Monitoring of ethical management status ● 39-40 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. Junior economics camp, Open investment competition ● 34, 59 to corruption 70 최상의 금융서비스를 UNGC 통한 고객감동 실현 Principle 71 ISO26000 Standard Enrollment in the UN Global Compact Complying with ISO26000 Appendix Woori Investment & Securities In September 2011, Woori Investment & Securities enrolled in the UN Global Compact, an initiative seeking to promote reIn November 2010, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) introduced ISO26000, a guideline and standard, sponsible global citizenship. The Company complies with 10 universally accepted principles of the Compact in the areas of consisting of the seven core subjects of social responsibility : organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. In observance of the principles, Woori Investment & Securities continues to respect human rights and basic labor rights, to As a voluntary international standard, the ISO26000 is not a management system standard, nor intended or appropriate invest in and develop the products of eco-friendly businesses to cope with the world-wise environmental impacts, and to for certification purposes or regulatory or contractual use. Even though ISO26000 does not contain requirements, Woori conduct programs in and reinvigorate monitoring of ethical management as a part of its corporate culture. Detailed actions Investment & Securities is carrying out stakeholder-oriented management and is expanding the scope of its sustainability and performance related to the 10 principles are reported in the pages presented in a table below: management based on the standard. UN Global Compact Principles and Related Activities Core Subject Issue Related Activites Page Area Principle Related Activites GRI Page OrganiCompliance with child labor prevention agreement, ProhiInside BOD, Audit, Non-executive Director Nomination, Management, Management 1. Businesses should support and respect the HR1 HR2 HR3 zational 9, 11, 22 bition of child and forced labors Compensation, and Risk Management Control Committees operated protection of internationally proclaimed human HR4 HR5 HR6 governance Implementation of ethical management system, Efforts to Human rights; and HR7 HR8 HR9 raise employees’ ethical awareness, Monitoring of ethical 38-41 Due diligence Audit Committee, Grievance treatment system 11, 41 Rights management 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human Gender equality, Respect for diversity, Sexual harassment HR1 HR2 HR8 Human rights risk situations Human rights protection to cultivate a corporate culture that respects employees 41 rights abuses prevention activities 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Avoidance of complicity No supports recorded for organizations that abuse human rights Respect for Labor unions HR5 association and the effective recognition of the 49 Implementation of labor-management council LA4 LA5 right to collective bargaining; Resolving grievances Grievance system, Cyber consulting for personnel 41 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and Sexual harassment prevention activities, Compliance with the Equal Employment Compliance with child labor prevention agreement, HR7 41 compulsory labour; Human rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups 41 Prohibition of child and forced labors Opportunity Law, Employment rate of disabled, Prohibitions of child and forced labors Labor Compliance with Labor Standards Act 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 41 Open communication with the CEO (CEO’s homepage, Hofday with the CEO), Exchange Civil and political rights 49 and harmony among employees, Labor-management council held qaurterly Guidelines of gender equality HR4 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment rate of the disabled and female workers, LA2 LA10 41, 44 Vacation and leave, Sabbatical leave , Residential assistance, Health and medical employment and occupation rate of female managers Economic, social and cultural rights 45 LA13 LA14 assistance, Education of children, Retirement benefits, Family Day, and Informal clubs Rate between genders for basic salary Management and monitoring of energy consumption and Fundamental principles and rights at Compliance with child labor prohibition agreement, Labor Standards Act, ILO, and 41, 49 greenhouse gas emission work Collective Agreement 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Energy-savings through replacement of facilities and 4.11 54-55 approach to environmental challenges; equipment Status of employees, Human rights protection for employees (Gender equality, Diversity, Employment and employment Participation in CDP Child and forced labor prohibition, Sexual harassment prevention), Cooperative labor41, 49 relationships management relationship Management and monitoring of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission Conditions of work and social Vacation and leave, Sabbatical leave , Residential assistance, Health and medical Energy-savings through replacement of facilities and 45 protection assistance, Education of children, Retirement benefits, Family Day, and Informal clubs Environequipment EN5 EN6 EN7 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater Labor ment Implementation of greenhouse gas emission management EN10 EN14 EN18 54-56 environmental responsibility; and Corporate culture innovation : OneDo, Organizational culture improvement, Cooperative IT system EN26 EN27 practices Social dialogue 47-49 Participation in CDP labor-management relationship, Communication with employees Participation in the government’s promotion of green businesses Health and medical assistance (welfare and benefit programs), Mental health supports, Health and safety at work 45-46 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Implementation of greenhouse gas emission management EN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 Human development and training WIS University , In-company HR development school, Core talent development 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of IT system 43 EN10 EN18 EN26 55 in the workplace programs environmentally friendly technologies Introduction of electronic approval system EN27 Launching of a mobile office system Energy-savings, Greenhouse emission management IT system, Resource consumption Prevention of pollution 54-55 management, Electronic approval system, Mobile offices Sustainability Report 2010 Ethical Management Committee, Ethical Management Office and 201 Ethical Management Officers Introduction of the code of ethics Sustainable resource use Resource consumption management, Electronic approval system, Mobile offices 55 AntiEthical management education program The environ10. Businesses should work against corruption in all ment corrupEthical management implementation program (including SO2 SO3 SO4 38-40 Climate change mitigation and Energy-savings, Greenhouse emission management IT system, Resource consumption its forms, including extortion and bribery 54-55 tion unfair trade monitoring, money-laundering prevention adaptation management, Electronic approval system, Mobile offices system, reporting of briberies, whistle-blower system Monitoring of ethical management status Protection of the environment, biodiverDevelopment and sales of green industry investment fund, Investment in green Compliance Newsletter 56 sity and restoration of natural habitats businesses and projects 72 최상의 금융서비스를 Standard ISO26000 통한 고객감동 실현 73 Awards / Membership Awards Appendix Woori Investment & Securities Core Subject Issue Related Activites Page Date Description Sponsor Monitoring of unfair trade, Money-laundering prevention system, Reporting of briberies, Anti-corruption 39-40 Whistle-blower system, Assessment of ethical management status 2011.01.25 2010 Korea Capital Market League Table Awards – Best Equity Linked Bond House MoneyToday and thebell Political intervention related guidelines are included in the code of ethics, Participation in the Responsible political involvement 38, 56 Korea Consumer's Forum and government’s public policy to promote green financing 2011.01.25 Won a Grand Prize at 2011 Korea First Brand (Comprehensive asset management) Korea Economic Daily Fair operating practices Fair competition Fair trade related guidelines are included in the code of ethics, Monitoring of unfair trade 38-39 2011.01.27 2010 Excellent Compliance Member Awards Korea Exchange Promoting social responsibility in Monitoring of unfair trade, Money-laundering prevention system, Reporting of briberies, 2011.02.24 2011 Asia Economy Fund Awards – Named the ‘best seller’ Financial Supervisory Service 39 the value chain Whistle-blower system 2011.03.05 Won a Grand Prize at The 19th Korea Marketing Frontier Awards Korean Marketing Association Respect for property rights Not applicable 2011.03.09 Won a Grand Prize at 2011 e-Biz Brand Innovation Awards (4th) Korea Economic Magazine Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Compliance with regulations in investment advertisement, Enhancement of EMS process 40 2011.04.29 2011 Korea Herald Business Capital Market Awards – Won a ‘Research winner’ Herald Business contractual practices 2011.05.24 The 8 Money Today IB Awards – Best Company/Best PI/PEF Leader th MoneyToday Protecting consumers' health Financial product with post-sale services, Information securities, Financial investment 32, 34 and safety presentation 2010.10.28 2010 Korea Sustainability Management Award (Won an award by Ministry of Health-Welfare) Korea Economic Daily Sustainability products and services 2010.07.06 Named the best customer-value product in asset management at the “2010 THE PROUD Awards” KMAC Sustainable consumption 28 (Eco-friendly and social responsible products development) Consumer 2010.05.19 Won the Best Derivatives Leader Award MoneyToday issues Consumer service, support, and CS programs, VOC system, Financial product with post-sale services, Grievance treatment 30-32 complaint and dispute resolution system, CS survey 2010.04.23 2010 Capital Market Award(IB Grand Prize-KOFIA Award) Herald Business Consumer data protection and Won “the Best Sales Company” (Grand Prize at the 1st Asia Fund Awards, a President of Korea Information securities for customer safety 32 2010.03.18 Asia Business Daily privacy Financial Investment Association Award) Access to essential services Not applicable Won a Grand Prize for having the most reliable brand chosen by consumers in the comprehensive 2010.02.19 Chosun Daily asset management category Mug Club service, Junior economics camp, Financial investment presentation, Official blog, Education and awareness 33-34, 59 Korea Economic Daily and Yonhap Twitter, and Facebook accounts 2010.01.20 Won the IB Award Infomax CSR organizations, Employee CSR certification system, Volunteer activities, Social welfare, Community involvement Local communities supports, Financial education, Scholarship, Sports or cultural and Arts 57-60 2010.01.19 Best Equity House, Best IPO House, Best ELB (Equity-linked bond)House, Best SB (Straight bond) MoneyToday and thebell supports Tree of Hope scholarship program, Junior economics camp, Sports support, MOU to support Education and culture 59 the theater industry Membership Employment creation and skills Tree of Hope scholarship program 59 Community development Group Purpose of Establishment Date of Join involvement and developTechnology development and Not applicable Korea Listed Companies Association To protect rights and profits of listed companies, strengthen relationship, and protect investors 1975.09.30 ment access The Federation of Korean Industries To develop free market and sound development of national economy 1975.10.31 Distribution of value with stakeholders, “One Company, One Village” campaign, MOU to Wealth and income creation 18, 58-59 support the theater industry Korea Management Association To support business innovation and enhance competitiveness of companies, industries, and public 1982.11.31 (KMA) sector Health Health exam, Medical assistance, Other employee welfare programs 45 Association of Listed Companies’ Development and sales of green industry investment fund, Assist of capital increases of green To figure out overall status of audit system and present improvement measures 1997.03.01 Social investment 56, 60 Auditors businesses, Investment in green businesses and projects, Woori Angel Fund Korea M&A Association To provide efficient corporate restructuring opportunity, prevent die out of useful corporate assets 2002.07.19 To suggest direction of capital market through studies on securities industry, financial products, and Korea Capital Market Institute 2006.01.16 markets The Korea Employers Federation To stabilize industry and promote economic development 2006.12.18 To seek development of domestic derivatives market through information sharing and improving KOSDA 2007.04.20 Sustainability Report 2010 derivatives business Seoul IB Forum To enhance IB industry to global level, enhance value of financial industry 2007.10.08 Association of Compliance Officers To share right compliance culture through survey, research, and training of Compliance system 2009.04.17 The Institute of Internal Auditors To improve expertise of auditors, supplement internal audit system 2009.06.08 Korea CEO Research Forum To study and assess CEO in a fair manner 2010.03.16 Korea Mecenat Association To contribute to society and enhance competitiveness through support for culture and arts 2010.07.29 74 최상의 금융서비스를Terminology Financial 통한 고객감동 실현 Voice of Stakeholders Appendix ABS (Asset Backed Securities) KOBA Warrant Woori Investment & Securities has published the first sustainability report. It means a financial security backed by a loan, lease, or speIt is the ELW where Knock-Out condition is assigned to Making our best effort to disclose performance of last 3 years, we could found that there are still many parts to be cific assets of a financial institution or a company. It is a general warrant. When price of assets arrives or exceeds improved. To provide more informative and meaningful sustainability report at next time, we would love to hear your derivative security, meaning by pooling a part of assets to Knock-Out Barrier, ELW will be no more effective. If price of opinion and expectation. Please give us your valued opinion on following survey through the e-mail or fax, we will ABS, securities are issued and principal and interests of the assets arrives the decided price for knock-out, transaction sincerely consider each one of them in making sustainability report in the future. securities are redeemed with cash flow from ABS. will be immediately stopped, and such transaction item will Thank you. be delisted. Then, the issue should pay residual value of the CMA (Cash Management Account) ELW to investor. In direct meaning, it means cash account or comprehensive 01 Which Stakeholder group do you belong to? asset management account. It is a financial product which MMF (Money Market Fund) invests money deposited by customers into CP, CD, or govIt is a financial product which invests into short-term finan① Customer ② Shareholder ③ Business partner ④ Employee ⑤ Local Community ernment bonds and returns profits to the customers. cial products such as CP with maturity less than 1 year, ⑥ Government ⑦ Financial Institution ⑧ Journalist ⑨ Others( ) CD, or Call so that fluctuation of interests can be rapidly CP (Commercial Paper) reflected into fund yield. It is a kind of short-term bill, which is issued by good credit02 Did this report help you understand sustainability activities in Woori Investment & Securities? rated companies for the purpose of raising funds for operaPSR (Price Sales Ratio) ① Very helpful ② Helpful ③ Normal ④ Not helpful ⑤ Absolutely not helpful tion of companies. At maturity, principal and interest should It means the value by dividing stock price by sales per share be paid in lump sum. (PSR = Price / Sales). It indicates the ratio of current stock price with sales per share, and also means expected value of growth of sales in the stand point of current stock price. 03 Which part of the report were you most interested in? CRS (Cross Currency Swap) ① CEO message ② Change for Sustainability ③ Be Excellent & Proactive It means currency swap, meaning exchange cross currency at the beginning and ending of contract period. Also, exRP (Repurchase Agreement) ④ Be Professional & Synergetic ⑤ Be Harmonious & Responsible ⑥ Others( ) change is exchanged along with principal. “CRS receive” It means bonds with repurchase agreement. A financial means paying Won currency and receiving dollar, and “CRS institution sells bonds with repurchase agreement and repay” means the reverse. purchases the bonds with some interest after agreed-upon 04 Please rate each of the following Woori Investment & Securities' sustainability activities. period. Poor Normal Excellent DLS (Derivatives Linked Securities) ① Economic performance 1 2 3 4 5 It is similar to ELS, but has profit structure with interest rate, SWAP raw materials, or exchange rate as underlying assets. It means currency exchange transaction (E.g : dollar/Won), ② Social/environmental crisis and chance management 1 2 3 4 5 reflecting gap of interest rate of currencies of each party. It is used for exchange risk hedging, fund raising, or fund ③ Customer satisfaction 1 2 3 4 5 ELS (Equity Linked Securities) Investment return is decided in accordance with changes in operating. ④ Customer privacy protection 1 2 3 4 5 stock price or linkage with stock index. If certain condition is satisfied until maturity, decided yield is paid. ⑤ Customer complaint/grievance handling process 1 2 3 4 5 ⑥ Ethics management and compliance 1 2 3 4 5 ELW (Equity Linked Warrant) ⑦ Training and education for officers/employees 1 2 3 4 5 Similar to ELS, it is linked to stock price. It means the right to sell or purchase underlying assets at agreed-upon price. ⑧ Welfare benefits for officers/employees 1 2 3 4 5 ⑨ Cooperative labor-management relationship 1 2 3 4 5 FICC (Fixed Income, Currency, Commodity) It means division to develop, operate, and sell derivatives ⑩ Internal/external partnership 1 2 3 4 5 related to FX, interest, and commodity. Based on interest rate, credit, commodity, and so on, it provides customized products including swap and option products. 05 Which aspect of the report were you most satisfied? ① Title of the report ② Design of the report ③ Table of contents ④ Contents of the report ⑤ Others Sustainability Report 2010 IRS (Interest Rate Swap) It means exchange fixed interest and floating interest during agreed-upon period. “IRS receive” means receiving fixed 06 Please feel free to express your opinion or suggestion regarding Woori Investment & Securities' sustainability interest and paying CD floating interest. The counter party’s management. interest flow is called, “IRS pay.” Publication of the Sustainability Report of Woori Investment & Securities As the first sustainability report of Woori Investment & Securities, this report states the commitment of the Company to sustainable growth. With this report, the Company is establishing a firm basis for full-scale sustainability management. A special task force was formed to produce this report. Organized by the Corporate Strategy Department, the TF consists of employees selected from each department. All participants of the TF were interviewed to measure the level of the Company’s sustainability performance from an internal perspective. Strategic tasks were then selected and workshops were held to establish Company-wide sustainability management strategies and to better understand the publication of sustainability reports. This report has been published thanks to the interest and organic work processes of all the TF’s members. Woori Investment & Securities will continue to fulfill the expectations of stakeholders. Through this sustainability report and homepage, the Company will disclose timely data on its sustainability performance. Contributors Organizers : Pyung-Ho Choi, Head of Strategy and Finance Division Jung-Ho Kim, Young-Jae Choi, Tae-Young Ha in Corporate Strategy Department Task Force for Sustainability Reports You-Seok Na, Office of Achieving #1 Jae-Hoon Kim, HR Department Sung-Ah Lee, Jung-Sik Kim, Mili Kim, Financial Planning & Control Department Jae-Eun Jeon, HR Support Department Yon-Ju Jin, Global Strategy Department Dong-Il Choi, HR Development Department Kyu-Sung, Mo Labor Union Seok-Min Lee, Financial Management Department Hun-Sang Sung, Jamie Wilson, Research Planning Team Hong-Suk Choi, Yoon-Young Cho, Corporate Innovation Department In-Cheol Song, Risk Management Department Sung-Joon Ko, Dong-Su Kim, General Affairs Department Ji-Hoon Kim, Marketing Department Kyoo-Woong Yum, Compliance Department Suh-Yyon Kwak, Legal Affairs Department Myung-Jin Ju, Chul-Soon Lim, Dong-Hyun Song, Public Relations Department Sung-Hwan Lee, Kim Ducky, Office of Corporate Social Responsibility Jung Han, Alternative Investment Team Joon-Ho Heo, Product Development Department Mu-Sang You, Dae-Chul Chae, Product Strategy Department Sang-Won Jin, IB Strategy & Planning Department Yun-Chul Kim, Service Control Department Ji-Hyun Oh, Product Innovation Team Jae-Seung Shim, WM Strategy Department Byung-Hee Jung, Wholesale Planning Team For More Information on This Sustainability Report, Please Address Inquiries to : Corporate Strategy Department, Woori Investment & Securities Woori I&S Bldg. 23-4 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-725, Korea TEL +82-2-1544-0000 FAX +82-2-768-6749 E-mail sustain@wooriwm.com Website www.wooriwm.com Produced by Corporate Strategy Department, Woori Investment & Securities Designed by EcoFrontier
