GRI * / UNGC ** Index 2011 Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 1. Strategy and Analysis 1 1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of yes Sustainability Report 5, 8–12 the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. yes Annual Report 66 8 Sustainability Report 8–12, 32 2. Organizational Profile 2 1 Name of the organization. yes Annual Report Cover 2 2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. yes Annual Report Cover, 21 2 3 Operational structure of the organization, including yes Annual Report 56–60, 105–107 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2 4 Location of organization’s headquarters. yes Annual Report 105–107 2 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, yes Annual Report 105–107 and names of countries with either major operations Sustainability Report 33–36 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2 6 Nature of ownership and legal form. yes Annual Report 51–55 2 7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, secyes Annual Report 69, 105–107 tors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2 8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: yes Annual Report Cover – – Number of employees – – Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net ­r evenues (for public sector organizations) – – Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) – – Quantity of products or services provided 2 9 Significant changes during the reporting period regaryes Annual Report 66 ding size, structure, or ownership, including: www.coop.ch/medien – – The location of, or changes in operations, including (Medienkonferenzen / Bilanzmefacility openings, closings, and expansions dienkonferenz 2011 / Dokumenta– – Changes in the share capital structure and other capital tion zum Download) formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 2 10 Awards received in the reporting period. yes Sustainability Report 7 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3 1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for yes Sustainability Report Cover information provided. 3 2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). yes Sustainability Report Cover 3 3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) yes Sustainability Report Cover 3 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or yes Sustainability Report 72 its contents. Annual Report Cover * This overview shows where the Annual and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group and the Coop Websites ° Status: Information available: yes give information on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) criteria. Information partly available: (yes) ** T his overview shows where the Annual and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group and the Coop Websites Not relevant to the Coop: irrelevant / none give information on the ten universally accepted UNGC (UN Global Compact) principles in the areas Information missing: no of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 1 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Report Scope and Boundary 3 5 Process for defining report content, including: yes Sustainability Report Cover, – – Determining materiality 5, 11–12 – – Prioritizing topics within the report – – Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report 3 6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, yes Boundary of the Sustainability subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Report: See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Sustainability Report Cover; Deviations: footnotes 66–7 1 Boundary of the Annual Report: Annual Report 105–107 3 7 State any specific limitations on the scope or yes Sustainability Report Cover boundary of the report. 3 8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, yes Annual Report 88–90 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3 9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of yes Sustainability Report 66–7 1 calculations, including assumptions and techniques (footnotes) underlying estimations applied to the compilation www.coop.ch/report of the Indicators and other information in the report. (Sustainability Report 2009, 37) 3 10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of inforyes Annual Report 88–90 mation provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3 11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in yes Sustainability Report 66–7 1 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Context Index 3 12 Table identifying the location of the Standard yes www.coop.ch/gri-ungc Disclosures in the report: – – Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2 – – Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.10 – – Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13 – – Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 – 4.17 – – Disclosure of Management Approach, per category – – Core Performance Indicators – – Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included – – Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report Assurance 3 13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking yes Annual Report 54, 55 external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, Engagement Governance 4 1 Governance structure of the organization, including yes Annual Report 51–55 committees under the highest governance body Sustainability Report 6 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy www.coop.ch/principles or organiza­t ional oversight. (Strategy and organization / Internal organization of sustainability) 4 2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance yes Annual Report 52 body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their ­f unction within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 2 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 4 3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, yes Annual Report 52–53 state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4 4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide yes Annual Report 52 recommendations or direction to the highest goverwww.coop.ch/organe nance body. (Genossenschaft / Statuten) 4 5 Linkage between compensation for members of the yes Annual Report 55 highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4 6 Processes in place for the highest governance body yes Annual Report 53 to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4 7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise yes Annual Report 51–53 of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4 8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, yes Sustainability Report 5, 8–10 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, www.coop.ch/principles environmental, and social performance and the status (Guidelines / Business principles) of their implementation. 4 9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeyes Sustainability Report 9–10 ing the organization’s identification and management of e­ conomic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4 10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance yes Annual Report 53–54 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4 11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary yes Sustainability Report 8–10, 20–22 7 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4 12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and yes Annual Report throughout the text social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Sustainability Report 20–21, the organization subscribes or endorses. 34–36, 38–39, 42–43, 58–59, 72 4 13 Memberships in associations (such as industry yes Sustainability Report 5, 34–36 associations) and/or national/international advocacy www.coop.ch/stakeholder organizations in which the organization: – – Has positions in governance bodies – – Participates in projects or committees – – Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues – – Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4 14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. yes Sustainability Report 10–11 www.coop.ch/stakeholder 4 15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders yes Sustainability Report Cover, 10–11 with whom to engage. 4 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including yes www.coop.ch/stakeholder frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4 17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through yes Sustainability Report 10–11 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has www.coop.ch/stakeholder responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 3 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Performance Indicators > Economic Aspect: Economic Performance 5 EC1 C Direct economic value generated and distributed, yes Annual Report 74 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 5 EC2 C Financial implications and other risks and opportuyes Sustainability Report 33, 35–36, 7, 8 nities for the organization’s activities due to climate 37, 42–43 change. 5 EC3 C Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan yes Employees are insured with the ­o bligations. CPV/CAP Coop Pension Fund against the financial consequences of old age, invalidity and death. Coop pays two thirds of the pension fund contributions. 5 EC4 C Significant financial assistance received from yes Sustainability Report 22 government. www.coop.ch/co2-vision www.coop.ch/energiesparen www.prokilowatt.ch Aspect: Market Presence 5 EC5 A Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared yes Annual Report 49 6 to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 5 EC6 C Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on localyes www.coop.ch/report ly-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. (Sustainability Report 2010, 18–19) www.coop.ch/principles www.coop.ch/naturaplan (Philosophie / Frisch aus der Region) www.coop.ch/promontagna 5 EC7 C Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior yes Regional roots and recruiting by management hired from the local community at locathe individual facilities. tions of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts 5 EC8 C Development and impact of infrastructure investments yes Sustainability Report 58–59 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 5 EC9 A Understanding and describing significant indirect yes Annual Report 22 eco­n omic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Performance Indicators > Environment Aspect: Materials 5 EN1 C Materials used by weight or volume. yes Sustainability Report 24–25 8 40 000 tonnes of packaging material for Coop own-label brands. 5 EN2 C Percentage of materials used that are recycled input yes Sustainability Report 16, 41–42 8, 9 materials. Where possible, Coop uses recycled materials in its range: 54% of the paper range is made of recycled paper, the lifelong carrier bags available in supermarkets are made of 100% recycled PET and Coop own-label brand mineral water bottles are made of 20% recycled PET. 4 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Energy 5 EN3 C Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. yes Sustainability Report 67 8 5 EN4 C Indirect energy consumption by primary source. yes Sustainability Report 67 5 EN5 A Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency yes Sustainability Report 67 8, 9 improvements. 5 EN6 A Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable yes Sustainability Report 16, 18, 8, 9 energy based products and services, and reductions in 20–22, 38–40 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 5 EN7 A Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and yes Sustainability Report 33, 40 8, 9 reductions achieved. Aspect: Water 5 EN8 C Total water withdrawal by source. yes Sustainability Report 68 8 As the respective municipality has jurisdiction over water supplies, Coop sources 100% of the water required directly from the municipalities. 5 EN9 A Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal none of water. 5 EN10 A Percentage and total volume of water recycled and irrelevant reused. Aspect: Biodiversity 5 EN11 C Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, none Not relevant for Coop because or adyescent to, protected areas and areas of high sales outlets and production bio­d iversity value outside protected areas. facilities are located only on land earmarked for this purpose in spatial planning. 5 EN12 C Description of significant impacts of activities, proyes Sustainability Report 16–17, 8 ducts, and services on biodiversity in protected areas 35–36 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 5 EN13 A Habitats protected or restored. none 5 EN14 A Strategies, current actions, and future plans for yes Sustainability Report 55 8 managing impacts on biodiversity. 5 EN15 A Number of IUCN Red List species and national consernone vation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 5 EN16 C Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions yes Sustainability Report 68 8 by weight. 5 EN17 C Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions yes Sustainability Report 66, 68 8 by weight. 5 EN18 A Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and yes Sustainability Report 16, 33, 40, 8, 9 reductions achieved. 68 5 EN19 C Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. no Reason for omission: Not material because Coop only uses modern refrigerants such as R-404A or CO 2 and these are nonozone depleting. 5 EN20 C NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type no The feasibility of recording and weight. further significant air emissions is being examined. Coop will report on this indicator in 2013. 5 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 5 EN21 C Total water discharge by quality and destination. yes Sustainability Report 68 In accordance with Swiss legislation, all waste water goes into the public sewage system. 5 EN22 C Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. yes Sustainability Report 69 8 5 EN23 C Total number and volume of significant spills. yes There were no unplanned releases in the reporting period. 5 EN24 A Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated yes Sustainability Report 69 8 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 5 EN25 A Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value none of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services 5 EN26 C Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of proyes Sustainability Report 16–17, 8, 9 ducts and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 20–22, 35–36 5 EN27 C Percentage of products sold and their packaging materiyes Sustainability Report 41–42 8 als that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance 5 EN28 C Monetary value of significant fines and total number yes The environmental laws and reguof non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with lations were observed during the environmental laws and regulations. reporting period; there were no fines or sanctions. Aspect: Transport 5 EN29 A Significant environmental impacts of transporting yes Sustainability Report 40–41, 8 products and other goods and materials used for the 66–68 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: Overall 5 EN30 A Total environmental protection expenditures and no investments by type. Performance Indicators > Labor Practices & Decent Work Aspect: Employment 5 LA1 C Total workforce by employment type, employment conyes Annual Report 75–77 tract, and region. Sustainability Report 70 Number of part-time workers in 2011: 23 142. 5 LA2 C Total number and rate of employee turnover by age yes Annual Report 76 6 group, gender, and region. Sustainability Report 70 5 LA3 A Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not yes Annual Report 49 6 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Sustainability Report 48 operations. www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) Aspect: Labor / Management Relations 5 LA4 C Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaiyes Annual Report 49 1, 3 ning agreements. Sustainability Report 48 5 LA5 C Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant opeyes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber rational changes, including whether it is specified in (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) collective agreements. 6 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety 5 LA6 A Percentage of total workforce represented in formal no joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 5 LA7 C Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and yes Sustainability Report 7 1 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. Work-related illnesses: none; Work-related deaths: none; Working days lost owing to workrelated accidents and illnesses: 633 645. 5 LA8 C Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskyes Sustainability Report 48 control programs in place to assist workforce members, www.coop.ch/nachhaltigkeit their families, or community members regarding serious (Alle Themen / Mitarbeitende & diseases. Gesellschaft / Arbeitgeberin) 5 LA9 A Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements yes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber with trade unions. (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) Aspect: Training and Education 5 LA10 C Average hours of training per year per employee by yes Sustainability Report 7 1 employee category. 5 LA11 A Programs for skills management and lifelong learning yes Sustainability Report 49–50 that support the continued employability of employees www.coop.ch/report and assist them in managing career endings. (Sustainability Report 2010, 52) 5 LA12 A Percentage of employees receiving regular performance yes www.coop.ch/report and career development reviews. (Sustainability Report 2010, 44–45) Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 5 LA13 C Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of yes Annual Report 51–55 1, 6 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 5 LA14 C Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee no Reason of omission: 1, 6 ­c ategory. proprietary business data Performance Indicators > Human Rights Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices 5 HR1 C Percentage and total number of significant investment yes In most countries in which Coop agreements that include human rights clauses or that operates, no human rights probhave undergone human rights screening. lems were identified in the retail sector. In the remaining countries, the employment contract governs compliance with and implementation of human rights legislation. 5 HR2 C Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors yes Sustainability Report 32, 34–35 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 5 HR3 A Total hours of employee training on policies and no procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination 5 HR4 C Total number of incidents of discrimination and yes There were no cases of discriminaactions taken. tion and therefore no measures in this regard in the reporting period. 7 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 5 HR5 C Operations identified in which the right to exercise yes Sustainability Report 25–26, 1, 3 freedom of association and collective bargaining may 34–35, 48 be at significant risk, and actions taken to support Continuous dialogue with the these rights. trade unions. Aspect: Child Labor 5 HR6 C Operations identified as having significant risk for yes Sustainability Report 22–23, 1, 5 i­ncidents of child labor, and measures taken to contri32–35 bute to the elimination of child labor. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor 5 HR7 C Operations identified as having significant risk for inciyes Sustainability Report 22–23, 1, 4 dents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 32–35 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices 5 HR8 A Percentage of security personnel trained in the irrelevant organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights 5 HR9 A Total number of incidents of violations involving rights none of indigenous people and actions taken. Performance Indicators > Society Aspect: Community 5 SO1 C Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and yes Coop does not have any such practices that assess and manage the impacts of opeprogrammes, as the relevant rations on communities, including entering, operating, areas are covered in full by Swiss and exiting. legislation. Aspect: Corruption 5 SO2 C Percentage and total number of business units analyyes Most countries in which Coop zed for risks related to corruption. operates have good results in the Transparency International Corruption Index. At the facilities in the remaining countries, rules of conduct apply for all employees. These are governed by a system comprising laws and standards, and are complemented by guidelines on dealing with conflicts of interest and gifts. Compliance is checked by the internal auditors in the course of regular audits. 5 SO3 C Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiyes www.coop.ch/principles corruption policies and procedures. (Guidelines / Business principles) The principles apply to all Coop employees. 5 SO4 C Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. yes There were no cases of corruption 10 and therefore no measures in this regard in the reporting period. Aspect: Public Policy 5 SO5 C Public policy positions and participation in public poliyes Annual Report 10–11 10 cy development and lobbying. Sustainability Report 11, 24 www.coop.ch/stakeholder 5 SO6 A Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to none 10 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 8 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior 5 SO7 A Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive none 10 behav­i or, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance 5 SO8 C Monetary value of significant fines and total number of yes REWE Foodservice Germany: A non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws fine of EUR 15 000 for contraveand regulations. ning labour law. Performance Indicators > Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety 5 PR1 C Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of yes Annual Report 27–28 products and services are assessed for improvement, www.coop.ch/principles and percentage of significant products and services (Quality assurance) categories subject to such procedures. 5 PR2 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with none regula­t ions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling 5 PR3 C Type of product and service information required by yes Sustainability Report 24 8 procedures, and percentage of significant products and www.coop.ch/foodprofil services subject to such information requirements. www.coop.ch/principles 5 PR4 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with reguno lations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 5 PR5 A Practices related to customer satisfaction, including yes Annual Report 20–21, 26 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications 5 PR6 C Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and volunyes Swiss law already sets narrow tary codes related to marketing communications, inclulimits in terms of what constiding advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. tutes ethically impeccable and «honest» advertising. Coop has nonetheless released an additional Guideline on Product Advertising and Communication Aimed at Children. 5 PR7 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with no regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy 5 PR8 A Total number of substantiated complaints regarding no ­b reaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance 5 PR9 C Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance yes The laws and regulations were with laws and regulations concerning the provision and observed during the reporting use of products and services. period; there were no fines or sanctions. 9 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2011 | GRI / UNGC Index |
