2011 Sustainability Report | ENGLISH About 2011 SUSTAINABILITY This REPORT Report Objective This is the first Sustainability Report published by SK Chemicals in which the environmental aspect and the issue of sustainable management are comprehensively reported, following the publication of SK Chemicals Environmental Management Report Contents in 2010. To fulfill its economic, environmental and social responsibilities, SK Chemicals is aggressively implementing sustainable management activities. This Report is intended to inform the stakeholders of the efforts and achievements of the company in sustainable management. SK Chemicals hopes to take the publication of this Sustainability Report as ● an opportunity to reach out and improve communication with stakeholders. Communicating with Stakeholders Framework This Sustainability Report is aligned to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 Guidelines. Materiality Evaluation The financial information for 2009 is based on individual financial statements, in Company Overview accordance with the former accounting standard K-GAAP (Korean Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) whereas the financial information after 2009 is based on separate ● financial statements, in accordance with the current accounting standard K-IFRS (Korean International Financing Reporting Standards). SK Chemicals plans to publish its Systems for Sustainable Management sustainability report annually in order to disclose its sustainable management goals and achievements and communicate with the stakeholders. ● Report Period Green Chemicals This report is based on the data and activities from January 1, 2009 to December 31, Life Sciences 2011. Some sections contain information going beyond the standard report period. The differences of the reported period in quantitative data are specified where necessary. ● Scope of Report Environmental Achievements This report contains information of SK Chemicals corporate headquarters, research ● center and its four manufacturing sites in Korea. However, specific scope and units will be mentioned where necessary. The currency used in this report is Korean Won (KRW), and Organization quantitative data will be listed in the metric system. All other units are specified where necessary. Partnerships and Mutual Growth Verification Social Involvements and Contributions The contents of this report have been certified through a third party verification conducted ● by Korea Management Association Quality Assurance (KMAR) in April of 2012. The verification results are included on page 70 of this report. Appendix Contact If you have any inquiries or comments regarding SK Chemicals Sustainability Report 2011, please contact the company at the following: Kim Dong-beom, Team Manager SKMS Practice Team, SK Chemicals 686 Sampyeong-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do, Rep. of Korea Tel : +82 2 2008 2061 Fax : +82 2 2008 2109 E-mail : dbkim@sk.com Website: www.skchemicals.com The SK Chemicals 2011 Sustainability Report cover design is an e-pression of our mission statement: “We promote better health for all humankind, and protect the natural environment of the Earth.” The cover illustration of the report, in which humans coexist hand in hand on a field of green grass, represents the efforts of SK Chemicals to achieve a sustainable society for the happiness of stakeholders. 2 CEO’s Introductory Remarks SK Chemicals continues to pioneer a more sustainable future. Choi Chang-won, CEO & Vice-Chairman, SK Chemicals Remaining faithful to our motto, “Promote Better Health for Humankind, Protect the Natural We are also dedicated to reducing social inequalities, serving as a primer by setting an example for Environment of the Earth,” we at SK Chemicals continue to practice sustainable management aimed at other businesses and companies to emulate. SK Chemicals has become the corporate sponsor of increasing happiness for all of civilization and the planet by generating new values. Compassion, a non-governmental organization providing support for poor children around the world. We also promote the prosperity and welfare of rural regions in Korea by purchasing organic products Society’s sustainability is crucial to our happiness. It is growing increasingly difficult, however, to directly from them. Our efforts to care for the needy and the struggling include the Silver Theater we ensure sustainability due to the continuing environmental degradation amid the advancement of have built for the elderly’s enjoyment in South Korea and providing vaccines for children in North civilization and the growing inequalities resulting from excessive pursuit of material gains. At SK Korea. We also support the spread of creativity and talents throughout society by supporting and Chemicals, we recognize that our key task is to restore and ensure the symbiosis of civilization and assisting artists as well as organizations devoted to arts and humanities, encouraging greater nature, pioneering new ways to improve the quality of life for all, while also healing nature, outside and awareness and happiness. inside us. At SK Chemicals, we intend to continue our contribution to sustainability by reinforcing our first-class SK Chemicals continues to engage in reforms at the levels of the individual, the family, the company, programs and campaigns and actively restoring harmony and healing capacities to nature. To this end, and society, with the aim of creating a more sustainable society. All our individual members are we will continue to enhance our environmental management systems and share part of our disposable working hard to become “Warm Professionals,”, admired for both their competence and humanity. income to help mitigate social inequalities. In doing so, we intend our efforts to serve as a primer, They are also actively trying to make their families happy as part of their transformation. Our inducing greater participation and support from other companies and businesses in the projects of our concerted efforts also seek to make SK Chemicals a “Great Company,” and make our society common causes. As we adopt a new attitude toward life and build a wider consensus across society for sustainable. sustainability, we will be able to achieve our goal of restoring and maintaining the ecology of coexistence and harmony. All businesses must strive to become “great”. Great companies are the corporate citizens that ensure social sustainability by making active contributions to overcoming the problems of the environment SK Chemicals publishes its sustainability reports to communicate better with stakeholders, updating and of the increasing socioeconomic inequalities. SK Chemicals, accordingly, organizes campaigns stakeholders on the latest developments in all areas of the company’s management. The 2011 addressing both these issues that are crucial to our task of improving and ensuring the sustainability Sustainability Report of SK Chemicals actively incorporated the demands and expectations from all of our society. stakeholder groups (including customers, investors, society, and employees), in accordance with the guideline provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1. In the report, the company also sought At SK Chemicals, we have set innumerable examples of good environmental management, to disclose transparently how it practices the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. It is our hope at successfully reducing our environmental impact by improving energy efficiency. We adopted the SK Chemicals that this elicits a better and greater public understanding of our company’s practices Declaration for Environmental Management in 2009, announcing our resolve for systematic ecoand commitment to continuing sustainable management and also helps us hone and improve our friendly management that ensures better harmony between nature and humankind. We are united in internal capacities to achieve our sustainable ends. I ask you to continue to support us with your constantly thinking about and developing new eco-friendly programs and campaigns, expanding an encouragement and attention as we make progress in sustainable management. environment-centered culture throughout our organization. By minimizing our environmental impact through continuing process reforms, we were able to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 24% as of 2011. The proportion of revenue generated by our innovative eco-friendly products, such as our biodiesel and ECOZEN (an eco-friendly, heat-proof plastic), has grown to almost 18% of the total Thank you. revenue we earned in 2011. Our new company building, ECO LAB, completed in 2011, embodies our commitment to environmental management, garnering a first-class energy efficiency grade, the highest level of the Green Building & Construction Certificate (GBCC), and the Platinum-level Leadership in Environmental Engineering and Design (LEED) certificate. This eco-friendly, innovative building has become a new landmark of the region. June 2012. Communicating with ● Result Stakeholders >> Priority I Material Issues from Priority II Stakeholders’ Product responsibility Perspective The corporate activities of a company affect the society and stakeholders in various ways. SK Chemicals is deeply aware of the fact Developing alternative energy that continuous engagement in the conversations, among the diverse groups of stakeholders affected by the company’s products, Customer service and services and other activities, is the first step toward contributing to sustainable development and management. In order to handle Energy efficiency complaints various problems and tasks for sustainability more effectively SK Chemicals seeks to better understand the expectations of the Employment security society and cooperate closely with all its stakeholders. Managing hazardous substances Reducing pollution on Main stakeholders in SK Chemicals include customers, shareholders and investors, government authorities, company employees business sites Human resources Sustainable management strategies Developing eco-friendly and board members, business partners, local communities, the media and the press, industrial organizations and associations, development materials and the academia. SK Chemicals intends to increase communication with all these groups through utilizing various channels. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions / Managing and reducing waste materials Equal opportunities and Fair trade / Antinon-discrimination corruption The criteria for identifying and evaluating the stakeholders in SK Chemicals can be answered by these questions: “Who is affected Communicating with Industrial safety and by our business activities?” “Who influences our sustainable management and its related activities?” and “Who benchmarks the Protecting children and stakeholders public health Priority III mothers’ rights Prohibiting illicit policy of achievements of SK Chemicals’ sustainable management in their decision making?”. SK Chemicals understands its stakeholders lobbying/pressures Sustainable management through asking these questions, and with the identified stakeholders, aims to develop its sustainable management organization Protecting ecological and Ensuring mutual growth with partner businesses Sustainable management Reducing resource biological diversity education and campaigns consumption Fair marketing Strategic social and advertising Prohibiting forced and contributions practices migratory labor Consumer education Ethical clinical research Handling complaints Materiality Evaluation Labor-management cooperation and protecting labor activities Material Issues from the management’s perspective >> Animal testing ethics Overview This Sustainability Report is not only a crucial medium, which transparently Interpreting the Results reveals the efforts and achievements of SK Chemicals in the area of ● Stages of Materiality Evaluation sustainable management but is also a basic tool of communication with the company’s stakeholders. In order for this Report to fulfill its role as a communication tool, it is necessary to provide information explaining All 34 issues identified in the materiality evaluation are significantly relevant to the sustainable management the relationship between SK Chemicals and sustainability. To publish its of SK Chemicals. Among the issues, “product responsibility,” “developing eco-friendly materials,” “customer Sustainability Report, SK Chemicals conducted its materiality evaluation , Researching, analyzing, and identifying service and resolving complaints,” “developing alternative energy,” “sustainable management strategies,” issues from the following types of which determined the types and combinations of information necessary to information: “energy efficiency,” “managing hazardous substances,” “human resources development,” “anti-corruption,” achieve its goals. The “material issues” in sustainable management include Issue External guidelines; “fair trade,” “industrial safety and public health,” and “reducing resource consumption” were identified The media; not only issues that are important for the management of SK Chemicals, Identification Management strategies; as more important issues. See the diagram above for a more detailed look into the materiality evaluation but also issues that matter from perspective of the stakeholders. Therefore, Internal guidelines; and results. See the diagram above for a more detailed look into the materiality evaluation. Benchmarking models. in order to determine the important information, it is necessary to identify While all identified issues are relevant and important to SK Chemicals, they were categorized into “Priority issues that interest stakeholders; and analyze their degree of importance in I,” “Priority II,” and “Priority III” groups according to their priority. The categorization indicates the need to the management of the company and the differences of awareness between Prioritizing the identified issues strategically concentrate on the relatively more important issues (issues located on top right hand side of the stakeholders and the management on an any given issue. from the two perspectives: Issue the diagram). The relative ranking of these issues depending on their priority is reflected not only in the Stakeholders’ perspective; and Prioritization structure of this report, but also in the scope and period of information included in this report. While conducting its materiality evaluation, SK Chemicals paid significant The management’s perspective. attention to GRI 3.1’s Technical Protocol, “Applying the Report Content To comprehensively reflect the opinions of various stakeholders, averages were used to calculate the Principles.” As the principles of evaluation, GRI 3.1 suggests completeness, materiality. However, SK Chemicals is aware of the significance of an issue that is of great importance to sustainability context, materiality, and stakeholder inclusiveness,. It also some but not to others in the overall context of its sustainable management, and will take them into account recommends that the materiality evaluation proceed in the stages of Issue in pursuing sustainable management and producing its Sustainability Reports. Deciding the scope of the material identification, prioritization, and the validation of the chosen issues. Validation & issues to be included in the Report and Report producing an outline and plan for the Planning Report. Company Overview Since beginning as “Sunkyong Chemical Fibers” in 1969, SK Chemicals has become one of companies that represent Korea through continuous evolution and innovation. Since 2000, SK Chemicals has established its vision, centered aroun “green chemical businesses” and “life science businesses,” and has been actively pioneering and developing new sources of future growth. As part of the pursuit of its “green chemical businesses,” SK Chemicals has developed and is producing polyurethane resins, polyester glues, and other key chemical components based on its accumulated chemical technology, and is expanding its business portfolio into eco-friendly alternative materials and the highly-functional PETG resin. “We promote better health for all humankind, In following its vision in “life science businesses,” SK Chemicals has developed and produced three new drugs: SUNPLA®, Korea’s first new drug for cancer; Joins®, the first all-natural ingredient and protect the natural environment of the Earth.” drug; and Mvix®, Korea’s leading erectile dysfunction treatment. SK Chemicals is continuing to diversify its product portfolio by expanding its business into producing blood components and vaccines. SK Chemicals is also actively researching and developing various all-natural and biotechnology pharmaceutical products, including treatments for dementia and diabetes. It will continue to innovate itself to become a total healthcare company that contributes to the public health and the quality of life. Customers Providing comprehensive chemical solutions for customers. Mission Statement Shareholders Generating growth and profits With the mission statement,“We promote better health for all humankind, and protect the natural Pursued for shareholders through Values ceaseless innovation. environment of the Earth,” SK Chemicals is concentrating its business efforts into the restructured Green Chemical and Life Science Divisions. Employees Ensuring work, good food, and good working environments for employees. Cure and Treatment Environmental Protection We make the world healthy We protect the Earth Benefitting society at Society large through eco-friendly Our goal is to make the world healthier and Our eco-friendly materials are excellent management activities and practices. better by providing humankind with necessary alternatives to conventional petrochemical medicines and cures. products and help to preserve the natural environment. HEALTH ENVIRONMENT HISTORY Acquired UB LIFE RESOURCES Sunkyong SK Chemicals Qingdao SK Beijing Pharma Care, a company Chemical Fibers Changed the company Ltd. was established Ltd. was established specializing Co., Ltd. was name to SK Chemicals in China (with local in China (with local in health and established. Co., Ltd. investments) investments) medical care. Prevention and Management Energy Efficiency Developed the Cell-culture vaccine plant site was finally determined We safeguard lives We prevent the depletion of fossil fuels world’s first third(in Andong).; generation platinum Won the Ministerial Grand Prize Our vaccines and “New Healthcare” regimens Our complex materials and energy storage technology, complex as anticancer SK Chemicals Suzhou for Green Technology, with provide innovative solutions necessary to made lighter and better renewable, agent, which was Commenced manufacturing Ltd. was established biodiesel; prevent diseases and manage health. minimize depletion of fossil fuel reserves. also the company’s of the in China (with local Ecozen won the Ten Most Company name first pharmaceutical eco-friendly, investments).; Innovative Technologies of Korea changed to “Sunkyong product launched in highly-functional resin, Merged with Dongshin Award and the Silver Award at the Healthcare Industry” Korea. “SKYGREEN”® Pharmaceuticals. Korea Technology Grand Prix. 1969. 07 1988. 05 1998. 03 1999. 07 2000. 11 2001. 03 2005. 11 2006. 11 2008. 03 2010. 12 Earthcare Vision Eschborn The guiding vision of SK Chemicals in all its activities is to become “a global leading company New York Beijing Tokyo and provider of eco-friendly materials and total healthcare solutions.” To realize this vision, it has established the following goals for different areas of its businesses: Qingdao Irvine Suzhou Becoming a Global Leading Company and Provider of Guangzhou Shanghai Corporate HQ Eco-friendly Materials and Total Healthcare Solutions Singapore Ansan Plant Osan Plant Cheongju Plant Office Ulsan Plant Plant Green Chemical Division Life Science Division “A provider of eco-friendly “A provider of materials and solutions” total healthcare solutions” Complex materials/ Highly-functional materials Pharmaceutical products/ Vaccines Global Network Bio-materials/ Energy storage materials New healthcare solutions In Korea, SK Chemicals has its headquarters in Pangyo and four of its plants in Ulsan, Ansan, Osan, and Cheongju. The Ulsan plant specializes in the production of green chemicals, while the other three plants are responsible for producing life science products. In addition, SK Chemicals operates plants in Suzhou and Qingdao in China, and regional offices around the world including China, Green Chemical Division: Becoming a Provider of Eco-friendly Materials Germany, Singapore, and the United States. and Solutions ● Subsidiary and Investor Companies To become a provider of environmentally friendly materials, SK Chemicals Green Chemical Division is producing various quality environmentally friendly chemicals and marketing them worldwide, as well as pioneering new sources of growth in four major categories: developing composite materials, highly-functional materials, bio-materials, and energy storage materials, on the basis of its technological expertise. SK E&C Life Science Division: Becoming a Provider of Total Healthcare Solutions Green Chemical Division Life Science Division SK Gas Korean subsidiaries/ investors SK CYTEC SK Syntec UB care TSK water Boasting broad and diverse portfolio of products, SK Chemicals Life Sciences Division seeks to become a total healthcare solution provider on the basis of its success in the Korean market by increasing its investment into Overseas subsidiaries/ SK Qingdao SK Suzhou ST Green Energy SK Pharma Beijing vaccine business as well as developing new drugs, and bringing its medical solutions worldwide. investors SK Chemicals GmbH ▶ Green Chemical Division Life Science Division Areas of Businesses (1) PET resins ▶ Wloclawek No. of Shares Owned Ordinary Stock (2) Highly-functional PETG resins Shareholder Major Shareholders Ratio (3) Carbon fiber prepreg (as of Dec. 31, 2011) Frankfurt Ordinary Preferred Total (1) Synthetic drugs (4) Polyester resins for glues (2) Natural ingredient drugs Choi Chang-won, et al. 2,887,199 100,350 2,987,549 New Jersey 13.85% (5) High-concentrate solvents/ display pixel materials/ (3) Drug delivery systems Beijing Tokyo (4) Vaccines National Pension 1,953,356 1,953,356 9.37% super-capable capacitor electrolytes (5) New healthcare solutions Qingdao (6) Automobile materials and chemicals Management Mirae Asset InvestmentSuzhou 1,619,508 1,619,508 7.77% (7) Industrial disinfectants/ water treatments Shanghai (8) Eco-friendly, bio-energy Head Office Guangzhou Ansan Suwon Singapore Osan Cheongju Jakarta Ulsan Generating Economic Values and Sharing Them with Shareholders Board of Directors In 2011, despite the global economic downturn, SK Chemicals succeeded in generating KRW 1.55 trillion in annual sales, exceeding In order to ensure the autonomy of the Board of Directors and protect rights of the shareholders, SK its original target by almost 10%. While the challenging and uncertain global economic conditions are expected, due to the financial Chemicals continues to improve its corporate governance structure. In particular, the company has more crisis in Europe and the economic recession in the United States and the political landscape in Korea, SK Chemicals has raised its non-executive directors than executive directors in order to strengthen the monitoring capacities of the sales target by 10% from the previous year and intends to generate a total sales of KRW 1.6279 trillion in 2012. Board. By placing these non-executive directors in central roles on various internal committees, including the Audit Committee and the Non-executive Director Nomination Committee, SK Chemicals makes nonexecutive directors the centerpiece of its Board. ● Equity Capital The Board at SK Chemicals consists of four independent, non-executive directors and three internal ● Sales (In KRW 100 million) ● Current Term Net Gains ● Total Assets (In KRW 100 million) (In KRW 100 million) directors from the company. The Shareholders’ Assembly determines the appointment of the internal (In KRW 100 million) directors. The Non-executive Director Nomination Committee reviews the qualifications and nominates candidates with focus on their professional merit including management and legal expertise. The 2011 15,461 2011 308 2011 20,337 2011 9,221 Shareholders’ Assembly retains the final right to determine whether or not to appoint the nominees. 9,081 In convening each Board meeting, the Board compiles and reviews the issues for agenda and other 2010 13,345 2010 399 2010 18,117 2010 reports, and notifies each member of the convention at least five days prior to the scheduled date. Each 9,025 Board meeting commences with the opening declaration and closes with the closing declaration by 2009 12,765 2009 1,245 2009 19,988 2009 the Chairperson. Proceedings are kept for each Board meeting, and written resolutions are kept when necessary and announced after each meeting. In 2011, the Board thoroughly reviewed and deliberated upon all the major issues brought to its attention, and commissioned reports on the current status of the domestic and international economic environments as well as countermeasures to them. A total of 12 ● Output (Unit: ton) _ Green Chemicals Biz. ● Output (Unit: ton) _ Life Science Biz. Board meetings were convened throughout the year, with an average attendance rate of 86.1% among the internal directors and 85.4% among the non-executive directors. •Blood Components (Unit: # of bottles) •Vaccines (Unit: # of doses) 2011 150,402 59,368 SK Chemicals’ Board always reserves majority of its seats for non-executive directors in order to ensure the 2011 888,529 2011 4,837,267 8,473 transparency of its activities. It also actively hosts and organizes the Audit Committee, comprised entirely of 115,210 2010 667,391 2010 6,684,722 non-executive directors, in an effort to prevent the company from engaging in any wrongdoings or corrupt 2009 467,382 2009 7,332,116 practices. 2010 147,796 52,547 8,021 85,425 •Tablet pills (Unit: # of tablets) •Patches (Unit: # of patches) ▶ Type Members 2009 146,584 625,005,351 14,992,312 Board of Directors 41,095 2011 2011 Internal Choi Chang-won (Chairperson), Kim Chang-geun (CEO), Lee In-seok 2010 676,599,508 2010 12,207,357 Structure Board 7,062 Non-executive Kang Bo-hyeon, Kang Ho-sang, Heo Gi-ho, Kwon Tae-shin 69,008 2009 402,228,285 2009 11,787,041 Audit Committee Kang Bo-hyeon, Kang-Ho-sang, Kwon Tae-shin (all non-executive) ▒ : PET / ▒ : PETG / ▒ : BON / ▒ : Bio Diesel Non-executive Director Kim Chang-geun (internal), Kang Bo-hyeon, Kang Ho-sang, Nomination Committee Kwon Tae-shin (non-executives) Management Committee Kim Chang-geun, Lee In-seok (both internal) (As of Dec. 31, 2011) ▶ Stakeholder Group Item 2009 2010 2011 Sharing Values with Shareholders Dividends 10,531 10,353 8,310 Stakeholders (in KRW 1 million) Creditors Interest costs 47,000 22,116 30,187 Partner businesses Material and manpower purchases 673,627 694,368 906,967 Employees Wages and rewards 89,796 86,541 92,072 Retirement pension 10,367 7,504 8,444 Fringe benefits 13,312 15,307 17,245 Local communities Charity work 20,298 10,366 1,082 Government Income taxes 28,728 -2,215 992 *SK Chemicals provides a defined benefit retirement pension scheme. As of the end of 2011, the company had KRW 63 billion in the retirement pension provisions, KRW 45.2 billion in the unemployment insurance deposit, KRW 500 million converted into the National Pension, and an outside-company deposit ratio of 72.46%. ▶ Type 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 Support from the Tax deductions/ exemptions 11,716 10,939 10,411 Government (in KRW 1 million) Investment/ research subsidies 1,716 2,249 4,716 Choi Chang-won: Kim Chang-geun: Lee In-seok: Kang Bo-hyeon: Kang Ho-sang: Kwon Tae-shin: Heo Gi-ho: Rewards N/A N/A N/A Chairperson of the Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer/ Member on the Audit Member on the Audit Member on the Audit Non-executive Director Company and the Life Science Division Committee and the Committee and the Committee and the Board Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Systems for Sustainable Management Sustainable management at SK Chemicals has its ultimate aim in satisfying stakeholders’ expectations and social demands. SK Chemicals continues to perfect its systems for sustainable management into a well-ordered mosaic to achieve harmony and optimization in its endeavors. Systems for Sustainable Management Strategy for Sustainable Management ● Mosaic of Systems for Sustainable SK Chemicals continues its efforts to create a more sustainable Management at SK Chemicals future by pursuing its mission of “promoting better health for Systems for Sustainable 2009 & 2010 2011 2012 humankind and protecting the natural environment of the Earth.” SK Chemicals believes that the key to creating a sustainable Management future society lies with enabling well-rounded individuals with potentials to create a happy family and an excellent company. Vision and Eco-friendly strategy for businesses Supply chain environmental However, the challenges of environmental degradation and environmental and product management evaluation system management growing economic inequality must be met in our pursuit of greater sustainability. Companies should bear the responsibility, Chemical as they have led the economic system of mass production and Eco-friendly Green Point CSR substance consumption, and provide solutions based on the accumulated System management programs technologies and capital they have secured in their business system activities. SK Chemicals actively pursues environmentally Greenhouse Gas Environmental Environmental friendly management to tackle environmental challenges as well impact Inventory education assessment as the SK Group philosophy of human oriented, and participates System system system in social actions to tackle the inequalities. Environmental SK Chemicals will achieve growth through innovation and Environmental SHEQ* management accounting creation while adhering to its principle. In pursuing growth, SK System evaluation system system Chemicals will not only seek quantitative growth and expansion, but also qualitative growth, including the development of the inner self to increase one’s capability and character and having Waste Material Crisis Other Management management necessary a strong sense of community and communication to combat System system systems the social inequalities. By pursuing these values, SK Chemicals continues its commitment to environmental management, Green mutual growth, community service and engagement, and • Vision for Sustainable Management Ethical Safe Point Management management System sharing happiness, while strengthening its capacity to conduct System system • Strategy for Sustainable Management ethical and risk management. • Organization for Sustainable Management Our environmental management system will consist of the three SHEQ* (Safety Health Environment Quality) : • Crisis Management System core pillars: Green Culture, Green Process, and Green Products, a system that integrates the management of all safety, which will provide environmental management processes • Environmental Management System health, environment, and quality-related issues in production. company-wide. • Human Rights Management System “Becoming a Global Leading Company with Sustainable Management in As for mutual growth, SK Chemicals will promote solidarity • Ethical Management System Vision Environmental, Social, and with our partner businesses while facilitating the development Economic Aspects” • Fair Trade of their competence and competitiveness. The goal is not just in developing a sense of intimacy, but fostering a tangible ● SK Chemicals’ Sustainable Management ecosystem in which everyone wins. Roadmap Adopting DJSI Korea Furthermore, SK Chemicals seeks to increase its participation SK Chemicals has adopted the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) in order to assess its activities on sustainable management and involvement in the community by not only providing its more objectively and bring itself closer to the worldwide trend. Coemployees but their family members numerous opportunities to developed by Dow Jones, the world’s largest financial information participate in our community service projects. company based in the United States, and SAM, a world-renowned asset management company based in Switzerland, the DJSI Lastly, SK Chemicals strives to share happiness to develop a 2020 Do Right Thing Becoming provide international standards on sustainable management. a leader of The DJSI are widely recognized around the globe as authoritative symbiotic ecosystem by being aware of the fact that sharing sustainable indicators of the economic, environmental, and social values happiness improves the quality of life for the employees and management Vision for Sustainable Management worldwide of many companies’ sustainable activities. They thus provide Create Profit important information for making decisions that concern excessive greed is dangerous in the effort towards sustainability. corporate investments. 2015 Becoming For two years in a row since 2010, SK Chemicals has been named The systems for sustainable management at SK Chemicals as part of *DJSI Korea. a leader of optimizes existing internal system in accordance with the The mission statement and overarching vision of SK Chemicals reflect the sustainable management *DJSI Korea: The world’s first sustainability indexes developed changes in the management environment and the demands of company’s staunch commitment to sustainable management. Following in Korea for a particular nation, co-developed by the DJSI and the Korea the stakeholders, as well as creating new systems to augment its mission of promoting better health for all humankind and protecting the Productivity Center. any shortcomings. SK Chemicals is also working to integrate its natural environment of the Earth, SK Chemicals continues to generate new 2012 Sustainable exemplary systems in its individual plants and offices across the sustainable values by developing and providing eco-friendly materials and management entire company. systems total healthcare solutions. By actively incorporating and satisfying social Preparing the completed expectations and stakeholders’ demands for sustainability in all its business 2011 Framework for Sustainable Management activities, SK Chemicals will fulfill its social responsibilities as a corporate 2010 Environmental citizen of our community. To this end, SK Chemicals recognizes the management system completed necessity of improving our own and the public’s understanding of company’s 2009 products, activities, services, and impact on the environment. The enhanced Active environmental understanding and knowledge will help the company achieve a positive activities cycle of management in which doing the right thing leads to profits. Past Environmental activities in response to regulations This will enable SK Chemicals to become a global leader in sustainable management of environmental, social, and economic aspects. Progress in Sustainable Management >> Systems for Sustainable Management Organization for Sustainable Management Environmental Management System In January 2011, SK Chemicals launched a new organization within the Objective and Strategy company to exclusively handle sustainable management by leading, helping, and checking sustainable management activities across the company. The Environmental management at SK Chemicals aims to achieve the Green company has also appointed officers in charge of sustainable management Triple 40 goals, setting and meeting strategic targets in three areas: “Green at its four plants in Korea (Ulsan, Ansan, Osan, and Cheongju) to maintain Culture,” “Green Processes,” and “Green Products.” These strategic channels of communication between the headquarters and the production areas involve establishing a green corporate culture by spreading greater sites regarding plant activities. The Sustainable Management Team awareness of the need for environmental management; making all plants identifies and analyzes changes and trends in the industry, helping to shape environmentally friendlier by improving processes of environmental and lead new objectives for the company’s sustainable management. It also management; and enhancing the company’s eco-friendly business facilitates interdepartmental cooperation on sustainable goals, and serves capacities by developing and planning new eco-friendly businesses and to communicate the company’s achievements in sustainable management products. SK Chemicals thereby pursues green, sustainable growth while to its employees and the public. minimizing its environmental impacts during manufacturing processes and other business activities, as well as actively promoting environmental preservation. ▶ Flowchart of Activities Sustainable Vision & principles ● Purpose and Strategy of SK Chemicals’ Environmental Management and Processes within of sustainable Strategy for sustainable In-company Management Team management systems the Sustainable launched by the management established & updated optimized Management Team established CEO’s initiative Environmental Goals Green Triple 40! Manuals of management 40 hours of social services per employee/ Plan Do See Plan activities and processes created & distributed Reducing CO2 emissions by 40%/ Increasing eco-friendly sales by 40% Periodical Activities of monitoring sustainable Strategic Areas Green Culture Green Process Green Product management Integrated management Actively responding to of environmental environmental Completing EMS Communication information regulations Spreading awareness with stakeholders Developing a supply Making products more Strategic Details Enhancing chain environment efficient and on the company’s communications sustainable management system eco-friendlier achievements Making plants Enhancing eco-friendly eco-friendly business capacities Crisis Management System ● Major Tasks and Achievements of Environmental Management in 2011 SK Chemicals operates a crisis management system that enables the ● SK Chemicals’ Crisis Management System 2011 Tasks Goals and Targets Achievements company to identify in advance the various risks implicit in the rapidly changing business environment and to react rapidly to an actual crisis. Aims/ Publishing the Environment Report The Environment Report published Effective operation of this system involves maintaining organic ties of CM Program Common Principles/ Scope Green Culture Making each employee perform five hours of Each employee performed 1.4 hours (avg.) of cooperation with the various departments (finances, strategy, legal affairs, eco-friendly social services eco-friendly services public relations, and environmental safety, etc) under the guidance of the “Restoring the Environment, Gaining 900,000 Green Points 1,430,000 Green Points earned Responsible Departments/ Completing the eco-friendly technology The eco-friendly technology monitoring system Crisis Management Team for comprehensive analysis and management of Organization Increasing Happiness” Roles and Responsibilities monitoring system at the Eco Lab at the Eco Lab completed crises and establishing countermeasures. Green Process Submitting detailed plan as part of the Detailed plan on the Greenhouse Gas and In order to ensure integration of different risks and analyses, the lead Organization Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Energy Target Management System submitted crisis management department must identify the scope and management Management System 27% of fossil fuels used at the Ulsan Plant priorities, and disseminate those using specified formats. The officers at Replacing 32% of fossil fuels for the Ulsan replaced with alternative energy “Zero Reliance on plant with alternative energy The eco-friendly plant at Andong completed each department responsible for crisis management have an obligation to Crisis Identifying risks and crises Analyzing the anticipated Fossil Fuels” Completing the new eco-friendly plant (application for LEED in process) analyze and develop countermeasures for the risks and crises facing their Analysis effects of each (at Andong, certified with LEED) Green Partnership System completed department. The main department responsible for crisis management is Completing the Green Partnership System also in charge of collecting and reviewing information on each department’s Establishing preventive measures Developing Green Product Establishing the Eco-friendliness Assessment Eco-friendliness Assessment System crisis management processes, with the goal of minimizing possible Countermeasures Establishing ex post facto measures Estimating involved costs System (for business projects and products) (for business projects and products) established repercussions and allowing for efficient and effective countermeasures “Developing Eco-friendly Following up with the latest regulations and The latest regulations and certifications in where necessary. Materials and Solutions” certifications in Korea and abroad Korea and abroad followed up Periodical analyses of effects Monitoring & Updating crisis plans to reflect Acquiring the ‘AA’ rating with SRI ‘A’ rating with SRI acquired Updating needs for improvements and External Validation Maintaining relations with DJSI Korea Relations with DJSI Korea maintained changing conditions Winning the CDP Special Award CDP Special Award won (for “Companies with “Ensuring the Highest Levels Winning other awards for environmental Exemplary Improvement Records”) Training & Instructing and training of External Validation and management Other awards for environmental management Education responsible officers Assessments” won (Korea Ethical Management Grand Prize for Environmental Management, Global Green Management Grand Prize) Systems for Sustainable Management ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) Certification Environmental Education and Training In 2005, the Ulsan plant, which manufactures over 90% of all the output In order to increase employees’ awareness of environmental management of SK Chemicals (in terms of weight), received ISO 14001 certification, and enhance their capacities for practice, SK Chemicals provides a series the international standard for environmental management systems. By of programs for environmental education and training. They can be roughly complying with the international environmental management standard divided into three levels depending on the breadth and depth of the contents and systemically developing programs for environmental risk prevention, they cover, i.e., introductory, common, and level-up. The introductory course risk assessment and training, Ulsan plant is continuously improving its usually targets the newly hired, informing them of the basic concepts and environmental management system. SK Chemicals conducts periodical need for environmental management and the company’s overarching vision internal assessments of its environmental management progress. It and major achievements in that area. The common course shares special monitors the status of operations through on-site environmental tests, and and urgent issues of environmental management with all employees ensures timely maintenance and improvement can take place. throughout the company, encouraging them to discuss and participate. The level-up courses, often targeting specific groups or ranks of employees, share the latest information on environmental management in Korea and Green Partnership with SONY abroad, recruiting and developing experts. This system leads employees to ▶ internalize SK Chemicals’ green culture, and enhances their individual roles SK Chemicals was certified as a SONY Green Partner in 2009 after its SONY Green and practices related to green processes and products. products and environmental management systems met the requirements Partner of SONY’s Green Partner. The certification is granted only after thorough Certificate and systematic monitoring of all manufacturing processes, ranging from ● Progress in Environmental Education and Training, 2011 the purchase of raw materials to the output of finished products from the warehouse. The certificate indicated that SK Chemicals’ environmental Level Course Duration Description management level satisfied SONY’s international standard. Provided as part of the group training program for new Environmental Management employees, held twice a year Introductory Education for New Employees 6h Also provided as part of the training program for newly hired Organization for Environmental Management experienced employees Since 2000, SK Chemicals has been operating its Environmental Special Lecture on Special lecture by an invited guest speaker, and Common 2h the screening of a relevant film/video Management Committee. Part of this Committee overseeing the sustainable Sustainable Management Checking offline and online attendance rates management includes a Project Management Officer (PMO) who oversees Attending expositions on international environmental the entire company, as well as other PMOs responsible for sustainable 4h regulations projects at each office or plant. The PMOs have conducted monthly meetings to update one another on the current status and importance of 4h Attending a seminar on greenhouse gas reduction certification Intensive Programs environmental issues facing each plant or office as a part of the effort to for Experts Attending classes for experts on managing greenhouse bring environmental management. In 2012, SK Chemicals has launched Level-up 16h gas and energy targets the Sustainable Management Committee, which oversees the activity of the Environmental Management Committee. 4h ISO 26000 Spreading Knowledge 8h Workshops with experts and responsible officers ● Parts and Roles on the Environmental Management Committee Part PMO Subordinate Employees Key Role Leading by example in the areas of attention, Serving the same role as the Environmental encouragement, and practice Management Team at each plant/office Integrated Environmental Information Management System Ensuring that the goals of environmental For more efficient management and utilization of environmental information Internal and public relations management are put into practice at respective available throughout the company, SK Chemicals has integrated various Encouraging Board members to carry out plants/offices ((by maintaining close ties with the Culture activities for the environment respective environmental management departments) information systems within the company, and developed the Integrated Organizing and overseeing CSR programs Communicating with local communities Environmental Information Management System to enable sharing of Training employees information between its plants and offices. The system includes data on all activities of production and operation, including product output, raw Checking compliance with rules/ and intermediate materials usage, energy and water consumption, waste Complying with legislations on low-carbon, regulations on manufacturing sustainable growth material generation, pollutants emissions, and more. At present, the Developing inventory and confirmation processes Developing and confirming greenhouse Process Supervising efforts to meet environmental targets gas inventory systems system can be accessed with ease on the Web. After inputting data in the (i.e., regarding greenhouse gas reduction and energy saving) Managing environmental achievements at administrator’s mode, the responsible officer at each plant will be able to respective plants/offices view various charts, graphs, and other forms of data by year or by location. Interfaced with other IT devices and systems in the future, this system will provide automatic financial analyses and updates on environmental safety Compiling data and information on carbon Suggesting environmental goals and directions emission rights and greenhouse gas inventories as well. for new projects Product Communicating product-related regulations and Complying with product-related regulations Researching and sharing environment-related systems to employees information on new projects Systems for Sustainable Management Supply Chain Environmental Management (SCEM) Human Rights Management The environmental activities of partner businesses significantly affect the ● Conceptual Map of SK Chemicals’ System environmental achievements of SK Chemicals and its products throughout SCEM Process ● Major Provisions in SK Chemicals’ Human Rights Policy the entire process. SK Chemicals is deeply aware of the importance of providing effective environmental leadership for its partner businesses SK Chemicals’ mission statement—“We promote Supply Chain Environmental Category Provision Description better health for all humankind and protect the natural in sustainability from the perspective of the social responsibility. In Management acknowledgement of the need for providing principled policies and targets environment of the Earth”—provides the principle and General 1. Supporting the Doing one’s part in supporting the basis for all decisions the company makes in pursuing of environmental management in its dealings with partner businesses, SK protection of human protection of human rights and Supply Chain Management (SCM) + its businesses. The mission statement embodies Chemicals has set up the Supply Chain Environmental Management (SCEM) Environmental Management (EM) rights preventing their violations system, which is to be completed by 2012. To this end, the company spent Anti2. Prohibiting On the basis of sex, religion, status of SK Chemicals’ commitment to protect and respect 2011 on defining the scope of partner businesses and their environmental Discrimination employment-related employment, etc. fundamental human rights. The company believes discriminations protection of human rights forms the fundamental activities involved in the SCEM and designing the basic processes and SK chemicals Gathering & Flow of Ensuring 3. Individual safety Prohibiting pressure and coercion, basis and framework of its management. It recognizes systems. The first phase of the project will target the upper half of the goods & Employees’ Health rights whether physical or psychological/ managing partner businesses regarding financial transactions amounts with SK information and Safety respecting privacy that human rights must be upheld not only by the information Chemicals. These companies will be given the SCEM Guideline for Partner Processors 4. Safety devices Developing complaint-handling government, but also by every member of the society. Businesses and will be required to submit their plans on practicing and procedures, etc. As a member and corporate citizen of our society, SK complying with the terms of the Guideline. SK Chemicals will then review 5. Safety practices Maintaining standards and policies on Chemicals continues to ensure happiness and health of ensuring safety and security stakeholders and uphold their human rights. the submitted plans to determine “exemplary partner businesses,” Producers of raw encouraging them and other businesses to continue on with their good Labor 6. Freedom of Upholding the right to form unions, materials & collective bargaining participate in collective bargaining, etc. Human rights management at SK Chemicals will be work with various incentives, the specifics of which are yet to be developed. supplies based on the Human Rights Management Principles, 7. Prohibiting forced Prohibiting all forms of forced labor The SCEM project will proceed from phase to phase, with the scope of labor which the National Human Rights Commission of Korea partner businesses in the project increasing year by year. SK Chemicals will 8. Prohibiting child Abolishing child labor/ protecting is drafting on the basis of the Self-Diagnosis Tool for use environmental management as an opportunity to strengthen mutually labor women and underage persons Human Rights Management at Corporations. Once beneficial relationships with its partner businesses, and encourage them to 9. Industrial safety Managing risk factors/ preventing completed, the system will include the existing human become eco-friendlier by giving greater preference to eco-friendly materials and health accidents and diseases/ providing Green Enhancing product training resources provisions as well as new ones concerning and purchases. Partnership competitiveness labor relations, fringe benefits, and more. By clarifying 10. Continuing Avoiding unnecessary structural employment readjustments or layoffs/ guaranteeing the roles and responsibilities of each department, retirement age (except in special circumstances) the new system will ensure that its provisions will be ● Draft of the Process of Selecting Exemplary SCEM Partner Businesses Integrated risk Enhancing management business 11. Appropriate Guaranteeing appropriate levels of complied through continuous monitoring and updates. encompassing the value remuneration remuneration/ complying with the entire supply chain minimum wage requirement In addition, SK Chemicals will develop and publish the 12. Working hours Complying with the industrial standard Practical Guideline for Human Rights Management in and rest on working hours/ limiting overtime order to help its employees understand human rights All partner businesses Yes management and carry out its requirements through 13. Fringe benefits Ensuring benefits and welfare for listed up No and welfare employees and their family members providing standards on specific behaviors and principles. 14. Training and Providing education and training to help In the future, the company will provide at least once education enhance employees’ competence and capacities training session each year for all employees to enhance Is the given business within the upper 50th percentile their capacity for practice, and continuously upgrade the Partner Businesses 15. Human rights at Encouraging better protection of human in terms of the total value of its financial transactions partner businesses rights/ reviewing candidate businesses Guideline and training programs based on feedbacks. with SK Chemicals? in terms of their human rights practices before signing contracts SK Chemicals also intends to expand its principle of Local Community 16. Upholding Creating jobs for locals/ protecting human rights management to its partner businesses human rights in local locals’ right of residence and safety as well. It will actively encourage its suppliers, communities Target businesses subcontractors, and other partners to comply with the Preventing 17. Duty to prevent Abolishing improper earnings and listed up Corruption corruption profits/ making efforts to stop bribery company’s human rights policy. Where these businesses 18. Respecting Abolishing anti-competition collusions/ lack their own programs and policies for protecting Government governance cooperating with government’s request human rights, SK Chemicals will provide them with its Will the given for information Policy and Practical Guideline on Human Rights, and Has the given business business sign Classified as Customers 19. Protecting Warranty for product quality/ providing may bring in their representatives for special training signed up for the up for the SCEM noncustomers safety information/ protecting personal information when necessary. In negotiating important investment SCEM Agreement? Agreement after exemplary. discussion? or supply contracts, SK Chemicals will also review the Environmental 20. Duty to preserve Ensuring environmental management Protection the natural systems/ communicating companycandidate businesses in terms of their human rights environment wide and with outsiders regarding the practices. company’s achievements/ evaluating and improving the environmental As part of its basic human rights policy, SK Chemicals also impact and safety of products and manufacturing/ establishing plans to provides education on preventing sexual harassments Does the given business Has the given business comply with the SCEM have a plan for prevent and manage environmental and improving the awareness and perception of people and other emergency situations/ Guideline? improvement? contributing to society by encouraging with disabilities. In 2010, all employees were required to partner businesses to improve their complete two hours of classes, with 99% of employees environmental efforts fulfilling this requirement by the end of the year. In 2011, Internal 21. Rules of Establishing the Practical Guideline the programs were extended to the existing employees Management management on Human Rights/ ensuring companyClassified as Exemplary Classified as Exemplary wide communication who had failed to complete their requirement as well as Group 1. Group 2. 22. Monitoring and Establishing a human rights watch to the new employees, bringing the completion rate to Monitoring reporting system/ ensuring company-wide 100%. In the same year, the company also provided 20 communication and communicating minutes of additional sexual harassment education for with outsiders all SK employees. Incentives granted. Regulations 23. Regulations and Ensuring a regulative system/ providing evaluation rewards rewards as results of evaluations Systems for Sustainable Management Ethical Management System Fair Trade The major issues involved in ethical management at SK Chemicals include handling unfair transactions, and preventing Self-Compliance Program for Fair Trade and handling unfair requests, bribery, and other various types of corruption and moral hazards. In order to manage and Programs for improve these issues effectively, SK Chemicals has established an ethical management system that includes the SelfIn order to remain faithful to the order of the market and promote and uphold fair, free Fair Trade Correction Committee, a separate Web page for ethical management, educational programs and pledge on ethical competition among businesses, SK Chemicals adopted its own Self-Compliance Program (CP) management, and the distribution of SK Chemicals Compliance Guide. for Fair Trade in 2006. The Board of Directors has since been appointing the manager to oversee and supervise this program. In 2009, SK Chemicals applied for a screening and evaluation of its Company-wide compliance program by the Fair Trade Commission of Korea. As a result, the company garnered Self-Correction Committee Programs an “A” rank. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the compliance program, SK Chemicals has been In an effort to satisfy the social expectations of ethical management and establish a healthy corporate culture by Provided to all employees operating a bulletin board dedicated to the issue of fair trade on its intranet. It also added a spreading ethical management, SK Chemicals launched the Self-Correction Committee in 2009. Placed directly under (whenever needed) new Web page to its official website in 2009, informing the public of SK Chemicals’ continued the CEO’s authority, the Committee, under the chairmanship of the Officer of Corporate Culture, consists of the heads commitment to comply with rules and principles of fair trade. In addition to providing periodical of Human Resources, Accounting, Purchase, and Legal Affairs departments as well as of the two business divisions education and training, SK Chemicals requires employees to check and monitor their own as senior members. The Committee conducts voluntary reviews and assessments of the five areas of the company’s Departmental involvements in upholding fair trade using a checklist, and to consult responsible officers or management—human resources, accounting, purchase, financial executions, and business management—twice a year. In Programs departments within the company before proceeding with actions bearing risks of legal and 2011, the Committee found no violations or illegal actions in any of these five areas. Provided periodically to ethical violations. The company also publishes handbooks on fair trade for circulation throughout employees in certain departments the organization as well as on the online bulletin board on the intranet so that the employees requiring heightened knowledge can easily access, read, and print them. The fair trade bulletin board is also used to update Counseling and Reporting and understanding of fair trade employees on the latest legal amendments and developments, court precedents, and outsiders’ (twice a year) activities for fair trade. Since February 2007, the company has been publishing and circulating SK Chemicals provides a Web page (http://www.skchemicals.com/korean/sc/sub3-11.asp), which displays the information the monthly Legal Affairs Letters, informing employees of the latest controversies and issues in on how employees and outside stakeholders can seek counseling or report on violations of ethical management. The fair trade, related legal provisions, and so forth. The company has also published and circulated Web page provides an overview of ethical management principles and practices at SK Chemicals and provides access to a pocketbook Compliance Guide that employees can carry with them and read whenever Workshops counseling or reporting venues. It provides a confidentiality program, protecting the anonymity and privacy of reporters so possible. Since signing the Subcontract Fair Trade Agreement in 2008, SK Chemicals rigorously that they can report without fear of reprisals. In 2011, three claims were accepted via the Web page, but were all found out examines its own compliance with the Subcontract Act and strives to ensure mutual growth with to be misleading or false. Provided to fair-trade officers of its partner businesses. each department or team (twice a year) Ethics Education Fair Trade Education New Employees Ethical management can succeed by spreading a culture of ethical management and enabling employees to identify and Education SK Chemicals developed a plan for the Education on Fair Trade programs in 2006, providing prevent various risks. SK Chemicals therefore provides annual updates on employees’ education and training in ethical training for all employees both periodically and whenever necessary. The periodical courses are management, requiring them to join the pledge on ethical management. The pledge ceremony starts by having the CEO Provided to newly hired provided twice a year, for two hours each, informing employees vulnerable to risks in purchasing, employees (whenever needed) sales, and marketing. In addition, the company provides training and education on fair trade, and representatives of employees swear an oath to abide by the principles of ethical management. It then proceeds to require all employees of SK Chemicals to complete their education online on ethical management, and give their pledges whenever necessary, for newly hired employees as well as officers responsible for ensuring fair in turn. trade. In April 2009, SK Chemicals co-developed with SK Tellink an online fair trade program, which it provided across the entire organization in July of the same year. The online program was significantly updated in October 2011, incorporating the latest changes in fair trade laws and regulations. Healthcare & Earthcare Green Chemicals & Life Science SK Chemicals protects nature by providing eco-friendly materials and alternative sources of energy. It also promotes better health for all humankind with its pharmaceutical products, vaccines, healthcare products, and solutions. Green Chemicals Efforts to Improve the Environmental Effects of Products Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) SK Chemicals conducts lifecycle assessments of all its major products ● LCA Process in order to improve their environmental impact. In 2010, the company GREEN LCA Analysis assessed the lifecycle of ET704, which was created by replacing the hazardous substance, bisphenol-A (BPA), with the environment-friendly CHEMICALS Input Lifecycle Discharge cyclohexane dimethanol (CHDM) in ET2000, the standard material used in manufacturing resins for SKYBON toners. A comparative analysis and assessment of the two materials showed that ET704 generated Raw material relatively less environmental impact than its predecessor, ET2000, except ▼ in terms of eutrophication. ET704, in other words, reduced ET2000’s Production overall environmental load by approximately 40%. SK Chemicals plans to Atmosphere Natural ▼ strengthen the basis for manufacturing eco-friendly products by periodically Water systems resources Distribution Soil reviewing the environmental impact of its products using quantitative tools. Energy ▼ The company will extend the LCA to all its products in the future. Waste material Usage ▼ ● Findings of the LCA of Toner Resins Disposal ET2000 ET704 Assessing Environmental Impact +5% The LCA involves assessment of a given product in -16% terms of its effects on seven areas of environmental -27% • Eco-friendly Materials ● Future Areas of Businesses for the Green -35% Chemical Division concerns: namely, resource depletion, global -52% • Alternative Energy warming, ozone destruction, acidification, -58% eutrophication, production of photochemical oxides, • Ensuring Products’ Compliance with Environmental Regulations and toxins harmful to humans.a -100% Becoming a Provider of Vision Eco-friendly Materials & Applications of the Findings of LCA Resource Global Ozone Acidification Eutrophication Generation of Toxins Solutions Depletion Warming Destruction Photochemical Harmful to In developing products, acquiring environmental Oxides Humans certificates, developing marketing strategies, and Eco-friendly Materials making policies ※The percentages (%) indicate the proportions by which ET704 reduces the environmentally harmful effects of ET2000. 1. Complex Materials Areas of Strategy for Developing Eco-friendly Materials Applications Providing lighter solutions Carbon Labeling Certificate Transportation The overarching vision of the Green Chemical Division at SK Chemicals (automobiles) / SK Chemicals received the carbon labeling certification, issued by the is to become “a provider of total eco-friendly materials and solutions.” Energy / 2. Highly-Functional Materials Korean Ministry of Environment, on the resins (ET2000, ET704) for its Achieving this goal is indispensable to the whole company achieving its Electronics / SKYBON toners in 2010. Because the resins are producer goods, their and other materials Developing materials of physical mission of becoming a “global leading company.” The green chemical impact in the stage of “usage” and “disposal” was not taken into account properties that satisfy businesses at SK Chemicals involve a rapidly diversifying portfolio that specific requirements and when they were reviewed for the Carbon Labeling Certification according ranges from industrial materials and complex materials to highlyfunctions to the Ministry’s policy. The Carbon Labeling Certification is a system that functional, bio, and energy-storage materials, developed on the basis of attaches labels to products indicating the amounts of carbon footprint the company’s accumulated expertise. 3. Bio Materials from their production to their disposal. By earning these certificates on its products, SK Chemicals will continue to share vital environmental An eco-friendly material refers to the material that has been From bio feedstock 2830g 2360g information of its products with consumers so that consumers can make environmentally friendly in its production process. These materials wiser and conscious choices in the efforts to reduce greenhouse gas include those that have been made with all-natural ingredients that minimize environmental impact and reduce dependency on fossil fuels. 4. Energy-Storage Materials 2 2 emissions. In developing these materials, SK Chemicals constantly strives to fulfill ET-2000 제품 ET-704 제품 Providing core materials for the 1Kg 기준 1Kg 기준 ● Result of the Carbon Grade Certification Review its mission of protecting the natural environment of the Earth. The green next-generation energy industry chemical businesses can be largely divided into four categories: the and technology that can be ▼ Carbon Grades of ET2000 and ET704 composite materials made with carbon fibers and provide alternative extended to other areas as well Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the lighter solutions; highly-functional materials that satisfy the heat and Min. Carbon Lifecycle Product Name Unit durability requirements in miniaturization; bio materials that reduces Grade Before Manufacturing Usage Disposal Manufacturing waste materials and carbon dioxides generated through decomposition; and energy-storage materials that are indispensable to the development Core Basic Products that satisfy the best Saturated co-polyester Capacities 2834.528 gCO2/kg 2169.551 664.977 of new and renewable energy. By 2015, SK Chemicals targets to double worldwide practices and resin for toner(ET2000) the sales and operating income from these sources so that it can become standards, and leadership in terms of applications and cost Saturated co-polyester a global leader in the industry by 2020. efficiency resin(Non-BPA) for 2355.661 gCO2/kg 1710.946 644.714 For 1kg of ET2000 For 1kg of ET704 toner(ET704) Green Chemicals Eco-friendly Materials Eco-friendly Bio-Based Plastic: ECOZEN® Q&A on EcoPlaN™ While SK Chemicals is vigorously researching and developing new Eco-friendly Bioplastic: Polylactides (Polylactic Acid, PLA) Q. What distinguishes PLA from other polymers? bioplastics made with ingredients from botanical sources (biomasses) in an Climate change and the continuing depletion of crude oil, resulting from A. PLAs are fundamentally different from other polymers that effort to help the world overcome the serious challenges of climate change our excessive reliance on fossil fuels, are serious environmental problems are made with ingredients extracted from petrochemicals. and resource depletion, commercialization of these materials remains slow PLAs, made with sugar from such organic sources as corns facing the entire global community, and raise urgent questions concerning and sugar canes and fermented by bacterial activities, due to their inherent shortcomings (e.g. tendency to lose their properties the sustainability of plastics, which are made of petrochemicals drawn from return to nature (in the form of compost) in the disposal under manufacturing conditions, proneness to decompose while in phase of their lifecycle, thereby providing nutrition for plant distribution, the difficulty of recycling, and ensuring price competitiveness). crude oil. With an aim to provide an innovative alternative to the current life. In other words, PLAs are an eco-friendly alternative situation, SK Chemicals is pursuing the development and production of to conventional plastics that accommodates resource As an alternative solution, SK Chemicals has chosen the production of bioplastics, made of ingredients derived from all-natural, botanical sources recycling. ECOZEN®, a bio-based plastic, as another source of its future growth in (biomass), as the next-phase impetus for its growth. Q. What distinguishes EcoPlaN™ from other PLAs? addition to developing bioplastics. A. First, EcoPlaN™ is made of botanical ingredients without ECOZEN®, whose name is a synthesis of “eco-friendliness” and “zenith,” PLA is a highly appealing bioplastic, which can help significantly reduce any genetic modifications done to them. Since the sugar greenhouse gas emissions, decrease the amounts of waste material that is used to make EcoPlaN™ is derived from nonrepresents the height of SK Chemicals’ eco-friendly technology. A biogenerated, and facilitate resource recycling. Compared to other genetically modified plant sources, its manufacturing bears copolyester made in part with organic, recyclable biomass ingredients, no significant impact on the reliable supplies of foodstuff bioplastics developed so far, PLA offers mechanical properties and around the world. EcoPlaN™ is indeed an epitome of the ECOZEN® was developed in 2009 and was hailed as one of the Ten Newest plasticity that easily allows molding. As a major alternative to plastics advanced polymer technology of SK Chemicals, which is Technologies of Korea and was rewarded with a silver award at the Korea capable of ensuring required levels of malleability and made with petrochemicals, PLA enjoys increasing popularity, especially durability even while using only 100% natural, bio-materials Technology Grand Prix. in manufacturing packing materials. Due to the limits inherent to PLA in in making EcoPlaN™. terms of manufacturability and durability, however, it has so far mostly been applied to producing disposable packing materials and bio-decomposable ● Main Characteristics of ECOZEN® bags—consumer products that do not require durable lifecycles. In order to perfect PLA by overcoming these shortcomings, SK Chemicals has been developing a technology that would dramatically improve Mechanical Characteristics: Durable under shock the durability of the material and thereby render it more amenable to Durable even when refracted manufacturing. In 2011, the company launched a new PLA, which it named “EcoPlaNTM,” based on its original technology. EcoPlaNTM is a PLA with a much wider range applications over and beyond producing disposable packing materials, including the productions of functional films, highend packing sheets, home appliances, home décor objects, bathroom amenities Economic and school supplies. Characteristics: Technical Treatable even at low Characteristics: temperatures (thus, energyHighly amendable to efficient) printing Treatable in relatively Thermoforming shorter periods of time Chemical-resistant Flameproof ·BPA Free (vs. PC) ·Air-Permeability Eco-friendly Characteristics: Optical Characteristics: (vs. PC, PMMA) BPA-free Highly transparent ·Flameproof (vs. PMMA) ·Pollution-Resistance Made with biomasses Lustrous Recyclable Sugar Lactic acid ·Chemical Resistance (vs. PC, PMMA) (vs. PC)-in food-related goods Contact with Made partially with carbon-neutral biomass ingredients, ECOZEN® can Home Supplie food and kids inhibit the anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxides, thereby reducing (Home Appliances/ (Toddler’s and Automobiles) children’s goods) the greenhouse effect. Free of bisphenol-A (BPA), a hazardous chemical that may interrupt with the natural immune and endocrinal system of the Plant Lifecycle of PLA Applications of human body, ECOZEN® is also a healthier alternative. This material is PLA highly recyclable therefore will help combat resources depletion. Compared to conventional plastics made of petrochemicals, ECOZEN® boasts of much stronger mechanical and manufacturable characteristics. Sheet In other words, it is a very attractive material with far and wide applications (Building/Optical Sheets) that overcome the shortcomings of decomposable bioplastics. Strongly Consumer Material chemical-resistant, lustrous, and flameproof, ECOZEN® can be used to Compost manufacture home appliances, building materials, food packages, and ·Durability in Refraction ·Flameproof (vs. PMMA) more. It is also a popular material for manufacturing kids’ goods because ·Secondary Manufacturability (vs. PC) it is BPA-free, a chemical which is coming under increasing scrutiny and regulation worldwide. Recycling/ Disposal Green Chemicals Alternative Energy SK Chemicals’ Biodiesel: Eco Prime SK Chemicals has been providing biodiesel under its own brand name, Eco Prime, for major distributors of oil in Korea since January 2008, which has dominant market share Eco Prime in Korea. SK Chemicals has been able to achieve this success by developing an innovative technology for utilizing the palm fatty-acid distillates (PFAD), a byproduct generated in What Is Biodiesel? palm oil production, and by using the existing, idle manufacturing facilities to ensure price competitiveness. The company has also launched ST Green Energy, a subsidiary Biodiesel is a common name referring to methyl ester, which is obtained specializing in the trade of crude oil based in Singapore, to ensure reliable and efficient by reacting natural fatty oils found in either animal or botanical sources supplies of raw material necessary for producing biodiesel. with methanol. It is an eco-friendly, alternative fuel that can be used without modifying the structure of the conventional diesel engine. Many countries in Europe, North America, and Southeast Asia began to use biodiesel around 2000. Since the BD20 Trial Project began in Korea in 2002, gas stations across the country have been selling diesel mixed with 2% biodiesel (BD5). BD20 refers to the mixture of ordinary diesel with 20% Ensuring Products’ Compliance with Environmental biodiesel (80:20), while BD5 refers to the mixtures of ordinary diesel with Regulations 5% or less biodiesel. How Biodiesel Improves the Environment Compliance with the REACH Biodiesel decomposes by more than 77% in the natural ecology system within 28 days after its disposal. Used as fuel for water transportation The Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Program along rivers and oceans, it helps to reduce levels of water pollution. Plants is a system that the European Union uses to control the influx of new chemical substances reabsorb the carbon dioxides emitted by its combustion therefore, using by requiring the registration, evaluation, and authorization of various chemicals depending one ton of biodiesel leads to the decrease in the amount of carbon dioxide on their types and amounts used. CHDM developed by SK Chemicals is also subject to emissions by more than 2.2 tons (source: The Journal of Chemistry, the REACH, and the company accordingly registered the material as of Oct. 22, 2010. published on June 21, 2010). When the carbon emission trade is enforced, SK Chemicals also manages and controls various chemical compounds involved in the using biodiesel will become attractive not only for its environmental manufacturing activities of its numerous plants using the SHEQ system. benefits, but for its economic potential in carbon credits as well. ● REACH Deadlines ● Comparing Biodiesel and Diesel Deadline for Official No. of Subject Indicator Item Description BD5 BD20 BD100 Amount of Product Produced/Imported in EU Registration Products Performance at low Whether the automobile starts up at a low temperature ▒ Much better temperature ▒ A bit better Substance of 1,000t or greater in weight By Nov. 30, 2010 1 Lubrication Whether internal parts have been damaged or have ▒ Similar to diesel Substance of 100 1,000t in weight By May 31, 2013 1 stayed durable ▒ A bit worse Substance of less than 100t in weight By May 31, 2018 7 Amount of fuel Determining how much of each fuel is needed, ▒ Much worse Automobile required everything else being equal performance Output Gauging change in drivability (especially in acceleration) Whether internal parts have been damaged or have Compliance with the GHS Metal elution stayed durable The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for Classification and Labeling of Chemicals Whether internal parts remain durable classifies various chemicals produced all around the world depending on their levels Absorption Urban smog and harm to the human body of hazard or risk, and give worldwide-recognized, uniform warning labels and MSDS to NOx dangerous ones. Each member state has established its own GHS regulations in order to Measuring the changing amounts of smoke emitted Greenhouse Smoke assist its companies and citizens to comply with the GHS. SK Chemicals thus adheres to Gas Measuring the levels of CO2 emitted the Korean and EU GHS regulations (i.e., the Classification, Labeling, and Packaging of CO2 Emissions Measuring combustibility and harm to the human body Substances and Mixtures). CO By reference to the changing amounts of each fuel Amount of heat required Boilers generated ● GHS Deadlines Observing proneness to change in color and increases Stability in oxidation in the amounts of pollutants Product Indirectly confirming the functioning and normal nature Source : Engine Test Report by SKE Appeal Appearance, smell of products Technology Institute and other publications(i. No. of Subject GHS Type Subject Chemicals Effective as of e., PERP Report and NREL/DOE Goods publications). Korean GHS Single substances July 1, 2010 143 Mixtures made of 2 or more single substances July 1, 2014 N/A EU GHS Single substances Dec. 1, 2010 4 While the botanical source of biodiesel makes it a much eco-friendlier alternative to diesel, Mixtures made of 2 or more single substances June 1, 2015 N/A it may compromise the performance of automobiles, except in terms of lubrication. Biodiesel, up to BD5, satisfies all measures of quality except performance at low temperature. Life Sciences ● Product Lineup LIFE For the Digestive •Available in tablets •Available in tablets System •Improves the gastric & •Treats ulcers of SCIENCES intestinal movements the stomach and the duodenum Levopride Omed For the Musculoskeletal •Piroxicam patches •Available in tablets System •For arthritis, peritonitis, •For arthritis and and muscle pain rheumatoid arthritis •Effect lasts for up to 48 •First-ever hours pharmaceutical in Korea to have been made with natural ingredients Trast Joins For the Circulatory •Gingko biloba extract •Losartan tablets System •Improves blood •Treats hypertension circulation Ginexin-F Cosca • Vision and Strategy of the Life Science Division • Research and Development at the Life Science Division Others • Clinical Ethics •Futhan for injection •Mirodenafil ODF •Anti-coagulation agent •Treats erectile • Environmental Responsibilities of Pharmaceutical Producers dysfunction • Customer Satisfaction •Developed and produced in Korea Futhan Mvix S ● Three Areas and Strategies of Business Vaccines • Investing 10% or more of sales into R&D Rotatec (against Influenza Gadasil (against • Global licensing out rotavirus • Upgrading production vaccine HPV) infection) Pharmaceuticals capacity to the level of global standard • Re-adjusting the aim and direction of the blood component business Prodiax 23 (against FirstHib Vision and Strategy of the Life Science pneumococcus) Td Vaccine (against hib) Division • Acquiring UB Care, a leading medical IT company • Reviewing healthcare services New required to improve the quality Blood Products of life of all citizens Healthcare The Life Science Division at SK Chemicals has a vision: to become “a • Developing innovative business SK Albumin Liv-Gamma provider of total healthcare solutions worldwide.” Fulfilling that vision is models that fit the market better Made of high-purified human Globulin for the human crucial for SK Chemicals to become a “global leading company” in the area serums immune system of total healthcare solutions. Boasting of a wide-ranging product portfolio (5, 20, 25%) (I.M., I.V., Liquid, Powder) and a value-oriented, advanced marketing campaign, the Life Science • Localizing the R&D processes Division divides its focus into three areas of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and (since 2007) so as to ensure new healthcare solutions. It has recently decided to increase investment “vaccine sovereignty” Medical Devices Vaccines • Building a plant (in Andong) for in vaccines and pioneer overseas markets for its pharmaceuticals and producing cell-culture vaccines Artificial • Expanding the scope of Oxygen CPAP Sleep medical solutions, so as to become a renowned provider of total healthcare vaccine-based bio businesses Generator Test Device Respirator at Home solutions all around the world based on its success and achievements in Korea. Life Sciences Research and Development at the Life Science Division New Healthcare Nano-technology, biotechnology, and information technology are the three key technologies that will usher in our future, featuring increased convergence among the different technologies. As part of its efforts to prepare for and Pharmaceuticals lead the future, SK Chemicals acquired UB Care, a leading company in the Korean medical IT industry, in 2008 in a move that prepares the groundwork for ubiquitous healthcare. The company is also actively developing new and Synthetic Drugs innovative business models that can dramatically improve the quality of life for all humankind. • NT : Nanotechnology / BT : Biotechnology / IT : Information technology In 1999, SK Chemicals developed and registered SUNPLA, the world’s first third-generation platinum-complex anticancer agent, thus opening a new chapter in the history of pharmaceutical industry in Korea. In 2007, the company also succeeded in developing Mvix, a treatment for erectile dysfunction, thereby consolidating its leading position in the Korean drugs market. SK Chemicals also conducts active research and development, with the involvement of high-caliber researchers, of treatments and new solutions for fibrosis, prostate hypertrophy, diabetes, and other various diseases, with the goal of promoting better health and better quality of Clinical Ethics life for all humankind. Natural Drugs Progress in Clinical Tests Natural drugs refer to the products of active ingredients obtained from medicinal herbs. Joins, Korea’s first natural pharmaceutical, opened a new horizon for natural drug development in Korea by becoming Clinical trials often form the most important phase in the drug development, for they are crucial to verifying its a fundamental arthritis treatment that overcomes the shortcomings of synthetic treatments through its safety and effectiveness. The Life Science Division at SK Chemicals works closely with authoritative institutes mechanism of preventing cartilage destruction. In addition, Ginexin, Korea’s no. 1 treatment for blood of clinical testing in Korea, such as the research centers at the Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul Asan circulation, has become a representative symbol of the company. Now, Ginexin’s exports are being made as Hospital, and Samsung Medical Center in Seoul, in order to ensure thoroughgoing and reliable clinical tests of its far as to the Middle East with its brand name intact. In 2010, the company did a major improvement on Ginexin new pharmaceutical candidates. and transformed it into Renexin, a new complex pharmaceutical with enhanced properties for expanding blood From 2009 through February 2012, SK Chemicals saw a total of eight clinical tests held for its products, with vessels. the registration of 626 subjects. With four of these tests already completed, SK Chemicals continues to uphold SK Chemicals is currently engaged in the clinical trials of new natural drugs for such diseases as senile its reputation as the most clinical test-driven pharmaceutical producer in Korea. Since the Korean government dementia and asthma. Its goal is to develop groundbreaking, natural, side-effect-free drugs for chronic and adopted the Investigational New Drug Request System (IND), SK Chemicals applied for 46 IND clinical tests in total, incurable diseases that existing synthetic drugs have failed to cure. the detailed information of which is open to the public through the Korean Food and Drugs Administration (KFDA)’s website at http://ezdrug.kfda.go.kr. Drug Delivery Systems (DDS) Inspired by its successes in the development of Korea’s first-ever pharmaceutical anti-cancer agent (SUNPLA), and Drug delivery systems form an indispensable medical technology that minimizes the side effects of various in launching Mvix (erectile dysfunction treatment) and first-ever natural drug (Joins), SK Chemicals’ Life Science drugs while maximizing their intended effects. Trast, widely beloved in Korea for relieving arthritic and other Division has been conducting clinical tests and research of its natural treatments for senile dementia, asthma, muscle pains in and around the knees, is the world’s first patch-type arthritis treatment made with SK and gastritis since 2006. The company hopes that these natural drugs would fare much better in terms of safety Chemicals’ advanced DDS technology. Attached to the patient’s knee, Trast remains effective for 48 hours, than their synthetic counterparts. Mvix, for its part, saw its clinical test completed in collaboration with the Clinical thanks to its penetration enhancer and releasing rate control mechanism that dispenses the medically active Testing Center at the Severance Hospital at Shinchon, and was successfully launched on the Korean market in ingredients at a consistent rate. Omed, an innovative and safe treatment for gastric ulcers, has been acclaimed December 2011 as Korea’s first ODF-type treatment for erectile dysfunction. for its accurate operations and became the first finished pharmaceutical product made in Korea to be exported to the EU beginning in 1999. The drug can now be found in wide circulation throughout Europe. SK Chemicals, which has been importing and distributing various vaccines through its partnerships with multiple multinational pharmaceutical corporations around the world, decided to expedite localization of the production In 2008, SK Chemicals also succeeded in exporting its technology for improving the functions of anti-cancer of premium vaccines and thereby contributed to the growth of the national vaccine industry by commencing agents based on its expertise in pharmaceutical production. The company applied to the EU authorities for the construction of Korea’s largest vaccine production facility in Andong in June 2011. Imbued with a mission to export authorization in 2011 on its patch-type treatment for senile dementia and gastric ulcer drug. With turn SK Chemicals into a global leading company, the Life Science Division has submitted a wide range of new the authorization complete, these two treatments will be exported as early as 2013. In 2011, the company pharmaceutical candidates to active clinical tests and research across North America and Europe as well. also successfully launched Mvix S, the world’s first ODF-type erectile dysfunction treatment with maximized convenience for patients. With these achievements behind, SK Chemicals continues to pursue rigorous research and development of new highvalue-added pharmaceutical products and solutions targeting the international Ethical Clinical Tests market. In carrying out all its clinical test projects, the Life Science Division at SK Chemicals complies with the “Good Clinical Practices” (GCP) of the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH), and actively incorporates the Vaccines recommendations from the KFDA to ensure safety of all test subjects. The clinical research staffs at SK Chemicals, comprised of the highest-caliber researchers in Korea, work hard to ensure the safety of clinical tests and high SK Chemicals is developing, producing, and distributing a wide range of vaccine products in the firm belief that reliability of all new product candidates based on their thoroughgoing training and extensive experience in clinical vaccines and other bio-medical products will provide a major impetus for economic growth in the future when research. supported with sufficient research and market infrastructure. The company continues to invest in the research, development, production, and sales of basic biological components crucial to public health. As a result, all its The company has also recently amended its own Standard Operation Procedures (SOP), reflecting the latest guidelines major products will enter and complete clinical tests in 2012. SK Chemicals is also the first company in Korea to from the ICH. The new SOPs will significantly improve the quality of clinical test results and guarantee the safety of test build a state-of-the-art, cell-culture vaccine plant, which is a major addition to the expanding medical industry subjects. and infrastructure in Korea. This helped the nation to uphold its sovereignty on the production and development SK Chemicals is also working hard to solve the ethical dilemmas involved in animal testing, which is necessary but also of crucial vaccines. quite controversial. In order to ensure ethical and scientific tests of animals under the current legal regime in Korea, In 2000, SK Chemicals co-launched IN2GEN, a biotechnology venture, with the Seoul National University Cancer the KFDA and the Quarantine Service mandate the installations of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees Research Center to facilitate research on genetics, protein engineering, and other fields of biotechnology. The (IACUC) in companies involved in animal testing. Accordingly, the Life Science Research Center at SK Chemicals company has also recently signed an agreement with a leading multinational pharmaceutical corporation for installed its IACUC on Feb. 1, 2009. It is comprised of five expert members as of now. These members include: Jeong supplying an original cure it has developed for an incurable disease, involving genetic restructuring. Gi-won, who is the Chair of the committee; Kim Taek-su, a deputy-manager and an assistant administrator; Lee Haein, a section chief and an expert committee member; Prof. Choi Yeon-shik of Korea Polytechnic Colleges; and Prof. Kim Bae-hwan of Keimyung University. The committee holds regular meetings and researcher training twice a year. It also receives and reviews Animal Testing Applications from researchers, ensuring that such testing is conducted in the most ethical, scientific manner possible. The committee also files annual online reports to the KFDA and the Quarantine Service on the details of animal testing conducted at SK Chemicals. Life Sciences Environmental Responsibilities of Customer Satisfaction Pharmaceutical Producers SK Chemicals’ vision to become a global leading provider of total healthcare solutions continues to guide and shape its policy for customer satisfaction. Minimizing Environmental Impact While Developing At the Life Science Division, customer satisfaction starts first and foremost Pharmaceuticals by carefully analyzing customers around the world and proactively offering treatments, vaccines, and new healthcare services that are crucial to Due to the multiplicity and complexity of various tests involved in the promote better health of all humankind. development and launching of SK Chemicals’ pharmaceutical products, large quantities of byproducts and waste materials are generated. SK Chemicals acknowledges the important responsibility it has in minimizing Solving Customer Complaints its byproducts and waste materials and handling them in the safest possible manner when it plans for its R&D activities. The Customer Service Center at the Life Science Division follows a The R&D Center of the Life Science Division at SK Chemicals begins to thoroughly systemized complaint resolving process, based on the company’s perform these environmental responsibilities in the first phase of planning accumulated experience with customer relations, with the goal of customer for lab research. In order to minimize environmental impact during the satisfaction and efficient problem resolution. development process, it is absolutely crucial for researchers to establish SK Chemicals operates a customer call center for complaints and inquiries and verify optimal research plans at each stage and succeed in research as from customers, and also provides a similar venue through its website. soon as possible based on their designs of experiments (DOE), using only Once our service agents receive complaints, the Customer Service minimal quantities of chemical substances and minimizing byproducts and Center searches and provides the appropriate measures in response. The waste materials. complaint-handling procedure at SK Chemicals divides complaints into SK Chemicals complies with the laws and regulations on reusing or different categories for fast and effective resolution of them, including: recycling these byproducts and waste materials, distilling and discharging product and packaging defects; reports of abnormal reactions; and other them through its own sewage treatment facilities, or disposing them in complaints (e.g. about prices and policies, exchange of expired products, legally specified procedures. Recyclable organic solvents, for instance, are etc.). Complaints received and sorted at the Customer Service Center are collected separately for later reuse and recycling. The collection, handling, then communicated to related departments to be addressed. and disposal of toxic chemicals are meticulously monitored in terms of their compliance with the laws and regulations. ● Number of Customer Complaints Handled Managing Environmental Risks of Unused 2009 2010 2011 Pharmaceuticals No. of customer complaints handled 441 604 405 % of customer complaints handled 100 100 100 The inevitably produced unused pharmaceuticals, if not treated properly, may cause significant damages not only to the human body but also to the ecological system. The Life Science Division at SK Chemicals commissions the treatment and disposal of these unused drugs to a governmentauthorized and certified waste disposal specialist in order to render the negative impact on the environment close to nil. The company collects and accumulates drugs that need to be discarded in a designated location, which the specialist will then collect using its specialty vehicle. The representatives of both companies confirm the amounts of those drugs being disposed of. Both companies follow the government regulations on the control of atmospheric pollutants emitted from incineration. The ashes from incineration are collected in a designated spot and buried under the ground when they reach a certain amount. In 2011, SK Chemicals disposed of 30.8 tons of unused pharmaceuticals safely with Eco Management Korea. Environmental Achievements SK Chemicals sees environmental management as a way to improve the company’s value. This is by ensuring the preservation of the natural environment in all its cultural practices, processes, and production activities. The aims of achieving a green culture, green processes, and green products continue to shape and guide SK Chemicals’ environmental policy. Environmental Achievements in Managing Plants Climate Change and Energy Efficiency The direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by SK Chemicals plants and offices are the results of energy consumption. Therefore, the Environmental efforts to reduce energy consumption in production and other administrationrelated activities and converting from the reliance on non-recyclable fossil Achievements in Managing fuels to renewable fuels bear direct relations to the tangible achievements in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In order to establish and maintain a sustainable energy consumption structure, SK Chemicals enforces a variety Plants of energy-saving activities and promotes the use of renewable energy. The company has also developed the Greenhouse Gas Inventory System in order to counter the effects of climate change, to analyze the diverse effects that greenhouse gases exert on business activities, and to control greenhouse gas emissions more effectively. Energy Management Energy Consumption ● Dependency on New and Renewable Energy SK Chemicals promotes diverse programs throughout all its plants and Fossil Fuels: 4,603TJ Biomasses: 1,929TJ offices to ensure efficient use of energy and decrease in energy consumption. Electricity and Heating: 1,393TJ As a result, the company succeeded in reducing the salesenergy consumption by 8.4% from 2010 to 2011. Specifically, the company consumed a total of 7,925TJ of energy in 2011, 4,699TJ of which has been sold in the form Raw and Other Materials 6% of steam. While the amount of energy consumption increased from 2010 to 435,697t 2011 by 457TJ, this is due to higher EGB operation rate as a result of increase 23% in energy generation by the company. • Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Water Consumption • Controlling Raw and Other Materials 7,082,000t 30% • Controlling Waste Material ● Energy Consumption Hazardous Chemicals 2009 (Unit: TJ) • Controlling Hazardous Chemical Substances 27,279t 2010 Item 2009 2010 2011 Fuel Type • Controlling Water Consumption and Wastewater 2011 Coals 3,526 3,888 4,017 • Preventing Soil Pollution Ulsan Plant Cheongju Plant B-C 1,381 749 413 • Preventing Noises and Odors Input Fossil Fuels LNG 65 85 149 Fossil Biomasses • Preventing Ozone Depletion Diesel 4 11 20 Fuels Gasoline 1 3 3 • Preventing Air Pollution LPG 1 1 1 Amount of Energy ● Amounts of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Discarded Lumber 207 917 1,310 Consumed (A) Biogas 12 242 403 Biomasses Flow of 800,000 45.0 Biodiesel 127 113 162 Inputs Made 41.3 ECO300(refined oil) 0 126 54 in 2011 700,000 40.0 Electricity 1,555 1,327 1,375 Intermediate 36.7 Energy Heat 0 6 18 35.0 Subtotal 6,879 7,468 7,925 600,000 32.1 Amount of Energy Sold (B) Steam 3,761 4,685 4,699 30.0 Systematic, effective control of various environmental factors, on the 500,000 Total Amount of Energy Consumed (A-B) 3,118 2,783 3,226 78,783 basis of a proper environmental management system, is of paramount 69,357 71,970 25.0 The amount of energy consumed for each type of fuel has been calculated following The Guideline for importance especially for the chemical industry as the industry involves Output 400,000 Greenhouse Energy Management and Others. extensive risks of environmental damages throughout all the processes Ansan Plant Osan Plant 20.0 and activities, from raw material trade to production, distribution, and 300,000 Greenhouse Gas Inventory System consumption and disposal. First and foremost, it is absolutely crucial to 15.0 identify and control systematically the numerous environmental risks at Energy Sold 447,974 420,912 424,511 In order to manage and control the greenhouse gases generated by the each stages of production through an effective environmental management Steam: 4,699TJ 200,000 10.0 plants, SK Chemicals has also developed and launched its Greenhouse Gas system. SK Chemicals requires each plant or office to enforce its own Inventory System based on the latest information technology. The system environmental policy that meets the company’s standards. Prior to 2009, Greenhouse Gas Emissions 100,000 5.0 not only enables the company to ensure efficient energy management, but these activities of environmental management were mostly focused on 496,481t (CO2-eq.) also provides a systematic basis for complying with the Framework Act on saving (e.g. energy and resources) and improving efficiencies (e.g. energy, (tCO2-eq) (tCO2-eq/억원) Low-Carbon, Green Economic Growth enforced by the Korean government. productivity). Now, SK Chemicals engages in more diverse activities with Waste Material 2009 2010 2011 The Ulsan plant was the first to complete this inventory system in 2009. An the goal of realizing green plants that minimize environmental pollution and 53,648t integrated system was completed in October 2011 for all SK Chemicals life energy consumption through a low-carbon, resource-recycling industrial Scope 1 Scope 2 science product plants in Cheongju, Ansan and Osan. The verification of the structure. At the moment, the most pressing goals for SK Chemicals Currency = KRW inventory system will be completed in 2012. SK Chemicals plans to manage Wastewater include reducing its reliance on fossil fuels and minimizing greenhouse gas and reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from its activities through this 673,000t emissions by increasing its use of alternative energy. The amounts of greenhouse gas emissions represented by system. the graph have been calculated according to The Guideline for Greenhouse Gas Management and Others. Environmental Achievements in Managing Plants Securing Carbon Emission Right Improving the Steam Line SK Chemicals also succeeded in reducing the amount of energy used and greenhouse gas The Ulsan plant of SK Chemicals joined the Korea Certified Emission emissions by replacing part of a manufacturing process (distillation involving the Azeo column) Reduction (K-CER) Project in 2006 by successfully replacing the bunker-C using 6.0kg/cm2 of steam with 3.0kg/cm2 of steam. The decrease in the amount of steam energy oil used for its boiler systems with surplus biogases generated from the has increased the capacity of the power generator, increasing the amount of energy it generates by sewage treatment facility in Yongyeon, Ulsan. Ever since, the plant has one-third of the previous amount. Improving the steam line has helped the company improve the obtained certifications for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5,319t efficiency of its manufacturing process by preventing leakage of steam and by recycling the waste in 2007, 3,792t in 2008, 4,556t in 2009, 4,245t in 2010, and 2,100t in 2011. In heat generated by chemical reactions though installing pipes exclusively for collecting waste heat. 2011, the Ulsan plant added to the K-CER project discarded lumber as yet another eco-friendly fuel it has adopted in place of fossil fuels. As of 2012, Mixing in Biogases from Wastewater Treatment Facilities the plant is being reviewed for another certification, verifying that it has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 34,614t this year. Thanks to these SK Chemicals also incorporates gases generated by the wastewater treatment facility at the Ulsan and other efforts, SK Chemicals has reduced 49,159t of greenhouse gases, plant into fuelling its boiler systems, thereby reducing 3,200 tons of carbon-dioxide emissions per according to the K-CER standard. year. This technology not only helps to dispose of the greenhouse gases (mostly methane) generated in wastewater treatment, but also helps us to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels (bunker-C oil), reducing both the cost and greenhouse gas emissions. Recycling Biogases from the Local Sewage Treatment Facility Efforts in Reducing Energy Consumption and Greenhouse SK Chemicals recycles methane generated by the local sewage treatment facility in Ulsan as a Gas Emissions fuel for the Ulsan plant’s boiler systems thereby simultaneously preserving the environment and Carbon Neutrality Road Map energy . ● Carbon Neutrality Road Map Improving Air Booster Compressors Since 2009, SK Chemicals has been implementing a strategy to reduce the greenhouse gases emissions by replacing the fossil fuels used for its The Ulsan plant successfully reduced energy, materials, and labor costs by renovating the air 100% boiler systems with non-fossil fuels. In 2010, as a result of the effort, the booster compressors it operated for 16 years since 1989. The air booster compressors ensure company achieved a carbon neutrality rate of 20% by installing Eco-Green 61% reliable supply of air to the secondary oxidation reactor used to produce purified terephthalic acid boiler systems running on discarded lumber only, using biogases from (PTA), and was equipped with dehumidifiers and improved water distillation processes. This change the sewage treatment facility in Yongyeon, and using the byproduct of the 30% has helped the plant to save KRW 210 million annually, while also generating non-financial benefits 25% company’s own biodiesel (a biomass) that has been named “ECO-300.” In 20% by helping to stabilize the manufacturing procedure and reducing workload. 2011, SK Chemicals brought that rate up to 25% by installing more EcoGreen boiler systems (#1). Now, its goal is to reach a carbon neutrality rate 0% Leaving Bunker-C Oil Behind of 30% by the end of 2012. During the 1990s, the Ulsan plant operated one boiler on coal and another boiler on bunker-C oil. '09 '10 '11 '12 '15 '20 By 2015, SK Chemicals will achieve a carbon neutrality rate of 61% Seeking to improve the energy efficiency of its manufacturing activities, SK Chemicals ordered the by installing even more Eco-Green boiler systems (#2), mixing biomassplant to halt operations of bunker-C oil boiler in 2003. The plant nonetheless maintained its output based fuels into the existing coal boiler systems, and turning more level, while reducing the amount of heat used by 27%, which translates into KRW 4 billion (as of biogases into fuels to offset the increasing amounts of greenhouse gas the energy cost in 2003) in terms of the annual production cost. It is remarkable testament to SK emissions that will follow the expansion of the company’s productivity and 5 Members of the Road Map Complex Chemicals that the Ulsan plant continues to operate seamlessly without a single accident while output. The company will extend these efforts to five other complexes, and SK Chemicals, Huvis, SK Petrochemicals, SK Cytec, EFKL. using just one boiler system. continue to increase the amounts of steam it generates for sale, supplying Improving Water Treatment Processes greater amounts of eco-friendly steam energy for clients. The Osan plant has recently installed a reverse osmosis system and a UV system in order to By 2020, the Ulsan plant will achieve a carbon neutrality rate of 100%, improve the efficiency of its water treatment facility. It also renovated the mixed-bed demineralizer completely eradicating fossil fuels from its site and making itself a carbon(used to deionize) and the active carbon filter tower. By newly developing an integrated water control neutral factory. system, the plant successfully monitors the graphics and water treatment systems remotely. All these changes are expected to reduce costs by KRW 40 million annually, while also ensuring ● Eco-Green Boiler Systems FLOW consistent water quality in the manufacturing process and better preparing against various audits and inspections. Replacing Outdated Facilities and Equipment SK Chemicals takes it as its principle to prevent and minimize the leakage of any environmental Construction Combustible waste material risks from any site of its operations, seeking to preserve nature and save production costs materials (from households, construction sites, etc.) simultaneously. The Ulsan plant invests KRW 4 to 5 billion annually to replace obsolete, outdated Aggregates, facilities. Replacing manufacturing facilities at a regular interval also enhances energy efficiency cover soil, Carbon Neutrality boundary stones Discarded lumber The aim of carbon neutrality rate is to make the net amounts and worker safety. The plant also saves about KRW 25 million in cost each year by installing water(under review) of carbon generated by various economic activities of a given saving devices on showerheads, washbasins, toilets, and water taps. organization zero (0) by leading the organization to adopt carbonfree sources of energy. Accordingly, SK Chemicals is using Eco-Green alternative and renewable sources of energy in order to offset the amounts of carbon generated by its plant in Ulsan. Recycling Input Boiler Discarded lumber Review for (250t/day) Heat collected from renewable energy recycling 40t of steam/hour (incinerator tests, Greenhouse gas emissions reduced ash analysis, Output Eco-Green Boiler By replacing fossil fuels: 55,000t/year recycling test [strength]) Air pollutants reduced Less than 0.1ng of dioxin (by installing filters Ash buried required for waste material processing facilities) (18-20t/day) Eco-Friendly Architecture: Eco Lab Green Point System SK Chemicals relocated its headquarters to ECO LAB in Pangyo, Korea in November 2010. It is the first-ever office building in Korea to receive ● Eco-friendly Building Certificate What Is the Green Point System? Energy Efficiency Grade 1 certification from Korea Energy Management GBCC Corporation. It also garnered the highest score and the highest-level (Green Building Certification Criteria) Since 2010, SK Chemicals has been implementing Green Point System as an effort to encourage employees to become certification (GBCC) from the Green Building Association. ECO LAB’s more environmentally conscious and to establish environmental management as a core pillar of its corporate culture. innovative, ecofriendly architecture was recognized again when it became The system converts employees’ various environmentally friendly activities—including, but not limited to, saving energy the first practical building in Korea to receive the Platinum grade on and purchasing eco-friendly goods—into green points. The accumulated points are translated into monetary values, the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) evaluation which the company matches and donates to environmental causes. The raised fund is used to promote environmental conducted by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). Moreover, ECO LEED campaigns throughout society, helping citizens to participate in environmental protection and increase their happiness. LAB won the grand prize at the Architectural Culture Awards, arguably (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) The system also has its own website, on which employees can post and share eco-friendly ideas and information. Korea’s most prestigious architecture award. Built with 11 eco-friendly technologies and 60 new innovations, ECO LAB is a state-of-the-art energy-saving, eco-friendly building. Since its completion, ECO LAB has been continuously monitored in order to ensure optimal efficiency of the ● Renewable Energy Generation System applied technologies during its maintenance operation. The monitoring Activities Up for Green Points process involves carefully selected 49 technologies of the 101 that were applied to the building, and monitoring them on monthly, quarterly, semiType Event Activity Points annual, and irregular bases. ECO LAB has been built with the aim of Vegetarian Day Vegetarian food throughout the company 472P/day reducing energy consumption by 44%, water consumption by 63%, and greenhouse gas emissions by 33%. The monitoring conducted in 2011 Group Paper recycling Collecting and measuring the amounts of waste paper to be recycled 0.28P/kg revealed that the building met the targets for energy and water saving Food waste Giving Green Stickers to employees who do not leave any food on their plates 1P/person targets, while exceeding the initial greenhouse gas emissions reduction Sharing Comments Posting on the Environmental Management bulletin board online 10P/post target by achieving 37% reduction. Carbon Meter Calculating one’s carbon footprint 50P/case Point Donation Logging on to the Environmental Management bulletin board and donating one’s points to a cause 1P/donation Eco-Friendly Functions of ECO LAB Individual Green Actions Participating in contests for eco-friendly innovative ideas, purchasing eco-friendly goods, attending exhibits, or performances on environmental themes, etc. 100P/event ● Water Cycle System for Protecting Green Movies Attending quarterly screenings of movies on environmental themes 100P/screening Water Resources Saving Energy Eco-friendly Service Participating in eco-friendly volunteer works, whether inside or outside the company 100P/h Built with highly energy-efficient triple-layer glasses, radiation-based airconditioning system, floor aeration system, and LED lighting apparatuses, Employees can earn their Green Points by posting on the company bulletin board their own thoughts or other published ECO LAB is 40% more energy efficient than typical buildings. On a articles on environmental themes, by engaging and encouraging family members to participate in “Green Actions” quarterly basis, SK Chemicals remotely conducts the Building Energy & such as purchasing eco-friendly goods and attending environment related exhibits, and concerts, and by attending Water Management System (BEWMS) inspection to monitor and ensure the quarterly screenings of movies and documentaries on climate change and environmental responsibilities of the operation of building’s energy efficient system. SK Chemicals is companies. also a frontier in adopting technologies for renewable energy, including photovoltaic and geothermal generation. In just two months its first operation, ECO L AB generated 2,321kwh and 1,720kwh of energy from October to December 2010, through photovoltaic and geothermal Green Points Saved in 2011 generators, respectively, which, together, can run 130 computers for an entire month (300W each, eight hours per day). SK Chemicals intends to expand these renewable power generation capacities in the future based SK Chemicals initial target was to accumulate 900,000 Green Points in 2011 (400 points per employee). Due to on systematic monitoring and management. sustained interest and enthusiasm of SK Chemicals employees, the company easily met the target early on Sept. 8, Saving Water 2011. By the end of the year, the company had accumulated a total of 1,463,216 points. ECO LAB reduces water usage by 60%, as a result of installing watersaving devices such as water efficient faucets, shower heads Number of Green Points Accumulated by Month, 2011 and water-free toilets, as well as implementation of other innovative technologies. 1,600,000 1,463,216 Preventing Pollution 1,400,000 1,372,961 1,230,055 The rooftop surface of ECO LAB is 70% 1,200,000 green space, while using highly reflexive 1,005,140 1,000,000 materials prevents the heat island effect. 875,364 Yearly Target: 900,000 Points The building is also equipped with ozone 800,000 783,045 656,535 safe halonand Freon-free freezers and 600,000 511,284 fire extinguishers. 400,000 340,584 189,418 200,000 41,044 78,844 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Environmental Achievements in Managing Plants Controlling Raw and Other Materials Controlling Hazardous Chemical Substances The major raw and other materials involved in manufacturing processes at SK Chemicals include The SK Chemicals plant at Ulsan inevitably utilizes various hazardous ● Amounts of Hazardous Chemicals Used (Unit: ton) TPA, DMT, EG, CHDM, and other various catalysts. SK Chemicals always seeks to increase chemicals as a part of its manufacturing procedure. Major hazardous effectiveness of its materials through production management, such as monitoring material usage, chemicals used, which include methanol, sodium hydroxide, ethyl material inventory and material input and output. Effective utilization of resources contributes to the acetate, chloroform, toluene, and xylene, are either directly injected 2011 27,279 sustainability of limited natural resources and minimizes the environmental impacts of using those during the manufacturing process or used as reagents, pH modifiers resources. In 2011, SK Chemicals used a total of 435,697 tons of raw and other materials, up 17% or for other purposes. In order to safely handle these hazardous 2010 15,027 from the previous year. chemicals, SK Chemicals is safely managing these substances and in accordance with storage facility standards, by establishing 2009 13,127 ● Amounts of Raw and Other Materials Used (Unit: ton) Regulation on Controlling Hazardous Chemical Substances and delegating different departments with necessary responsibilities Only the amounts of hazardous chemicals used at the Ulsan plant are and authorities. SK Chemicals also appoints multiple hazardous represented here. 2011 435,697 substances managers to strengthen the monitoring process, as well as conducting weekly training sessions of employees handling these 2010 371,961 substances and inspections of facilities and equipment. 2009 321,999 In 2011, SK Chemicals used 27,278 tons of hazardous chemicals. The significant increase in the amount used from the previous year can be accounted for by the increase in the production of Eco Prime, the eco-friendly biodiesel, which doubled the usage of methanol, source of the biodiesel. By safely handling and using chemicals used in the plants by establishing regulations on handling chemical substances, SK Chemicals strives to prevent pollution and minimize direct and indirect effects on employee health. The company also manages information through its Safety, Health, and Environment Quality (SHEQ) system. Controlling Waste Material SK Chemicals has also established and complies with its Regulation on the Disposal of Laboratory Waste Materials, which Pursuant to the Waste Material Disposal Act, SK Chemicals ensures that the disposal of all waste categorizes waste and provides proper disposal procedure, to prevent contamination and ensure the safety of laboratories and materials produced by its plants is conducted in the legal, most hygienic manners. The company their personnel. Of the chemical waste generated in laboratories, reagents are discarded properly, while the waste water is vigorously monitors disposal processes thoroughly to prevent secondary contamination. In addition, processed through the company’s own waste water treatment facilities. the company plans to pursue more innovative methods of reducing waste material by turning flies (ashes from incineration) 100% into new products, by reducing the sludge with a new filter press in the water quality control office, and by recycling waste resins. ● Amount of Waste Material by Disposal Type ● Amounts of Waste Material Produced Controlling Water Consumption and Wastewater (Unit: ton) 90,000 70 Each SK Chemicals plant obtains its required industrial water from the local water supply. So far, the water usages of the plants did not have any significant impact on the local water supply and sources. None of the plants use groundwater, while the 80,000 65.4 25,055(74%) corporate headquarters and research center partially utilize the collected rainwater for water supply. The wastewater generated 2009 by the plants is either treated by on-site treatment facilities or re-treated at the local sewage treatment plants. 65 8,731(26%) 70,000 61.5 ● Amounts of Water Used ● Amounts of Wastewater 59.4 60,000 60 48.0 31,909(71%) 8,000 50.0 Ansan 2010 10,000 0.51 46.8 31,826 50,000 13,236(29%) Amounts of 43.5 45.0 Cheongju 9,000 Water Used 7,000 55 Osan 27,785 0.46 2,790 40.0 40,000 2,880 Ulsan 8,000 0.45 0.46 Currency = KRW 6,000 27,734 2,880 16,378 52,097 35.0 Currency = KRW 1,628 51,810 590,570 30,000 21,269 50 39,559(74%) 7,000 38,424 569,400 2011 7,082 5,000 30.0 554,800 14,089(26%) 0.40 0.41 10,096 6,000 20,000 5,994 4,000 25.0 9,923 45 5,000 5,060 20.0 10,000 9,429 11,371 3,000 5,698 General Waste Designated Waste 4,000 0.36 15.0 1,271 (t) 548 1,739 307 (%) The amount of waste material from the company 2,000 headquarters is not represented in these 3,000 10.0 2009 2010 2011 diagrams. 1,000 5.0 2,000 0.31 Recycling Oceanic Discharge (㎥) (㎥/억원) Burial Incineration 1,000 2009 2010 2011 Recycling Rate (천㎥) (천㎥/억원) •This graph does not represent the amount of wastewater generated by the corporate headquarters. 2009 2010 2011 •The wastewater produced by the Ulsan plant is first processed through the on-site wastewater treatment facility before being discharged into the East Sea. The wastewater •None of these plants uses groundwater. from the Ansan and Osan plants is carried to the local wastewater treatment plants, •The corporate headquarters occasionally uses rainwater, while that of the Cheongju plant is discharged into the sewage treatment plant within the amount of which is not represented in this graph. the industrial cluster in which the plant is located. Environmental Achievements in Managing Plants ● Concentrations of Wastewater Discharged by the Plants Preventing Ozone Depletion Ulsan Plant Ansan Plant (Unit: ppm) (Unit: ppm) Although CFCs, HCFCs and other coolants used in the SK Chemicals plant destroy the ozone layer. They are only naturally discharged into the air in minute, insignificant quantities. Thus, SK Chemicals does Item 2009 2010 2011 Item 2009 2010 2011 not have separate plans for reduction of its ozone depleting chemicals. Aside from these coolants, there Conc. at discharge 4 4 4 Conc. at discharge 14 10 21 are no other ozone depleting chemicals in the production process. BOD BOD Legal max. 10 10 10 Legal max. 120 120 120 Conc. at discharge 22 28 20 Conc. at discharge 33 11 30 COD COD Legal max. 40 40 40 Legal max. 130 130 130 Conc. at discharge 6 6 4 Conc. at discharge 22 17 21 Preventing Air Pollution SS SS Legal max. 10 10 10 Legal max. 120 120 120 SK Chemicals regularly monitors the concentrations of the air pollutants it generates using automatic meters. It also operates the tele-monitoring systems (TMS) that measure around the clock the Osan Plant Cheongju Plant emissions from these air pollutants, which the company self-monitors. SK Chemicals also strives to (Unit: ppm) (Unit: ppm) reduce the emission of generated air pollutants by installing air pollution control equipments and by Item 2009 2010 2011 Item 2009 2010 2011 switching to more eco-friendly fuels. Conc. at discharge 10 10 5 Conc. at discharge 131 180 132 BOD BOD Legal max. 120 120 120 Contract max. 250 250 250 ● Concentrations of Air Pollutants Discharged by the Plants Conc. at discharge 17 10 10 Conc. at discharge 59 205 114 COD COD Legal max. 130 130 130 Contract max. 250 250 250 Ulsan Plant Ansan Plant Conc. at discharge 23 6 9 Conc. at discharge 142 41 135 SS SS Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 Legal max. 120 120 120 Contract max. 50 50 50 Discharged ppm 151 98 79 Discharged ppm 161 166 169 The wastewater generated by the Cheongju Plant goes straight to the wastewater NOx NOx treatment facility within the industrial cluster where the plant is located. The “contract Legal max. ppm 200 200 200 Legal max. ppm 200 200 200 max(imum)” indicated in the table refers to the maximum levels of concentration of wastewater to be admitted into the treatment facility subject to the contract. Where the Discharged ppm 88 73 50 Discharged ppm 15 17 17 concentration levels exceed the contract maximum levels, the treatment fees are to be SOx SOx adjusted. Legal max. ppm 180 180 180 Legal max. ppm 180 180 180 Discharged mg/Sm3 6 7 5 Discharged mg/Sm3 15 11 10 Dust Dust Legal max. mg/Sm3 100 100 100 Legal max. mg/Sm3 50 50 50 Preventing Soil Pollution Osan Plant Cheongju Plant The importance of systematic efforts to prevent soil pollution can hardly be emphasized more as soil Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 pollution not only presents serious threats to the local environment, but also negatively affects the real Discharged ppm 24 30 0 Discharged mg/Sm 3 8 8 0 estate values. SK Chemicals thus is enhancing pre-pollution monitoring in and around the sites of its NOx Dust plants. The Osan plant recently shut down its boiler fuel storage system with high risk of soil pollution Legal max. ppm 200 200 200 Legal max. mg/Sm 3 100 100 100 due to increasing concerns, while simultaneously replacing the fuel source from bunker-C oil to LNG Discharged ppm 14 2 0 to minimize any potential soil pollution. The Cheongju plant had its chemical processing facilities Given its nature, the Cheongju plant generates no NOx or SOx. SOx inspected by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency and was judged as exempt from further Legal max. ppm 180 180 180 soil pollution and leakage tests and the Ulsan plant also passed the soil pollution test by the Korea Discharged mg/Sm3 9 10 7 Testing Laboratory. Dust Legal max. mg/Sm 3 100 100 100 Preventing Noises and Odors SK Chemicals ensures that all its plants meet the noise and odor control standards set by legislations. SK Chemicals also hires consulting firms to share the information of its compliance with regulatory laws with the municipal authorities and citizens of the local communities. The efforts of SK Chemicals include the recent installation of noise-preventing and deodorizing facilities at the Osan plant to completely block any noises or odors that may be generated by the freezer containers and research labs from reaching the locals. In this process, SK Chemicals conducted tests to determine whether the noise and odor levels along the boundaries of the plant site exceed the legal maximum. Based on the test results, the plant installed noise silencers, noise-proof rooms, and an active carbon absorption tower (with a processing capacity of 80Am3/minute). SK Chemicals and Society SK Chemicals respects the values of our society. As a corporate citizen, SK Chemicals will continue to play its part in ensuring the equitable growth of our community, improving the quality of life for all, and reducing the socioeconomic inequalities. Organization ● No. of Employees and Gender Ratio Developing Human Resources 1,284 303 2011 1,251 303 Ideal Employee 2010 Organization 2009 1,313 288 The ideal employee of SK Chemicals is a “warm professional.” To be regarded as a “warm professional”, an employee must have her selfMen Women esteem, a sense of community, as well as mutual respect for each other. At the same time, she must also have a good command of her work, be able to set challenging goals, follow through on the plans to meet her goals, and ● Employee Distribution by Age share her knowledge with others. The warm professionals SK Chemicals 495 1,029 154 strives to achieve in its employees are people who share their dedication 2011 of promoting better health for all humankind and protecting the natural 445 1,013 135 environment, have clear vision of happiness and success, and embark on 2010 every challenge they face with passion and enthusiasm. 439 1,036 150 2009 Under 30 30 to under 50 50 or older ● Gender Ratio on the Board (Directors or above) Pride: ‘Warm’ ‘Professional’ A warm professional is convinced that her work contributes to happiness and a better world for all, 2009 2010 2011 based on clear understanding of the meaning and value of her work. Men 24 25 28 Sense of Community: Women 1 1 A warm professional has a strong sense of solidarity with her coworkers and workplace, and commits herself to the values of the organization. ● No. of Employees with Disabilities Mutual Respect and Teamwork: A warm professional seeks mutual respect and benefits, actively recognizing others’ roles and talents based on her deep trust and interest in them. 2009 2010 2011 No. of Employees with Disabilities 19 17 16 Good command of one’s work • Current Statistics on Employment Pride of one’s own work Setting challenging goals Sense of community • Development Human Resources ● Employee Distribution by Employment Type Mutual respect and teamwork Achieving goals thoroughly and joyfully Sharing knowledge • Fair Evaluation and Rewards 1,587 91 • Employee Safety and Health 2011 • Protecting Labor Activities 1,554 39 2010 Good Command of One’s Work: • Work and Life Balance 1,601 24 A warm professional always does her best to gain professional knowledge and better understanding of her clients and the market, as well as ways to improve her performance in achieving her goals. 2009 Setting Challenging Goals: Full-time Contract-based A warm professional always seeks to surpass expectations, setting higher goals for herself and ceaselessly trying to achieve them. Achieving Goals Thoroughly and Joyfully: Current Statistics on Employment ● Newly Hired Employees A warm professional masters herself in trying to achieve her goals and pursuing them with passion and enthusiasm for the process itself. 199 63 Sharing Knowledge: 2011 A warm professional is active in summing up her understanding and experience and sharing them with the entire organization, helping not only herself but also her coworkers to become more capable. Diversity among employees is a key to the success of any organization. SK 115 60 Chemicals thus practices a systematic, scientific method of screening and 2010 Candidates with global backgrounds selecting employees, completely eliminating elements of discrimination 117 63 on the basis of sex, religion, and race from the first step of job application. 2009 Candidates with Talent Recruiting Strategy SK Chemicals also hires its employees only on the basis of their merit and Men Women entrepreneurial experience potential, which are based on measures shown in their job application, or potential In order to attract not only hardworking individuals, but also the creative examination results, and interviews. It is this potentialand merit-oriented and the adventurous, SK Chemicals strives to acquire talented pool of ● No. of Retired Employees & Employee Turnover Rate employees by maintaining a talent sourcing portfolio. One aim of this system of hiring that forms the cornerstone of SK Chemicals’ strategy Open for promoting diversity. Currently, the most pressing issue the company 240 12.0 recruiting portfolio is to enable recruitment of daring, original, innovative talents who 10.0 faces in promoting diversity is hiring of women. Acknowledging that 8.80 can think outside the box. Another is to provide scientific designed tools 10.0 the traditional, male-centered business culture and working conditions 190 capable of observing and measuring diverse aspects to thoroughly verify in Korea have consistently hindered the success of qualified, capable 6.40 8.0 each candidate’s potential for success. SK Chemicals also continually trains 158 women talents, SK Chemicals adheres to all legislations and regulations 140 136 Diversifying company specialists on essay reviews and job interviews to strengthen that enable women to maintain balance between their family and work. 6.0 the Talent its human resource acquiring capabilities. In addition to advancing the Providing the necessary measures such as maternity and childcare leaves, 90 103 4.0 Sourcing Pool recruitment and hiring process, SK Chemicals provides various internship and developing a corporate culture that pursues the balance of work and opportunities, allowing potential candidates to explore a greater range of 40 life, SK Chemicals seeks to incorporate more women into its workforce and 2.0 Candidates with high work and to discover their aptitudes and potentials. These internships also improve the workforce diversity. (명) (%) degrees of professional give the company opportunities to observe potential candidates and their qualification 2009 2010 2011 performance longer, thereby enabling the company to acquire and hire the The company also follows its policy of notifying the employees potentially Candidates fit for the characteristics of the industry “right people” effectively. affected by major business decisions of the changes likely to be made to No. of Retired Employees Employee Turnover Rate their employment status at least three months in advance. The number of retired employees does not include employees who have been transferred to subsidiary companies of SK Chemicals. Organization Employee Training Programs ● Training Scheme Since the beginning, with the belief that the source of the company’s ● Training Time and Investment competitiveness lies with the people, SK Chemicals has been striving to Directors Team Chiefs Deputy Chiefs Section Managers Project Managers enhance the capacities of its employees, requiring that at least 10% of 340 35 its entire workforce is in training at different times all year round. Based Hi-po Team Chief 32 32 Training on this faith in human resources, SK Chemicals has been increasing its 250 (HLP/GLP) investment in employee training programs, even as the company struggled 30 200 27 through restructuring and economic downturns. 192 GDLP Short-term Degrees abroad (MBA, R&D) Director Training/ To nurture “warm professionals”, the vision of its employees, SK Chemicals 150 153 157 25 Hipo Coaching Training For New Employees provides a wide range of short-term and long-term training programs, Degrees in Korea(MBA, R&D) with on-the-job training (OJT) program as the basis, as well as a mentoring 100 system in which exemplary senior employees are selected as mentor to 20 GFP coach junior employees as a role model, to maximize the effects of the OJT 50 and self-development programs. Hours/ In KRW person 100 million 2009 2010 2011 Job Capacity Developing Warm Professionals Amount of time each employee spends on Job Capacity Training (mini-MBA, short-term) training on average Director Capacity Amount of investment made into each Training employee’s training Intensive Language Training (English, Chinese) SelfDevelopment Education & development through training Job Capacity Training work SUPEX (“Super Excellent”): “SUPEX” is the word SK Chemicals wants its employees to attain. Team Chief It is impossible to reach this level by only relying on conventional SK Capacity School thinking or activities. SUPEX employees are masters at thinking MDP Leadership Capacity Employees’ own ceaseless Acquiring experience on the job Intensive training outside the box, making diverse new attempts, and handling their W/S Development and throughout the process of and education, jobs with a perfectionist’s dedication. Program R&BD Training efforts to improve pursuing “supex” as the basis for in both short and and actualize developing greater skills long terms themselves SKMS Practical Mentoring Program Capacity Reinforcement Training (Team •Directors Chiefs Workshop) The training programs at SK Chemicals can be generalized into the selected Workshop programs and the new employee training programs. SK Chemicals provide New Team Chief •New Director Training SKMS full spectrum of quality training programs, including language classes, jobTraining specific training, global capacity development, academic degrees, and many A scene from new employees’ training: creating an artwork together •Scouted Director more. Employees selected for longterm training, including opportunities Training Team-by-Team SKMS Practical Capacity Reinforcement Training General for pursuing academic degrees, enhance their capabilities by attending various schools and professional organizations both in Korea and abroad, Training for New/Experienced Employees during which SK Chemicals pay not only the wages, but also support employees’ tuitions and living expenses throughout the training periods, thus enabling the employees to effectively focus on their studies. SKMS/SK History (On-line) The journey for human resource development begins as the employees join SK Chemicals. New employees are given introductory training that lasts between one and four months, depending on their jobs. In these programs, Team Chief the employees learn not only the skills and information necessary for New/Scouted Leadership Specific to Positions/Ranks their jobs, but also learn the importance of communication, leadership, Director Training Training cooperation skills and trust while working on group projects. By engaging in volunteering and providing opportunities for self-reflection, SK Chemicals strives to prepare its employees not only for their work, but for their lives as Job Interview Specialist Training Training for New/Experienced Employees well. Job Evaluator Training Marketing Training In-company Instructor Development Online/Reading Training Organization Fair Evaluation and Rewards Employee Safety and Health Fair Performance Evaluation Safety and Health System The performance evaluation and reward systems at SK Chemicals, based ● Sustainable Performance-Orientation ● Safety and Health Management SHEQ System SK Chemicals enforces a safety and health system for the employees on its vision of “sustainable performance-orientation,” aim to create an throughout its organization. The Ulsan plant, in particular, has received exciting, inspiring workplace for the employees and organization by providing Creating a virtuous circle of an exciting, inspirational a publicly recognized certificate, OHSAS 18001, for its safety and health workplace in which employees and the company grow challenging goals and through providing opportunities to develop necessary •Running the management system. The company identifies, examines, and improves risk together capacities and incentivizing with appropriate rewards and opportunities. programs factors all year round, and ensures employees’ safety and health at each • Ensuring the growth of both the organization and the •Providing training plant by mandating that it performs top patrol rounds (twice a month) and Development of a rational and fair evaluation system is essential in realizing individuals; and education •Engaging in OK Patrol rounds on a regular basis. The company also submits itself to the the vision of “sustainable performance-orientation.”As a tool for managing • Reinforcing employees’ motivations and capacities; • Leveling up the employees’ capacities by applying organization-wide inspection by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency every year in and coaching performance of its employees, which aim to contribute •Developing positive, upbeat pressure. campaigns order to ensure the effectiveness and transparency of its safety and health to individual and organizational improvement on the basis of accurate management •Providing for health system. identification employee capabilities and performance, SK Chemicals operates objectives management Performance Evaluation & Coaching System (PECS). •Developing plans •Providing for safety and strategies management at •Developing each plant The evaluation process consists of (1) goal setting, (2) in-progress Sustainability necessary Safety and Health Committee examination, and (3) final evaluation. Throughout the three stages, the programs evaluator and the evaluated remain in ongoing communications to ensure fair The company also thinks it absolutely crucial to let the employees, the direct and objective evaluation results. Sustainable Plan Do stakeholders of the company’s safety and health management, to participate Performancein the system themselves through the Safety and Health Committee. SK Such an evaluation process takes both the potential and performance of the Orientation SHEQ Chemicals therefore uses the committee to promote employees’ safety employee into account, producing a final score and evaluation rank. These System and health in a more effective manner. The committee meets to review and scores and rankings are factored in the promotion and salary raise process, Performance decide on important matters pertaining to occupational safety and health and company sponsored training opportunities. Therefore, the evaluation HR Mission Orientation every quarter. Comprising of equal numbers of employees and users, the system at SK Chemicals includes various tools and tips geared toward Action Check committee serves to ensure and improve employees’ safety and health at ensuring the most objective and fair results possible, including the calibration workplace. session and evaluation auditing at the end of each evaluation stage. Once A performance-oriented human resources •Review by CEO •Internal and the final results are decided, each employee has individual meetings for development system that seeks the growth of •Safety and Health external reviews feedback, in which the employee’s strengths and weaknesses are explained the organization Committee •Inspection on and plans are established to supplement the capabilities of the employee, in •Taking measures regular and allSafety and Health Training • Pursuing challenging, yet achievable goals; necessary to fix or year-round bases order to enhance the performance. • Evaluating employees’ progress in improve problems •Inspecting working Training and education is a critical part of the safety and health system achieving goals; •Risk evaluation environments Through continued training of evaluators, SK Chemicals improves awareness • Providing rewards/promotions at SK Chemicals. The company provides diverse programs and courses •Providing health and evaluation capacities of the evaluators, and engages in involving other depending on evaluation results. examinations for tailored to the characteristics and situations of each plant and office, which employees into the evaluation process to increase the understanding of its employees consist of different goals and audience. The Ulsan plant conducts monthly evaluation system. general safety and health training for its employees, in addition to providing performance and leadership improvement courses for supervisors and managers, PSM training, safety training for new and transferred college◀ SK chemicals PECS graduate employees, and training for managers of fire-extinguishing and •Linking individuals’ goals to the •Checking on the employee’s ● Emergency Record other safety facilities, at least once a year. The plant also cooperates with the organization’s goals Plan Do progress in reaching her goals (Performance Evaluation & Ulsan Fire Department to provide environmental safety training three times •Deciding targets and (Setting up (Continued •Providing continual coaching Coaching System) expectations Goals) Monitoring) and help 2009 2010 2011 annually. The MSDS department conducts GHS training program annually, •Reinforcing the behavior that No. of emergency accidents 0 1 1 while each department receives public health training (11 times a year) and adds to performance emergency handling training (three times a year). No. of fatalities 0 1 0 •Checking whether the employee has met her goals In 2010, one person passed away and was crashed under heavy The health and safety training at SK Chemicals also extends to the new See •Communicating the evaluation objects while unloading cargoes. visitors or delegates from partner businesses and contractors, because (Evaluation) results and reaching an ensuring complete safety of each plant and office requires compliance of agreement everyone with the safety and health policies. Training for visitors from partner businesses are conducted daily. SK Chemicals also assists employees’ efforts to quit smoking through its Quitting Smoking clinic, the centerpiece of company’s anti-smoking campaigns and programs. Fair Rewards Based on honest and fair evaluation, the rational yet strict differentiated Emergency System rewards scheme of SK Chemicals incentivizes by rewarding the more productive employees based on their merit and by providing opportunities Fire-fighting organization and procedure have been established in each and for less productive employees to enhance their potential and capacities. The every SK Chemicals plant to react to fire-related emergencies as quickly company strives to keep its reward system competitive to other competitors and effectively as possible. In case of a fire, emergency contact networks and based on the management goal achievement progress. By rewarding not are in place to minimize environmental impact and destruction to life and only through financial incentives but also through non-financial incentives, property , and possess systematic capacity to react to fire through contacting (e.g. pride, sense of fulfillment, recognition, clarified vision, etc.), SK communication team, fire-fighting team, rescue team, and escape-aid teams Chemicals supports employees to enjoy their work and pursue the company’s using hotlines. vision of seeking sustainable performance-orientation. Organization Protecting Labor Activities Work and Life Balance Based on mutual respect and trust, there has not been a single incident of Family Tour around ECO LAB To maximize the company performance through customer satisfaction and labor dispute between the labor union and the management at SK Chemicals happiness, it is first and foremost necessary to look after the happiness of over the last four decades since its establishment in 1969. Based on the the employees and create a workplace that is both exciting and inspiring foundation of trust and cooperation between the labor and management, to work. Therefore, SK Chemicals promotes the physical and psychological the labor union has been playing a pivotal role as a central pillar in ensuring health of employees and helps them improve their relationships with their the stable growth of the company. Through successful labor-management families, thereby enabling them to maintain a healthy balance between their agreements, SK Chemicals managed to resolve challenges and remained personal lives and work. Our major programs in this area include the Leave productive even during the most severe difficulties, when SK Chemicals had Work On Time events, UB Care Fortune Service, classical music concerts, to restructure and lay off a large number of employees, a first of its kind tours around ECO LAB for family members of the employees, and retreats for Korea, in 1996 and when the company was struggling to overhaul its for strengthening both the body and the mind. In addition, SK Chemicals business portfolio through spinning off its textile business into a separate provides IT classes for employees’ children during school vacations, company, Huvis. supports club activities of its employees, operates a fitness center inside the company as an effort to foster productive and workable environment for Currently, SK Chemicals is moving beyond seeking stability in laborClassical Music Concert its employees through health and family care. management relations, by developing a performance-oriented labormanagement relations model, based on the management performance, These diverse programs and activities to innovating corporate culture thereby establishing a shared framework between labor and management improves the quality of life for the employees as well as assist in providing for a common goal. an opportunity to recharge and pursue self-improvement, these benefits in turn, leads to enhanced productivity, thereby making SK Chemicals more Thanks to these and other efforts, SK Chemicals won the Grand Prize at competitive. the Korea Labor-Management Relations Awards in February 2006, as well as the Grand Prize at the Forbes Quality Assurance Awards for LaborManagement Reconciliation in September 2009. These awards publicly ● Major Programs for Work and Life Balance displayed the strength and cooperation between labor and management of SK . SK Chemicals has designated every Wednesdays as Leave Work Since 2007, SK Chemicals has been renewing the Labor-Management Leave Work On Time On Time day in order to encourage its employees to spend more Peace Declaration annually. In April 2009, it also announced One Heart, One Events time with their family or to invest time in self-development, at Will Declaration, demonstrating the unity between the employees and the least for one day a week. management and the resolve to ensure the company’s continued growth amidst the global financial crisis. In October 2009, the labor union also Developed in conjunction with UB Care, a subsidiary company, the decided to relegate the entire authority to the company management on systematic health management program is both preventative and therapeutic, and delivers customized healthcare support for all deciding wages and collective bargaining activities. As of the end of 2011, ● ERegular Medical Checkups for Employees employees. The program subjects employees to a comprehensive 32.9% of all SK Chemicals employees in Korea are eligible for collective UB Care Fortune health and behavioral evaluation, and provides programs to keep Service the employees at their best physical and psychological conditions bargaining. 1800 99 based on the individual results. An in-house doctor is on standby 96 95 100 at the SK Chemicals headquarters, and mobile and traveling This remarkable labor-management relation is the result of the continuous clinics provide the necessary care for the employees at the plant 1600 and honest conversations between the two parties. SK Chemicals keeps all sites. channels of communication with the labor union open, from maintaining 1400 the official communication channels to organizing the Labor-Management 80 G.rium, a 230 people capacity amphitheater within the SK 1,333 Athletic Championship and labor union executive retreats, holding labor1200 Classical Music Chemicals headquarters and equipped with the latest-technology, Concerts hosts a classical music concert every Thursday evening, nurturing management talks and working-level meetings, and operating online cultural sensibility for the employees and their family members. bulletin board, and electronic company newspaper. These represent the 1000 60 systematic efforts SK Chemicals makes to ensure continued improvement 981 957 The program, designed mainly for the children of SK Chemicals of labor-management culture. 800 employees, takes them around ECO LAB, Korea’s most innovative Family Tour around and eco-friendly architecture on Saturdays, and informs the While labor union activities are protected under relevant legislations 40 ECO LAB importance of environmental awareness through eco-friendly 600 board games. including the Labor Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act, the Act on Promoting Workers’ Participation and Cooperation, SK Chemicals has 400 The retreat programs for both the body and the mind are not additional systems to protect union and employee rights in “Title 1: General 20 only available for the employees, but also their family members, Provisions” and “Title 2: Labor Union Activities” in the Collective Bargaining Retreats providing opportunities to refresh and recharge the body and the 200 Agreement. spirit. (명) (%) 2009 2010 2011 Forbes Quality Assurance Excellence Labor-Management Peace No. of employees eligible for medical checkup ● Number of Employees on Childcare Leave Awards, September 2006 Declaration, 2007 Rate of employees receiving medical checkup Recipient Rate Formula: dividing the number of employees 2009 2010 2011 actually receiving medical checkup by the total number of employees eligible for medical checkup No. of employees that have used childcare leaves 4 6 13 Rate of employees who returned from childcare leaves 100% 100% 100% Partnership and Mutual Growth Support and Benefits Financial Assistance Partnership and SK Chemicals, through its SK Mutual Growth Fund, provides loans and financial assistances to partner businesses at favorable interest rates. The SK Mutual Growth Fund has raised approximately Mutual Growth KRW 6.7 billion to date, providing loans to partner businesses at preferred interest rates than the rates available on the market. In 2011, more than ten partner businesses took out loans from the SK Mutual Growth Fund. SK Chemicals intends to diversify the forms and modes of financial assistance it provides to its partners in 2012. The Mutual Growth Fund, created in cooperation with financial institutions, will significantly increase its capacity in 2012 so more partner businesses can benefit. SK Chemicals is also reviewing plans to link partner businesses with other financial institutions for loans and financing, as well as plans to make direct loans to partner businesses. Adjusting Payment Conditions In an effort to enhance cash flows for partner businesses, SK Chemicals has increased the amount of transactions it conducts in cash. SK Chemicals raised the limit of cash transactions to KRW 30 million per transaction with each partner business in 2011 from KRW 10 million in 2010. This increased the ratio of cash transactions, helping partner businesses save their financial costs. SK Chemicals also shortened the waiting period before payments, enabling partner businesses to receive their payments within 10 days. Training Support for Human Resources • System for Mutual Growth with Partner Businesses Development • Support Programs The competitiveness of partner businesses directly relates to that of SK Chemicals, which makes training support for those partner businesses a central factor in the mutual growth strategy of SK ● Mutual Growth Strategy ● SK Mutual Growth Academy Chemicals. In 2011, SK Chemicals organized 67 CEO seminars and 11 sessions of the Management Development Program (MDP) for representatives and delegates from partner businesses through System for Mutual Growth with Partner “Ensuring Sustainable Mutual Growth operating SK Mutual Growth Academy. In addition to these offthrough Practical and Working “Enhancing Partner Businesses’ Businesses Activities of Support” Competitiveness through Systematic line educational programs, SK Chemicals supported human resource development by also providing online programs for Training Support” partner businesses. The CEO seminars seek to enhance leadership and capacities of partner business leaders, providing the latest As a part of the fundamental vision and principle of SK management information on business administration, economy, organizational philosophy to deliver happiness to all its stakeholders, SK Chemicals change and management, and domestic and international markets. Spreading and continuously seeks ways for realizing mutual benefits and growth with its implementing Ensuring The MDPs aim to enhance job-related capacities and skills of partner businesses through forming a fair trade culture and enhancing For CEOs & Mutual Growth CEO campaigns win-win systems Enhancing executives professionals, focusing on topics such as planning, finance, SK Chemicals’ market competitiveness. As a part of this effort, SK for sharing with partner public trust Seminar marketing, personnel, and management. Chemicals is planning to sign an agreement with its partner businesses and enlarging businesses happiness on enhancing fair trade and mutual growth in 2012. The purpose of Mutual Growth Agreement is to establish self-enforcing fair trade regulations and For mid-level Other Programs to build the foundation for mutual growth between small and mediummanagers and Mutual Growth MDP sized businesses and large companies in subcontracting, raw materials team leaders G.rium, SK Chemicals’ amphitheater, is used to promote exchange and intermediate goods supplying, and service providing transactions. SK and enhance interactions with partner businesses. In 2011, SK Chemicals will utilize this agreement as an opportunity to expand the range Major Tasks of Mutual Growth Strategy Chemicals invited partner businesses on two concerts held in of substantive benefits the company provides to its partner businesses. the amphitheater, to enrich cultural experiences and to promote SK Chemicals is currently providing diverse forms of support and benefits networking opportunities, as well as providing greater opportunities Providing support for partner businesses, including financial assistance, adjustments of Providing Improving and training for of cooperation through attending international expositions in financial payment tandem and CEO visit to overseas clients. payment conditions, training and education for their employees, and other assistance conditions human resources programs. development Social Involvements and Contributions The corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs of SK Chemicals are designed to cater Diverse Volunteer Activities to the most pressing issues and agendas of local communities. The company provides an extensive range of support and benefits for the locals and natural environments. Support for Silver Theater One of the representative CSR programs of SK Chemicals catering to human needs is the Silver Theater Support campaign. Since launching Silver Theater in 2009 as Korea’s first theater for senior citizens, with the approval from Ministry of Employment and Labor as a certified social enterprise, SK Chemicals has been providing KRW 100 to 200 million annually for the operation of the theater and sponsoring its major activities. Silver Theater has become a flagship public space of culture for senior citizens in Korea. Environment-Conscious CSR Programs Supporting Compassion Since January 2011, SK Chemicals has been sponsoring Compassion, an international nongovernment organization dedicated to children’s welfare. When an individual employee donates to Compassion to support a single child, the company and the CEO each match the employee’s donation to support three children per employee. As of the end of 2011, 110 employees have participated, raising a cumulative fund of KRW 180 million in total. APPENDIX Environment-Conscious CSR Programs Flagship environmental friendly program of SK Chemicals is protection of wetland (river) ecosystems. The company has continued protection and purification of river systems across Korea, including the Unjungcheon River Wetland in Seongnam, the city in which ECO LAB is located; the Mipyeongcheon River in Cheongju; and ecosystems near the Ulsan Plant, including Cheoyong Park, Ganjeolgot, and Solmarugil Road. Rural Support Project The Wellbeing Project of SK D&D involves producing and distributing organic agricultural produce through collaboration between SK Group and Ochang Agricultural Cooperative in Chungbuk Province. Through direct transactions between the rural communities and the consumers, the project enables the consumers to purchase safe and affordable quality agricultural produce. The Wellbeing Project, first initiated by SK Chemicals in 2005, has become an example of a well-designed program that helps to reduce the inequalities between urban and rural communities. Social Involvements SK Chemicals, as a part of SK Group, is continuously participating and contributing to various social causes. In 2011, SK Chemicals donated KRW 600 million to the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics Hosting Committee, and another KRW 100 million to the Korea Disaster Relief Association. Furthermore, the company distributes briquettes to low-income families, holds fundraising bazaars, and distributes first-aid kits during the holiday season. As “talent contribution” has become a new trend in charity work throughout Korea, SK Chemicals is sharing its experiences and knowledge on marketing, human resources development, accounting, and legal service through SK Pro Bono Program with small and medium-sized businesses. Diverse Volunteer Activities and Charity Work SK Chemicals employees annually volunteer in Gimjang, the kimchi preparing process, at the Seoul Community Rehabilitation Center, located in Gangdong-gu, Seoul, with each department additionally volunteering for various social causes, including supporting children of low-income households, and sponsoring schools for children with disabilities. In late 2011, SK Chemicals worked with City of Seongnam located in Gyeonggi-do Province to provide rice for low-income household residents. A p p e n d i x Statement of Financial Position Awards (Currency: KRW) 2009 2010 2011 Awarded by Year Award Title Assets Current assets 609,309,382,604 535,216,041,567 631,159,236,354 Min. of Environment / Maeil Business 2003 2003 Environmental Management Awards: “Green Partnership” Environmental Newspaper Management Grand Prize (Suwon plant) (1)Quick assets 405,195,098,959 343,417,307,580 406,186,961,732 Min. of Environment 2006 Prime Minister’s Award for Exemplar Environment Management Practices (2)Inventory assets 204,114,283,645 191,798,733,987 224,972,274,622 (Safety & Environment Team, Suwon plant) Non-current assets 1,389,509,725,811 1,276,447,881,372 1,402,592,304,383 Energy Mgmt. Corp. 2007~2009 Voluntary Compliance with Energy Agreements (Energy Efficiency) (1)Investment assets 430,113,572,879 782,933,144,411 818,859,308,854 Energy Mgmt. Corp. 2008 Best Practice Award for Reducing Fuel Cost (Suwon plant, for using methanol-mixed fuel) (2)Tangible assets 902,289,475,114 454,272,210,809 547,945,079,731 Energy Mgmt. Corp. 2008 Best Practice Award for Saving Energy (Facility Assistance Team, Suwon plant, for installing desulfurization facilities) (3)Intangible assets 20,344,541,183 32,532,901,342 27,850,538,457 Korea Economic Daily 2011 Korea Ethical Management Grand Prize (for “Environmental Management”) (4)Other non-current assets 36,762,136,635 6,709,624,810 7,937,377,341 Korea Mgmt. Association Quality 2011 Global Standard Management Grand Prize (for “Green Management”) Total assets 1,998,819,108,415 1,811,663,922,939 1,811,663,922,939 Assurance Korea Sustainability Investing Forum 2011 CDP Special Award – for Improving Performance Liabilities Current liabilities 773,011,493,636 707,999,275,486 480,244,409,216 Korea Institute of Registered Korea Architectural Culture Grand Prize (“Private Sector”) 2011 Non-current liabilities 323,246,539,518 195,561,400,334 631,381,127,130 Architects Total liabilities 1,096,258,033,154 903,560,675,820 1,111,625,536,346 Global Green Management CDP Special Award Korea Ethical Management Grand Prize Capital Capital stock 118,300,860,000 118,300,860,000 118,300,860,000 Grand Prize (“Environmental Management”) Capital surplus 298,542,940,219 145,530,430,546 145,530,430,546 Other capital items -78,109,038,677 -98,068,499,377 -98,068,499,377 Other accumulated all-inclusive income 324,611,976,946 957,329,746 1,632,274,167 Earned surplus 239,214,336,773 741,383,126,204 754,730,939,055 Total capital 902,561,075,261 908,103,247,119 922,126,004,391 Total liabilities and capital 1,998,819,108,415 1,811,663,922,939 2,033,751,540,737 Income Statement Member Organizations (Currency: KRW) 2009 2010 2011 Organization Year Reason for Joining/Launching Sales 1,276,454,588,117 1,334,514,621,732 1,546,107,694,525 Korea Chemical Management 1990 For sharing knowledge and information on how to handle and manage hazardous Association (KCMA) chemicals better Cost of sales 990,721,290,848 1,037,383,909,381 1,245,669,454,486 Environmental Preservation 1991 For ensuring compliance with the new policies of the central and local governments Gross margin 285,733,297,269 297,130,712,351 300,438,240,039 Association (EPA) on environmental preservation Selling and administrative expenses 201,385,700,022 228,216,839,151 235,789,777,579 Korea Environmental Engineers 1992 For promoting the exchange of information and technology on environmental Association (KENVA) preservation among environment specialists Operating income 84,347,597,247 68,913,873,200 64,648,462,460 Suwon 21 1998 For providing support and recommendations on improving the natural environment Non-operating income 267,749,723,628 38,003,657,048 34,691,310,985 and conditions of Suwon Non-operating cost 198,912,394,282 69,212,034,181 67,511,524,754 Korea Responsible Care Council 2000 For ensuring environmental, safety, and health management and coordinating Net income before taxes 153,184,926,593 37,705,496,067 31,828,248,691 (KRCC) related social campaigns Income tax 28,727,894,103 -2,215,068,415 992,431,188 UNGC 2011 Voluntary agreement on fighting social issues, including human rights, environmental protection, and corruption Net income of the term 124,457,032,490 39,920,564,482 30,835,817,503 The financial data of 2009 have been calculated using the K-GAAP, the accounting standard the company applied until that year. The financial data from 2010 and 2011, on the other hand, have been calculated using the current accounting standard, i.e. K-IFRS. A p p e n d i x GRI G3.1 Index ● Reported fully | ● Reported partially | ● Not reported ● Reported fully | ● Reported partially | ● Not reported Report Report Profile Status Pages Remarks Disclosure on Management Approach Status Pages Remarks Strategy & 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ● 2, 3 Economic Aspects Economic performance ● 10 Market presence: Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 8, 24, 28, 38, 50 (EC) Market presence ● 50 This report does not include SK 2.1 Name of the organization. ● About this report Indirect economic impacts ● 60 Chemicals’ overseas plants or Organizational offices. Once they become included Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ● 8, 26-28, 31 in the scope of future sustainability 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, ● 9 reports, their activities and impact and joint ventures. will be described in detail. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. ● 9 Environment Aspects Materials ● 16-19, 44 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major ● 9 (EN) Energy ● 16-19, 39, 40 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Water ● 16-19, 45 Biodiversity: 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 9 Biodiversity ● 34 Because the Korean plants are 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ● 9 Emissions, effluents and waste ● 16-19, 44, 46, 47 located in regions without high 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● 10, 50, 62 Products and services ● 16-19, 24-28 levels of biodiversity, indicators of biodiversity do not matter greatly. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ● No such changes took place Compliance ● 16-19, 29 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 63 Transport ● 19 Report 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● About this report Overall ● 19 Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● About this report Aspects Employment ● 50 Labor 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● About this report Practices and Labor/management relations ● 56 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● About this report Decent Work Occupational health and safety ● 55 3.5 Process for defining report content. ● 4, 5 (LA) Training and education ● 51-53 3.9 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). ● About this report Diversity and equal opportunity ● 50 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Where relevant, Equal remuneration for women and men 54 the method ● 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for ● About this report of obtaining/ Aspects Investment and procurement practices ● 20 calculating the data Human explanation of scope). Rights Non-discrimination ● 20 has been explained. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other ● About this report (HR) Freedom of association and collective bargaining ● 20 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.10, 11 Child labor ● 20 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques ● About this report Since this is Prevention of forced and compulsory labor ● 20 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. the first-ever Security practices ● 20 3.10 Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. N/A sustainability report Indigenous rights 20 ● published by SK ● Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Chemicals, there is Assessment ● 20 for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, no previous report Remediation ● 20 involved. measurement methods). Society Aspects Local communities ● 20, 33, 45-47, 55, 60 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods ● N/A (SO) Corruption ● 20, 21 applied in the report. Public policy ● 21, 25, 58 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 64-68 Anti-competitive behavior ● 21 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ● About this report Compliance ● 16, 21 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body ● 11, 15, 18, 20 Aspects Customer health and safety ● 30-33 Governance, Product Commitments, responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Responsibility Product and service labelling ● 35 and 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ● 11 (PR) Marketing communications ● SK Chemicals conforms to all Engagement 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the ● 11 domestic laws on marketing, with highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. ● advices from the Legal Affairs 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest ● 11, 56 Team. governance body. Customer privacy ● Given the nature of its businesses, 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and ● SK Chemicals does not collect executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and personal information of customers. environmental performance). Compliance 33, 34 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ● 11 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest ● 11 governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to ● 6-8, 20, 21 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and ● 11 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to ● 11 economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 34, 38, 63 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to ● 63 which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy ● 63 organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 4 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder ● 4 group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the ● 5 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. A p p e n d i x GRI G3.1 Index ● Reported fully | ● Reported partially | ● Not reported ● Reported fully | ● Reported partially | ● Not reported Report Report Performance Indicator Status Pages Remarks Performance Indicator Status Pages Remarks Economic Economic performance Products and services (EC) EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 10 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 25-28 ● ● compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ● Of all the materials providers and governments. produced, everything EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate ● 24-28, 39, 40 except carbon fiber can change. be reused or recycled. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. ● 10 Pharmaceuticals, EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ● 10 however, cannot be reused Market presence or recycled. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant ● New employees receive the Compliance locations of operation. same wages regardless of EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with ● No such fines/sanctions their sex. environmental laws and regulations. were imposed during the EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of ● For domestic operations, the report period. operation. entire territory of South Korea Transport EC6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at ● is regarded as forming one EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the ● N/A This report does significant locations of operation. region of operation. There is not include SK organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. no preference given to making Chemicals’ Overall local purchases or hiring overseas plants or EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. N/A offices. Once they ● locals. become included Labor Employment Indirect economic impacts in the scope of Practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. ● 50 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit ● 60 future sustainability and Decent LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ● 50 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. reports, their Work (LA) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by N/A activities and impact ● EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ● N/A will be described in major operations. Materials detail. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. ● 57 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ● 44 Labor/management relations (EN) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ● Given the nature of its LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 56 business, SK Chemicals LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in ● 50 cannot use recycled material collective agreements. in production. Occupational health and safety Energy LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety ● 55 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 39 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 39 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities ● 55 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ● 41, 42 by region and by gender. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in ● N/A LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce ● 55, 57 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ● 41, 42 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ● N/A Water Training and education EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 45 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. ● 52 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ● 45 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of ● 52, 53 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ● N/A employees and assist them in managing career endings. Biodiversity LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. ● 54 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ● N/A EN11 Diversity and equal opportunity biodiversity value outside protected areas. Because the LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to ● 50 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas 34 Korean plants are gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ● located in regions and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. without high levels Equal remuneration for women and men EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ● N/A of biodiversity, LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of ● 20 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ● N/A indicators of operation. biodiversity do not EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by ● N/A Human Rights Investment and procurement practices matter greatly. operations, by level of extinction risk. (HR) HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses ● 20 Emissions, effluents and waste incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 39 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human ● 20 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● N/A EN17 rights screening, and actions taken. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ● 40 This indicator HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are ● 20. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 47 does not bear relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ● much significance, EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ● 47 as the amount Non-discrimination EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ● 45, 46 of greenhouse HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. ● There was no such case reported EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ● 44 gas emissions during the report period. generated by SK EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ● There was no such case during Freedom of association and collective bargaining Chemicals’ plants the report period. in Korea is too HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and ● 20 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the ● N/A little to reach the collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. requirement of Child labor EN16. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly ● 45 HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and ● 20 affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. A p p e n d i x GRI G3.1 Index ● Reported fully | ● Reported partially | ● Not reported The following table has been created in order to help you better understand and conceptualize how the Report ISO 26000 seven core subjects of the ISO 26000 (i.e. governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair Performance Indicator Status Pages Remarks operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development) are related to the Forced and compulsory labor content of this report. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or ● 20 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Core Subjects Issues Pages Core Subjects Issues Pages Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects N/A Governance Decision-making processes and structures 11, 15, 18, 20 Fair operating Anti-corruption 20, 21 ● practices of human rights that are relevant to operations. Human Due diligence 20, 33 Responsible political involvement 68 Indigenous rights rights Human rights risk situations 20 Fair competition 21 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ● N/A Assessment Avoidance of complicity Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 20 20 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact ● 20 Respect for property rights 32 assessments. Resolving grievances 20 HR11 Remediation Consumer Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and 68 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 20, 50, 60 issues fair contractual practices Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal ● 20 grievance mechanisms. Civil and political rights 20 Protecting consumers' health and safety 32, 33 Society Local communities Economic, social and cultural rights 20, 57 Sustainable consumption 24-28 (SO) SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and ● 33, 55, 60 development programs. Fundamental principles and rights at work 20, 51-57 Consumer service, support, and complaint and 35 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ● 33, 45-47, 55 dispute resolution SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual 33, 45-47, 55 Labor Employment and employment relationships 20, 50 ● practices Consumer data protection and privacy Not relevant negative impacts on local communities. Conditions of work and social protection 20, 51-54, 57 Corruption Access to essential services 60 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ● 20 Social dialogue 20, 56 Education and awareness SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 21 Health and safety at work 20, 55 Community involvement SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 21 Community 60 Public policy Human development and training in the workplace 51-53 involvement Education and culture 60 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 21, 25, 58 and ● The Prevention of pollution 16-19, 34, 44-47 development SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by No such financial or in-kind Employment creation and skills development 50, 59 ● environment country. contribution was made during the Sustainable resource use 16-19, 38-45 Technology development and access 60 report period. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 16-19, 38-43 Wealth and income creation 10 Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their ● 21 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and 16-19, 34 Health 60 outcomes. restoration of natural habitats Social investment 60 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with ● 21 laws and regulations. Product Customer health and safety Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for ● 33 (PR) improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and ● No such violations occurred SK Chemicals endorses the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. during the report period. UN and anti-corruption. This report also provides information on the efforts and practices of SK Chemicals that Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products ● All pharmaceutical products Global Compact seek to pursue and embody these 10 principles. and services subject to such information requirements. and equipment provide relevant information, pursuant to the laws The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in Korea. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product ● No such violations occurred and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. during the report period. Category Principles Pages PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ● 35 Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 20 Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, ● No such program exists as of yet. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 20 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 20, 56 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing ● N/A communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 20 Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer Given the nature of its businesses, 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 20 ● data. SK Chemicals does not collect any 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 20, 50, 54 private information of customers. Compliance Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 16-19, 34, 38-47 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision ● No such violations occurred 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 19, 34 and use of products and services. during the report period. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 16, 17, 19, 24-28 This report has been produced in accordance with G3.1, an international guideline and standard on sustainability reports. Verification by an independent third party gave this report a grade of A+ for its conformity to the guideline. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 20, 21 Third Party’s Assurance Report | To the Readers of SK Chemicals 2011 Sustainability Report | Foreword Korea Management Association Registration inc(KMAR) has been requested by SK Chemicals to verify the • Materiality contents of its 2011 Sustainability Report (the Report). SK Chemicals is responsible for the collection and Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material presentation of information included in the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. specific information in the assurance scope stipulated below. -SK Chemicals is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team did not find any critical issues left out in this process. Our independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other SK Chemicals business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest • Responsiveness and to maintain independence. Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Assurance SK Chemicals describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. The -The assurance team did not find any evidence that SK Chemicals’ counter measures to critical stakeholder issues scope assurance process is designed to provide readers with the following information: were inappropriately recorded in the Report. • Assurance of the economic section: The assurance result of the reliability of sustainability performance information is as follows: Reviews whether the financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from SK Chemicals’ 2009 individual financial statements, audit reports, and public notification data for the separate 2010 and 2011 financial statements as • Economic performance defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors We compared the Report with SK Chemicals’ 2009, 2010 and 2011 Financial Statements and found that the financial data presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2009, 2010 and 2011 Financial Statements. • Assurance of the environmental and social section: Reviews whether the environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately. • Environmental and social performance We observed that the information found in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately presented. We did ‘”Appropriately presented” means that the actual data and original information are appropriately reflected not discover any significant errors. in the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic section, we based our evidence-gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than that of the limited assurance in Recommendation for We hope SK Chemicals’ publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. improvement stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. KMAR performed the review based on our own assurance methodology. We also used the International • Efforts should be made to develop the publication process of the sustainability report into more systematic process. Assurance Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements This may include improvement of internal communications on sustainability achievements, development of performance standards (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as indicators, and procedure documentation. additional guidelines. • Efforts should be made to promote the understanding of issues on sustainability. Although SK Chemicals is currently doing its best to enhance sustainability achievements in many ways, more effort should be made to promote the In order to form our conclusion, KMAR followed the steps outlined below to assess SK Chemicals’ internal understanding of the relationship between key project activities and sustainability as well as to have shared awareness Assurance processes for reviewing the sustainability-reporting practices. between executives and staff members. process • The establishment of an organization dedicated to sustainability management in January 2011 is very encouraging • Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data news. The organization should establish a system to develop and execute strategies, review its achievements, and • Assessed internal documents and materials examine various social expectations through participation activities of stakeholders from each field and reflect them in • Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances their decision-making process. In addition, since Green Chemicals and Life Science Biz. are different in the sustainability aspect, efforts should be made to effectively coordinate the establishment and execution of appropriate strategies Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, relevant department visits, and interviews, according to their characteristics. Conclusion we had several discussions with SK Chemicals on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team did not find any inappropriate May 18, 2012 contents related to the compliance with the principle in the Report. • Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. -SK Chemicals is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team did not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. CEO Ki Ho Park
