COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS YEAR 2012 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT I am pleased to confirm that Cimbria EA Ltd supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. This communication is our expression of intent to continue supporting and advance these principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of Cimbria and undertake to make a clear statement to our employees, partners, clients and to the public of this commitment. We focus on reporting on those issues that are most important to our business, as well as stakeholders. As a Group, we have placed great emphasis on a risk-based approach, including matters relating to the safety and health of our people, the environment and the wellbeing of the communities in which we live and operate by recognizing that our sustainability strategy must also be informed by those issues that are important to all we do business with. By this we believe that it is important for us that our stakeholders understand our strategy and performance in context not only from an industry perspective, but well informed of our business acumen. During the Year 2011, we vowed to strive and “achieve Entrepreneurial success” that is based upon ethical values that creates economic value” and in the start of 2012, we were hit by a fire in our workshop and 90% of the workshop and parts was destroyed. Now 1/2year down the line we are back on our feet and we trust for a better and safer future and for the remainder of the year we will aim at creating long-term values for our stakeholders, suppliers, employees, community around us and all the friends of CEA by transforming renewable resources into innovative product solutions that meet customer needs in a responsible, cost effective and sustainable way. Our products are inherently sustainable based almost entirely on economic sustainability from renewable sources. In this review, we report on the commitments we have set for continued support on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Continued communication have set CEA on an advance level of reporting what we are doing and giving CEA confidence day by day, to enjoy the success and international recognized awards despite the hash economic global warming hiccups. Nevertheless, the Cimbria Group continues making sustainability a winwin endeavour. 14.09.2012 Jørgen T. Nielsen Managing Director 1 CONTACT Company Name : Cimbria East Africa Ltd Sector : Agriculture – Grain Care Handling Equipment Number Of employees : 36 UN GC signatory since : 2006/4/4 Contact Person : Jørgen T. Nielsen / Losey M. Wamutitu Address : P.O. Box 24580, 00502–Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail : info@cimbria.co.ke Phone :+254 051 800 6354/5/7 MD JTN HS Losey Committee Secretary Peter Workshop/Sites Shipping and IT Project FM STM (TMO) Overseas ROB management ROB JTN Anthony Purchase (Outsourced) Elphas JTN Mark Mike Project Local Electric Design Personel Finance Andrew Quality Orders Purchase Titus John Mburu Mburu Michelle Anthony Eric Dollo Dickson + Peter Anthony & Elphas Carolyne Frida 2 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS CIMBRIA EAST AFRICA Ltd. SEED -GRASS SEED – GRAIN VEGETABLE SEED – BEANS *Fine cleaning & Polishing *Sorting by Length & Thickness *Sorting by colour & Weight *Process operation & Control COLOUR SORTER -PIXEL optical sorter allow: *Separation of defective products recognizable by a chromatic difference control *Capacity up to 8t/h PORT TERMINALS – SILO PLANTS – FLAT *High-level performance STORAGE BUILDINGS – STEEL SILOS *Temperature measurement & registration *Highly concentrated rejects *Chain conveyor, elevator & belt conveyor *Great reliability *Grain drying & Silo *High Flexibility and *Process control operation & temperature control * Easy to use *Low necessary High-level performance *Quick return on the investment MALT HOUSE BREWERY *Fine cleaning & grading COFFEE PLANT *Sorting by size *Drying, cleaning & storage *Process operation & control *Coffee hulling, grading & sorting *Malt drying & dosing *Mixing, weighing & dosing equipment *Process control & operation *Sorting by colour and weight FEED MILLS – PROCESS PLANTS RICE & FLOUR MILLS *Raw material, silos for mixed food & *Drying, cleaning & storage dosing equipment *Hulling, whitening & polishing *Hammer mills & pellet press machines *Process control, operation & *Dust extraction & filters temperature control *Process control, dosing & mixing 3 SCOPE OF THIS COP Cimbria East Africa Ltd. (CEA) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles by transforming renewable resources into innovative product solutions that meet customer needs in a responsible, cost effective and sustainable means, by linking business development with Corporate Social Responsibility. We at CEA have realized that implementing the ten principles is more about continuous improvement in running our business by spearheading on our expectations by investing further in a 2 year programme on partnership with sustainable business development between our Danish Company Partner. This partnershipis collaborating on implementing business practices based on strategic Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The programme will demonstrate the link between improved social and environmental conditions, business performance within the CEA Company with mutual benefits. The aim of the Danish-Kenyan business collaboration is to create win-win situations that benefit both partners. CEA is expected to benefit from an internationally recognized CSR standard positively affecting organization of production, productivity, attrition rates, cost savings and new market opportunities. Activities The programme encompasses four main activities as below which are incorporated in the UNGC 10 Principles. Workshops attended • International CSR standards and CSR management • Occupational Health and safety • Strategic Partnership, CSR & Human Rights (joint workshop in Denmark): • Labour Standards & HR Management in a CSR • CSR Improvements and Higher productivity – The lean Approach Upcoming workshops • Action plan progress and Strategic Community Development (joint workshop in Kenya): • Environment, Cleaner Production and Energy Efficiency • CSR Communication & Marketing and Finalization 4 Needs assessment: An on-site needs assessment of CEA was carried out to determine specific improvement potentials in terms of social and environmental issues and business performance. The first step of the SUSBIZ Kenya Programme was to conduct an in-depth analysis of CEA to identify issues of potential improvements within CSR and business performance in terms of labour standards, occupational health and safety, community involvement, management procedures and business growth. Based on the needs assessment action plans for implementation of strategic CSR initiatives was developed. Action plan: Based on needs assessment, action plan for implementation of strategic CSR initiatives was developed for CEA. The action plan specified concrete initiatives, objectives, targets and dates, was developed in collaboration between the Kenyan, Danish business partner and the SUSBIZ team. The plan also outlines roles, responsibilities and status of implementation, which will function as a guiding document for implementation for continuous revision throughout the programme. Implementation of action plan: To support CEA implementation of action plan, CEA ongoing participation on a series of workshops in Kenya involving relevant experts will continue addressing topics which the needs assessment reveal as being of high relevance. The joint collaboration between the Danish and Kenya Company is highly prioritized in ongoing programme. In addition, the CEA will receive on-site training and assistance in order to accommodate its needs. Workshops in Denmark: The Danish company is also participating in a series of workshops which address challenges related to social and environmental issues in global value chains. Organizers of The programme is designed and run by: Danish Federation of SME’s, Danish Commerce and Companies Agency, and Federation of Kenya Employers The three organizations manage and facilitate all activities. In order to ensure a high degree of local embeddedness, a local coordinator is employed, and local consultants are involved throughout the course of the programme. 5 ETHICS CEA in addition will visibly promote responsible business conduct and exert influence on other companies including our stakeholders. On this we have participated in relevant seminars and workshops organized by GCNK, KAM, KEPSA and FKE and on signing the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya Letter of commitment and engagements CEA will remain committed and to report further in principle 1 & 2. The Code of Ethic is Kenya will uplift CEA’s CSR, our stakeholders, users of our products and services, our suppliers, our society and our government and the natural environment around us. INNOVATION The Company offers and gives all employees a chance to improve themselves, by providing advanced training in different subjects, either inside the company or with Local & International Companies. The Company is concerned with social activities between its employees and their families to maintain the good relation amongst themselves. Continued innovation to enhance sustainable innovations in our business, CEA promoted One IT Electrical staff to visit our business partner in Denmark on advance training on group electronics, two electrical technicians to an electrical S7 Basic and advance course locally offering introduction and in-depth knowledge of the digital operation of PLC’s respectively. The course also introduced electrical personnel to structured programming and provides guidelines on how to solve varied tasks with Simatic S7 controllers the key prerequisites being electrical background and computer literacy for S7 basic and successful completion of S7 basic for the advanced course. SIMATIC s7 PLC’s and SIEMENS programming units with STEP7 software will give our technician a state of art technology on different practical industrial models used for the purpose of applying principles. 6 AUTOCAD INVENTOR TRAINING Cimbria Group has a whole design and tailor make designs to the customers need on respect to customer human rights and satisfaction. CEA therefore found a need to promote two design staff on an Autocad inventor training at Nairobi Institute of technology (NIT) for a period of two weeks in the month of April/May. AutoCAD inventor is software from Autodesk Corporation which is used in engineering design. It is used in representation of machinery in three Dimensions Benefits of using AutoCAD Inventor • Enable Representation of machinery in three dimensions; hence it will be very easy to convince the customer. • Since the machines and the whole plant will be drawn in Three Dimensions, It will be very easy for the installation team in doing installation without making many errors, to facilitate quality and timely customer satisfaction. • The software will make Drawing work more easily in representing the complex machines viewed from different direction giving the customer different angels for evaluations and decision making. • It will make the presentation of machines models by sales team easier as compared with using machine models drawn in Two Dimensions (2D) Implementation For uniformity in innovation, CEA awaits Drawing Blocks of different machines from our Principal business partner to enable us implement the program hence enjoy the benefits to sustainability win win business. Financial Statement Financial and economical security is one of the most parameters that are taken care of in order to secure the Company’s employees. CEA increased turnover by 20%, hence improving our bottom line. We also reinvested most of this on staff training, better working tools and machinery. We hope to do even better in the next few years considering pending orders and sales projections. Donations, • Together with some of our stakeholders, CEA participated fully in the 2011 Rhino charge event in aid of fencing Aberdare part and bordering forests to protect the wildlife particular the endangered Rhino. • Contributed towards Two new projects namely fencing of Mr. Kenya as well as Mau Eburru. • In support towards orphaned children home by CEA and employees getting aside their busy schedule to share their birthday cakes with the children respectively • Contributed funds towards the building of school in Oloosrikon. • Supported the Rotary Sunshine Rally for the physically and mentally challenged children with donations of transport and logistical support. 7 Awards. • Certificate of appreciation award by The Rotary Sunshine Rally held on 25th February 2012 • Category GOLD Certificate of Participation by East Africa Grain Council Agribusiness Expo held on 20th and 21st July 2012. • Appreciation as Exhibitors award by East African Fine Coffees Association held in Ethiopia February 2012. • Certificate of Appreciation on valuable contribution towards business fair by ACDIVOCA, USAID and Kenya Maize Development Programme. • Trophy ASANTE award for Transport assistance towards FIN Africa Cross Country Kenya 2011 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment Cimbria East Africa Ltd. (CEA) believes that Human rights is a universal legal guarantee in protecting employees, stakeholders, and all the friends of Cimbria group against actions that interfere with fundamental freedoms and human dignity in all our undertakings on set goals. A brief description of our process and systems. On the joint partnership with our Danish business partner on ongoing CRS Programme, CEA continue addressing and practicing the ILO Fundamental Principles Adopted in 1998, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; is a commitment of CEA employer and its employees to uphold basic human values relating to: • Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Effective abolition of child labour by respective legislature rules on hiring our employees. • Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Right to adequate health on staff medical and personal accident covers. • Right to adequate food at workplace. • Right to adequate family life. • Right to freedom from forced labour and servitude • Right to freedom of movement to all our employees on regional projects. • Right to freedom of opinion, expression thought and religion during our widely exhibited field days and at workplace. • Right to work and to just and favorable conditions at work on Health, safety and Environmental policy. Activities implemented in the last year. • Cimbria East Africa Ltd. (CEA) management team have improved on Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining by 8 recently holding staff representative meeting on salary bargaining where a consensus was reached on a salary negotiations with an expected outcome end of financial year September 2012 • All hired employees must have attained 18yrs -proof of National Identity Cards in respect to child labour. • In respect of employment and occupation, CEA hires employees who have our business acumen to give freedom from forced labour and servitude. Technical management Team has taken the initiative to give new employees a walkthrough of what activities we are doing at CEA. • CEA have invested much on training of administration and management staff in different fields on CSR, Electrical and Drawing departments in order to continue transforming renewable resources into innovative product solutions that meet customer needs in a responsible, cost effective and sustainable way, which will create economical and ethical value in our business. • Due to widely regional projects, employees have the freedom of movement and are scheduled to return to home office after 2 months in respecting the right to adequate family life. Measures of outcomes and value added for our company. • CEA as a preferred equal employer by being compliance with local and internal laws where human rights principle are contained, meaning CEA have worn the battle for legal challenges for ourselves and business partners. • Satisfying customer, employees and suppliers concerns by reputational risks to company and business partners • Community goodwill has been created by respecting human rights and a positive community relations bonded contributing to a more stable and productive business environment. • CEA have attracted International and regional business relationships for good management, reliable and operating in an ethical way. • By enhancing Risk Management and upholding basic human rights, it have lead CEA to positive impact productivity. • CEA ”Happy workers are more likely to be productive” • This CSR Ongoing programme will add value to CEA day to day by coming up with a CRS policy to be able to respect this principle fully. Activities planned for next year. We hope that CEA will have a system in place enabling us support with confidence claims that respect human rights. By due diligence process whereby CEA can become aware of, prevention and means of address adverse human rights impacts by: • Having a human rights policy and initiate a CSR policy to respect human rights. • Assessing human rights risks and impacts at workplace and all we do business with. • Integrating human rights throughout CEA. • Having a mechanism to handle grievances and tracing as well as reporting performances LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3 business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 9 Commitment Cimbria East Africa Ltd (CEA) commitment reflects on principle 3 that business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of right to collective bargaining. CEA Management admits the company is growing with the company employing 36 permanent and pensionable employees and 15 employees on contract basis. CEA is committed to a flat table communication and negotiations between employer and employee. CEA has allowed employees to choose staff representative for any grievances across the board for collective bargaining and communication to a consensus. Request to meet regularly with or without grievances to up line any needs, complaints, general communications that may arise are granted. A brief description of our process and systems. Principle 4 get further into our system of eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labour by recruiting employees based on the legal rules by conducting interviews and conversations to set up contracts including job descriptions and payment and agreements between all employees to eliminate forced and compulsory labour. CEA has hired (8) employees since our last COP on (4) permanent and (4) on contracts basis where this principle was observed, and 2 employees have left CEA. Principle 5 ensures that Labour rights play a central role in our values, professionalism, respect and perseverance that guide us in business; CEA striving to adhere to legislation and Labour laws put in place by ensuring that CEA hired adult employees by proof of National Identity card, National Social security Fund membership, National Health Insurance Fund contributors and personal Identification number for the Kenya Revenue Authority Office. All deductions are remitted by CEA to respective authorities. Principle 6 governs CEA on elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation making sure employees are hired from mixed race. Kenya is a multi culture state of about 42 tribes, CEA embracing the joy of employing staff from approx. 12 tribes becoming a multi culture employer. CEA employees too enjoy the freedom of religious worship. (See below table) Due to nature of our business, Supervisors and engineers are relocated to different site depending on new avenues where deployed staff is requested to undertake the project responsibly putting safety and respecting family background, and reunite with their family after 2 months by granting a two week break and then proceed back to the site. CEA has improved means of transport from road to air on long journeys putting in mind the safety of its employees. 10 No ethnic discrimination Ethinic 2006 2007 2008 2009 201 2011 2012 0 Danish 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 European 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Kikuyu 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 Kamba 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 Luo 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Luyha 5 5 5 5 5 6 6 Masaai 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Coastal 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 Kalenjin 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 Meru 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Kisii 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Boran 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Others 1 1 1 5 5 5 5 TOTAL 25 25 25 28 30 36 36 Measurable Results 2 meetings have been conducted during this year between CEA management and Staff representatives on grievances outcomes for implementation seeing access to communication as a basic Labour Right. CEA Management is in process of employing qualified Human Resource personnel to handle company Human Resource Matters to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and improve target based achievements and performance appraisal, Personal evaluation independently to all employees to be same leverage in work place Activities planned for next year. With this principle in place, CEA on continuous sustainable business needs assessment report is in the process of writing a policy on labour which will incorporate the Health Safety and Environment having a procedure for review on the policy to make sure followups on implementation of improvements frequency of evaluations (self –audit) and risk assessment of new projects. This will improve framework for management of labour and Health Safety and Environmental issues. 11 The policy will be communicated to all employees who will receive an induction on the company’s labour policy while old employees will get refresher training on the policy. This will keep all employees informed on labour and health, safety & environment. CEA is in the process of developing handbook on guide for labour Health Safety & Environment procedures to also be given to new and old employees. And to keep track of procedures, records will be signed and stored. CEA supervisors will also be trained on handling and working with the company’s labour and Health safety and Environment policy to help reduce accidents amongst staff It is a labour right to all employees to be well informed of their rights so CEA will make a communication plan on who should be trained, when and how often the employees should be trained. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology Commitment Cimbria East Africa L t d. (C E A) Is determined to ensure that all our activities have the most minimal negative impact on our environment by creating awareness amongst our employees, customers and stakeholders. Planned activitiesfor the year included building an internal capacity for conducting self audits. A CEA Environmental Audit was conducted. Based on the outcome of the environmental Audit report, CEA will act on recommended changes to conform to the Nema standards together with CSR programme in progress for developing a baseline against which our improvements can be measured in order to ensure viable improves. A brief description of our process and systems. CEA imports and sell agricultural machinery conforming to European union/European community and Kenya Bureau of standards that does not exhaust waste like fumes and dust avoiding environmental degradation. CEA undertakes installation work on dryers, silos plants and machinery where we are committed to ensure that equipment used for construction e.g drilling tools and grinding machinery are efficient in use of electric in power, helping power conservation. The Grain Handling system which is our core business embraces equipment like Cimbria cyclofans, a combination of a fan and a highly efficient mechanical dust separator specially developed to process or remove moist air from grain dryer. CEA vehicles use environmentally friendly fuel of unleaded petrol and low surplur diesel. Activities implemented this year. • A Study has been carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management and Coordination Act, 1999 and the Environmental (Impact Assessment and Audit) Regulations, 2003. CEA Environmental Audit • As the joint partnership with our Danish business partner on the ongoing CRS Programme, CEA continue addressing and practicing the ILO Fundamental Principles Adopted in 1998, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work has been our commitment. 12 • Due to fire loss we suffered early this year, a lot of housekeeping, health and safety measures have been put in place for improvements and preventions of future eventualities. • On environmental improvement, the workshop roof now fitted with super Eco ventilation cyclones to allow in fresh air. • The workshop wall now covered up to 60% with iron sheets and canvas stretched at the main entrance of the workshop to reduce noise. • CEA has an environmental policy incorporating other health and safety (herewith attached) -A Health and safety (H&S) Committee in place representing all CEA departments. -The H&S is meeting after every 3 months to evaluate on ongoing safety measures. -CEA H&S Policy enhances awareness and made more elaborate and well displayed. • CEA continue enhancing use of Proper PPE in certain areas of the ongoing projects depending on where work and the nature of different jobs in our field of work. • CEA is also using different color codes like blue and white safety signs to warn everybody while the wearing of different types of PPE is mandatory. • Hearing protecting devices must be worn in all production area. • Have replaced water dispenser and disposable cups for our staffs in the workshop to prevent any cases of waterborne infections among our staffs. • CEA is on a high alert currently with its customers, clients and stakeholders in East and central Africa on need to enact this environmental friendly mechanism for both turnovers by improving development toward moderate environmental growth and satisfactory dividend policy and return on investment Measures of outcomes and value added for our company. • The sustainability of our business needs assessment report which we have implemented will set CEA standard to international acceptable standards complying with the law. Directions in dealing with Health and safety to Manage liability, Consistent use of proper PPE, Improved understanding of safety risks associated with machines, increased awareness amongst staff and informed supervision; Ownership by all workers of their personal safety; Traceability of safety controls. Identification of cause of accident/incidents and development of controls to prevent recurrence and improve staff well being. • Improved environmental performance and prevention of pollution. • Increased use of renewable energy. • Compliance with environmental regulations and standards. • Our customers are guaranteed of an environmentally friendly premise should they want to visit the workshop. • We believe we will experience reduction of complaints of infectious diseases related to poor ventilation. • Since the company has a contract in force with service providers like Fire Company, our premises will be more secure of fire since the service provider provides maintenance services to the fire fighting equipments. • With clear indications and signs, we believe we will see a reduction in accident incidences. • With the establishment of a bathroom and a changing room, our staffs will enjoy a much better working environment, and believe it will boost staff morale at workplace. 13 Activities planned for next year. • CEA in the process of implementing changes at the workshop to give clear indications and demarcation for various activities, e.g.1) Gang way.2) Cutting area.3) Welding zone.4) Fabrication area.5) Grinding area.6) Safety signs. • On Safety and Health CEA will offer medical examination of staff within 1-2 a year and ensure medical examination of workers exposed to paint fumes, welding gases or high noise levels as per legislation and continue collecting baseline information on staff health. • CEA will conduct (a minimum) annual fire and emergency preparedness drills at the head office and at different sites to increase fire and emergency preparedness/awarene ss. • All CEA staff will be trained on fire safety awareness and will also undertake a fire audit to identify areas to place fire extinguisher fighting equipment and learn more on fire exit and assembly points. • CEA will continue undertaking an annual environment audit to improve our environmental performance and prevent incidents of pollution. • CEA will develop an emergency preparedness plan. • CEA will continue doing business with environmentally registered companies on used oil, sewerage, clean water supplier and garbage collector to encourage our chain of supply will continue complying with environmental regulations. • CEA shall continue supporting and reporting on the 10 principles. 14 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Cimbria East Africa L t d. (C E A) will not condole corruption for corporate gain. CEA have realized that corruption is expensive and increase the cost of doing business, hampers economic development and ruins reputation and undermines a fair and trustworthy business environment. Therefore, CEA will ensure that all its activities maintain minimal acts of corruption, including extortion and bribery in support for the principle 10. A brief description of our processes and systems. CEA have put anti-corruption measures in our systems and along the value chain. CEA being a sale, installation and commissioning office, corruption can be very rampant and therefore measures put in place in our General Terms and Conditions of sales curb corruption in all it means and forms in our line of business. CEA general terms and conditions of sales are divided in 6 categories giving stakeholders human rights of doing business:• Kenya Small projects General Terms and Conditions of sale (GT&CS) • Overseas Parts only Orders GT&CS • Installation works GT&CS • Kenya Large Projects GT&CS • Outside Kenya Large Projects GT&CS • Small stock items GT&CS ALL six GT&CS carry the Validity of Quotation, Terms of Payments, Time schedule after having received formal order and letter of credit or Bank Guarantee, Other conditions, Scope of supply, Customers responsibility, Consequential loss and warranty, CEA gives the customer/client the right to discuss the General Terms and Conditions of Sale otherwise the transaction of supply will remain the property of CEA unless otherwise agreed in writing. CEA have signed a letter of commitment on Code of ethics of doing business in Kenya which carry along ethical methodology to keep us trusted and honest in ways we do our business, the community around us, employees and the state. CEA have introduced modern IT technology which is free from corruption and accessible by authorized stakeholders. Measures of outcomes and value added for our company. CEA being a sister company of the Cimbria Groups of companies, Our small ways of doing business and systems put in place has continued keeping a smile on our faces while we continue adhering to the 10 principles. Customers keep coming back to us on the perception of good ethical way of doing business. CEA have attracted trust from our Stakeholders, and all we are doing business together. Audit Services check the accuracy of the books and record keeping in place. CEA so far have not received any related complaints during the reporting period While many companies have experienced a decline in revenue during the financial crisis, CEA is happy to be associated with its mother company Cimbria A/S of Denmark who just got awarded as “Growth company of the year” In Denmark by increasing its turnover. Cimbria has not only good results and high growth. The company also holds a very strong market position as the global need for grain handling is increasing concurrently with the need to prevent hunger in a fast growing population globally. 15 Activities planned for next year. CEA is in process of introducing Code of Ethics derived from the singed letter of commitment. In order to enact this principle, we have promoted one employee to represent us in Anticorruption workshops, Networks to get to learn more and network with other companies in the region to gasp what they are also doing to enhance integrity and eventually CEA can have a whistle blower on such eventualities. HOW DO YOU INTEND TO MAKE THIS COP AVAILABLE TO YOUR STAKEHOLDERS Cimbria East Africa Ltd (CEA) will make this COP available to our stakeholders, customers and employees together with the public at large by:• Posting same to the UNGC website • Cimbria Group websitewww.cimbria.com • Word of mouth to our customers, Clients and stakeholders during the trade fairs and field days • On continued communication during this year’s Christmas giveaways, a note that we support and adhere to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact will be sent to all stakeholders and friends of CEA. • We promise that Our Actions on the 10 principles will speak louder than our words. 16
