A B IL I T Y I N 2011 T A DANONE SUS RT P e r fo r mance and Strategy R E P O in ac tion: s t r ategy , People The , For All, Nature Health in dic ators f or m ance per X t e GRI INDE e compl T S and MEN COMMIT ss Progre Danone Sustainability Report 2011 1 Strategy 4 6 13 Editorial: Key social The strategy in action: Franck Riboud topics 2011 results Focus on the four strategic priorities SOCIAL ISSUES 7 health 14 NUTRITION AND for all 27 health issues 9 Nature 36 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 11 people 43 57 74 87 Dashboard: Measuring progress A social initiative 2011 stakeholder and performance built on Danone’s commitments throughout specific features and outlook the value chain ConsUMERS 58 Danone Way 75 social integration CommunITIES 64 Respect 80 tools in the company's business 88 SUPPLIERS 64 DANONE's evaluation by non-financial stakeholders at the environment 66 heart of dialogue 92 rating agencIES 83 EMPLOYEES 68 corporate governance 100 nutrition and health governance 102 104 Historical approach and highlights reference DocumentS 105 highlights and key dates 1972-2011 106 2 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Performance 110 120 124 GRI Index impacts and company ProfilE (*) S elf-evaluation responsibilities and report of the application of GRI according in business, parameters to version 3.0 guidelines for the from end to end GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. COMPANY PROFILE 125 rEport PARAMETERS 126 Validation of THE report by an external third party 131 134 230 Performance Contacts Indicators Governance, Commitments and ENGAGEMENT 134 economic 142 Environmental 154 Social 182 human rights 200 Society 206 product responsibility 216 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 EDITORIAL: FRANCK RIBOUD in sustainable People often ask me why Danone’s sustainable development action places such importance on social development innovation projects. For example, why did we include this focus in the individual targets of the company’s more than any 1,400 managers? Why have we set up investment funds like the Danone Ecosystem Fund and, more recently, other area, the Livelihoods Fund? What economic benefit can a major corporation like Danone expect in return? And should we can only we continue in this way despite the difficult and uncertain global context? rise to the My answer to those who might be tempted to turn back challenges is simple: in sustainable development more than any other area, we can only rise to the challenges if we are able to if we are able develop radically different approaches. This requires the to develop ability to explore and try out new ways. It is therefore more vital than ever that Danone’s eyes and ears be wide open radically to the world, to meet current expectations and make the necessary changes to prepare the company for those different of tomorrow. Our approach of being an open-minded company seeking to co-design new solutions with our approaches stakeholders is firmly rooted in Danone’s culture and model and contributes to our overall long-term performance. The credibility of a global food company like Danone hinges on our capacity to be consistent in our mission and to adjust to local conditions. In 2011, Danone continued efforts on the strategic priorities(1) defined in 2008 and I would like to mention a few examples here: • in inventing new models to bring health through food to as many people as possible, 2011 was marked by the creation of a production and R&D unit in India dedicated to low-income populations. We also launched Fundooz, a first nutrition product for children. The experience in India will enhance action we have been taking for five years in Bangladesh to develop products and distribution channels that meet the needs of a greater number of consumers. These new approaches prompt us to question ourselves and they drive innovation in countries where the group has long been established; 4 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 • on the Nature priority, we share the conviction • the quality of the raw materials Danone uses for its that production methods and consumption patterns products, such as water, milk, cereal and fruit, is a key seen in the past fifty years cannot be generalized across focus for the group. The Danone Ecosystem Fund the planet; we must bring about profound changes. established in 2009 progressed tremendously in 2011, From this perspective, the ambitious goal of reducing supporting 35 projects in total, primarily in agriculture the group’s carbon emissions by 30% between 2008 and water resource preservation. From Ukraine to and end-2012 is on target, since we achieved a 27.5% Indonesia, via France and Mexico, these programs reduction by the end of 2011. This goal demanded a lot provide a testing ground to foster farming models of the teams but it also accelerated the move towards a that meet our economic, social and environmental low-carbon circular economy in which materials will be requirements; recycled infinitely. This revolution also leads to significant cost reductions; • for Danone employees working in countries with no welfare system, the highlight of the year will be • in 2011, Danone created the Livelihoods Fund, the introduction of the Dan'Cares program for basic establishing a link between food security and climate healthcare coverage. The program benefitted 28,000 change. After testing the concept in Senegal where, employees in 2011 and will be rolled out to the entire since 2008, 10,000 hectares of mangrove forest have workforce in 2012. been restored to provide fish resources, protect rice fields, and store significant amounts of carbon, we asked other Despite the global economic upheaval that prevailed in companies to join us in creating Livelihoods. This shared 2011, Danone continued to forge ahead with the double platform has already invested in other major projects objective of delivering annual financial performance while in Africa and Asia and contributes to the carbon offset developing our capacity to shape the future. programs of these companies; Franck Riboud Danone’s CEO (1) Health, For All, Nature, and People Danone Sustainability Report 2011 5 StratEgY KEY SOCIAL TOPICS SOCIAL ISSUES 7 NUTRITION AND health issues 9 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 11 6 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 SOCIAL ISSUES Employment and skills are crucial issues for companies and the regions where they do business, whether in emerging countries or mature areas of the world. The primary risk for companies in emerging countries is the scarcity of local talents which can prevent them from fulfilling their growth ambitions, in particular due to: • very strong competition between Western companies to attract the same talents; • the inadequacy of talents produced by the local education system with regard to needs; • a growing preference on the part of local students to work for local companies with an international profile; • the large number of talents in emerging countries who are educated in Western universities and do not wish to return to their home country. These days, multinational groups need to devote a significant share of their resources to develop talent pools of their own in each country, creating where necessary specific training courses in partnership with local agents (universities, training centers, etc.). In the mature countries, looking past the immediate impact of the economic crisis, in particular on employment for young people and older employees, the major issues are the aging of the active workforce and the risk that the skills of older employees will not correspond to those needed by companies. Today , notwithstanding the fact that the age of retirement continues to be put off, most investment in skills development stops when employees have reached their forties, according to the OECD. Companies need to start investing far more in the mid-career age group of 40-to-45-year-olds and, together with the public authorities, create a true lifelong learning strategy for increasing and constantly adapting these populations’ skills. In addition, despite very significant training efforts carried out over the past 30 years (on average, in the OECD countries, 35% of 25-to-34-year-olds have completed university studies, compared with 20% of the 55-to-64 age group), diploma degree is not a protection against unemployment, particularly when supply and demand are not well matched, leading to a lack of workers in certain sectors, and to hiring overqualified staff in others. This should be done in order to get better at matching the skills needed with available training and courses, through strong cooperation between businesses, educational institutions and the public authorities. Companies also need to address the issue of social cohesion in today’s society, specifically how to maintain social cohesion within the society in the face of growing inequalities and societal demands. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 7 KEY SOCIAL TOPICS SOCIAL ISSUES While households’ real available income has increased by 1.7% per year on average in all OECD countries over the past 20 years, the average income of the richest 10% has grown much faster, and today measures some nine times that of the poorest 10%, with large variations between countries (relatively small gaps in the Scandinavian countries, a difference of 14 to 1 in countries such as the United States and Turkey, and as much as 27 to 1 in Chile and Mexico). The Gini coefficient (a standard measure of income inequality) has risen by 10% in 20 years (from 0.28 to 0.31) in the OECD, with income inequality having increased in 17 of the 22 OECD countries. These inequalities are causing increasing tensions in the various mature countries, leading to high risks in terms of social cohesion which have been further heightened by a dual effect of the economic crisis: • an important unemployment increase, with dramatic consequences in terms of dropping income, sometimes going as far as loss of access to medical care; • rising public debt, which causes governments to reduce income support for job seekers or to increase the prevalence of partial unemployment situations with significantly lower salaries. In certain countries, household debt has also risen in response to the employment crisis. Certain working conditions and salary levels are no longer tolerated in certain countries (see for example the multiplication of labor conflicts in countries such as China, in particular in Guangdong in November 2011). More generally, companies are faced with issues of income equity and of the pace and methods of improving competitiveness, notably that of increased labor intensity. How can well-being and efficiency be allied? How can wealth created within the company be redistributed, as well as within its ecosystem? Another major social issue is that of government disengagement and the question of pensions. The aging of the population is primarily a result of the positive evolution of life expectancy worldwide, rising from 50 years on average in 1960 to 68 years today, with a ten-year progression in rich countries (from 69 to 79 years) and a 21-year increase in developing countries, (from 45 to 66 years). This positive development nonetheless poses major risks for the future, particularly that of financing pensions when a given number of people in the workforce must support an ever greater number of retirees. Government deficits, particularly in Europe, are also leading to reduced healthcare reimbursements, leaving a greater proportion of these costs to individuals. Companies cannot ignore this phenomenon, and must come up with new systems to offer both competitive salaries, and benefits (healthcare coverage, retirement plans, etc.) that is sufficient enough to cover the employee today and in the face of future life events. 8 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Nutrition and health issues Among consumers’ primary expectations in terms of health are food safety and quality, and that products sold truly comply with their nutritional and organoleptic specifications, and offer the scientifically proven health benefits that these imply. This quality commitment is maintained throughout the lifecycle of the product, from development and production to the point of consumption, from raw materials to products sold. Consumers also express a variety of other expectations related to ease (of purchase, conservation and preparation), availability and price. In developed countries, their expectations are largely expressed through consumer organizations which have become key partners to the company. The primary goal is to continue to increase consumer confidence in the brands, which make ongoing investments to guarantee the quality and safety of their products, respect the environment and are conscious of their social impact. Food is a daily need for each one of us, providing our bodies with energy and essential nutrients, as well as conveying pleasure, symbolism, identity and values to individuals, and tradition, culture and conviviality within communities. All the scientific studies confirm that a varied and balanced diet and regular physical exercise are factors known to contribute to good health and prevention of chronic diseases. On the other hand, poor diet along with a sedentary lifestyle can contribute to an increased risk of certain conditions including diabetes, osteoporosis, high blood pressure, etc. Scientific progress continues to confirm how individual dietary needs are very specific, varying by age (infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood, senior citizens), gender, and physiological condition (pregnancy, metabolic deficiency, chronic disease, aging, etc.). Paying close attention to nutrition therefore helps ensure optimal growth and health, prevent certain diseases, or even improve the efficacy of certain therapeutic treatments. In particular, there is more and more evidence that early nutritional input (the first 1,000 days of life including pregnancy and the first two years) is a major determinant of future health, and that breastfeeding exclusively for the first six months of a baby’s life provides optimal nutritional benefit. This reality must then be viewed in the context of very diverse socio-economic situations from country to country and in different population groups who have unequal access to food resources. The global situation in terms of diet-related health is a concern everywhere, characterized by the escalation of two specific challenges: • Undernourishment and malnutrition arising from poverty, food insecurity and/or poor quality of food resources, which impact nearly one billion people. The recent global food crises have defeated certain countries’ efforts to combat malnutrition, and it is likely that the volatility of food raw material prices will only foster this phenomenon in the future; Danone Sustainability Report 2011 9 KEY SOCIAL TOPICS Nutrition and health issues • Overweight, obesity and chronic diseases related to diet such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and more, are due in part to diets that are not suited to the body’s needs in terms of both quantity and quality. This situation is worsening quickly in the emerging countries under the impact of a rapid nutritional transition. The World Health Organization (WHO) predicts that more than 1.5 billion people will be overweight by 2015, while the International Obesity Task Force (IOTF) anticipates more than 360 million people suffering from diabetes in 2030. WHO sounded the alarm in 2004 (Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health), and reinforced the message in 2010 with the publication of recommendations for marketing food and beverage products to children, which led certain United Nations member states to introduce national health programs aimed at preventing diet-related diseases. In the face of these programs’ limited results, the United Nations High Level Group published a political statement in September 2011 on non-communicable diseases, calling on all member states to take urgent action to formulate true national strategies to combat diet-related diseases. These two initiatives view food industry players as stakeholders in the solution and call on them to implement voluntary policies with regard to product nutritional quality (reduction in fat, sugar and salt content), responsible communication (nutrition labeling, claims and advertising) and promoting healthy lifestyles. The authorities expect such voluntary measures to have a concrete impact in the short term with regard to product offers and marketing practices; otherwise, politicians may decide to introduce new regulations in the food sector. The ability of the major food-industry players to apply a responsible approach and address the dual concerns of malnutrition and diet-related obesity/chronic disease will be assessed in detail for the first time in 2012 through the publication of a new rating index, ATNI (Access to Nutrition Index) designed by the NGOs GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) and Welcome Trust, with the financial support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The challenge of this dual burden (malnutrition, obesity) is further impacted by the aging of the population in developed countries; WHO estimates that over 25% of the European population will be older than 65 by 2050. For these groups, prevention and treatment of diseases arising from old age, in particular through specific nutritional intakes, will be essential to the survival of healthcare systems. 10 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental ISSUES By 2050, the world’s population will have reached nine billion people, with modes of consumption that are changing significantly. Food needs and increasing pressure on natural resources will increase. This trend is already having multiple effects: pollution and loss of land, pollution of rivers and groundwater, greenhouse gas emissions, rising waste production and loss of biodiversity. While agriculture is a vital necessity for people, it is responsible for nearly 25% of greenhouse gases, 70% of water consumption and 40% of groundwater pollution. Loss of biodiversity could itself lead to reduced agricultural production (estimated 25% impact by 2050), threatening our planet’s food security. Agriculture needs to reinvent itself to face up to these challenges. We must produce more with fewer inputs on a smaller cultivated area, while also significantly improving the impacts of agricultural practices on water and soil. Livestock farming is particularly criticized as being solely responsible for 18% of greenhouse gas emissions and 37% of soil degradation. Agri-food companies are facing the dilemma of how to meet the needs of an ever greater number of consumers, on the one hand, and limit the environmental impact of their activities on the other. Stakeholders’ expectations, for now, are mainly focused on reducing the impact of industrial production and precisely measuring these reductions (ISO certification, carbon footprint measurements, reduced water and energy consumption, contributions to eliminating waste). Managing the impacts arising from packaging requires reduced use of materials upstream, improved collection and recycling, and transitioning to packaging made of renewable biomass (not in competition with food), rather than fossil materials. Pressure on supplies of agricultural raw materials is strong (increased price volatility, new competitors for land such as biofuels, climate impact, loss of biodiversity). This context, relative to supply, is transforming society to push for improvements in strategy ever further upstream. The global economy is transitioning from a period of abundance to a period of resource scarcity, which will ultimately drive up costs. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 11 KEY SOCIAL TOPICS ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES On their side, consumers are voicing higher expectations of agriculture, for security, nutrition and health along with protection of the environment and respect for natural cycles, and this will become a factor of competitiveness for brands in the future. To meet these expectations, regulatory changes and progress in research are pushing towards better awareness of the environment and health concerns (precision agriculture, pesticides effective at low doses, alternative methods for fighting off pests and disease, more efficient use of water and soil, etc.). Lastly, some major players in global distribution (Walmart, Tesco) are gradually engaging to promote sustainable development and will progressively choose to work with suppliers who respect the environment (Sustainable Consortium Index). These major environmental and food security challenges are core concerns for Danone. Preserving our resources and sustainably managing strategic raw materials (in particular water and milk) are the foundation of the company’s sustainable model within its ecosystem and alongside key stakeholders. 12 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 StratEgY THE stratEgY Focus ON THE In action FOUR STRATEGIC 2011 RESULTS PRIORITIES HEALTH 14 FOR ALL 27 Nature 36 PEOPLE 43 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 13 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH Danone’s nutrition and health strategy, which reflects its aim “to bring health through food to as many people as possible,” is more than ever in line with the food and nutrition objectives of health authorities in every country in which it operates. There are three major focuses to Danone’s strategy on nutrition and health: • in-depth understanding of the nutrition and health issues in each country in which the group does business; • a unique line of appropriate products meeting the needs of populations throughout their lifetime; • encouraging healthy eating habits by responsible product communication practices and strong involvement in information and education. This strategy is based on governance specific to Danone (see pages 102 -103 of this report), particularly ongoing contact with local stakeholders (health authorities, scientific experts) and major efforts in Research and Development to: • consistently deliver product reformulations and innovations to respond to changing consumer needs and guarantee the nutritional superiority of products; • special investment in scientific research through numerous partnerships with leading research organizations. In this way, Danone is clearly demonstrating its determination to contribute to a sustainable health objective by helping prevent chronic food-related diseases and fostering the fulfillment of its consumers' biological potential. Understanding consumer nutrition and health issues In the great majority of countries in which Danone operates, the group analyzes local authorities’ nutrition and health policies, current national programs and the latest scientific data in the areas of epidemiology, food consumption, sociology, etc. To complete this analysis, Danone consults experts in the food and nutrition field. This work (Nutripack reports) enables the company, for example, to know the incidence of food-related 1 Analysis of the 5 Food styles diseases, to assess food intake and eating habits, to estimate nutritional scientific literature analysis statuses and to identify any deficiencies in specific populations, such as 2 Interview with iron deficiencies in infants and children and protein deficiencies in the scientific experts elderly. This analysis was initiated in 2004 for adult populations and was actively implemented in 2011 on children. It currently covers Analysis of 4 3 Food consumption nutrition in 37 countries and 94% of sales. database analysis the media 14 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 A unique line of appropriate products meeting the needs of populations throughout their lifetime Products designed for everyone and belonging to food categories recommended by health authorities 88% (in sales) of products manufactured by Danone (75% of total sales) and intended for the general public are dairy products and water, of which health authorities worldwide recommend consuming respectively one to four servings a day, and 1.2 to 2 liters a day. The nutritional composition of Danone dairy products is also regulated by strict internal nutritional standards (Danone Nutrition Book which defines, for example, maximum fat and sugar content, minimum calcium content) based on health authorities' guidelines (WHO, Eurodiet). Fully 59% (in sales) of Danone dairy products can be consumed on a daily basis, and thus contribute to a healthy diet. In 2011, almost 15.5 billion servings of these daily dairy products and nearly 10 billion portions of water were marketed by Danone. Examples include: yogurts (Danone natural and with fruit), fermented milk (Activia, Kéfir), soft white cheese (Danio), mineral and bottled water (Evian, Aqua), and fruit-based products such as compotes without added sugar (Taillefine Jardins Gourmands) and smoothies (C-Optima), etc. Food products designed for occasional consumption, or indulgence products are also regulated by internal nutritional standards, such as dairy desserts (Danette, Fantasia) for example. Products meeting special dietary needs such as those of babies, children and the elderly These products, generally fortified with essential nutrients, include baby nutrition products (infant formula and milk, a variety of solid complementary foods), certain dairy products like Danonino for children, dietary supplements for pregnant and/or breastfeeding women or products designed to fight malnutrition caused by nutritional deficiencies or certain diseases (Fortimel, Forticare, etc.). The composition of these products is generally governed by strict regulations – if not, then by very demanding internal standards, such as the Danone Nutrition Book or Baby Nutrition Standards. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 15 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH Products meeting special health needs providing appropriate functional benefits These products are designed for consumers with specific physiological and metabolic conditions, such as Danacol for adults with high cholesterol, Neocate for babies allergic to cow's milk, and Souvenaid for Alzheimer's disease patients. Danone pays particular attention to the nutritional profile of these products to ensure the product delivers the health benefits expected. Danone places great value on the taste experience offered by all its products, as it is now widely accepted that taste and pleasure are major factors in dietary choice and a condition for regular consumption of products. In addition to ensuring nutritional quality and functional benefits, the group also attempts to make its products as widely available as possible through affordable prices and innovative distribution channels (see the “For All” section on pages 27-35 of this report). Promoting healthy behaviors through responsible product communication practices and involvement in information and education By providing clear and reliable product information, Danone helps consumers make informed food choices. Over 90% (in sales) of Danone products provide nutrition information per 100 grams and/or per serving on packaging; this information is also available on the Internet for 70% (in sales) of products. In Europe, dairy products and beverages also provide the contribution per serving to the Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA) for calories and seven nutrients (proteins, carbohydrates including sugars, fat including saturates, fiber and sodium). Danone's health claims are exclusively based on recognized scientific data and expressed in a transparent and reliable manner for customers. In addition, 83% (in sales) of dairy products and 96% of baby nutrition products provide precise information about the appropriate serving size to be consumed as part of a healthy diet. Conducting responsible marketing practices, especially for the most vulnerable consumers, such as children, includes complying with the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) code for responsible food and (non-alcoholic) beverage marketing and implementing self-regulation of advertising to children under 12 in 87% of the countries concerned (all European Union countries, Switzerland, Canada, US, Brazil, South Africa). Additionally, most advertising investments are dedicated to the promotion of the healthiest products: for dairy products, 82% of advertising expenditures were dedicated in 2011 to products with nutritional value in line with internal daily consumption standards. 16 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Setting up product information services (labeling, website, brochures) and educational programs on healthy eating (teaching kits, events, etc.) and promoting physical exercise contributes to government efforts to encourage healthy lifestyles. These activities target consumers, employees and other groups, including health professionals. Most of these initiatives are developed in partnership with local institutions, such as the ministry of health, research centers, professional organizations and NGOs, to make sure they were suitable for the local community. In 2011, Danone rolled out 219 information and educational programs to encourage healthy lifestyles, potentially reaching almost 700 million people. • In Poland, the CBU Zywiec Zdroj roll-out since 2006 the educational program “Mommy, Daddy, I prefer water for parents and children, which promotes the regular drinking of water. This program, which received the support of the Ministry of Health, the Food and Nutrition Institute and the Mother and Child Institute, increased the contribution of water to total fluid intakes of Polish children aged 6 to 9 from 11% in 2006 to 19% in 2010. • In Belgium, Danone launched the educational program “Enjoy your food, boost your health,” which aims to promote healthy habits in children aged 6 to 11. The program was developed in partnership with the European Club of Pediatric Dieticians, the Belgian Pediatric Society and the Danone Institute. The educational kit was sent out to 30% of Belgian primary schools in three weeks, on request. • In Mexico, in cooperation with the World Gastroenterology Organization, the Mexican National Institute of Medical Sciences and Nutrition and the Mexican Gastroenterology Association, Danone organized a World Digestive Health Day on the theme of “Enteric infections and clean water, food and environment” to raise awareness of digestive health issues among health professionals and the general public. Danone also provided active support for the promotion of breastfeeding to health professionals and mothers. In addition, in 2011 87% of CBUs continued to roll out workplace programs aiming to encourage employees to take charge of their health through a balanced diet and regular physical activity. These programs consist of holding educational conferences, providing doctors' visits and checkups, balanced meals, break rooms, fitness equipment, plus other initiatives. In total, 47% of employees had access to these programs. The impact of the program set up at the Daniel Carasso Research Center in Palaiseau, France, is currently the subject of a scientific impact assessment jointly conducted with INSERM (French National Institute of Health and Medical Research). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 17 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH Danone Institutes, a unique international network In 2011, the Danone Institutes network celebrated its 20th anniversary. Consistently supported by Danone since 1991, the network of Danone Institutes, independent non-profit organizations, work to help advance knowledge about the links between food, nutrition and health. Their programs include providing support for scientific research, informing and training health professionals, and educating the public. The network of 18 Danone Institutes in 19 countries comprises 250 prominent and independent researchers, physicians and dieticians specializing in all aspects of food and nutrition, including biology, medicine and the humanities. In 2011, the 8th Danone International Nutrition Prize was awarded to Professor Jeffrey Gordon (Saint-Louis University, USA) for his work on human microbiota and links with human health. The Danone Institutes in the Asia region (China, Japan and Indonesia) worked together to organize a unique symposium on Dietary recommendations in Asia. The proceedings were published in The Asia-Pacific Journal of Clinical Nutrition and form a reference document for professionals in this region. In 2011, nearly €1 million was awarded in support of nutrition research. Since 1991, almost 1,060 research projects have been funded by the Danone Institutes, and more than €19 million distributed in the form of research awards and grants. 18 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Unique expertise in Research & Development The three priorities of Danone’s nutrition and health strategy largely rely on its unique expertise in R&D and product quality. The development of appropriate nutritional solutions in response to local requirements (dietary needs, taste, cost, eating habits, etc.). This stage generally proceeds with the help of scientific committees, which combine complementary expertise in nutrition, medicine and the humanities. These nutritional solutions can come about by modifying existing products (Nutriprogress program) or developing new ones. • The Nutriprogress program continually analyzes the nutritional quality of the product portfolio, compare existing products with competing products and, if necessary, design reformulation programs (by, for example, gradually reducing the fat, sugar or sodium content and/or fortifying the product with vitamins and minerals). Between 2009 and 2011, 20% (in sales) of products were improved in terms of fat, sugar and/or sodium content and 40% (in sales) of dairy products and 47% (in sales) of baby nutrition products were fortified. • Innovations cover areas as diverse as product families, eating patterns, new ingredients or health benefits, and geographic expansion. A prior nutritional evaluation (Nutri-Check procedure) is carried out systematically to guarantee consistency between product quality and positioning. 45% (sales) of innovations launched in 2011 had a high nutritional profile (compliance with internal nutritional standards of daily consumption). Examples of major nutrition/health innovations made in 2011 include: • Dairy products: Activia Breakfast, a breakfast yogurt with a high-fiber cereal topping in a separate compartment (Italy); Activia Smoothie, a yogurt drink rich in fruit which provides half the recommended daily intake of fruit in each 290g bottle (Russia); Milkuat School, a cereal-enriched milk drink for schoolchildren sold for €0.23 (Indonesia); Mleczny Start, a milk and cereal bar rich in fiber, vitamins and minerals sold for €0.16 (Poland); several geographic expansions such as Danacol (Canada), Densia (Japan), Ser Calci + Densia pocket (Argentina), and Activia pouring yogurt (France); Danone Sustainability Report 2011 19 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH • Waters: Levité Kids, a range of children’s drinks containing mineral water, in individual bottles specially designed to fit into lunch boxes for school, and three low-sugar fruit juice drinks (50g sugar/l, i.e. 50 to 60% less sugar than in sodas) (Mexico); • Baby nutrition: Blédilacté, a range of dairy desserts specifically adapted to children over six months, providing iron, essential fatty acids and calcium with no artificial flavor (France); Bobovita breakfast cereals specially designed for infants, representing a first on the market (Poland); Almiron, a very affordable range of follow-up and growing-up milk (Spain); a protein supplement designed for premature babies (several countries); • Medical nutrition: Fortimel Max and Fortimel Compact, two highconcentration dietary supplements for undernourished people (France); Fortifit, a dietary supplement designed to fight sarcopenia (Austria). The development of products providing functional benefits, demonstrated by rigorous scientific research and recognized by the publication of results in the world’s most reputable scientific journals. There were 126 clinical studies carried out in 2011. Danone's involvement in scientific research in addition to demonstrating its products' health benefits In partnership with prestigious research organizations, Danone contributes to many programs in a variety of areas, such as dietary intake (including fluids), the benefits of better hydration, the influence on long-term health of early nutrition during pregnancy and the first two years of life (metabolic imprinting, partnership with the European EARNEST project), and the “Danone Research, intestinal microflora's function and impact on health (in partnership with a unique feature of Saint Louis University in the US; INRA and Pasteur Institute in France). Danone's strategy”: In 2011, in partnership with the Pasteur Institute and INRA, Danone key figures organized the 2nd international Microbes for Health symposium which reviewed the latest scientific breakthroughs on digestive tube microbial • 51 patents filed in 2011 bringing the portfolio up to 452; communities and their impact on human health. The symposium was • 119 articles published in 2011 attended by over 366 participants from 34 countries. in prestigious scientific journals; • 126 active clinical studies in 2011. Main areas of expertise: Nutrition and food, Physiology and hydration; Digestive system and microbiology; Immunology; Neurosciences; Water science; Clinical research; Food design and quality; Packaging; Sensory analysis and behavioral sciences. 20 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Measuring progress In order to make its achievements more tangible, based on the strategy, approach and commitments laid out in its Food, Nutrition & Health charter, Danone introduced a series of performance indicators in 2011 and publishes the results. These indicators address: • R&D investments in nutrition and health; • Danone's expertise in nutrition and health (internal and external); • the nutritional quality of the product portfolio; • programs designed to improve products' nutritional value; • value-added nutrition/health innovations; • products' health benefits; • responsible communication practices such as labeling, claims and advertising; • contribution to educating the public about healthy lifestyles. Since 2011, these indicators have been consolidated for a scope of 12 countries (Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, UK and US), covering the 4 divisions (Dairy Products, Waters, Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition) and representing around 68% of total group revenue. The results are published each year and are available in the “dashboard” section (see pages 58-63 of this report). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 21 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH Product Quality in hearts and minds During the past years a Product governance policy has been set up, to ensure product safety and quality at every step of the product life cycle, from the marketing brief to the product specifications and throughout the food chain, from “farm to fork”. This policy supports the credibility of Danone and its brands, drives consumers preference and, through continuous improvement, contributes to economic performance and robustness of the business. Danone corporate quality mission is aiming at: • Protecting consumers’ health and Danone assets; • Connecting science to business, Farm to fork, Private to Public and Danone to Consumers; • Empowering Danoners to create a strong quality culture within the company. Danone Quality vision is sustained by 4 strong pillars: • Food safety and hazard assessment Ensure food safety the product must be safe and healthy. By linking science to risk assessment, in the early stages and throughout the product life cycle, the Danone Food Safety Center is empowered to give clear and business oriented guidance to everyone involved in product quality and safety processes. In 2011, Danone teams have worked on the consolidation and improvement of organization and processes for risk assessment, guidelines for risk management and product testing through the setting up of the new Danone Food safety Center. 22 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone strongly supports public-private partnerships to help develop solutions to complex issues like food safety management worldwide. During the past few years, Danone has been an active member of international organization such as the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative). The GFSI is the only global, multi-stakeholder platform which brings together senior quality and food safety experts from all parts of the supply chain from the global food industry. It is a globally recognized and accepted by regulators and all the food safety stakeholders alike. The GFSI vision is: “Safe Food for Consumers Everywhere” driving continuous improvement in food safety to strengthen consumer confidence worldwide. GFSI has managed to bridge the gap between the public and private sectors and works with governments and other organization around the world to manage food safety risk more efficiently and effectively with the aim of improving public health. Danone has significantly contributed to the drawing up of sector good practices for manufacturing, packaging, animal feed and farming, and in capacity building programs. • Quality System robustness along product life cycle Ensured quality procedures throughout the entire food chain “from farm to fork”, “from conception to consumption.” This means making the product safe and compliant with its value promises at every step of the three key phases of the product life cycle: Quality in product design; quality in product execution, and finally, quality in the way to listen to consumer’s perception at the point of sale and consumption. In 2011 Danone finished drawing up a new set of Operating Models (DOMs) as foundation of the local to global product governance system. These requirements are rooted in DANgo System. (Danone Governance and process system). Danone has also improved the suppliers’ management process by standardization of suppliers’ accreditation protocol and assessment including internal auditor competences requirements. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 23 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH • Consumer trust and confidence Nowadays, consumers expect more than ever they expect value for their money, that is to say good quality product at a reasonable price, matching its marketing promises. But on top of that, they expect company responsibility to the community, and food safety as a given. With these aims, 2011 has been a year of geographical expansion and functionality extension (from consumers to customers and social network) of the consumer care information system for managing market feedbacks. Danone has settled up formalized, shareable and benchmarkable on-shelves audits for checking up: Danone products availability, presentation and position versus competitors and conformity. Danone is listening to public authorities as voice of the consumers for addressing public health issues, the active participation in the GFSI being the mean to reach this goal (see before). • People development At Danone, every point of Danone Quality Policy takes shape around people and the organization ensures people expertise, organization culture and behavior. In 2011, the Quality road book was drew up as reference document for the quality community to provide guidance for career management in quality while giving business sense to the function. Danone continued updating and revamping training packages and organizing successful training sessions for creating a strong quality community through improvement of quality knowledge culture and people empowerment. 24 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 Indicators For more information, see the chapters on PR1 and ADD PR2 performance indicators, pages 217-221 of this report. Reflecting Danone’s quality commitments, performance indicators have been deployed and are regularly monitored as part of a continuous improvement approach. The goal is to ensure that our product comply with quality standards every day in every part of the world. A KPI for each consumer's need allows assessing quality performance: • Food safety Index for guaranteeing the product safety, which amalgamates seven different indicators (Good hygiene practices, good manufacturing practices, HACCP, Control and monitoring plans, bio-vigilance and traceability); • Product conformity for assessing that, everyday and everywhere, Danone supplies the value promises to the consumers; • Consumer feedbacks for evaluating the consumer satisfaction level. In Dairy Products division, a drop of 18% in consumer complaints has been achieved, due to a closer action plan follow-up with Country Business Units (CBUs) and a specific effort on foreign objects management. Product conformity has slightly improved thanks to a closer relation between Division, CBUs and plants, enabling a better follow-up. A slight drop in the Food Safety Index hase been registered, due to a new audit grid with a harder rating system implemented that follows a continuous improvement approach. In the Baby division, the Food Safety Index has increased of 0,6% thanks to a reinforced implementation of good practices programs in the factories and the number of factories ISO 22000 certified. On the other hand, a slight increase of consumer complaints has been registered due to supply chain issues, such as damaged packaging. Specific actions are being defined to address these points. The product compliance measured through CLF (Central Laboratory of Friedrichsdorf, certified by an independent organism) monitoring of the finished products increased around 1,5%. It should be clarified that, although 2010 and 2011 figures are not completely comparable, a combined effort in supplier management and factory improvements has triggered this positive trend. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 25 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES HEALTH In the Waters division, all indicators on a worldwide basis have improved. Consumer complaints dropped by 21% compared to 2010, due to notable efforts concentrated in improving the processes of the bigger plants of the Division. A significant improvement of 2% has been registered in the Food Safety Index thanks to a hard work on good manufacturing practices on the shopfloor and traceability issues. The Product Compliance indicator remains almost stable at a very good level (99,97). In the Medical division, the 2009 program “Fix the Basics” is delivering good results with a continuous improvement of KPI's during 2010 and 2011. There is a clear focus in factories on doing things “First Time Right”, which had a positive impact on reducing by 20% the consumer complaints and the occurrence of crisis to 0. All medical factories are ISO 22000 certified. Through the four Divisions, no food safety neither extensive quality issues were recorded in 2011, and over the past years, the number of incidents for quality and food safety reasons has significantly dropped. 26 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 FOR ALL Danone’s mission “to bring health through food to as many people as possible” gives a central role to the For all focus. The year 2011 was an important one for this strategic focus. It was the first full year of activity for the Base Of the Pyramid (BOP) business in India, created from scratch in November 2010, with a production plant for dairy products dedicated to this new business model. Danone also continued its support for social business in 2011 by pursuing various projects through the danone.communities fund. More globally, 2011 was a year of consolidation and convergence for the various projects making up Danone’s social initiatives across its different funds (Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone Nature/Livelihoods Fund, danone. communities fund), allowing Danone to multiply the impact of its actions on behalf of these various population categories. Increase the number of consumers reached at the different levels of the consumption pyramid Danone’s goal of reaching one billion consumers (the number of consumers who purchase one Danone product at least once a month), which was set for 2012, is still the target; the learning curve of the past three years and the challenges encountered indicate that reaching this objective will take longer to achieve. At end-2010, the number of consumers purchasing one Danone product at least once per month was 750 million. In 2011, this figure is estimated at 834 million, an 11.2% progression due primarily to the acquisition of Unimilk in Russia and the increase in the number of consumers in China. More than for simple product innovation, Danone stands out for its innovative project execution involving the creation of new tools and processes, such as the funds (Ecosystem, danone.communities, etc.) or the BOP business created in India. Innovation that is “close to the ground” and connected to the habits of local consumers has helped in identifying and defining best practices. Various tools have been created and rolled out in the Danone Country Business Units (CBUs) since 2010, notably the GAP and Route To Market tools. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 27 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR ALL GAP: Growth Across the Pyramid, or how to grow every category in the consumption pyramid. GAP (Growth Across the Pyramid) is a methodology for analyzing consumer behavior with a view to reaching new consumers at every level of the pyramid, by developing an appropriate product offer for each economic and social tier (levels A, B, C and D of the consumption pyramid) in the countries where Danone operates. GAP was rolled out beginning in second-half 2010. At the end of 2011, 18 Country Business Units (CBUs) across the continents (Mexico, Hungary, Thailand, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, etc.) had developed this methodology and were able to review their product portfolios, either creating new brands for lower income categories (C or D) with no coverage before now, or adapting the products and/or the prices of existing brands. Route To Market (RTM): new distribution models to cover points of sale and reach consumers that had been out of range before now. The importance of local distribution has grown as the group has increased the share of its business in emerging countries. This approach is based on a tool (Route To Market) whose purpose is to identify the most innovative new distribution channels or models (local, micro-distribution, door-to-door, etc.). Thirty-four additional CBUs across all of Danone’s business divisions, including Baby nutrition, and on every continent, adopted this approach in 2011 and were thus able to expand their business and make products physically accessible to new consumers in urban and/or rural areas. In the dairy products sector in Egypt, for example, Danone doubled the number of points of sale by transitioning from 20.6% digital distribution in December 2009 to 40% in December 2011. 28 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 These tools allowed the Danone CBUs to expand their outreach: • In Indonesia, for example, the growth of Milkuat, a range of UHT dairy products, was spurred by a comprehensive renewal of its “bottle” and “pouch” offers while maintaining the “affordable” price of 1,000 rupees in a period of high inflation, increasing penetration of categories C, D and E by 54%. The brand also developed a new 95 ml bottle at the end of the year, sold for 1,500 rupees to target additional categories of consumers. • In Indonesia, the Baby nutrition CBU Sari Husada continues to develop the Gizikita range (see page 32 of the 2010 Sustainability Report) targeting babies and infants. In 2011, 4.5 million packets of micronutrient powder (topping) were distributed under an exclusive contract with a local store. Each packet of topping contains 50% of GDAs (guideline daily amounts) of vitamins and minerals essential to children’s growth. The packets are sold for 500 rupees (€0.04) each. Combined with the Ayo Melek Gizi (“Let’s talk about nutrition”) education program, they should contribute to reducing childhood malnutrition. A clinical study is underway in partnership with the University of Indonesia to measure the impact of this initiative. • In Poland, Milky Start is a brand of porridge that aims to correct childhood malnutrition, co-developed by Danone Poland with the producer Lubella, Biedronka stores who ensure distribution, and the “Institute for mothers and children” which approves the products’ nutritional content. The 60g packets are sold for around €0.18. At end-2010, a complete renovation including the launch of new flavors, special offers and television advertising multiplied monthly volumes by three and increased penetration of socio-economic category D by 14 points (from 3.8 to 18.2 points). The launch of a sandwich offer in 2011 helped maintain very high volume momentum. • In Brazil, the “Nord Este” region was the only region in 2007 in which Danone was not the leader, although it gathers 28% of the country’s population and offers the strongest opportunities for growth in dairy product consumption. Eighty percent of the population is in the C, D and E socioeconomic categories, and families, relatively large, need low-cost offers. Danone developed a portfolio of some 20 “accessible” offers to meet this local demand, and stepped up distribution through the creation of a new production plant and new distribution centers. These initiatives helped increase market share by 11 points between 2007 and 2011, and generate triple-digit volume growth over the same period. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 29 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR ALL Continue the group’s geographic expansion In 2011, all Danone’s growth took place in the new regions, reflecting the transformed geographic footprint of the group’s business. The emerging markets account for more than half of revenues for the first time since end-2011 (51% of the group’s total business, compared with 30% more than ten years ago), with expansion in the new regions up by two points between 2010 and 2011. Continuing this approach, notably in key countries such as Mexico, Indonesia, China, Russia, the US and Brazil, has ensured revenue growth at a rate of 38% of total group revenues in 2011 and around 60% of its growth over the year. Strong positions developed in these countries have led to sharing of best practices throughout the group and illustrate Danone’s strategy of relying on local expertise to drive its growth and development; for example, the creation of the Bonafont and Dan’Up brands in Mexico, the development of affordable Baby nutrition products in Indonesia, the rollout of the Mizone brand in China and the OTX platform in Brazil with its natural-focused initiative for the Danonino brand. To continue its geographic expansion and enhance its long-term growth potential, the group is trying out small-scale models in new markets such as Asia and Africa, characterized by their economic and socio-demographic emergence and the appearance of middle classes and so-called medium cities (more than one million inhabitants). Danone thus recently entered India in a limited number of cities with the brand B’lue (Waters division), the Danone and Danette brands (Dairy products division), and Fundooz, a range of nutritional products for the most underprivileged populations (Dairy products division). In Africa, Danone Baby nutrition is developing its business in 32 countries, by consolidating its presence in the Maghreb and French-speaking Africa and building up new locations in English-speaking Africa, in compliance with the World Health Organization code. 30 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Create new models to reach consumers at the base of the pyramid (BOP) Danone’s first experiments in this field led to the creation of the danone. communities fund at end-2006 (see pages 92 to 94 of the 2009 Sustainability Report) with a first pilot (“lab”) tested in the form of a social business in Bangladesh. Building on the Bangladesh experience, Danone created the in-house organization “Base Of the Pyramid” (BOP) in 2009, with the goal of radically innovating to transform Danone’s business and invent new models focused on the health impact of Danone products for the largest possible number of people. At end-2010, the first BOP business was created in India in the form of a new production unit and a dedicated local team This new BOP (“Base Of the Pyramid”) business, created in under a year in India with the support of local suppliers, aims to provide very low-income populations with products whose nutritional qualities meet the needs of children. Over the course of 2011, four new products for children were launched by this new entity: two fresh dairy yogurts and two long-life dairy products in tetrapaks to compensate for the lack of a cold chain in these regions. The new products have four key features: affordability, access to nutrition, the brand as a guarantee of a health/pleasure balance (Fundooz), and local connections at every level of the value chain. The product mix definition integrated all local specificities while seeking to meet the goal of offering balanced nutritional benefit at a price adapted to the population’s standard of living and the value of coins (priced at 10 rupees per pot and five per portion). Nutritional studies based on Danone tools (Nutripack, see page 14 of this report) have made it possible to identify children’s nutritional deficiencies, noting for example that 70% of children under age 15 have deficiencies. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 31 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR ALL A 360° innovation underpins this experimentation with a new business model The BOP team innovated not only by creating a very flexible production unit from scratch, inspired by the Bangladesh experience and able to produce a high-nutrition product at low cost, but also in the distribution model which was designed entirely based on the habits of the targeted consumers to maximize the products’ visibility in every location. Capitalizing on the experience of the Route to Market tools, the entire distribution model was aligned with consumers’ movement through various locations (schools, public spaces, etc.) at different times of the day, and implemented using local transportation methods (such as carts), with a multi-functional approach to vehicles and a preference for local access. Specific local communication methods were also implemented in the cities to create direct contact with consumers: awareness in schools, door-to-door, city tours, nutrition-based events, etc. One year later, at end-2011, these concrete achievements demonstrate Danone’s ability to adapt and transform its organizations to implement, very rapidly (less than one year to create the production plant) and with limited investments, new business forms whose goal is to demonstrate the replicability of the Danone model in the most distant new regions. danone.communities: five years of development danone.communities is a social business incubator whose mission is to promote, support and finance social businesses that want to contribute to eliminating malnutrition and poverty. danone.communities was created in 2007 following an encounter between Danone CEO Franck Riboud and Muhammad Yunus, founder of Grameen Bank and 2006 Nobel Peace Prize winner. The first project arising from the danone.communities initiative is Grameen Danone Foods Ltd, one of the initial cornerstones of the social business edifice. To take things even further, Danone collaborated with Crédit Agricole in 2007 to create an innovative financial tool for supporting the development of social business initiatives, the danone.communities SICAV (French mutual fund). At least 90% of this fund’s equity is invested in a selection of fixed-income instruments in the euro zone that favor an SRI approach, and up to 10% is invested in social businesses through the danone.communities FCPR (venture capital fund). 32 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Today danone.communities provides technical and financial support to ten projects, including seven in which the FCPR has already invested, and three in the incubation stage. At end-2011, the SICAV was valued at around €70 million, following a year in which the number of projects receiving FCPR financing rose from five (in 2010) to seven. Through these ten projects, the geographic scope of danone.communities stretches from Mexico to Bangladesh, via France, Senegal, India, Cambodia and China, in three different business sectors: • “Water” (with the Mexican, Indian and Cambodian projects; • “Nutrition” (with five projects including Grameen Danone Foods Ltd and Laiterie du Berger); • and “Developed countries” (with two projects in France). In 2011, the SICAV received Novethic SRI certification which “recognizes the strict SRI approach applied by Amundi [who manages the tool], the transparency of its analysis and investment processes and the quality of its non-financial reporting.” The FCPR invested in seven projects in 2011, including two new projects, in water, nutrition and the developed countries Water: providing access to drinking water in rural areas thanks to filtration technologies and small or very small plants. • 1001 Fountains (Cambodia) is the first danone.communities project in the water sector (2008). Since its creation, 1001 Fountains has installed 54 water purification stations and impacts almost 70,000 people daily. Chai Lo, its Cambodian founder, received the “2011 Best Social Entrepreneur” award El Alberto for Asia from the Schwab Foundation. Created on the initiative of Xochilt Galvez, President of the Porvenir • Naandi Community Water Services (India) received danone.communities Foundation and member of the FCPR investment in 2010 and has a model very similar to that of 1001 danone.communities board of Fountains, but on a larger scale. Today, with stations installed in nearly 400 directors, the El Alberto project aims villages, Naandi Community Water Services is the danone.communities to bring safe drinking water to the project with the largest overall impact. indigenous communities of the state of Hidalgo in the center of the country. This project should • El Alberto is the final danone.communities water project in 2011. provide 130,000 people with access Based in Mexico, El Alberto aims to provide safe drinking water to the to safe water at an affordable price communities of the state of Hidalgo. The water purification center was (9 pesos/20L, or €0.53/20L) and officially opened in October 2011, and the project aims to improve the contribute to creating 200 jobs for women from the communities living conditions of 130,000 people living in these communities. where the water distribution centers are located. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 33 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR ALL Nutrition: providing nutritional solutions adapted to children’s tastes and needs in emerging countries. • Grameen Danone Foods Ltd. (Bangladesh) is the fund’s first project, created in 2007 (see box). • Laiterie du Berger (Senegal), the fund’s second project, has the specific mission of using local fresh milk production and improving the living Grameen Danone Foods Ltd conditions of the Pular livestock farmers. In 2011, this mission was reinforced through sales growth (+60% in August) supported by a new advertising The pioneering danone.communities campaign and more extensive distribution. The project also crossed an project, Grameen Danone Foods important threshold in its financial consolidation, notably achieving positive Ltd., aims to combat child gross operating profit in October 2011. malnutrition in Bangladesh with a yogurt fortified with micronutrients, Shokti Doï. With the support of a • NutriGO in China is the newest of the danone.communities projects, which solid network of Shokti Ladies (878), aims to combat childhood malnutrition in rural China through an awareness sales grew significantly at the end program and a fortified dietary supplement, the YingYang-Bao product. of the year, peaking at nearly 2.9 Currently in its pilot phase, the project estimates that the program will benefit million units in October 2011. 6,000 babies in the coming year. The encouraging results of a study carried out by Gain and Johns Hopkins University on the health impact for children of Shokti Doï, the micronutrient-fortified yogurt produced by Grameen Danone Foods Ltd, should also be published in 2012. NutriGO The NutriGO project is the fruit of a partnership between Dumex, danone.communities, Grand Billion International Trading Limited (GBIT), One Foundation and NPI Foundation (two Chinese NGOs) and the International Life Sciences Institute Focal Point (ILSI-FP), a Chinese public institute for nutrition research. This project aims to combat child malnutrition in rural China through an awareness program and a fortified dietary supplement. The NutriGO project seeks to reach populations that have not had access before now to nutritional information and products, by training rural women in nutrition and sales. 34 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Developed countries: exploring the impact of the social business model and its tools (new types of partnership, social entrepreneurship, product innovations, etc.) in the developed countries. • Isomir (France) is one of the two danone.communities projects in France whose aim is to use local production and support sustainable employability for farmers. Isomir launched its second pilot project at end-2011, an Agricultural Equipment Cooperative that unites four organic vegetable Le social business en France farmers whose production is distributed in school canteens in the Val-de(Isomir et Malin) Marne region through a distribution association. The French trade fair Innov’Space awarded Isomir two stars for its program and innovative danone.communities is working solution for small farmers. on two social business projects in France: Isomir (see “Developed countries” focus) and the MALIN • The other project in this focus area is the MALIN program, currently in program, whose mission is to the incubation phase, which involves a partnership with the Red Cross in provide access for families living particular (see box). below the poverty line to low-cost child nutrition products. To truly rise to this challenge, MALIN took the novel step of creating 2012-2013: ten projects for consolidating and lesson-sharing one association (in 2010) to bring In addition to the initiatives already underway, danone.communities and together all the stakeholders in its partners are currently examining two projects in the incubation stage, this mission (industry, distributors, for a total of ten projects in all. Over the next two years, danone.communities pediatricians, public agencies will work to consolidate the projects, in terms of the social impact observed including the French Red Cross) to gain a global perspective and offer in the various regions as well as the sustainability of the models (both financial an optimal response to the needs sustainability and durability of the organizations). of the beneficiaries. This project will give rise to three pilots in 2012, The development and consolidation of these ten projects should further including one in Paris. enhance the impact of danone.communities, which reaches more than one million people today. The diverse sectors in which these projects are implemented (access to water, child nutrition, agriculture, distribution, etc.) provide danone.communities with great scope for experimentation and learning to share with its various stakeholders and with participants in the public debate around social business. With this goal, danone.communities is beginning a process of organizing these lessons and knowledge to make them available and to inspire new social business initiatives. Find the latest danone.communities news at: http://www.danonecommunities.com Danone Sustainability Report 2011 35 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES NATURE Anchoring nature at the heart of corporate strategy Danone products are all derived from nature and its cycles, so a commitment to maintaining a healthy natural environment is key to accomplishing our mission of bringing health through food to as many people as possible. As early as 1972, the dual economic and social project brought nature into Danone’s genetic makeup. In 2011, Danone continued to reduce its environmental impact following the fundamental quantitative criteria defined in 2000, and achieved its carbon objectives for the third consecutive year. The group can thus reconfirm its “disruptive” ambition to reduce its carbon footprint by 30% from 2008 to 2012. The rapid spread of best practices continues, while the first projects for Reconnecting producers and consumers “reconnecting” producers and consumers, such as “Acteurs pour un lait durable” (“Supporters of sustainable milk”), are having promising results for sales and In the framework of the “Acteurs preference for Danone brands. This not only confirms that preserving nature pour un lait durable” (“Supporters and developing business do not conflict, but that they can function in synergy. of sustainable milk”) approach, Danone gives its farmers in France and Belgium scope to express Long-term plan themselves on certain product Industrial Energy Water Factory waste packaging, on dedicated websites scope kWh/kg prod L/kg prod % recovered and by organizing meetings between farmers and consumers. 2000/2011 -45% -41% Base 2000: 64,3% France: www.danoneetvous.com/ 2010/2011 -7,6% (*) -5,2% (*) 87,4% vs Nos-engagements/Nos-eleveurs-et86,1% in 2010 Vous/Nos-eleveurs-vous-en-parlent Belgium: www.danone.be/fr/ Reduction of Danone’s carbon footprint (**) from 2008 to 2011 les-eleveurs-vous-en-parlent -27,5% in line with the 2008-2012 goal of -30% (*) On a like-for-like basis. (**) Direct responsibility except upstream agriculture (industrial sites, logistics, packaging and end of life). 36 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone’s “Nature” strategy Manage and enhance the fundamentals The program for managing environmental fundamentals in the production plants through deployment of the Green program (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) now covers 67% of sites (except Unimilk group companies), a 13 points increase over 2010. Additionally, 58% of sites are ISO 14001 certified (except Unimilk group companies), i.e. six new sites in 2010. Focus on key areas where Danone’s environmental impact is significant Combat climate change and reduce dependency on fossil fuels Objectives and results Danone’s goal is to reduce its carbon footprint by 30% from 2008 to 2012, in terms of intensity, across the entire value chain for which the group holds direct responsibility (industrial sites, logistics, packaging and end of life – excluding upstream agriculture). At end-2011 the group had achieved a 27.5% reduction, reconfirming its ability to achieve its goal for end-2012. The group’s total emissions in 2011 (including upstream agriculture) are estimated at 16 million metric tons equivalent CO2. Measure Danone has developed and deployed a carbon footprint measurement tool based on lifecycle analysis (Danprint) in all its Country Business units (CBUs). Carbon measurement This tool has been successfully integrated into existing information systems thanks to an innovative solution jointly developed with software editor SAP. Danone is co-developing At end-2012, this solution will cover 35,000 products and 40 CBUs (70% a brand-new solution with SAP of group revenues). The goal is to allow all group CBUs to monitor carbon for analyzing and measuring the carbon footprint reduction of its emissions within their scope of activity. Danone has also been a pilot participant 35,000 products, integrated into in the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) integrated reporting Danone’s SAP database that already program since 2011. automatically collects 80% of the data needed for lifecycle analysis. Reduce The goal is to provide operational managers with concrete Every link in the chain is the focus of a specific strategy with clear prioritizations information to allow them to – factory (reduced energy consumption and waste), logistics (site location analyze the strategic options and selection, truck load rates, rail/road choices), packaging (see packaging section) make the right decisions within – and contributes to reducing CO2 emissions. Among the year’s major their own scope of action. achievements are the launch of the biomass boiler at the Poços de Caldas plant In addition, all collected data is auditable and traceable. in Brazil, and the relocation of home delivery sites for water jugs in Mexico to reduce delivery distances. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 37 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES NATURE The group continued to mobilize its suppliers in the framework of the “Carbon Pact,” particularly in the Baby nutrition division in 2011. Factory Logistics Packaging 2008/2011 -26,8% -25,3% -27,5% Danone is also working on reducing its impact within its scope of indirect responsibility, particularly for milk (CO2/kg emissions reduction is estimated at 17% for the 2008-2011 period) and the cold chain (continuation of the bCool program). Concerning milk, in 2009 Danone began developing an innovative tool in cooperation with Vallorex to help measure methane emissions from cows (Cow2), based on measurements of milk fat content. The pilots implemented made it possible to fine-tune measurement methodologies with the help of external partners (universities, laboratories, etc.). Offset Based on its successful experience in the framework of the Danone Nature Fund created in 2008 (five projects in Africa and Asia which will ultimately represent 70 million trees planted on 26,000 ha), Danone invited other companies to create the Livelihoods Fund in 2011. This fund will continue to invest in carbon programs that benefit poor rural communities and offer high environmental value (target of seven million metric tons of carbon stored over 20 years, with a minimum investment of €30 million). Livelihoods Consistent with its commitment, and after reducing its carbon footprint by 40% Danone invites other companies to create the Livelihoods Fund in 2011. since 2008, the Evian brand has begun offsetting its remaining emissions. Since October 2011, the brand’s carbon emissions are fully offset. Certification of this process is underway and will be published as soon as it is completed (Q2 2012). 38 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Water: protect our water resources, particularly when scarce, and use them in harmony with local ecosystems and communities The group’s strategy focuses on four areas: protect water resources, reduce water consumption at the sites, contribute to restoring the global water cycle, promote access to water. Measure In 2011, Danone accelerated the rollout of its tool for measuring the global water footprint (DROP), developed in the Waters division, to its other divisions. Argentinian Wetlands In this framework, the group has worked with Quantis and the Livestock Foundation Agreement Institute (Institut de l’élevage) to create a module specific to dairy farms which will be tested in four subsidiaries in 2012. In close proximity to the Andes, the Villavicencio site in Argentina Protect our springs and water supply is located in a nature reserve that covers 72,000 hectares and is The group measures, audits and sets objectives for the quality of water that home to a wealth of biodiversity. reenters circulation after use for each of its sites. Danone also continues to Initiatives have been taken to promote the protection of springs through its Ground Water Policy, which is sustainably manage the area based on local management of the resource in cooperation with local players: and protect water resources. respect for natural cycles (not removing more water than can be replenished The agreement signed in 2011 with the Wetland Foundation by nature) and protection of rainwater catchment areas and their ecosystems. in Argentina aims to qualify this In 2011, Danone signed an agreement with the Argentinean Wetlands site as a Ramsar site, similar to Foundation that aims to qualify the Villavicencio site in Argentina what was done for Evian. as a Ramsar site, similar to what was done for Evian. Reduce consumption All Danone CBUs have quantitative objectives. The intensity of water consumption in the group’s plants was reduced by 5.2% in 2011 (on a like-forlike basis), and has decreased by 41% since 2000. Contribute to protecting our water supply around the world Since 1998, Danone has been a signatory of the Ramsar international convention for wetlands protection that promotes the conservation and wise use of water resources. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 39 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES NATURE Supporting collection Packaging: turning waste into resources and developing systems in Brazil renewable materials As part of the Ecosystem fund, Results Danone is supporting a fourth The carbon footprint of packaging decreased by 27.5 % over the project for the collection of recycled materials in Brazil, which 2008-2011 period. combines social goals (improved living conditions for the 900 Reduce Catadores organized into 24 In 2011, Danone continued to reduce its packaging, notably for Evian in the cooperatives, and professionalization Waters division (an 11% reduction in the weight of the Evian one-liter bottle) of the sector), and environmental objectives (recycling rate increased and for yogurt pots. The Foam (lower density plastic) project was launched in from 5 to 20%, reduced carbon 2009 and extended to an additional 15 production lines in 2011, for a total footprint arising from product of 70 production lines. end-of-life). Develop recycling • contribute to the collection of materials used in the packaging of Danone products, and when this is not yet in place, try out new collection systems (four projects underway for the Ecosystem Fund, including a new project in Brazil); • develop the use of recycled packaging: In 2011, more than a third of packaging was made of recycled materials (73% of cardboard and 10% of PET). Despite limited availability of recycled PET due to the level of investment needed to create a reliable supply chain – which is being progressively implemented – Danone succeeded in maintaining its average rate of recycled PET use in 2011, with a long-term goal of achieving a rate of 50%. Develop renewable materials Two years of experimentation with plant-based plastics (sugar cane, sugar cane waste and corn) launched by four brands (Volvic, Actimel, Activia Germany and Stonyfield) have taught Danone a great deal, in particular about the environmental implications (lifecycle analyses), compliance with Danone’s sustainability criteria (competition with food, end of life, etc.), business issues and consumer perceptions. The group will continue its extensive cooperation with external experts and partners to improve impact measurement and allow The first plant-based bottle the emergence of third-generation renewable materials, that is, materials that on the fresh dairy market are not in direct competition with food. Actimel cut the weight of its Involve the consumer small bottle in half over ten years. The bottle is also recyclable. This involvement is supported by promoting the sorting of packaging. The brand is going even further today with a major innovation launched in several European countries (France, Belgium, Great Britain, etc.): a bottle made from sugar cane plants, which reduces the packaging’s carbon footprint by around 2/3. 40 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Agriculture and biodiversity: support competitive agriculture that creates social, environmental and nutritional value Commit to joining with others to promote agriculture that is more respectful of the environment While Danone generally does not control its upstream sectors, and accounts for less than 1% of global milk supply, the group has long been committed to reducing its environmental impact: it has been a member of FARRE (Forum for “Reine Mathilde”: integrated agriculture that respects the environment) since 1999 and cofounded developing the organic milk sector in Normandy the SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) in 2002. Since 2010, the group has been involved in reflection with various experts aimed at reinventing agriculture Launched by the Danone that can feed the world while integrating Health, Economy, Nature and Social Ecosystem Fund and managed dimensions. Work in 2011 focused on defining a vision and major principles jointly with the Livestock Institute that will be restated as operational indicators in 2012 to allow a first status review and the Lower Normandy Regional Council, the “Reine by major region. Mathilde” project supports some 300 suppliers near the Molay-Littry Be a “Supporter for sustainable milk” in partnership with the sector plant, with the aim of expanding As early as 2004, Danone integrated ten environmental criteria into its their “organic” knowledge and Quality charter. In 2011 this program was enhanced (100 technicians mobilized expertise to foster conversions and turn this region into a benchmark and more than 3,300 audits) to cover 85% of the farms in direct contact with for organic milk production Danone. Additionally, a methodology for assessing animal well-being was in France. designed in 2011 in connection with Compassion in World Farming, and will be rolled out starting in 2012. In 2012, in cooperation with the sector and external experts, the group will also begin to design a tool for assessing the impact of business at the level of the farm across the four Nature, Health, Economic and Social focus areas, to allow a review of farms and to define areas for progress. Protect biodiversity While the group carries out numerous initiatives to protect biodiversity in certain production areas (for example, the Natura 2000 zone around the Molay-Littry plant in France) or for the protection of its rainwater catchment areas (Evian Ramsar site; natural reserve area of 72,000 ha at the site of the Villavicencio spring in Argentina), the impact of its business on biodiversity is primarily due to the indirect impact of upstream agriculture (soil and water). This statement will be verified by a lifecycle analysis assessment in at least one pilot CBU in 2012. The biodiversity plan for upstream agriculture will be implemented as part of the “Actors for a sustainable milk” program. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 41 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES NATURE Appropriate governance and processes Organization and internal procedures To achieve its goals, Danone manages the “Nature Plan” based on an organization at every level of the company with: an administrative board (Social Responsibility Committee), sponsors within the group Executive Board, a group Nature Department (including a finance department) and managers in each CBU (110 “carbon masters”). Reducing the carbon footprint is included in the variable compensation of 1,400 managers. The group has also strengthened its processes for consolidating the link between the “Nature” strategy and the impact on business, notably by deploying a procedure for environmental claims in 2011. Reporting and rating of environmental criteria For the third consecutive year in 2011, Danone was recognized by the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) as the benchmark company for the agri-food sector in the area of environmental reporting, as well as for criteria related to the environmental management system, packaging and methods of raw materials supply. Danone rose by eight points in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), confirming its membership on the CDP panel of companies most committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 42 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 PEOPLE 2011 was the final year of the HR strategic plan formulated at end2008 for the 2009-2011 period. It focused on three goals: Strengthen the fundamental social principles for all employees Make employee and subcontractor safety a daily priority The implementation of the WISE program enabled the group to achieve a 50% reduction within five years (2004 2008) in the number of lost-time accidents. This trend continued between 2009 and 2011, with the frequency rate falling Security: from 5.3 lost-time accidents per million hours worked (frequency rate 1) in the 86% satisfaction year ended December 31, 2008 to 2.2 in the year ended December 31, 2011, i.e. a reduction of almost 60 % in three years. In 2011, results continued to in the improve (29% drop of frequency rate 1) with, in particular, significant progress in road safety (39% decrease in the sales function and 45% decrease in Mexico employee – a country particularly exposed to road safety risk). survey The results demonstrate that it is possible to reduce the number of accidents both in spheres outside the Company’s direct control (road accidents) and in parts of the world where exposure to this type of accident is very high. In addition, the results of the survey conducted among the group employees in 2011 (the Danone People Survey, which is carried out every two years; the previous survey was carried out in 2009) demonstrate that Safety is the topic receiving the highest level of satisfaction (86%) from employees’ point of view, with a five-point increase over 2009. Danone employees note better integration of safety concerns in their work environment. Improve health and well-being at work Several initiatives are being implemented to achieve these objectives: • to provide basic medical insurance and other benefits to all employees (Dan’Cares program); • to prevent stress at work and improve working conditions; • to ensure the health and well-being of group employees by promoting best practices linked to good nutrition and a healthy lifestyle. Provide basic medical insurance and other benefits to all employees: the Dan’Cares program The Dan’Cares program was introduced to achieve Danone’s dual economic and social project. It has an ambitious target: by 2013: Danone’s 100,000 employees will be entitled to health insurance covering basic care: hospitalization and surgery, maternity care, medical consultations and pharmacy services. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 43 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PEOPLE In 2010, the program started with an audit carried out in 15 countries and in 56 subsidiaries representing 85% of Danone employees (excluding employees of Unimilk companies); this audit enabled the welfare systems in each country to be assessed and improvements made to ensure that employees receive highquality welfare cover. By 2011, eight countries (China, Spain, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia) had begun to implement Dan’Cares: consequently, 28,000 employees benefitted from better medical insurance in 2011. The group’s target is to extend this cover to a further 30,000 employees by 2013. In addition to the progress made in healthcare, this program represents a major social advance as well as a lever to make Danone more attractive to potential recruits, reduce absenteeism and increase the commitment and loyalty of staff. Prevent stress at work, and improve well-being and working conditions The group-wide agreement for France signed in March 2010 has been applied in several French subsidiaries through specific agreements or action plans. This framework agreement was used as a basis for drafting the section covering stress of the global agreement signed by Danone and the IUF on September 29, 2011. Ensure the health and well-being of group employees by promoting good nutrition and a healthy lifestyle Each year, the group’s subsidiaries are encouraged to develop programs for their employees which promote good nutrition, participation in sports and greater awareness of healthy lifestyles. Strengthen international social dialogue Within Danone, social dialogue is organized as follows: • a worldwide labor relations body: the Information and Consultation Committee (Comité d’Information et de Consultation CIC); • negotiating and monitoring international framework agreements with the International Union of Food Workers (IUF); • dynamic labor relations, within the group’s subsidiaries, with trade union representatives and staff representatives. Worldwide labor relations body: the Information and Consultation Committee (CIC) The CIC’s annual meeting in Geneva, at the offices of the International Labor Office (ILO), is attended by around 60 trade unionist-employees of Danone’s subsidiaries and around 15 national coordinators of trade unions in the sector. 44 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 The main features of the manner in which the CIC functions are as follows: • it is open to employee representatives of subsidiaries outside Europe: in Asia (Indonesia), North America (United States and Canada), Latin America (Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, etc.) and Africa (South Africa, Algeria, etc.); • holding, before CIC Meetings, discussions focused on the group’s divisions: Dairy, Waters, Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition. Negotiating and monitoring international framework agreements As of December 31, 2011, Danone had entered into nine agreements with the IUF, relating mainly to diversity, labor relations, and the measures to be implemented when changes to the group’s activity affect employment or working conditions. The latest agreement, signed on September 29, 2011, covers health, safety, working conditions and stress. Application of these agreements is the subject, each year, of a joint assessment on the ground by a representative of Danone and a representative of the IUF. In three years, 18 countries have been audited. Dynamic labor relations within the subsidiaries with trade union representatives and staff representatives 90% of Danone’s employees (excluding employees of Unimilk companies) work within entities that have staff representation bodies (unionized or not), which give them the opportunity to discuss economic and social related matters at local level. 2011 was characterized by two milestones in the development of labor relations within Danone: • the former Baby and Medical Nutrition European Works Council was integrated into Danone bodies during a meeting of the Information and Consultation Committee in 2011; • on September 29, 2011, Danone and the IUF signed the first worldwide agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress. This agreement covers the 100,000 Danone employees in over 90 countries and is based on best practices observed in both mature and emerging countries. Develop the employability of all employees The goal is to continue to develop skills by maintaining high budgets. As a result, 99.6% in 2011, 99.6% of employees received training (excluding employees of Unimilk companies) and, at 31 hours per employee, the average number of training hours employees remained stable in comparison with 2010, but represented a 23% increase over 2008. have followed training during 2011 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 45 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PEOPLE Develop employee autonomy and efficiency Make Danone a “Great Place to Grow” Danone’s goal is to become a “Great Place to Grow,” recognized both within and outside the company as a place where all employees can learn and develop their skills. In 2011, Danone continued to monitor a “personal development” indicator, the Great Place to Grow Index (see 2010 Report for the composition of this indicator, page 58). There was significant progress in 2011 compared with 2010: the group exceeded the objective it had set of 80% of GPTG, with improvements in glass breaking (the glass ceiling move of non-managers to managers), safety, and employee opinions on the four topics. The rate of internal promotion for managers and executives, and the number of training hours are slightly lower. CODE and Danone Leadership College (DLC) The objective of this program, which was launched in 2008, is to increase the autonomy and accountability of all group employees and to make Danone a “Great Place to Grow” (where everyone can learn and develop). As of December 31, 2011, 15,000 first level managers and 25,000 other employees had been trained. Most of this training was provided by 470 specifically appointed internal trainers. The Danone People Survey demonstrated the popularity of this program: in addition to the significantly better rating given to training (+6 points compared to 2009), 81% of the 15,000 first level managers trained considered that the way they worked had improved and 72% noted an improvement in their working environment since the introduction of the CODE leadership values defined by the group (formalizing leadership attitudes in line with the group’s values – CODE stands for Committed, Open, Doer and Empowered/ Empowering).Additionally, the improved results for local management (+3 points) illustrate the benefit of CODE, as managers are perceived by their teams as better “coaches.” The DLC’s other main strength is the momentum it generates as regards: • business performance, by significantly increasing employees’ involvement and loyalty to their subsidiary’s strategy; • managerial ability and individual and collective leadership ability, formalized around the group’s values. Innovation in education and the Danone Learning Solutions program In 2011, 10,600 employees followed group training programs (compared to 7,000 in 2010) mainly involving the use of new teaching methods (use of training kits like the “Danone Learning Solutions” as well as traditional “classroom” training courses). 46 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 In addition, during 2011, the group set up the “Danone China University” to support growth of the group’s business and promote career development of employees in China. At the same time, structures such as the “Danone Campus” brought together 1,700 employees during 2011, mainly in Europe and Asia Pacific, or in countries such as Japan and Thailand. Danone’s Growth Commitment Danone’s Growth Commitment aims to establish connections between employees’ professional lives and their personal aspirations: it represents a mutual commitment between the individual and the company covering a medium-term or long-term (three to five years) professional and/or personal project relating to the group’s current or future activity. Danone offers support to employees wishing to undertake such projects. This initiative is being gradually implemented in the group’s subsidiaries by means of several pilots involving various categories of employees and business lines. As a result, more than 300 Growth Commitments were initialized in 2011 and are now in different stages of progress (exploratory discussions, joint formalization of the project, validation and implementation of the mutual commitment). Increasing diversity of the teams Danone views diversity as a source of wealth for the company. Valuing the cultural, social and generational diversity of our employees, benefiting from what both men and women have to offer as well as from a wide range of experiences and training backgrounds is not just a human resources issue, but a question of economic performance. Diversity contributes to the company’s transformation and long-term growth. Danone’s goals are to: • accelerate innovation by confronting different ways of thinking to enhance collective intelligence; • allow all skills and talents to develop and grow, to create a company that can perform well over the long term and remain close to its consumers; • contribute to the dynamic energy of the ecosystems in which Danone operates by playing an active social inclusion role for all types of populations. Danone focused in a first phase on the issue of gender diversity. A global action plan was drafted and presented to all the General Managers to ensure that the proportion of women at upper management levels be in line with their total numbers in the organization as a whole. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 47 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PEOPLE Alongside these internal Danone initiatives, a second EVE seminar was organized in 2011, bringing together 300 employees from 15 partner companies in Evian. This edition was once again a success, fostering the sharing of a large number of experiences in developing female leadership. Finally, a specific gender diversity seminar brought together 60 group General Managers in Evian in September 2011, to raise their awareness of the topic and share with them the issues and best practices encountered by the Country Business Units (CBUs). All these initiatives have contributed to growing female representation over 18 months, at every level of the organization (+2% at Executive level, +4% at Director level). The results are starting to be felt, even if much remains to be done to reach the objective. Based on lessons from various studies on gender diversity (career modularity, flexibility of work organization, etc.), Danone has restated the group’s other diversity priorities: • cultural diversity in management positions, in particular to significantly increase the proportion of General Managers from countries outside Western Europe; • generational diversity, to best utilize all the generations and the diversity of what they have to offer, with appropriate career management, capitalizing on their assets and the ability to manage three or four generations at work; • diversity of socio-educational backgrounds, to recruit varied profiles from varied social backgrounds, leading to the integration of people with different training or life experiences, unusual career paths, new ideas, and the ability to surprise, ask questions and rethink ways of doing things. The development of an agile culture based on new working methods Introducing new tools, such as the “Danone 2.0” program which makes new technologies available to leverage the networking culture, helps accelerate co-creation and fosters openness and sharing between Danoners. Beyond the exploding number of hours of video conferencing and WebMeetings, which reduces travel while maintaining strong connections between employees, it is the number of communities created using these new tools (more than 300) which testifies to the success and acceptance of these new working methods. 48 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Continuing to create meaning to foster commitment and a sense of exceptionalism Continued very strong employee commitment The 2011 “Danone People Survey” was addressed to 100% of Danoners (Danone employees) for the first time in all 177 CBUs (except Unimilk). The participation rate was 87%, or nearly 70,000 Danoners who replied to the questionnaire. One reason for this high level of participation is the quality of follow-up for the previous survey: the item “results from the previous survey taken into account” showed the strongest progression (+14 points compared with 2009). Employees perceive the Danone People Survey as an effective means of expressing their needs and expectations because they know that concrete actions are implemented based on the Employee survey results. commitment: The overall results show progress for all the topics evaluated, in most cases 85% exceeding the norms for the mass retail sector and nearing or for certain items joining the category of the “best in class” companies. through the The rate of employee commitment (85%) remains at its very high level of annual survey 2009 and testifies to the support of the vast majority of employees for the “Danone model” with its culture and values (86%); they are also proud to work for the company (93%). Even more telling is that 75% of Danoners confirm their well-being at work and their commitment to the company. According to the agency that administered the survey, this correlation is an indicator of the realism and sustainability of this commitment. Three key topics from the HR strategic plan showed significant progress in terms of satisfaction rates compared with 2009: safety at work: +5 points, training: +6 points, local management: +3 points. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 49 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PEOPLE Growing differentiation through social initiatives The Danone Ecosystem Fund The creation of the Danone Ecosystem Fund – approved at the Danone General Meeting of April 23, 2009 – is a feature of the group’s dual economic and social project and aims to strengthen the local players in Danone’s ecosystem who contribute to the business of the group’s CBUs: small farmers, suppliers and subcontractors, transport and logistics operators, distributors, and regions around our plants. Created for a five-year period, it received an initial grant of €100 million (supplemented beginning in 2010 by an annual addition of as much as 1% of Danone’s annual net profit). 35 projects launched in two years Twenty-six CBUs (representing 35% of the group’s revenues) are committed alongside more than 25 partners – primarily NGOs – in the co-creation of one or more projects. Initiatives have been launched in more than 17 countries around the world. These 35 projects, of which 34 are active today and which represent total investment of €23.3 million, have had a direct impact on the employment of more than 3,000 individuals (created and/or consolidated jobs) and aim to reach out to more than 37,000 people. Upcoming phases of the projects underway represent around €25 million in expenditures. Five strategic focus areas These projects, which are being developed in the mature countries as well as in emerging countries, are organized around five strategic focus areas: 1. Agricultural development (15 projects underway): locate and secure Danone’s milk and fruit supply through partnerships with small producers in particular. 2. Local distribution (7 projects underway, 1 project halted): integrate socially disadvantaged individuals by creating new distribution channels for mass retail products and/or local products with a high nutritional/ health value. 3. Recycling networks (4 projects underway, 1project not yet launched): collect PET in particular by helping organize the work of communities of waste pickers, while also improving their quality of life and that of their families. 4. Personal services (4 projects underway): in the field of nutrition, by professionalizing agents in the sector of services to individuals for childhood development and aging. 5. Developing plants’ socio-economic basins (4 projects underway): contribute to developing employment and micro businesses with local economic initiatives. 50 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011: From laboratory to consolidation of the approach The teams worked in 2011 to identify the strengths from which the Ecosystem approach must continue to nurture its projects: • CBU support for the ecosystem approach anchored in local business strategies; • the positive impact of co-creation on project governance: complementary competencies, balance between economic and social impacts. Challenges were also noted: projects change significantly over their first six to twelve months of existence. Certain results are obtained more rapidly than planned, while others require more time. Project support thus needs to be adjusted over time to consolidate quality of execution for those currently underway, maximize potential impact through a connection to the CBU’s strategy, and consolidate feedback. This first review carried out at end-2011 will help in replicating projects in the future and efficiently shaping group practices. A catalyst for change The Fund’s goal for 2012 is above all to consolidate existing projects and professionalize their execution. New projects may be initiated if they meet more selective criteria, in particular a higher level of co-financing by the CBUs. Anchoring the five strategic focus areas (supply, distribution, recycling, personal services and regions) into CBU strategies and within the Danone divisions (Dairy products, Waters, Medical nutrition and Baby nutrition) is key. Thus, for the Dairy products division, the aim is to define a new sustainable agriculture goal for the group, particularly through the development of the “dairy ecosystem.” More generally, four major functions draw from the lessons and new practices generated by the Fund’s programs: Procurement, Human Resources, Corporate Affairs and Marketing. Comprehensive impact measurement will also be launched, along with a procedure for utilizing the knowledge gained to better support Danone’s transformation (see pages 208-209 of this report). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 51 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PEOPLE Danone Supporting Life Danone Supporting Life includes all CBU initiatives in support of local communities, based on a “triple win” approach that combines development of the CBU’s business, increased motivation for Danone employees through their commitment, and local development benefits in the areas that relate to our expertise: nutrition and health, partnering with nature, access to food and water, and promoting the well-being of children and the elderly. Danone Supporting Life: social issues at the heart of the projects Three major goal areas were pursued in 2011, notably in the nutrition/health sector and in support of children’s well-being: • combating food waste, with the example of partnerships between Danone and the Spanish and Argentinean food banks (to learn more, see pages 147-150 of this report); • children’s nutrition education, notably with the Eat Like a Champ initiative launched by Danone in the United Kingdom (to learn more, see pages 150-151 of this report); • emergency assistance: Danone teams mobilized to provide assistance to victims in Haiti, and after the accident at the Fukushima nuclear plant (to learn more, see pages 151-152 of this report). Dan’Awards 2011: focus on the Ukraine Milk Communities project In 2011, 23 projects participated in the in-house Dan’Awards for the best “triple win” projects created by Danone CBUs. Most projects were supported by CBUs in the Baby nutrition and Dairy products divisions, both by teams from so-called “mature” countries and by their peers in the emerging countries. 52 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 The project that won the competition is Ukraine Milk Communities: UKRAINE MILK COMMUNITIES Uniting small dairy producers in cooperatives to make the dairy sector more dynamic and secure supply. In Ukraine, 80% of dairy production is supplied by small farmers, of which one-third live below the poverty line. The number of dairy farmers is decreasing and the country has lost half its dairy herd over the past three years. Danone Ukraine launched the Ukraine Milk Communities project in collaboration with the NGO Heifer to preserve this dairy farming sector. The project aims to: • utilize the entire dairy production; • increase small farmers’ income by organizing them into around twenty dairy cooperatives. The farmers receive support, among other things, for milking and collection, feeding their cows and veterinary care. Significant training efforts accompany the creation of the cooperatives, to improve production methods to achieve better quality and productivity. Two successive phases were launched in September 2009 and January 2011, respectively. Initial results: 24 cooperatives supply milk to Danone Ukraine, 2,300 farmers are involved in the program and have received 200 hours of training. 60 jobs were created within the cooperatives. The 6,200 metric tons of milk supplied in 2011 represent 8% of Danone Ukraine’s total milk supply. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 53 THE stratEgY In action 2011 REsultS Focus ON THE FOUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PEOPLE danone communities danone.communities is a social business incubator whose mission is to promote, support and finance social businesses that want to contribute to eliminating malnutrition and poverty. In addition to its project communities, danone.communities leads a network of partners who may be players in the social business debate or in initiatives in France or abroad. Danone employees’ commitment to supporting the development of social businesses takes two different forms: • contributing time and skills: more than 280 employees have taken part directly in danone.communities projects, most frequently through part-time support missions in areas as varied as R&D, marketing and communication, human resources, finance, sales and distribution, production; • investment support: 2,353 Danone employees in France have subscribed to the Danone Communities SICAV, meaning that one quarter of French employees have made the choice, year after year, to make their savings more meaningful. Creating meaning as an extension of the Danone culture rooted in the organization Creating meaning is part of the group’s culture: since 1972, Danone has based its policy on the notion of the dual economic and social project, which continues to form the basis for its managerial practices. The company is developing a three-tier bonus system for its 1,500 managers to anchor this balanced approach over the long term (see pages 90-91 of this report for details). Aligning the corporate vision with management systems makes it possible to share a collective ambition across all dimensions, while ensuring that the creation of value for its shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees and consumers is integrated into Danone’s strategy and business model. 54 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 marked the completion of the Human Resources (HR) strategic plan. The future 2012-2014 strategic plan is being drafted. It will be based on the ten-year HR ambition, which was designed in 2010 with more than 200 individuals from the function, and then massively rolled out in 2011 to over 800 HR managers, with the involvement of around one hundred members of Management Committees in more than 100 CBUs in the group’s different regions. The purpose of this HR ambition is to accelerate Danone’s growth and to cultivate our unique culture in which individuals, teams and partners can develop and make a difference in furthering the group’s mission. The HR 2020 ambition will support three major “transformations”: • take action upstream of organizational changes to define appropriate organizational models and build the necessary capacities to accelerate Danone’s growth; • develop skills, not only for managers and all employees, but also of the partners known as Dan’Affiliates (farmers, distributors, subcontractors, etc.) who operate within Danone’s ecosystem; • expand the scope of the dual economic and social project by opening it to societal dimensions and involving all stakeholders in creating and sharing value. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 55 StratEgY 56 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 DASHBOARD 2011 stakeholder commitments and outlook ConsUMERS 58 CommunITIES 64 SUPPLIERS 64 environment 66 EMPLOYEES 68 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 57 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK ConsUmers OUR STAKEHOLDER OUR OBJECTIVES 2010 performance(*) COMMITMENTS CONSUMERS Invest in research and • Develop (internal and external) nutrition and • 108 clinical studies underway. development to develop health expertise, understand global and local • 140 articles published in peer-reviewed scientific nutrition/health issues, develop tools and journals. healthy products methods for managing product nutritional • 43 patents pending. quality, reformulate products while retaining consumer preference, scientifically demonstrate product benefits. Call on external experts • Form panels of external experts and/or call on • 78% of Country Business Units (CBUs) benefit individual external experts to identify nutrition from at least one expert panel. and health issues, examine Danone's product • 92 expert panels formed. development strategy, reflect on the definition of • 1,125 experts involved in the various panels. nutrition standards, etc. Understand and monitor • Extend (in terms of geography, populations and • 8 new countries covered (34 countries total). changes to issues approach) the deployment of Nutripack*. • Extension to new populations (babies and • Carry out epidemiological studies if necessary to the elderly), new data (fluid intake) and new and needs related to establish nutritional intake (including fluids) and approach (sociological). consumer health and identify any local deficiencies. nutrition • Update and provide access to this data in real time for the relevant Danone teams. * Nutripacks: summary of bibliographic references and expert opinions concerning health/nutrition policies, nutritional intake, nutrition status and recommendations, prevalence of nutritional deficiencies and diet-related diseases, etc. Offer relevant products • Offer products belonging to food categories Composition of the product portfolio: that contribute to a recommended by health authorities and suitable • 64% of products intended for the general for daily consumption, or meeting specific public belonging to food categories balanced diet nutritional needs. recommended by public health authorities for daily consumption, including: 48% of Dairy products; 16% of Waters. • 24% of products intended for people with specific nutritional needs or medical conditions, of which: 18% of Baby nutrition products; 6% of Medical nutrition products; • 10% of other retail products (beverages, other). Adapt products' • Define internal nutrition standards based on health • 98% of products evaluated in terms of nutritional content to authority recommendations, regularly assess nutritional profile: the nutritional quality of the products portofolio 62% of products comply with internal nutrition consumer needs with regard to these standards and compared to standards for daily consumption (Dairy competitors' products (NutriProgress program), products: 63%, Baby nutrition: 62%, Waters: define reformulation goals if necessary (reduction 58%); of sugar, fat, salt; enrichment with vitamins and 23% of products improved in terms of minerals, etc.). quantity/quality of fats, sugars and/or salt during the 2008-2010 period (Dairy products: 19%, Baby nutrition: 27%; Waters (beverages): 25%); 27% of products fortified with micronutrients during the 2008-2010 period (Dairy products: 26%, Baby nutrition: 27%; Waters (beverages): 25%). Develop new products • Develop new products complying with internal Not assessed. suitable for daily nutrition standards for daily consumption. consumption and contributing to improved overall nutritional intake (*) Unless otherwise indicated, percentages noted in this column are percentages of number of references. Scope of consolidation: 66% of 2010 references coming from 12 countries: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, United States. (**) Unless otherwise indicated, percentages noted in this column are percentages of revenues. Scope of consolidation: 68% of 2011 net revenues coming from 12 countries: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, United States. 58 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 PERFORMANCE(**) Our 2012 commitments AND OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTs and outlook • 100% of CBUs have an expert, in-house Nutrition master . • Capitalize on expected new results • 12,086 employees trained in nutrition over the past 2 years. of clinical studies (ongoing) regarding • €228 million invested in R&D. specific product benefits. • 126 clinical studies underway. • 119 articles published in peer-reviewed scientific journals. • 51 patents pending. • 100% of CBUs benefit from at least one expert panel. • Expand the number of panels and • 158 expert panels formed. constantly diversify the expertise on • 1,052 experts involved in the various panels. the panels. • 94% of group CBUs covered by the Nutripack approach: • Update and provide access in real time 95% of the Dairy products division (population of adults); to all data for all relevant functions by 98% of the Baby nutrition division (population of babies); 2013. 93% of the Waters division (fluid intake for adults). • Explore the value and possibility of • Expansion of the type of data analyzed: sociological data (dietary behavior, change factors, sharing this data with the scientific barriers to consumption, etc.) and dietary behavior data (specific regional diets, etc.). community and policy-makers. Algeria identified as a pilot country. • Expansion of the availability of Nutripack data in real time on the NutriPl@net intranet for all relevant functions. Composition of the product portfolio: • Maintain a high proportion of products • 66% products intended for the general public belonging to food categories recommended by beneficial to health (products in the public health authorities for daily consumption, of which: categories recommended by public 50% of Dairy products; health authorities, meeting specific 16% of Waters. nutritional needs, or contributing to • 25% of products intended for people with specific nutritional needs or medical conditions, of improving overall nutritional intake). which: 19% of Baby nutrition products; 6% of Medical nutrition products. • 9% of other retail products (beverages, other). • Updating of internal nutrition standards for the Dairy products, Baby nutrition (reinforcement) • Maintain or increase the share of and Waters divisions (standards available upon request). products suitable for daily consumption • 63% of products comply with internal nutrition standards for daily consumption (Dairy and of products contributing to products: 59%, Baby nutrition: 50% rate decreased due to higher nutrition standards improved overall nutritional intake, introduced in 2011; Waters: 72%). while taking into account consumer • 20% of products improved in terms of quantity/quality of fats, sugars and/or salt during the expectations. 2009-2011 period (Dairy products: 14%, Baby nutrition: 47%; Waters (beverages): 12%). • 42% of products fortified with micronutrients during the 2009-2011 period (Dairy products: 40%, Baby nutrition: 47%; Waters (beverages): 12%). Bottled waters and Medical nutrition products are not concerned by reformulation issues. • 45% (sales) of new products complying with internal nutrition standards for daily consumption. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 59 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK ConsUmers OUR STAKEHOLDER OUR OBJECTIVES 2010 performance(*) COMMITMENTS CONSUMERS Make it easier to meet the • Bring to market significant quantities of products • 14.8 billion servings of dairy products public health authorities' that contribute to meeting public health for daily consumption delivered in 2010 authorities' recommendations of food intake. (average serving: 125g for solid products, recommendations of food 200ml for liquid products). intake • 8.7 billion portions of water delivered in 2010 (average portion: 1.2l to 2l depending on the country). Provide transparent • Provide consumers with practical nutrition • 99% of products provide nutrition information and practical nutrition information on pack and on the internet, even on pack. where there is no regulatory requirement (Dairy • 72% of products provide front-of-package information products, Waters). nutrition information (energy icon of the GDA • In the European Union countries, this labeling system in Europe). information is provided in the form of Guideline • 67% of products provide nutrition information Daily Amounts (GDA) per serving with regard on the internet. to calories, protein, carbohydrates including sugars, fat including saturates, fiber and sodium. Provide consumers with • Indicate to consumers the appropriate serving Not assessed. guidance on serving size size for the product to contribute to a healthy diet. Communicate claims about • Ensure that all our claims are perfectly • 100% of health claims covered by an internal the benefits of our products understandable to consumers (reflecting validation process. scientifically-proven benefits) and reliable • 100% of products with a claim having an that are reliable and easy to (reflecting the level of scientific evidence). appropriate nutritional profile (compliance understand • Ensure that products with a claim have an with internal nutrition standards for daily appropriate nutrition profile. consumption). Practice responsible • Apply the best practices described in the • 100% of Country Business Units (CBUs) marketing International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) committed to compliance with the ICC code. code for responsible marketing of food and beverages. Promote the healthiest • Concentrate advertising resources on products Not assessed. products to consumers for daily consumption. Limit advertising targeting • Comply with self-limitation commitment in the • 80% CBUs selling children products are children (under age 12) to EU countries (in the framework of the EU pledge committed to self-limitation. uniting 27 countries at end-2007), in the US • Compliance with commitments measured by the products whose nutrition (in the framework of the CFBAI pledge) and in EU Pledge: 99% in the media (television: 99%, profile and serving size Brazil (in the framework of the Brazilian Pledge). press and internet: 100%), 92% in schools. meets the needs of children, • Extend our commitments to other countries and do not advertise our outside the EU. products in schools (*) Unless otherwise indicated, percentages noted in this column are percentages of number of references. Scope of consolidation: 66% of 2010 references coming from 12 countries: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, United States. (**) Unless otherwise indicated, percentages noted in this column are percentages of revenues. Scope of consolidation: 68% of 2011 net revenues coming from 12 countries: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, United States. 60 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 PERFORMANCE(**) Our 2012 commitments AND OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTs and outlook • 15.5 billion portions of dairy products meeting internal nutrition standards for daily • Maintain or increase the share consumption in 2011 (average portion: 125g for solid products, 200ml for liquid products). of products suitable for daily • 9.8 billion portions of water delivered in 2011 (average portion: 1.2l to 2l depending on the consumption and of products country). contributing to improved overall nutritional intake, while taking into account consumer expectations. • 90% of products provide nutrition information on packaging that complies with the Danone • Achieve a rate of 95% of products charter. with nutritional labeling (on pack • 70% of products provide nutrition information on front-of-package that complies with the Danone and on line). charter (energy icon of the GDA labeling system in Europe). • 72% of products provide nutrition information on the web that complies with the Danone charter. • 83% of Dairy products and 96% of Baby nutrition products indicate to consumers the • Achieve a rate of 95% of Dairy appropriate serving size of the product to contribute to a healthy diet. products, Waters and Baby nutrition products indicating serving size. • 100% of nutrition/health claims covered by an internal claim validation process. • Achieve a rate of 100% of health • 100% of products with a claim having an appropriate nutritional profile (compliance with claims covered by an internal validation internal nutrition standards for daily consumption). process. • 43% of products carry a nutrition claim. • Achieve a rate of 100% of products • 22% of products carry a health claim. carrying a claim along with an appropriate nutritional profile (internal nutrition standards for daily consumption). • 100% of CBUs committed to compliance with the ICC code. • Achieve a rate of 100% of CBUs in compliance with the ICC code. • 82% of advertising expenditures for Dairy products dedicated to promoting the healthiest • Maintain or increase the share of products (meeting internal nutrition standards for daily consumption). advertising expenditures on products for daily consumption and products contributing to improved overall nutritional intake. • 87% CBUs selling children products are committed to self-limitation. • Extend our commitments to other • Compliance with commitments measured by the EU Pledge: 99% in the media (television: countries by 2013 (Mexico, Turkey, 99%, press and internet: 100%), 98% in schools. Russia, etc.). • Extension of commitments in 2011 to South Africa, Switzerland and Canada. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 61 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK ConsUmers OUR STAKEHOLDER OUR OBJECTIVES 2010 performance(*) COMMITMENTS CONSUMERS Develop new products with • Expand the distribution of existing programs, • Extension of distribution of the Gizikita product good nutritional value and launch new programs. launched in 2009 in Indonesia, of Shoktidoi in Bangladesh, etc. affordable by low-income • Initiation of projects in Senegal (Lemateki: product populations based on milk and local grains for children in schools) and Algeria (Sahazine: product for children providing 30% of Reference Daily Intake of iron) for launch in 2011. • Expansion of distribution of Gran Compra in Argentina with the launch of a yogurt at ARS 0.95 $/pot. Promote healthy lifestyles • Develop information and education programs • More than 200 programs deployed. contributing to combating to promote a balanced diet and exercise, and • More than 220 million people reached. whose impact can be assessed. obesity and/or malnutrition Carry out shelf audits to • In the Waters division: shelf audits carried Not assessed. evaluate product quality and out to provide information for sales decisions. • In the Dairy products and Baby nutrition our positioning compared divisions: launch of the project in several to our competitors at the Country Business Units (CBUs) to assess moment of purchase, with feasibility. the goal of reaching the consumer at the point of sale Collect and properly • Update Excipio to expand its functionalities Not assessed. process consumer feedback and continue its global deployment Improve functionalities and continue geographic from the point of sale and at expansion. the moment of consumption • Implement Excipio in the Baby nutrition and to ensure that consumers Medical nutrition divisions before end-2012. are satisfied with the • Continue deployment of Excipio at the global level to better assess consumer feedback for products offered benchmarking and reducing operating costs. (*) Unless otherwise indicated, percentages noted in this column are percentages of number of references. Scope of consolidation: 66% of 2010 references coming from 12 countries: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, United States. (**) Unless otherwise indicated, percentages noted in this column are percentages of revenues. Scope of consolidation: 68% of 2011 net revenues coming from 12 countries: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Great Britain, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Spain, United States. 62 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 PERFORMANCE(**) Our 2012 commitments AND OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTs and outlook • Indonesia: relaunch of Milkuat in bottle and pouch offers. Increased penetration of 2013 goal: 54% in categories C, D and E. • Expand the distribution of existing programs. • Extension of Gizikita in the baby nutrition category. • Launch new programs. • Poland: complete renewal of Milky Start. Monthly volumes tripled, new consumers in category D. • India: creation of a BOP-dedicated dairy product plant with the launch of 4 products (Fundooz) end 2011, at appropriate prices. • 219 programs targeting the general public, parents, children, patients, etc. • By 2013, expand evaluation of programs’ • Almost 700 million people potentially reached by these programs. impact in terms of change in behavior • Sharing of the most significant European initiatives with the EU Platform on Diet, Physical (dietary, lifestyle). Activity and Health. • Continue deployment in the Dairy products division More than 70% of CBUs should • Continue deployment in the Dairy products regularly carry out shelf audits by the end of the year. division More than 70% of CBUs should • Baby nutrition division: begin deployment in the mature countries and set a budget to regularly carry out shelf audits by the end prepare rollout to the entire division, with the goal of achieving geographic coverage of of the year. more than 90% by 2013. • Baby nutrition division: begin deployment • Waters: implementation in CBUs representing more than 90% of revenues. in the mature countries and set a budget • Finalize the action plan with a view to its implementation in the Medical nutrition division. to prepare rollout to the entire division, with the goal of achieving geographic coverage of more than 90% by 2013. • Waters: implementation in CBUs representing more than 90% of revenues • Finalize the action plan with a view to its implementation in the Medical nutrition division. • Make Excipio a requirement for all Danone CBUs around the world, define action • Make Excipio a requirement for all Danone plans for its implementation. CBUs around the world, define action plans • Launch of the Nexus project in the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions. for its implementation. • Continuation of the global deployment of the system in the Waters and Dairy products • Launch the Nexus project in the Baby divisions. nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions • Continue the global deployment of the system in the Waters and Dairy products divisions. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 63 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK COMMUNITIES AND SUPPLIERS OUR STAKEHOLDER OUR Objectives 2010 Performance COMMITMENTS COMMUNITIES CREATING VALUE WITHIN AND BEYOND OUR WALLS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES Strengthen • Involve Danone stakeholders in the process • €10.1 million invested. and contribute of creating economic, social and environmental • 20 projects launched at end 2010. to development value through the company's daily business activities • 16 civil society partners (NGOs, institutes). of the Danone and specific community projects. • 12,000 potential beneficiaries. • Contribute to the consolidation and development of • The projects cover 5 topics called ecosystem players in the company's ecosystem with three action clusters: purchaising, distribution, fields: developing employment, employability and recycling, human services and issues micro-entrepreneurship. relating to areas in which production • Assess project impacts with a range of tools. plants are based. Replicate community • Develop initiatives based on the triple win concept • 29 Danone Supporting Life projects projects initiated by in response to the following challenges: took part in the Dan’Awards: Danone employees in development of the CBU's business; 62% of projects were based in Europe; the Country Business Danone employees' motivation through their commitment; 41% of projects were initiated in the local development in Danone's areas of expertise Dairy division. Units (Danone (nutrition/health, partnership with nature, access Supporting Life) to food and water, support for well-being of children and the elderly). Improve the living • Consolidate projects and transfer knowledge • Two new projects received investment conditions of to social entrepreneurs. from the danone.communities fund communities through • Document the lessons learned and share them (Naandi Community Water Services Social Business and to inspire other Social Business initiatives. and Isomir). • 5 projects receiving Fund investment. share the learnings • 80,000 fortified yogurts sold per day, through the Grameen Danone Foods Ltd. project. • 80% of 1001 Fountains sites reached break-even point. SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY Foster the • Support nutrition research through grants, awards, • 60 grants/awards (total of 1 million euros) advancement and university chairs and partnerships. by Danone Institutes. • Foster exchange through symposia and conferences, etc. • 8 Nutricia Research Foundation grants exchange of scientific (400,000€). knowledge • First “Microbes for Health” symposium at Pasteur Institute in Paris: 366 participants from 27 countries. SUPPLIERS CREATE VALUE FOR OUR SUPPLIERS BEYOND THE STANDARD BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP Strengthen suppliers • Through the Ecosystem projects, strengthen the business • 7 projects launched to develop Danone's in Danone's ecosystem of small suppliers by promoting upstream activity in the dairy products business in Ukraine, value chain. France, Egypt and Mexico. • Identify new partnerships. Support Danone's • Include the Fundamental Social Principles and/or the • Around 80% of suppliers had signed major suppliers Sustainable Development Principles in 100% of contracts/ the Fundamental Social Principles and/or in rolling out their general terms of procurement. the Sustainable Development Principles Corporate Social • Implement an assessment of the CSR performance of in their contracts and/or general terms Danone's suppliers, raise their awareness of the topic if of procurement. Responsibility necessary, and identify at-risk suppliers. • 1,282 suppliers registered on the (CSR) policies • Carry out CSR audits of suppliers identified as at-risk. In the SEDEX platform. case of significant non-compliance issues, carry out follow• 103 suppliers audited by third parties, up audits after implementation of appropriate action plans. based on an external CSR benchmark (SMETA), including 15 follow-up audits. Create new, • Conduct a program to transform the purchaising function, Not available (N/A). more sustainable allowing to establish connections between Danone procurement models suppliers and Danone consumers. 64 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 Performance Our 2012 Commitments and Outlook • €12.7 million invested in 2011, for a total investment of €23.4 million • Make sure that projects initiated since 2009 are correctly since the fund was created. implemented and economically sustainable. • 35 projects approved at end 2011. • For each cluster, measure project impact through global • 27 civil society partners. qualitative and quantitative studies conducted by international • 29 participating CBUs. experts to support Danone's transformation. • 36,000 potential beneficiaries. • Initiate new projects integrating feedback from the first rollouts. • 49 CBUs informed of the Sustainability Roadmap, a sustainable • Support the group's sustainable agriculture approach, particularly development strategy tool. the development of Danone's dairy ecosystem. • 7 CBUs attended a Sustainability Land seminar to define action • Initiate at least two pilot training sessions on societal innovation in line with local sustainable development issues. project management. • 14 new Danone Supporting Life projects competed for the 2011 • Continue developing a network of initiators of community projects, Dan Awards. best practice sharing and improved team professionalism. • Almost 25% of projects were submitted by subisdiaries in emerging • Roll out pilot training sessions in societal innovation project countries (MICRUB). management as part of the Ecosystem approach. • 74% of projects were initiated by the Dairy & Baby nutrition divisions. • Two additional projects received investment from the Fund • Gradually move from the incubation stage to the investment (El Alberto and NutriGO). stage in the 3 latest danone.communities projects. • 7 projects receiving Fund investment. • Innovate with a revamped General Community Meeting in 2012, • Naandi Community Water Services present in over 400 villages in India. based on year-long community drive for greater impact. • 150,000 persons informed on Social Business through danone. • Raise money for the Fund and the development of communities offline and online action, in particular at the annual danone.communities projects. danone communities General Meeting. • Strengthen links to Danone particularly through • The danone.communities Fund was awarded the ISR Novethic label. knowledge sharing. • The Shokti Ladies network (Grameen project) grew, with 878 women • Steer efforts towards consolidating the 10 projects. selling door-to-door in rural parts. • 60 grants/awards (total of 1 million euros) by Danone Institutes. • 60 grants/awards (total of 1 million euros) by Danone Institutes. • 8 Nutricia Research Foundation grants (400,000€). • 8 Nutricia Research Foundation grants (400,000€). • 2nd “Microbes for Health” symposium at Pasteur Institute in Paris: 366 participants from 34 countries. • The promotion of upstream activities expanded to include fruit • Define the strategy to develop Danone's dairy ecosystem supplies. 9 projects were launched in 2011 on the two supply involving the company's key departments, especially purchaising. sources (milk, fruit). • 90% of suppliers have signed the Sustainable Development • 90% of suppliers have signed the Sustainable Development Principles in their contracts and/or general terms of procurement. Principles in their contracts and/or general terms of procurement. • 70% of major suppliers, i.e. 2,060 suppliers in total, are registered • 100% of major suppliers will have registered on the SEDEX on the SEDEX platform. platform in 2012. • 184 suppliers audited by third parties, based on an external CSR • Eventually, 100% of suppliers regarded as at-risk based on benchmark (SMETA), including 12 follow-up audits. SEDEX 2011/2012 input will have been audited. • Launched the Synapsis project defining the principal working • Roll out the 4 working focuses identified: focuses for 2012. strengthen credibility and reputation (naturality and promotion of upstream agriculture); define new sourcing models: partnerships with very small farms for example; innovate through connections with stakeholders, including civil society players; develop new skills and attitudes with employees from the purchaising departments. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 65 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK environment OUR STAKEHOLDER Our objectives 2010 COMMITMENTS Performance ENVIRONMENT Manage the fundamentals Number of ISO 14001-certified sites (% of production plants): 88 (56%) Number of GREEN (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) sites, 85 (54%) Danone audit method certified by ERM: Recovery of production plant waste (% of weight): 86.1% Contribute to the prevention MEASURE of global warming Expansion of the DANPRINT tool (Danone's carbon footprint assessment tool): 97% % of volume of products sold by our Country Business Units (CBUs) that used the tool (excluding Unimilk companies): Implementation of the SAP Carbon Footprint module: 9% % of Danone revenue concerned (excluding Unimilk companies): REDUCE Energy consumption (total kwh/t): -2.7% Reduction of carbon intensity (kg eq CO2/kg) in Danone's scope of responsibility -22% (production plants, packaging and end of life cycle, transport and storage) since 2008: Carbon Pact committing our Raws and Packaging suppliers • Number of pacts with Dairy products division suppliers: 66 • Number of pacts with Waters division suppliers: • Number of pacts with Baby nutrition suppliers: 33 OFFSET Co-development of carbon offset programs with high social and biodiversity value 3 (Livelihoods Fund number of active programs): Partnerships supporting projects with high social and environmental value generating 2 certified carbon credits (Emission Reduction Purchase Agreements): Support the development Implementation of the sustainable milk management model (FaRM) with farmers 78% of agriculture that is more (% of the number of farms in direct contact with Danone): environmentally-friendly COW2 program (assessment of the carbon footprint arising from livestock methane emissions) 9 Number of countries involved in the program: Redesign packaging REDUCE / END OF LIFE CYCLE to ultimately turn waste Estimate of % of Danone packaging recovered at end of life cycle 40% into resources (estimate based on the group's 12 largest countries in terms of revenue, accounting for about 85% of packaging): RECYCLE Average rate of rPET in water bottles (% weight): 10% USE RENEWABLE MATERIALS % of packaging based on renewable materials 2% (estimate based on the group's 12 largest countries in terms of revenue, accounting for about 85% of packaging): Protect our springs, reduce Reduction of water consumption in our plants (l/kg of product): -11% our water consumption and help protect water resources Reduction in the impact of manufacturing activities – reduction in pollutant load -12% worldwide (COD/kg of product): Contribute to protecting Protection of our springs’ rainwater catchment areas 100% biodiversity at our % of sites applying the Danone charter and its guidelines: locations worldwide 66 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 Cumulative Our 2012 Commitments and Outlook Performance performance 94 (58%) 2012 objective: 100% of strategic sites ISO 14001-certified. 109 (67%) 2012 objective: Audit 100% of strategic sites in 2012. Roll out GREEN Light at 10 HOD sites in 2012. 87.4% 2011 Best in class: Rotselaar, Belgium, with 100% of plant waste recovered. 2020 objective: to be confirmed during the year. 97% This tool will gradually be replaced by the Carbon Footprint module (co-development with SAP). 42% Objective: Implement the SAP Carbon Footprint module in 100% of the CBUs having SAP information system by end 2012. -4.6% * 2000/2011: * -7.6% on a like-for-like basis, 2010/2011. -45% 2012 objective at a constant volume and mix: -5%, 2020 objectives to be confirmed during the year. -27.5% 2008-2012 objective: -30%. 2020 objectives to be confirmed during the year. 2012 objective: Focus on coordinating action plans for Carbon Pacts in existence for more than one year. 2020 objectives to be confirmed during the year. 74 5 71 5 Develop 3 or 4 new projects as part of the Livelihoods Fund within 3 years (2-3 million additional metric tons of CO2 equivalent as long as the fund lasts). Continue the carbon offset program for the Evian brand's remaining emissions. 3 85% Ultimate goal: 100% participation by farms directly supplying Danone. 9 Sustainable milk will be included in the long-term plan. Continue our advancements through research and co-development with the agricultural and scientific communities. N/A We stopped monitoring the pack ratio indicator in 2011. A strategy for managing waste and new indicators regarding the end of our packaging's life cycle will be included in the 2020 long-term plan. 10% Ultimate goal of an average of 50% rPET per bottle. 3% Continue testing these new materials as a pilot project while continuing the various joint projects with outside experts and partners to improve the reliability of impact assessments (competition with foodstuffs, deforestation, etc.). Help develop third-generation renewable materials, i.e. materials that do not directly compete with foodstuffs. -1%* 2000/2011: * -5.2% on a like-for-like basis, 2010/2011. -41% 2012 objective at a constant volume and mix: -3%, 2020 objectives to be confirmed during the year. -10%* 2000/2011: * 11% on a like-for-like basis, 2010/2011. -36% 2012 objective at a constant volume and mix: -4%, 2020 objectives to be confirmed during the year. 100% A life cycle analysis assessment in at least one pilot CBU in 2012. Include the impact of food production on biodiversity in the long-term sustainable milk plan. Continue the Livelihoods Fund's biodiversity protection efforts. N/A : information not available Danone Sustainability Report 2011 67 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK employees Our Stakeholder Our objectives 2010 Performance Commitments Employees STRENGTHEN SOCIAL FUNDAMENTALS FOR ALL Making the safety of all • By 2011, reduce the frequency • Objective exceeded, with a lost-time frequency employees and subcontractors rate of lost-time accidents to rate of 3 (down by over 20%). Set up a special a daily priority approach best-in-class levels: action plan for countries vulnerable to road safety 2.5. risks (Saudi Arabia, Russia, Mexico, Indonesia, China, Argentina) and developed structural measures (example: GPS, Danone-certified licenses after specific training, etc.). Results: reduced frequency rate by 29% in these countries. • Develop a general framework • Implementation of the the 4 Safety Standards to enable the divisions and (Hazardous energy confinement/release, Country Business Units (CBUs) Subcontractor Safety, Driving Safety and Accident to set standard guidelines Investigation), included in the Danone Way indicators through directives and for the 2011 campaign. procedures. • Checklists for CBU self-assessments on the 4 standards. Provide medical insurance and • Provide a minimum level of • Dan’Cares plan launched: 10 countries identified, other benefits for all employees medical insurance and other 55,000 employees, with the objective of a minimum and improve working conditions benefits for all employees based level of medical insurance in CBUs (in-patient, on an audit of existing systems maternal care, outpatient) by 2013. in 15 countries representing 85% of Danone employees. • Prevent stress at work and • Agreement signature in March 2010 for French CBUs, improve working conditions. company-level negotiations being finalized (France). • Negotiation of a global framework agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress with IUF (International Union of Food Workers): draft agreement finalized end 2010. • Create health awareness/training • In 2010, the health induction program was programs for Danone employees: carried out at 10 CBUs in eight different countries. health induction and health at • Over 100 Health@work programs were rolled out. work programs. Strenghten the • Include representatives • Managed the integration of the Baby and Medical international social dialogue from Asia and North and South Nutrition divisions' European Works Council (EWC) America while maintaining into the ICC: included their representatives on the majority European representation Danone/IUF Steering Committee and negotiating team. (the Information and Consultation • Expanded the current Steering Committee. Committee CIC acts as the European Works Council). • Implement the Danone/IUF • Joint visits were made to Italy, Belgium, Turkey, agreements in all group countries. Hungary and Brazil, with a focus on safety & working conditions (visit to Brazil + Danone/IUF Steering Committee visit to Spain to analyze the safety program). 68 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 Performance Our 2012 Commitments and Outlook • Lost-time accidents frequency rate (FR1) reduced • By 2015, reduce FR1 by 50% to reach 1 and reduce together from 12 to 2 in 8 years through the WISE initiative. FR1 plus FR2 (Frequency Rate without lost time accidents) • Strong legitimacy and positive perception by Danoners: by 50% to reach 7. the 2011 Employee Survey ranks Safety first (86% positive/ • In 2012, achieve an FR1 of 1.79 (i.e. 17% decrease from 2011), very positive perception, + 5 points from 2009). secure FR2 indicator reporting in all Zones, define and implement • In 2011, FR1 = 2.2 (29% from 2010), ahead of targets a new Standard called Workplace Risk Assessment focusing (2.6 and -14%). Significant progress made by the sales on risk prevention at the workplace, and proactively manage department to 2.4 (-39%). the professional development of the group's 100 experienced Safety auditors. • In 2011, 66% of CBUs implementing the 4 Safety Standards completed self-assessments and developed relevant action plans. • 8 countries (China, Spain, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Poland, • Continue deployment of Dan'Cares to cover, by 2013, Russia and Saudi Arabia), representing 28,000 employees, the additional 30,000 employees in countries that already began implementing Dan’Cares . conducted audits in 2010. • Initiate audits on medical expenses for countries yet to launch Dan'Cares . • Global agreement signed on September 29, 2011 and presented • Implement the agreement, introducing a self-assessment to the Information and Consultation Committee (ICC) in October for each CBU to evaluate their practices against it, and define before 70 unionists from all countries. related priorities. • 4 Human Feasibility Studies (HFS) carried out in France and • Integrate self-assessment and the HFS into the 2012 Danone 50 people trained in the approach which consists in assessing Way campaign. employees' ability to adapt to a major organizational change in terms of skills, workload, safety, training, etc. • Over the past three years, the consistent rise in the percentage • Give priority to rolling out the health component of the Danone/UIF of CBUs achieving level 4 on the Danone Way occupational agreement on Health, Safety, Working Conditions and Stress. health fundamental (30% in 2009, 48% in 2010 and 59% in • By 2013, measure the impact of the Health@work program 2011), shows that the CBUs are making more and more progress in Palaiseau. in prevention programs ( Health Induction Program , employee health diagnosis, extending health insurance to family members, etc.). • 87% of CBUs have a Health@work program. • Almost 47% of staff has access to these programs. • Partnership being developed with INSERM (French National Institute of Health and Medical Research) to assess the program developed at the French Research and Development site in Palaiseau. • Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions successfully • Keep up dynamic, constructive international social dialogue. integrated into the ICC and the Danone/IUF Steering Committee. • Joint visits have been made to 18 countries in 3 years, • Prioritize rollout of the new agreement on Health, Safety, Working addressing three topics each time: presentation of background Conditions and Stress, if necessary with support from the group's and international social dialogue bodies; talks with management Social Affairs department or the IUF in dealings with negotiators and unions/staff representatives about local social dialogue; in the CBUs (HRD, unions). and presentation/evaluation of agreements. • Annual survey on staff representation conducted: results are stable compared to 2010. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 69 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK employees Our Stakeholder Our objectives 2010 Performance Commitments Employees STRENGTHEN SOCIAL FUNDAMENTALS FOR ALL Improve the employability • Increase access to training • The average number of training hours per employee and skills of all our employees for all employees. increased from 27 hours in 2009 to 31 in 2010 (vs. 24 hours in 2008). • The number of employees trained, across all categories, increased from 75,000 to more than 83,000. • Overall, the number of training hours per employee increased in average of 29% in two years. • Continue the VAE program • 65 new employees entered the program, i.e. a total in France (accreditation of of 1,149 graduates. End of program as such, since prior experiential learning). its goal was to reach 1,000 employees in training. • Hire young people for the • As part of the French government’s Youth apprenticeship program and Employment plan, set up a pilot project to create help them gain the necessary a more diverse group of apprentices (currently 70%: qualifications. high school diploma + 2 years of higher education and above) in order to accommodate those without diplomas in the pre-qualification period, in cooperation with local partners (employment agencies, non-profit and training organizations). This will enable them to earn their vocational aptitude certificates or BEP (vocational proficiency diploma). • 144 contracts signed in 4 regions in France, 11 Danone sites and at our suppliers’ and subcontractors’ companies. • Over 95% of young people were confirmed after the pre-qualification period. • Develop sales training methods • 4,900 salespeople were trained in 11 Country Business tailored to the characteristics Units (CBUs) in Asia, the Middle East, Latin America of local cultures.. and Eastern Europe via the “Dream Store College,” a special training module designed for salespeople in the field. Ensure compliance with • Improve implementation of the • 112 CBUs representing over 94% of Danone’s fundamental sustainable 16 Danone Way fundamentals revenue conducted self-assessment under the development criteria by by increasing the number of Danone Way program. participating CBUs, particularly • 14 CBUs audited by external auditors. all CBUs (Danone Way) Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition. • Raise the level of sustainable • Percentage of CBUs rated lower than 3 stars was 17% development standards required in 2010, i.e. 12 CBUs (like-for-like basis with 2009). for Danone Way. • Percentage of 5-star CBUs was 9% in 2010 (7 CBUs). 70 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 Performance Our 2012 Commitments and Outlook • Training effort maintained in all Regions. The average number • Ensure there are no longer any employees who have gone of training hours per employee is stable at 31 hours. without training for two consecutive years. • 85,600 Danoners trained (vs. around 83,000 in 2010) • Provide at least 50% of the group's employees with 24 hours corresponding to 99.6% of average headcounts declared of training each year. in 2011. • As part of the 2012 Danone Way campaign, monitor employees who have not received training for 5 years. • Continued the Initiative 500 program to accommodate • Continue our 3 initiatives for the insertion of young people in France: young people without diplomas in the pre-qualification period, Initiative 500; in cooperation with local partners (employment agencies, Sales School; non-profit and training organizations) to help them gain Atout Jeunes, an inter-company association formed by Danone, qualifications such as vocational aptitude certificates or BEP L'Oréal and Auchan and several Universities (Villetaneuse, Cergy, (vocational proficiency diploma): 114 contracts signed in 2011 Créteil, Marne la Vallée). It aims to improve the employability (76 at Danone and 38 with partner entities). of young graduates holding bachelor's and master's degrees • Launched the Danone in-house Sales School, in cooperation in Arts subjects and Human and Social Sciences both collectively with the IFRIA (food industry training network): 64 students and individually (tutoring provided by employees of the having completed two years' higher education and wishing to participating companies). continue for a third year were hired on a sandwich course basis, alternating 50% classroom time and 50% hands-on training time in stores in a Danone geographic area. This initiative is a means of diversifying recruitment and giving students with 2 years of higher education their chance to obtain positions initially intended for students having completed 5 years of higher education. • Continued implementing the DreamStore College program Objective by end 2012: in 2011; the next-step review will be held in 2012. • 10,000 salespeople trained. • In 2011, the Danone Way scope was expanded to 142 • Pursue the goal of all CBUs achieving 3-star rating following CBUs, representing 92% of group revenue (including Unimilk). their 3rd assessment campaign, on the basis of a more demanding • 12 CBUs audited by external auditors. framework in 2012. • A new framework was designed and set up for the 2012 campaign, including the group's latest initiatives. • Results significantly improved compared with 2010 on a likefor-like-basis (112 CBUs), with the number of 3-star CBUs rising from 19% to 32%. 15% of CBUs are rated lower than 3 stars (for most of them it was only their second campaign). For the global scope in 2011, only 22% of CBUs are rated lower than 3 stars, as most of them have yet to complete their third campaign. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 71 CHART OF 2011 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK employees Our Stakeholder Our objectives 2010 Performance Commitments Employees ENCOURAGE RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTONOMY AMONG ALL EMPLOYEES Increase Danone employees’ • Increase Danone employees’ • Recruitment guide, including a Danone autonomy and efficiency autonomy and efficiency. leadership attitudes observation matrix, currently being distributed. • Assessment of managers and directors using CODE leadership attitude standards, with an impact on compensation. • 11,500 employees trained, including 8,400 team leaders and 300 in-house trainers. Expanding Diversity • Conduct the 1st Danone • Gender parity: 2nd year of Danone Women’s Leadership by capitalizing on CODE Women’s Leadership Lab Lab in June 2010, with presentation of results to with 70 participants, facilitating all general managers during their annual meeting. the transition to multiple forms • Action plans adopted for Sales, Industrial and of leadership, with progress Procurement departments as well as for the in gender parity at all levels Southern Europe and France regions. of the company. • Mentoring programs expanded: over 80 women enrolled. • Women’s leadership training: over 200 women trained (100 in France and 100 worldwide). • Creation of the EVE seminar with partner companies, a continuation of Danone’s in-house seminars on women leadership. The first seminar, which took place in Evian in December 2010, drew 230 women and men. Focusing on the theme, “Take action by daring to be yourself,” the seminar is designed to develop individuals capable to transform organizations. • Set Open Sourcing priorities Recommendations from “Open Sourcing” laboratories that promote the global diversity in November 2010: agreement signed in 2007 and • Introduce a new bonus criterion for managers give everyone the opportunity (access for all employees to an individual career to join Danone and advance development and internal promotion plan). their careers. • Add a CODE (leadership attitudes) observation matrix to our recruitment methods (identify leadership potential). • “Hiring without a résumé” pilot projects, partnerships with universities and non-profit organizations (HR Mozaik, for example). • Develop special “emerging country” assignments for Danone employees as a recommended stage in their career. • Set up inter-company • Diversity policy/organization: production and diversity networks in a distribution of a manual to Country Business Units number of European countries (CBUs) to share best practices and to formally lay in cooperation with the the groundwork for a shared needs assessment. “Diverseurop” network. • Sign agreements with unions • All French CBUs covered by an action plan or senior on issues specific to seniors in employee agreement and achieved specific objectives the group’s French companies. in the areas of job retention, training, and flexible working conditions and transition-to-retirement arrangements. 72 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2011 Performance Our 2012 Commitments and Outlook • Continued deployment of the Recruit with CODE guide, • Set up a global agreement with LinkedIn to take full advantage implementing recruitment methods based on situation of social networks through enhanced visibility. scenarios ( Assessment Centers , Trust or UniverSell Night type games). • Acceleration of the policy for active Danone and CBU presence on various social networks (Facebook, LinkedIn, etc.). • 15,000 team leaders trained, mostly by the 470 specifically • Roll out the DLC/CODE approaches to operators, accredited in-house trainer. both appropriately (with specific content) and progressively • Program highly praised in the Employee Survey: 81% of the (by starting the approach in production plants), in order to 15,000 Danoners who have attended a Danone Leadership firmly establish these tools in routine managerial practices College (DLC) course feel that they have since improved the ( CODE in action ). way they work and 72% have noticed a positive change in • Continue to drive the community of 470 in-house trainers their working environment since CODE attitudes were adopted. and promote best practices. • Give priority to 4 consolidation sessions on certain topics, particularly for proximity management. • Include CODE in all management lines (in group-wide and country-specific programs). • New edition of EVE seminar held with 300 participants and • Following on from the EVE seminars, launch the OCTAVE program: 15 partner companies on Gender diversity: held in September intergenerational management seminar based on the premise that 2011 in Evian, it was attended by 60 group general managers both senior and junior employees have a contribution to make to to raise awareness of the topic and share the CBUs' challenges the company and that rubbing shoulders between generations and best practices. contribute to the company's performance overall. • Danone won the 2011 Entreprise et Diversités prize in France • Continue the various working groups with the aims of: for the Danone Women Leadership program (president of the fostering working life flexibility balance by introducing systems jury: Rama Yade). of organizing work and working time (flexitime, tele-working, • Representation of women has improved at every level in the etc.) adapted both to available new tools and to the different organization in 18 months (+2% at executive level and +4% generations' expectations; among Directors). promoting parenthood by developing individual fulfilment • Pilot projects conducted for the integration of CODE into through greater ability to make the right choices between working training modules. and family life (several practices already tested in the CBUs); • Continued the 7 action plan for monitoring women establishing and encouraging greater career flexibility to allow with leadership potential by division. individual speed of development and extended career lengths. • Signed a teleworking agreement within the group's Develop career paths between functions. headquarters; 40% of employees are concerned. • Roll out projects on career adjustment and private life working life flexibility in the 2012 Danone Way campaign. • Introduced People Reviews by country to optimize career management between CBUs in a given country. • Anticipation of the 2nd half of careers by developing mid-career meetings/reviews and Growth Conversations , to help people build a long-term project. • Reverse mentoring action conducted with a focus on transfering skills between generations, particularly knowledge sharing. • Inter-company Diverseurop meeting held in Poland. • Develop the networks by continuing joint initiatives with DiversEurope and ORSE (guide on Diversity, etc.). • Launched diagnostics of arduousness at work in French • Include arduousness at work in health and prevention policies. CBUs, with identification of key risk factors. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 73 StratEgY Measuring throughout progress and the value performance chain Danone Way 75 Respect 80 danone's evaluation by NON-FINANCIAL rating agencies 83 74 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone Way Danone Way methodology For more information about the Danone Way methodology, see pages 52-56 in the Danone 2009 Sustainability Report. Change in methods in 2011 Since the new version of Danone Way was introduced in 2007, the group has sought to maintain consistent framework to ensure a clear understanding of the Country Business Units’ (CBUs) progress over a period of several years. At the same time, the group must make occasional changes in response to developments in the five topic areas, in terms of level of requirements, changes in strategy (New Danone for the 2009-2011 period) and integration of the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions’ new CBUs. In 2011, the Danone Way methodology changed as follows: • implemented the Danone Way program in nearly all Medical nutrition division CBUs; • expanded a version called “Danone Way Light” to 29 CBUs that incorporates 5 of the 16 Danone Way fundamentals (one per topic): Safety at work, Working hours, Environmental footprint, Quality management and Business conduct policy; • raised the standards for the suppliers’ CSR performance fundamental following rollout of the RESPECT program, based on the Sedex platform and SMETA external audits (see pages 52-56 in the Danone 2009 Sustainability Report); • strengthened the safety at work fundamental by having the CBUs conduct a self-assessment of the four safety standards (hazardous energy confinement/ release, subcontractor safety, driving safety and accident investigations); • strengthened the environmental focus. Emphasis was placed on the need to expand the scope of action beyond CBUs’ direct responsibility, particularly in their relationship with suppliers, scientific experts, opinion leaders and others. The goal is to create a point of distinction in the consumer's mind in terms of packaging design and management (plastic, cardboard, etc.), raw materials (milk, palm oil) and management of the environmental footprint in the broad sense of the term (carbon, water, electricity, waste, etc.). External audits to certify the program To demonstrate the objectivity of the Danone Way framework and the reliability of the program results to all group stakeholders, the program has been audited by an independent firm since 2002 (KPMG since 2007). Assessments of 12 CBUs representing 22% of the revenue of CBUs involved in Danone Way were audited by KPMG between September 2011 and February 2012. Combined with the review of the consolidation method applied to all 2011 CBU results, KPMG thus certifies the Danone Way program's 2011 results (limited assurance level). The resulting opinion is published on pages 131-133 of this report. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 75 10 0 Social Working Compensation Development dialogue time and benefits and training Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain 60 Danone Way 50 47 49 47 43 42 41 42 39 40 30 Enviro 2011 Results 20 10 Scope of assessment 0 By 2010, 112 Country Business Units (CBUs) had joined Danone Way. Environmental Environmental Raw materials Packaging footprint risks production/supply impacts In 2011, 30 new CBUs, mainly in the Medical Nutrition division, joined the program, representing 92% of the group's revenue including Unimilk and 99% not including Unimilk. Out of the 142 CBUs participating in the program, 29 follow the Danone Way Light guidelines for small CBUs. 60 Moreover, it should be noted that some CBUs do not conduct self-assessments 49 50 46 46 on all Danone Way program fundamentals, believing that certain assessment 44 criteria do not apply to them. 40 30 Conso Detailed results 20 Methodology note: All of the results presented below show the trend from 2010-2011 on a like-for-like basis (2010) to make it easier to compare them. 10 0 Overall scores Quality management Standards on nutrition & health In accordance with the Danone Way methodology (see the 2009 Danone Sustainability Report, pages 52-56), the CBUs are awarded a certain number of stars for their performance based on the scale below: 60 55 0 stars Little or no awareness of sustainable development objectives 50 51 50 1 stars no proactive program 43 41 40 36 Aware of certain sustainable development objectives 2 stars occasional steps are taken 30 Gouve 20 Aware of sustainable development objectives 3 stars the most important practices are implemented 10 Best sustainable development practices are implemented, 0 4 stars Business Suppliers’ Local in some cases using an innovative and/or distinctive approach conduct policies corporate social communities responsibility Innovative and/or distinctive practices are implemented Star Challenge: Distribution 5 stars for all sustainable development objectives of Country Business Units according to the number of stars obtained 6% 8% The 2011 results are as follows: There is a continuing trend toward overall improvement, and the focus 45% 45% on CBUs with fewer than 3 stars is bearing fruit. The proportion of CBUs under this minimum acceptable threshold has declined from 30% to 15%. Star c In particular, two-thirds of CBUs in the Baby nutrition division rated two-star 19% 32% or below in 2010 received three or more stars in 2011. Given that they mainly 20% 13% joined the program in 2010, they have turned in an exceptional performance 1% 6% in terms of understanding the program and expanding their practices. 4% 1% No stars 2010 2011 76 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Topics and Fundamentals In 2011, the human resources and governance issues remained stable and the three others are on the rise, with particularly major progress in the following areas: • environment: due to the large increase in the number of external audits of manufacturing risks conducted at production sites in compliance with the GREEN guidelines (see page 155 of this report); • consumers: due to a major effort by the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition CBUs to harmonize their food safety and product nutrition-quality management policies since the acquisition of Numico in 2007. While practices recommended by the group had already been effective, 2011 was the year of an even more extensive rollout (see pages 217-221 of this report). Average score by topic 60 49 49 50 50 47 48 46 45 45 46 42 40 Thématiques 30 20 10 0 Human Human EnvironConGoverRights Relations ment sumers nance This chart illustrates the change in CBUs' average score (total, policies and indicators) for each of the five Danone Way topics from 2010-2011. 60 49 50 50 46 46 45 44 40 Average score by fundamental Droits humains 30 60 55 52 53 55 52 53 50 52 50 51 20 50 47 47 48 48 47 49 48 49 45 46 44 45 45 44 42 42 41 42 42 10 40 38 36 33 Thématiques 0 30 Diversity Safety at work Health at work 20 10 0 60 Diversity Safety Health Labor Working CompenTraining & EnvironEnvironRawPackaging Quality Nutrition Business Suppliers’ Local 53 at work at work relations hours sation & developmenal mental material impact management & health conduct CSR communities 50 50 50 51 benefits ment footprint risks impact 49 50 2010 2011 43 41 40 Relations humaines 30 This chart illustrates the change in CBUs' average score (total, policies and indicators) 20 for each of the 16 Danone Way key practices from 2010-2011. 10 0 Social Working Compensation Development dialogue time and benefits and training Danone Sustainability Report 2011 77 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Danone Way Danone Way in 2012 In 2012, the Danone Way program underwent a major review, using a collaborative approach: • managers at 89 Country Business Units (CBUs) who are directly involved in the operational management of Danone Way were asked to share their opinion about the program's strengths and weaknesses through a special survey. The survey addressed the program's added value, its daily activities, the CBUs' ability to manage the program based on their size and maturity, their visibility with management committees, whether the double assessment (policies and indicators) was appropriate and other issues; • the field survey was submitted to some 15 CBU general managers worldwide to gain a more strategic vision: the guidelines' relevance to sustainable development issues; the ability to address the wide range of CBU concerns; and the role Danone Way plays to protect the group's reputation and foster the development of a corporate culture; 78 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 • all of this information resulted in an assessment of Danone Way, which was submitted to taskforces made up of representatives from different functions and regions. The taskforces identified major areas for improvement, which are described below; • adapt the guidelines to changes in sustainable development issues that have become an increasingly integral part of Danone's business and strengthen the link with business objectives for the CBUs: give greater priority to the Nutritional Quality of consumer products by establishing two separate practices instead of only one: product composition as well as responsible communications related to product; expand efforts to develop the company's human capital by also transitioning from one to two practices: first, increase employment options for all Danoners with appropriate training programs throughout their careers and second, support individual development by matching employees' personal and professional ambitions with the company's needs; health at work is incorporated in the safety at work issue to create an expanded fundamental encompassing health, safety and working conditions. This issue now includes stress management-related programs to comply with the agreement signed between Danone and the IUF (see page 191 of this report) and health at work (Dan Cares program; see page 43 of the report); the fundamental concerning compensation for all Danone employees falls outside Danone Way's scope of responsibility and will now be monitored as part of Dango , the monitoring program for all Danone processes; • give greater consideration to the CBUs' diversity in terms of the size and nature of their business. In particular, questions concerning their products' nutritional quality and related communication practices will be drawn up to address issues specific to each of the four divisions; • make it easier for Danone Way contacts in the CBUs to understand the guidelines in order to pave the way for a more direct and user-friendly self-assessment by the CBUs. The renewal of the Danone Way approach may imply a drop in the 2012 results versus 2011, due to the increased requirements on certain topics, the needed period for CBUs to adapt to new policies and the implementation of new indicators. This reflects the group’s desire to enroll sustainable development in an ambitious process of continuous improvement. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 79 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain respect The RESPECT program In 2011, we continued rolling out the RESPECT program to monitor performance of Danone’s major suppliers against CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) criteria. Over 750 new suppliers conducted a self-evaluation of their CSR performance on the Sedex platform (see page 65 of the 2009 Sustainability Report). A total of 2,060 suppliers performed self-evaluations over the 2009 to 2011 period and across all the divisions, i.e. almost 70% of raw materials, packaging and services suppliers (except milk producers) involved in the program at group level. Danone is thus responsible for nearly 30% of CSR data collected from suppliers since 2009 on behalf of members of AIMprogress, an association of world leaders in the Fast Moving Consumer Goods industry (FMCG). Baby and Medical Dairy Zone Waters Total Nutrition products Africa 0 7 60 67 Americas 141 80 266 487 Asia 164 123 155 442 Europe 171 473 421 1 065 Total 475 683 902 2 060 This table shows the breakdown of the number of suppliers that completed the self-evaluation questionnaire on the SEDEX platform by geographic area over the 2010/2011 period. 80 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Based on the self-evaluations of these 2,060 suppliers, 81 new suppliers (on top of the 103 suppliers audited in 2010) underwent “SMETA” audits by external auditors to confirm or rule out the risks identified during the Sedex pre-analysis and to introduce appropriate action plans where required. Zone Number of audits 2010/2011 Africa 16 Americas 45 Asia 90 Europe 33 Total 184 This table shows the breakdown of the number of supplier sites that completed a SMETA audit by geographic area over the 2010/2011 period. Results in 2011 As in 2010, most of these audits were carried out in Asia and South America, regions viewed as the most at-risk with regard to CSR practices. The results of the external audits conducted in 2011 are given below: Breakdown of Topic non-compliance issues Health & Safety 49% Wages 16% Working hours 15% Environment 5% Forced labor 3% Freedom of association 2% Child labor 2% Discrimination 0% Other 8% This table shows the breakdown of non-compliance issues identified by the 81 audits carried out in 2011. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 81 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain respect Results in 2011 differ from 2010 on two key points. While Health and Safety is still the area in which non-compliance issues are the most frequent, the proportion significantly increased from 30 to 50% of issues detected by audit. The Working Hours topic, however, which accounted for 23% of non-compliance issues in 2010, dropped to 15%. Audit results in the areas of Child Labor and Forced Labor, which are absolute priorities for Danone, reveal administrative non-compliance (supplier unable to provide a copy of an employee’s ID document or employment contract for example), but no proven negligence was brought to light. RESPECT outlook The program's aim and objectives set at end 2010 by the RESPECT Committee and Danone's top management remain unchanged: • the objective of recording the CSR data of 100% of suppliers involved in the program proved more ambitious and complicated than expected. Areas of difficulty included the support to be provided by the procurement teams, information sharing on the Sedex platform, and prompting suppliers to disclose confidential information. In addition, the reporting standard did not always reflect their realities (country of origin, business model, etc.). With an achievement of 70% in 2011 and following the introduction of a more appropriate questionnaire in November 2011, the 100% target should be reached in 2012. Similarly, the ultimate aim of auditing 100% of suppliers viewed as at-risk is maintained; • continue to structure tools and processes to support the RESPECT approach, and work together with other FMCG-sector companies to promote the necessary standardization of these processes and tools; • strengthen buyer skills in terms of educating suppliers on the subject of CSR, namely by training them in analyzing the Sedex registration reports and “SMETA” audit reports. 82 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone’s EVALUATION by non-financial rating agencies Dow Jones Sustainability Index rating June 2011 The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is a leading global index that rates the sustainable development performances of the top 342 companies (selected from a peer group of 1,443 companies reviewed), notably with respect to their social, environmental and economic performance. Over the years, the criteria have become increasingly demanding, and companies must constantly improve in order to remain listed on the index. Danone has been included in the index since its creation in 1999, and achieved in 2011 a record score of 81% (74% in 2010), making it a co-leader in the food sector among the top 13 global companies chosen in this sector. Danone DJSI rating in 2011 100 90 In 2011, Danone therefore received the Gold class distinction awarded by SAM, 90 83 85 84 81 81 80 75 77 the company that administers DJSI. 70 67 67 70 64 60 Economic area 50 In 2011, Danone increased its score by 10 points in this area following 40 30 a decrease in 2010, and climbed to within 2 points of the leader in the economic 20 area. This sharp increase was due to practices in terms of nutrition and health 10 (+20 points) and innovation management (+33 points). Among the areas for 0 Economic Environmental Social Overall improvement, better dissemination/promotion of the business conduct policy area area area is one area where progress can be made. Minimum DJSI global rating Danone rating Maximum DJSI global rating Environmental area Danone remained among the companies receiving the highest scores in the environmental area, with a stable result as it maintained its leadership in four of the eight criteria: environmental policy, environmental reporting, packaging management and raw materials management. With respect to the policy on genetically modified organisms (GMOs), Danone maintained its rating even as the average rating for the sector fell sharply. This area nevertheless remains one where major progress can be made. Social area Performance in the social area also increased by 8 points to within 2 points of the leader. Danone improved its performance in the citizenship and philanthropy areas, social reporting (leader) and social policy with suppliers (within 1 point of the leader). Two criteria saw their ratings fall as a result of indicators that were not consolidated in 2010. The health at work criteria (reporting for sub-contractors not available in 2010, for example) and some human resources practices (reporting on ethnic diversity, which is prohibited under French law). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 83 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Danone’s EVALUATION by non-financial rating agencies VIGEO rating July 2011 As the leading European non-financial rating company, Vigeo measures the performances of Dow Jones Global 1800 Index companies in Europe, the Americas and Asia with respect to social responsibility in six rating areas (see table). In July 2011, Danone was therefore rated among a peer group of 17 companies in the food sector and maintained its position as the leader in the food industry, with a stable general score of 60/100. Assessment of Danone’s environmental, social and governance Company’s performance performance in July 2011 for the six areas of assessment and in comparison with its sector changes relative to March 2010 0 25 50 75 100 Scores Ratings Scores Ratings Domain evaluated 03/2010 03/2010 07/2011 07/2011 Human Rights Human Rights 68 ++ 70 ++ Environment 56 ++ 60 ++ Environment Human Resources 76 ++ 69 ++ Human Business Behavior 54 + 55 ++ Resources Corporate Governance 48 = 53 = Business Behavior Community Involvement 72 ++ 58 ++ Corporate ++ the company is ranked as a leading performer in its sector Governance + the company is ranked as an active performer in its sector = the company is ranked as an average performer in its sector Community Involvement the company is ranked as a below average performer in its sector -the company is ranked as a poor performer in its sector In three of the six areas assessed by Vigéo, Danone’s scores remained stable and were the best in the sector: • first, in the Environment area, which benefits from a strategy deployed worldwide that addresses the major challenges related to its business and is based on clear objectives. This strategy is sustained through appropriate internal governance and is implemented in conjunction with NGOs; • the Business Behavior area also earned favorable mention, given the improvements made in integrating social and environmental factors in the upstream portion of Danone business; • the Human Rights area remains a strength thanks to Danone’s ability to fully integrate freedom of association, the negotiation of collective agreements and anti-discrimination measures into its strategy. 84 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Scores fell in the human resources and societal commitment areas, whose assessment criteria and standards were tightened by Vigéo. Danone nevertheless maintained its leadership in the food sector: • with respect to human resources, a highly effective policy for managing talent and employability as well as the establishment of bridges between businesses make it possible to provide optimal support for restructurings conducted by the group at global level; Gouvernance • Danone is also recognized for its societal commitment and its ability d’Entreprise to incorporate Questions into its 100 the challenges related to access to water strategy 90 Score Danone nutritional andConsommateurs Relatives aux solutions adapted 80 70 to the most Droits underprivileged Humains populations. Score maximum 53 60 Score minimum 50 67 Danone still lagged behind the leaders in the areas of Corporate Governance 40 30 and shareholder 58 rights. 20 10 57 Comportement Engagement sur les 54 Sociétal VIGEO rating based on ISO 26000 Marchés December 2011 69 60 Along with thisRessources assessment, Vigéo evaluated Danone’s performance with Environnement respect to the ISO 26000 standard published in late 2010 and representing Humaines a generic framework for defining and managing a social responsibility program. The results are described below: Governance 100 90 Score Consumer 80 Human Rights Highest score Issues 70 53 60 Lowest score 50 67 40 58 30 20 10 57 Fair Community Operating 54 Involvement Practices and Development 60 69 Labor Environment Practices This evaluation illustrates the consistency of Danone’s performance across all seven areas of ISO 26000. Along with the Vigéo analysis described at the beginning of this section, the rating with respect to consumer expectations is noteworthy, as it positions Danone at the top of the sector. This achievement is the result of Danone’s efforts to address the needs of people in the C and D categories, the so-called bottom of the pyramid (BOP). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 85 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Danone’s rating by non-financial rating agencies Lastly, the Vigéo report underscores that the information made available by Danone for these assessments covered 88% of the criteria used for the methodology, or on average 17% more information than the rest of the food sector. This result demonstrates the true recognition of CSR issues by Danone across its entire value chain and its commitment to transparency with stakeholders for its sustainable development strategy. Other ratings Danone is also included in the ASPI and Ethibel sustainable development indexes, which highlight the company’s performance with respect to societal performance and respect for the environment at the European level. The Aspi Eurozone index includes the 120 listed euro-zone companies with the highest Vigéo ratings for environmental and societal performance. The Ethibel index provides potential investors with a broad view of leading companies in the sustainable development and societal responsibility areas. It rates Danone in the “Ethibel Excellence Europe” and “Ethibel Excellence Global” categories. 86 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Strategy A social built on initiative Danone’s specific features SOCIAL INTEGRATION TOOLS in THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS 88 stakeholders AT THE heart OF dialogue 92 corporate governance 100 nutrition and health governance 102 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 87 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features SOCIAL INTEGRATION TOOLS in THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS Danone Way: key practices in Danone Country Business Units (CBUs) for sustainable business development Launched in 2001, the Danone Way program helps to disseminate the sustainable development culture and fundamentals within the group, by measuring the CBUs’ social and environmental responsibility performance. Every year, each CBU conducts a self-assessment of its policy and indicator levels, based on 16 “Fundamentals” split into five themes (human rights, human relations , environment, consumers and governance). The Danone Way program meets stakeholders' expectations in terms of Danone’s extensive responsibility and is also a driver of ongoing change for all CBUs. Danone Way enables: • Danone to provide guidance to startup CBUs, particularly in emerging countries; • Danone to integrate its sustainable development strategic priorities and culture into newly acquired, but already structured, CBUs; • each CBU to compare its performance to that of its fellow CBUs and learn ways to improve. In 2011, 142 CBUs (representing 92% of revenue including Unimilk and 99% excluding Unimilk) assessed their performance according to the the Danone Way framework, achieving results which show significant progress compared with last year. This is evidence that the CBUs have gained maturity in these practices, and view the program as leverage for setting the group apart and transforming the business. For more information about Danone Way's history, see pages 52-56 in the Danone 2009 Sustainability Report. For detailed 2011 results, see pages 75-79 of this report. 88 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 RESPECT: Monitoring the suppliers’ Corporate Social Responsibility Due to Danone's relationships with thousands of suppliers around the world, a significant portion of its environmental and social impact takes place within these companies that evolve in partnership with the group. A direct reflection of Danone's dual economic and social project, the RESPECT approach launched in 2005 consists in extending this vision to the group's entire supply chain, except milk producers, following a specific process: • contractualizing suppliers' Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance by the signature of Sustainable Development Principles and their integration into general terms of procurement; • exchanging information through internal Quality audits or self-declarations by suppliers concerning their CSR performance on the Sedex platform connecting players in the consumer goods sector; • external CSR auditing carried out on suppliers viewed as at-risk based on this information exchange, with a view to implementing an appropriate action plan (see diagram below). For more details on the RESPECT methodology, see the 2009 Danone Sustainability report, pages 61-69. The detailed results for 2011 are presented on pages 80-82 of this report. In taking this proactive approach to CSR issues with its suppliers, Danone secures the durability of both its partners and its own development. RESPECT also represents significant improvement in business relationships, in terms “Non-compliant” of comprehensiveness and transparency of information ACTION suppliers RESPECT control procedure PLAN to be documented and shared. Well aware of the efforts required from suppliers in this context, Danone, together EXTERNAL AUDIT “At-risk suppliers” with other companies in the Aim-progress-Sedex group, has taken on the responsibility of promoting change RISK MAPPING via SEDEX shared with other SEDEX members in commercial practices to support more sustainable development of the agri-food industry. REGISTRATION ON SEDEX CONTRACTUAL CLAUSE (Sustainable Development Principles) 0% Suppliers covered 100% Danone Sustainability Report 2011 89 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features SOCIAL INTEGRATION TOOLS in THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS A bonus system that integrates social performance since 2008 The social dimension is a powerful force for giving Danone’s employees a sense of meaning and commitment. Since 2008, criteria used to evaluate the performance of the company's 1,400 managing executives have been based on a three-part bonus system: • 1/3 for economic objectives; • 1/3 for social and environmental objectives; • 1/3 for individual performance objectives. More precisely in 2011, management's short-term variable compensation was determined based on specific performance with regard to 10 economic, social and management objectives and calculated using objective, measurable criteria together with the Manager's assessment, in three areas: 1. The group's economic objectives and published market data: • Net revenue, Operating Profit/Net revenue, Operating Free Cash Flow (OFCF) for the manager's scope of responsibility; • Earnings per Share (EPS) and Operating Profit/Net revenue for the Danone scope. 2. Danone's social objectives, which are divided into two areas: • the Social Fundamentals : Workplace Safety including accident frequency rate and implementation of specific action plans for the Country Business Units (CBUs) identified by the group's Safety Committee; implementation of the Dan’Cares project to improve social protection for Danoners; or any Health@Work or Open Sourcing project; • the New Danone strategic priorities: for the Nature priority: reduction of CO2 emissions; for the People priority: talents development plan with “Successful Planning”, the “BoLe” specific development plan for high-growth geographic areas, or department transformation plans. 3. Specific individual objectives within the scope of each manager and consistent with the group's strategy, in some cases with a specific objective concerning the New Danone Health or Nature priorities. 90 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone's unique approach in this area is based on its three-part short-term variable compensation structure which makes it possible to monitor the group's economic and social strategy as closely as possible. The system for setting objectives and managing performance continued to prove its effectiveness in 2011: • the group's economic objectives are aligned with published market data; • the social objectives (reduced accident frequency rate, measurement and reduction of CO2, rollout of “Dan’Cares”, “Health @ Work”, “Open Sourcing”, talents or function development plans including “BoLe”, etc.) are on or ahead of targets. Beyond these results, this bonus system for the group's 1,400 managers and executives allows to reinforce the dual economic and social project that has motivated Danone teams for almost 40 years, for the benefit of Danone employees as well as its Ecosystem. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 91 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features Stakeholders at the heart of dialogue Danone’s approcah towards its stakeholders: from dialogue to co-creation In keeping with its vision of its dual economic and social project, Danone considers the relationships it has developed with its stakeholders to be an integral part of its business model. The group has introduced processes and tools for organizing this dialogue with public and private organizations outside the company. For Danone, the main focus is on “co-creation,” the creation of shared value that benefits both the company and its stakeholders. Danone’s approach is not limited to a traditional view of philanthropy, which is essentially external to the company. Danone is convinced that interacting with partners who have developed experience and skills complementary to those of the company can be a powerful driver for change and innovation that benefit both the company and society as a whole. Beyond mere “dialogue,” the focus is on creating “solutions.” One principle behind Danone’s approach is to develop partnerships based on each local project and situation. In every country, Danone Country Business Units (CBUs) have a great deal of latitude in developing partnerships with organizations offering the greatest synergies. The group’s role is to provide guidelines for selecting partners and to encourage the CBUs and these partners to share information and capitalize on their respective best practices. Information-sharing platforms have been established on the group’s intranet networks. While the action in support of the projects is local, this co-creation approach is also applied in the group’s social project governance at several levels: • the Social Innovation Committee is responsible for approving the projects that are initially analyzed by dedicated teams for each Fund. This Committee determines the financing that will be allocated to the projects, and monitors them. It also has a broader role of promoting and proposing social innovation topics to the group Executive Committee. It comprises around ten members, General Managers of the regions, representatives from the various divisions and heads of corporate functions, and is chaired by Muriel Pénicaud, group Human Resources Director, and led by Bernard Giraud, Vice-President responsible for Sustainable Development; 92 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 • the Social Responsibility Committee is a committee of the Board of Directors tasked with keeping the Board informed on all of these matters. Made up of group directors, the Committee provides an opinion on overall directions, projects and their impact, with particular regard to potential conflicts of interest; While these two committees are composed of Danone employees and directors, each of the social innovation funds created by Danone has governance bodies comprising a majority of people from outside the company: • the Board of Directors of danone.communities is co-chaired by Professor Muhammad Yunus and includes representatives from civil society such as Jay Naidoo, Chair of the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition and Maria Nowak, Chair of the ADIE micro-finance association; • the Steering Committee of the Danone Ecosystem Fund is co-chaired by Martin Hirsch, former French government High Commissioner for Active Solidarity and President of the Civic Service Agency, and Pascal Lamy, General Manager of the World Trade Organization; other members include: Bill Drayton, CEO of the social entrepreneur movement Ashoka; Esther Duflo, founder of Poverty Action Lab; Lourdes Arizpe, Doctor of Anthropology and member of the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development; and Ron Oswald, General Secretary of the International Union of Food Workers (IUF); • the Danone Nature Fund has been transformed into a fund shared between several companies, the Livelihoods Fund (see pages 38 and 166 of this report). Its governance is shared between these companies and experts from civil society. The Executive Board of the Livelihoods Fund is co-chaired by Anada Tiega, Secretary General of the International Ramsar Convention on wetlands and Julia Marton-Lefèvre, General Manager of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Steering committee members include: Luc Guiau, Chair of the Independent Council of the FAO, Michel Griffon, Chair of the Scientific Committee of the French fund for the global environment and Tony Simons, General Manager of the World Agroforestry Center (ICRAF). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 93 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features Stakeholders at the heart of dialogue People As a pioneer in international labor relations, Danone stood out early on by signing the first-ever international framework agreements with the International Union of Food workers (IUF). Nine framework agreements have now been signed, with Danone and the IUF jointly ensuring their promotion and evaluating their implementation in the group’s various Country Business Units (CBUs) in the different countries. A total of 18 countries have been visited over the past three years. Following the Information and Consultation Committee meeting held in October 2009, a new international framework agreement addressing health, safety, working conditions and stress was negotiated between Danone and the IUF, and signed on September 29th, 2011. It was presented to the Information and Consultation Committee (ICC), comprising 70 union representatives from all the different countries, in October 2011. Danone takes part in a number of initiatives that aim to stimulate local employment, in particular in France with the “Initiative 500” program that promotes skills training for young people classified as “highly under-skilled” in France, based on a preliminary training period of at least four months, one third of which is provided within the company. After this preliminary training, the young people are generally able to enter apprenticeship training ranging from the French professional aptitude certificate (CAP) to the French baccalaureate. Danone mobilized institutional players in its local environment (French Regional Councils, DDTEFP, local advisory agencies, employment agencies, ADAPT, etc.), as well as its own subcontractors to create places for these youths in the company, and assigned tutors beginning in the preliminary training phase to carry out specific training. There were 114 contracts signed in 2011 (76 with Danone and 38 with its partners). In two years a total of 258 contracts have been signed. Since its launch at end-2009, the Danone Ecosystem Fund has helped finance 35 projects involving in particular upstream agriculture, packaging collection and recycling, local distribution, services to individuals, etc. The Fund’s principle of action is that each project be generated and supported by a Danone CBU in partnership with one or more non-profit organizations. These organizations can be local NGOs or local branches of international NGOs. At end-2011, 27 partners from civil society were participating in Danone Ecosystem Fund projects. 94 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Some examples of partnerships for projects financed by the Fund include: development of a company for integrating local sales forces in Mexico, with Ashoka and local NGOs; creation of dairy cooperatives with small milk producers in Ukraine, in partnership with the NGO Heifer; small producer development programs in Egypt with CARE and in Mexico with Technoserve; assistance for converting dairy farms to organic milk in France with the french “Institut de l’élevage”; program for collecting and recycling plastic from bottles in Indonesia, with Ashoka and local NGOs, etc. In each case, a contract defines the project’s economic and social objectives, impact measurement, the actions that will be carried out, the specific resources made available to the partners, and the project’s governance. Nature Developing the Nature strategic focus requires dialogue with many different areas of civil society. This dialogue takes the form of consultations and information exchange with stakeholders on specific topics to assess issues and the impacts of the choices to be made, or to explore new areas in which Danone wishes to progress. Consultations were carried out in several countries at group level in 2011. They primarily involve new packaging materials, biodiversity, agriculture and “sustainable milk,” and certain specific raw materials (strategy for sustainable supply of palm oil and paper/cardboard). With the support of the Utopies agency, Danone has also taken the initiative of creating a panel of experts, opinion leaders and NGOs to take part in finalizing the group’s Nature 2020 vision and associated commitments in the framework of the new long-term plan that will be disclosed in 2012. Organizations such as WWF, IUCN, Ramsar Convention, Rainforest Alliance, UNEP, Greenpeace, Forum for the Future and Ethicity are taking part in these various consultations, at Danone group or Country Business Unit (CBU) level. Beyond these consultations, Danone is developing a number of cooperative efforts relating to important programs addressing environmental issues, in particular with the National Institute for Agronomy Research on sustainable agriculture, climate change and water; with Quantis to measure water footprints; and with the company SAP to develop an information and decision-making system for measuring CO2 impacts and financial indicators. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 95 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features Stakeholders at the heart of dialogue To complement the actions aimed at reducing its CO2 emissions, Danone supports NGOs in projects with high social and environmental value that generate certified carbon credits, such as GERES (Renewable Energies, Environment and Solidarities Group) which has developed a program to distribute improved cooking stoves that use less wood to help limit deforestation in Cambodia. Danone has also developed innovative carbon offset projects initiated under the Danone Nature Fund created in 2008 in partnership with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the International Ramsar Convention. These projects will continue in the framework of the Livelihoods Fund (see pages 38 and 166 of this report for more details). All the projects are implemented by local NGOs: since its creation (2009), the project for restoring mangroves in Senegal, managed by the Senegalese NGO Oceanium, has planted 100 million mangrove trees, which will bind more than 400,000 metric tons of carbon and contribute to replenishing biodiversity and fish stocks, thus improving villages’ food security. The three other projects were launched in 2010 and 2011: two in India, the first with the NGO NEWS for restoring the Sundarbans mangroves in western Bengal, where 2,800 hectares were planted, and the second with the Naandi Foundation to plant fruit trees (2,900 hectares) among the Adivasis communities in Araku Valley. The final project launched in 2011 is located in Indonesia, involving mangrove restoration with the NGO Yagasu, with 500 hectares planted to date. Health To implement its mission of “bringing health through food,” the Danone teams work in each country and at corporate level with the public health authorities that are responsible for defining priorities in the areas of food and nutrition. Ongoing dialogue is organized with health ministries, government agencies in charge of nutrition and food, as well as with public health and nutrition experts. This dialogue helps support understanding of the major nutrition and health issues in the different countries where Danone operates, and co-develop the most appropriate solutions (products and services). Since 2002, Danone has been improving its understanding of local situations through the use of Nutripacks, summaries of nutrition issues that come into play in each of the different countries. As evidence of Danone’s commitment to develop ever more relevant products, this approach has been extended to include a branch on dietary practices and behaviors as well as food image; a pilot study carried out in 2011 in Algeria confirmed the pertinence of this approach, which is currently being rolled out in India, Indonesia and France. 96 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 The partnership formed in 2010 with the International Nutrition Foundation helped launch a study on how the diets of mothers and babies affect the quality of growth at age two. Where epidemiological data is insufficient to make a precise diagnosis of nutritional needs, Danone may cooperate with local stakeholders to carry out ad-hoc studies. Bebelac Turkey, for example, carried out a study of more than 3,000 subjects in 2011 in partnership with the Turkish Health Ministry and a local university, which revealed very high deficiencies in iron (56%) and vitamin D (27%) in babies aged 6 to 17 months. All these initiatives bring Danone teams into close consultation with scientific experts in nutrition, sociologists, physicians, etc. This work with stakeholders is also expressed in the scientific arena through initiatives that go beyond product studies. For example, the ANCA Company Chair (French acronym referring to diet, nutrition and dietary behavior) was created in 2010 with AgroParisTech school in Paris to create new knowledge (research, training, events) at the crossroads of nutrition sciences, technology and sociology, aiming to develop solutions in terms of diet and dietary behaviors and to help raise awareness and educate the public in general. In Mexico, Danone organized an International Health Day in 2011 in association with the World Gastroenterology Organization and the Mexican Institute for Medical Sciences, on the topic of “Enteric infections and clean water, food and environment” to raise awareness of digestive health issues among health professionals and the general public. The Danone Institutes, non-profit organizations that bring together scientists and nutrition experts in around twenty countries, are another forum for dialogue and information-sharing. The Institutes provide financial support each year in the amount of one million euros to research focused on links between health and diet. The Institutes supported some sixty studies in 2011 on topics such as nutrition, nutritional status, prevention of diet-related diseases and intestinal microflora. Information is also regularly shared with physicians and teaching tools have been developed to help teachers work with children. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 97 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features Stakeholders at the heart of dialogue For example, in Indonesia, Danone co-developed the Milkuat Nutritional Education Program for Primary Schools with PERSAGI (the largest Indonesian nutrition organization). Supported by the Ministry of Education, the Food Security Agency and the Association of Indonesian Teachers, this program aims to educate children about healthy eating habits (food pyramid, importance of breakfast, healthy snacks, importance of exercise, etc.) and to help them adopt healthy behaviors. There were 354 teachers trained in 156 schools in 2011. Danone’s dialogue with stakeholders in the area of nutrition and health is not limited to scientific research, medicine or education. The company also maintains ongoing dialogue with other food industry players to develop solutions that help consumers make informed and healthy food choices. This is expressed in particular by providing consumers with product nutrition information, and by carrying out responsible marketing and advertising (national and regional pledges). For all To develop models that bring health through food to as many people as possible, Danone works with a few large international partners such as the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and a number of private or public local organizations depending on the projects. As the first step is to understand local nutritional situations and needs, so-called immersion projects are designed and implemented with NGOs or universities in the countries involved. Since 2010, Danone’s Base of the Pyramid teams have been working with several organizations in India, in particular Drishtee, an Indian NGO that develops local services in rural areas. Designing new products that meet the specific nutritional needs of these populations is carried out through “co-creation” uniting Danone’s research and development or marketing teams with local NGOs and experts. In Senegal, for example, the development of a product designed for school-age children was completed in close collaboration between the danone.communities team and Danone’s research and development experts, the Senegalese NGO ENDA, and Senegal’s Ministry of Education, with the support of a French NGO, GRET, and of Ms Diouf, a restaurant owner with extraordinary knowledge of local tastes and ingredients. Co-creation is more generally a core feature of the danone.communities mission, as all projects are partnerships in which the danone.communities fund is a minority member. 98 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 In 2011, the danone.communities fund continued to support an initiative launched in 2010 with the company distributing bottled water created in India in partnership with the Naandi Foundation to develop access to clean water for poor rural populations. At end-2011, 400 villages had already been equipped with water purification plants. Also in 2011, the danone.communities fund invested in the NutriGO project, the fruit of a partnership between Dumex China, danone. communities, Grand Billion International Trading Limited (GBIT), One Foundation and NPI Foundation (two Chinese NGOs) and the International Life Sciences Institute Focal Point (ILSI-FP), a Chinese public institute for nutrition research. This project aims to combat infant malnutrition in rural China through an awareness program and a fortified dietary supplement. The NutriGO project seeks to reach populations that have not had access before now to nutritional information and products, by training rural women in nutrition and sales. Currently in its pilot phase, the project estimates that the program will benefit 6,000 babies in the coming year. Also of note are the encouraging results of a study carried out by Gain and Johns Hopkins University on the health impact for children of Shokti Doï, a micronutrient-fortified yogurt produced by Grameen Danone Foods Ltd, which should be published in 2012. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 99 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features corporate governance Sound governance is not only a management requirement but also an advantage when it comes to weathering crises. This is the attitude guiding Danone’s progress, while particular attention is also paid to strengthening dialogue with stakeholders, all with the ambition of harmoniously fulfilling its mission to bring health through food to as many people as possible. Since the mid-1990s, Danone has placed great emphasis on establishing rules and processes implemented throughout the company. This work was supported by the Board of Directors (read following pages) and enabled the company to develop the framework and tools required for good governance in order to guarantee risk control and regulatory compliance of the company’s business. Danone’s focus on healthy food has further reinforced certain governance issues for the group. The integration of the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions has been finalized in all areas. Required information about the Company’s governance is available in the Danone Registration Document. References to the relevant pages are indicated in the GRI index on pages 110-119 of this report. The Board of Directors The Board of Directors At the time of writing this report, Danone’s Board of Directors comprises fourteen members, seven of whom are independent. Danone's Board of Directors On February 14, 2012, Danone’s Board of Directors met and approved the draft resolution that will be submitted to the Shareholders’ General Meeting . Franck Riboud on 26 April 2012. . Emmanuel Faber . Bernard Hours As part of the effort to continuously improve group governance, and in . Bruno Bonnell (1) accordance with the recommendations of the Nomination and Compensation . Richard Goblet D’alviella (1) Committee, the Board will propose that the Shareholders’ General Meeting . Yoshihiro Kawabata of April 26, 2012 approve the appointments of Mr Jacques-Antoine Granjon, . Christian Laubie Ms Mouna Sepehri and Ms Virginia Stallings as directors. . Jean Laurent (1) . Hakan Mogren (1) With its new configuration, and subject to approval by the next General . Benoît Potier (1) Meeting: . Guylaine Saucier (1) • the independence of the Board (as defined on the basis of all criteria . Isabelle Seillier established by the AFEP-MEDEF code) will increase from 50% to 57% . Jean-Michel Severino (1) (i.e. 8 members out of 14); . Jacques Vincent • the number of women on the Board will rise from 14 to 21% (i.e. 3 members out of 14). (1) Independent Director 100 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 The Board has noted that these appointments will improve its independence and gender diversity. The Board is committed to continue, in the future, to make proposals to the Shareholders’ General Meeting that improve governance in terms of both independence and member diversity. Audit Committee, Nomination and Compensation Committee and Social Responsibility Committee A full description of the Audit Committee, the Nomination and Compensation Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee is available in Danone’s Registration Document, respectively in chapters 6.2 page 178, 6.3 page 180 and 6.4 page 183. Governance of the danone.communities, Livelihoods and Danone Ecosystem funds is detailed on pages 92-93 of this report. Internal control and risk management procedures put in place by the group are described in Danone’s Registration Document, chapter 6.11, pages 198 to 204. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 101 A social initiative built on Danone’s specific features nutrition and health governance To create a Health and Nutrition strategy in line with its mission, Danone has built Nutrition & Health governance structures that meet demanding criteria. These structures are based on principles, mechanisms, commitments and evaluation methods that allow Danone to meet its commitments and fully express its values of social involvement and responsibility in action. Principles A strict scientific approach The first core principle is to apply a strict scientific approach to understanding nutrition and health issues, to developing and improving products, and to demonstrating their nutritional and health benefits. This focus is based on our outstanding Research and Development expertise, as well as ongoing and open communication with the scientific community through public and/or private partnerships, meetings of experts and seminars. The scientific approach involves using benchmark tools (described in detail in the 2010 Sustainability Report on pages 79-89) to ensure project relevance (selected nutrition/health goal, food involved, proposed nutritional response, etc.) and provide convincing science-based evidence of products' effectiveness. A consistently collaborative approach with many stakeholders at national, regional and international levels Danone supports national, regional and international collaborative efforts involving authorities, the scientific community, society and the private sector, particularly those that seek to promote clear consumer information or foster responsible health and nutrition behaviors. Danone is a member of many professional organizations working in nutrition and health (particularly the French food trade organization, scientific organizations such as ILSI, EUFIC, Nutrition societies, etc.), and contributes to discussion forums such as the EU Platform for action on diet, physical activity and health, among other initiatives. Self-discipline that goes beyond official regulations Danone's Nutrition & Health governance also seeks to establish rules that are stricter than existing regulations with the aim of raising up our products' relevance and ensuring greater trust and transparency in the group’s communications. This approach is based on several in-house tools (see the 2010 Sustainability Report for a detailed description, pages 79-89), and on the application of national, regional and/or international codes of best practice such as the Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice for Foods and Non-Alcooholic Beverages of the International Chamber of Commerce. 102 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Mechanisms Danone’s Nutrition and Health strategy and governance are the responsibility of the Nutrition & Health Committee chaired by the Director of Research and Development, also a member of the group’s Executive Board. The Committee brings together several experts (in R&D, regulatory and legal affairs, marketing, communication, etc.) and meets three or four times a year to discuss emerging topics, evaluate potential impacts and define appropriate responses and commitments. It also designs concrete action plans and monitors their rollout in the CBUs. Corporate governance is passed on to the CBUs via local Nutrition & Health Committees that also involve numerous local experts (R&D, regulatory and legal affairs, marketing, communication, quality, public affairs, etc.). Commitments Ensuring safety and quality, from production to the end consumer, is Danone's primary responsibility. Beyond this core responsibility, the Nutrition & Health Committee has defined five fundamental health and nutrition commitments targeting the major food-related public health issues now and in the future: 1. Offer products that are consistently tailored to nutritional needs and recommendations, and to the tastes and incomes of local consumers; 2. Develop products with relevant, scientifically proven health benefits that meet real nutritional needs; 3. Give consumers clear information and advertise responsibly; 4. Promote healthy eating and a healthy lifestyle; 5. Address the major health and nutrition challenges in society. Evaluation of commitments Implementation of the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter, and compliance with its commitments, are the responsibility of every one of Danone's CBUs. They carry out a self-assessment of their Nutrition & Health policy every year as part of the Danone Way approach, under the supervision of the Corporate Affairs and Social Responsibility department and verified by independent auditors (see pages 75-79 of this report). This approach ensures that Danone's responsibility to support people's social, economic and environmental well-being remains at the heart of its commitment to nutrition and health. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 103 Strategy Historical and approach highlights reference documentS 105 highlights and key dates 1972-2011 106 104 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 reference documents • Antoine Riboud’s speech in Marseille (1972) constitutes the group’s cultural heritage. It was formalised in 1974 in the economic and social dual project. • The Fundamental Social Principles, based on the standards defined by the International Labour Organisation, provide the basis to be respected by all companies within the group, Country Business Units, partners and suppliers. • The joint conventions signed with the International Union of Food (IUF) since 1988, which include the World Convention on Diversity, signed on June 8, 2007, serve as the reference for international trade union dialogue within the group. • The Environmental Charter (1996) commits the group from the design of products right through to the recycling of the packaging to a management approach that is more environmentally-responsible. • The Danone Business Conduct Policy (1997, revised in 2001, 2005 and 2009) details the behavior expected of managers on issues such as corruption and conflicts of interest. • The group’s Values, formalised in 1997: openness, enthusiasm, humanism and proximity. • The Food Nutrition and Health Charter (2005, revised in October 2009) formalises Danone’s commitments. The 5 commitments of the new charter represent a response to the concerns of authorities regarding public health issues related to food. • The Global Policy on the Protection of Underground Water Resources (2005) commits Danone to ensuring the sustainable management of its sources. • Franck Riboud’s speech (of December 2008) for the launch of the Chair in “Social Business / Enterprise and Poverty”, in partnership with HEC, reaffirms the economic and social dual project supported by Danone. • CODE: an initiative launched in 2009 aimed at formalising and developing the leadership style and attitudes expected of all employees, in close alignment with the Danone values. • The Danone Inside Pack: created and distributed in 2009 to all employees and all new arrivals. This is the reference document on: the history and background, the Danone values, areas of strategic focus, managerial attitudes (CODE), the Danone Way initiative and the Business Conduct Policy. • The Danone Charter (created in 2005 by Blédina then updated in 2011 by Danone) for the marketing of breast-milk substitutes and other foods for babies and infants concerns Danone’s governance in accordance with the principles of the WHO Code. • Danone’s Public Affairs Policy, created in 2011 and issued in January 2012, commits Danone in its relationships with all stakeholders. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 105 Historical approach and highlights Highlights and key dates 1972-2011 2010 2009 2008 2011 Launch of the Creation of the Creation of the 2007 Dan Cares program Danone Ecosystem Danone Fund for 9 Danone–IUF global th to bring minimum Fund approved Nature with the Creation of the framework agreement medical coverage to at the Annual International Union Danone Communities on health, safety, working all employees in every General Meeting for the Conservation Fund. conditions and stress. geographic region. of Shareholders. of Nature, this coming after 10 years World Convention 35 projects approved and The first EVE seminar, First carbon of partnership with on Diversity signed supported by the Danone a women leadership offset project with Ramsar (International between Danone Ecosystem Fund at end-2011, program created on the Danone Fund for Convention on and the International with 27 partners from civil Danone’s initiative in Nature: the restoration the Protection Union of Food (IUF). society. partnership with other of mangroves in of Wetlands in companies, uniting Senegal in partnership the World). Danone completed Danone is in the DJSI index for 230 women leaded with a local NGO, the sale of its Biscuits the 13th year and is joint leader by the common topic Oceanium. Launch of the Chair and Cereal Products in the Food sector. “Dare to be yourself “Social Business/ division and took to act”. Revision of Food Enterprise and over control of 94% of CBUs are covered Nutrition and Poverty” in Royal Numico by the Nutripack approach. 84% of Danone Health Charter partnership with N.V. specialized products have been and the Business the HEC school. in Baby nutrition Second international assessed in terms Conduct Policy. and Medical nutrition. “Microbes for Health” of nutritional profile. Danone commits symposium, organized in Safety Charter to reduce its carbon Creation of the partnership with the Pasteur Final integration signed by all General footprint by 30% Social Responsibility Institute in Paris: 366 of the former Numico Managers. between 2008 Committee of the participants from 34 countries. subsidiaries in Danone and 2012. Board of Directors. processes. The Employee The Danone Nature Fund Barometer survey Hosting an internal opens up to external partners Deployment of the is sent for the first global network: and becomes Livelihoods. Danone Inside Pack time to all employees. more than 150 people New carbon offset projects in most of the CBU’s participated in the are launched in India. (document including Enlargement “Social Innovation Danone Way’s history, of the International Labs” which also The reduction in Danone’s values, strategy and Consultation helped establish carbon footprint from 2008 to approach, Business Committee outside contact and relations end-2011 is -27.5% (compared Conduct Policies, etc). Europe. between members with the objective of -30% for of NGOs from several the 2008-2012 period). CODE launching: countries and corresponds to Danone teams. Creation of a dedicated plant in the formalizing India (dairy products) for a Base of the leadership Of the Pyramid business; initial styles and attitudes. launch of Fundooz products. 106 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 1997 1996 1998 1992 Refocusing on Appointment of 1999 Publication of the 3 businesses with Franck Riboud Creation 1991 first annual social high health-nutrition as CEO of Danone. of the 1st network Creation of and environmental positioning: Dairy for collection Creation of the the Managers’ responsibility report. Products, Beverages Environmental and recycling Danone Institute. barometer, an and Biscuits. Charter. of packaging, opinion survey Support for the Eco-Emballages. for measuring Ramsar International Business Conduct Creation of Danone adherence Convention on Policy. Conseils, consumer to the group’s the protection relations department strategy and values. of wetlands. Group’s values in France. formalizing: Danone selected Openness, for the Dow Jones Enthusiasm, Sustainability Index. Humanism, Proximity. 1985 2006 First meeting at the European level with Creation of the the IUF, inaugurating company Grameen an international Danone Foods Limited. social dialogue within the group. Danone refocuses its mission around health: 2005 “Bringing health through Food, Nutrition food to as many people and Health Charter. as possible”. Deployment of the Comprehensive 1977 global policy on sustainable procurement protection of Creation of (RESPECT) initiative in all Country Business underground water resources. 2003 employment offices in charge Units of the group after of supporting a pilot phase between Membership Integration of of the Global restructuring. 2003 and 2005. the Fundamental Social Principles Compact of the United Nations. 1972 in conventions that Danone a founding were revised and Antoine Riboud’s member of the speech in Marseille re-signed with “Sustainable the IUF. (economic Agriculture and social dual Initiative”. project). Blédina charter about commercialization of Baby nutrition Danone’s 2001 commitment products. to the Global Launch of Compact was DANONE Way. reconfirmed in 2009. Formalisation of the Fundamental Social Principles. 2000 Over 70% of group employees outside of Western Europe. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 107 StratEgY Performance 108 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 110 120 124 GRI Index impacts and company ProfilE (*) S elf-evaluation responsibilities and report of the application of GRI according in business, parameters to version 3.0 guidelines for the from end to end GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. COMPANY PROFILE 125 rEport PARAMETERS 126 Validation of THE report by an external third party 131 134 230 PERFORMANCE Contacts INDICATORS Governance, Commitments and ENGAGEMENT 134 economic 142 Environmental 154 Social 182 human rights 200 Society 206 product responsibility 216 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 109 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-makerof the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and 4 F its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 120 123 F 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization F p. 5 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services F ch. 2.3, 2.4 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures F p. 126 133 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters F p. 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 2.5 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability F ch. 2.2 issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form F p. 5 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 2.7 and types of customers/beneficiaries) F p. 87 à 89 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization F ch. 2.2, 7.1 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 structure, or ownership F ch. 2.1, 3.1 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 125 F 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 126 F 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 126 F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 126 F 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents back cov. F Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 126 130 F 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 126 130 F joint ventures, suppliers) (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 110 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 127 130 F Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from 127 130 F period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and 126 130 F other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in 3.10 earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, 126 130 F change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 126 130 F GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 110 119 F Third party validation 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 131 133 F 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy F ch. 6, 11.2 or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 4.2 officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the F ch. 6.5 reasons for this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members F ch. 6.1 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 or direction to the highest governance body P ch. 7.3 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the P ch. 6.10, 8.5 organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest 4.6 are avoided F ch. 6.1 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest ch. 6.2, 4.7 governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, F 6.3, 6.4 and social topics (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2011 111 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 135 F ch. 6.4 and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 88 91 F internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4.10 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance F ch. 6.1 Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4.11 by the organization 136 F Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 136 F Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 international advocacy organizations 137 F Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Examples of stakeholder 4.14 groups are: communities; civil society; customers; shareholders and providers of 138 F capital; suppliers; and employees, other workers, and their trade unions 92 93 & 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 138 139 F Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 92 93 & 4.16 by type and by stakeholder group 139 F Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 140 P through its reporting 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators 5.1. Economic performance indicators Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, EC1 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community 143 F ch. 4.1, 5 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities EC2 due to climate change 143 144 F (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 112 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 144 F EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 144 NR Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum ADD EC5 wage at significant locations of operation 145 F Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 at significant locations of operation 146 NR Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 from the local community at locations of significant operation 146 F Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement 147 152 P Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the ADD EC9 extent of impacts 153 P 5.2. Environmental performance indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 156 P EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 156 P Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 157 P EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 158 P ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 159 P Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and ADD EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 159 160 P ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 160 F (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2011 113 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 160 161 P ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 162 P ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 162 F Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 163 F Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 164 F protected areas ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored 165 NR ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 165 166 P Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species ADD EN15 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 166 P Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 167 P EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 167 169 P ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 169 P EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 170 P EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 170 P EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 171 P EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 171 P EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 172 F Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous ADD EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage 172 NR of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related ADD EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water 172 P and runoff (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 114 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, EN26 and extent of impact mitigation 173 175 P Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed EN27 by category 175 P Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 176 F Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods ADD EN29 and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members 176 178 F of the workforce Overall ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 179 180 F 5.3. Social performance indicators Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 183 186 F LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 187 P Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or ADD LA3 part-time employees, by major operations 187 NR Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 188 P LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether 188 P it is specified in collective agreements (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2011 115 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker ADD LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health 189 P and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number LA7 of workrelated fatalities by region 189 190 P Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place LA8 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 191 P serious diseases ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 191 192 P Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 192 193 F Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued ADD LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 193 F Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development ADD LA12 reviews 194 195 P Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators 196 197 P of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 198 199 F 5.4. Human rights performance indicators Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that HR1 include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 201 202 F Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken 202 203 F ADD HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 203 F aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 116 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 204 F Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association HR5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to 204 F support these rights Child Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 205 F Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination 205 F of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or ADD HR8 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 205 F Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people ADD HR9 and actions taken 205 NR (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2011 117 PERFORMANCE GRI Index AND CONTENT Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) 5.5. Society performance indicators Local Communities Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and S01 manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, 207 210 F and exiting Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related S02 to corruption 211 P Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies S03 and procedures 211 P S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 212 F Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy development S05 and lobbying 212 F Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, ADD S06 and related institutions by country 213 214 F Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, ADD S07 and monopoly practices and their outcomes 214 F Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions S08 for noncompliance with laws and regulations 215 F 5.6. Product Responsibility performance indicators Consumer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services PR1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and 217 221 F services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary ADD PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during 221 P their life cycle, by type of outcomes (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 118 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Page Scope Chapter of this and/or report page of RD(*) Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage PR3 222 223 F of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ADD PR4 223 P concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring ADD PR5 224 P customer satisfaction Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 225 227 F marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary ADD PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 227 P and sponsorship by type of outcomes Consumer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy ADD PR8 228 P and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services 228 F (*) RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2011 119 Performance impacts and responsibilities in business, from end to end The main potential accident risks related to Danone’s direct business are: • water pollution (essentially organic and biodegradable pollution); • risks relating to refrigeration units (ammonia and other refrigerants); • risks relating to the storage of raw materials or hazardous products (acids or alkalis for cleaning and disinfecting facilities); • risks relating to on-site electrical equipment. Beyond these accident risks and this scope, the group’s daily business has impacts on the environment which are identified and treated at each stage in the value chain, from end to end. The group addresses every environmental impact through responsible decision-making, of which an overview is presented here; this topic is covered in greater detail in the sections presenting the Nature strategy (see pages 36-42 of this report), the Danone Way approach (see pages 75-79 of this report) and the Respect program (see pages 80-82 of this report). 120 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 1 Supply of raw Industrial and packaging production materials 2 Impacts Impacts • Economic impact: Danone purchased raw and packaging • Economic impact: Danone produces locally for materials in the amount of €5.3 billion in 2011, including: local markets: around 220 production sites with €3.5 billion worth of raw materials with milk accounting a total of 101,885 employees (and more than 230 for the largest portion; milk comes from 28,000 farms non-production sites: central offices, warehouses, etc.) in around thirty countries,; by end December 2011. €1.7 billion worth of packaging distributed between • Primary environmental impacts of the sites: energy the Dairy products (56%), Waters (34%) and Baby and water consumption, waste production, wastewater and Medical nutrition divisions (10%). discharge, storage of potentially hazardous products, • Primary environmental impacts of agriculture: noise pollution, greenhouse gas emissions caused by pollution from fertilizers or pesticides, emissions all of these activities. of methane– a greenhouse gas – of animal origin (cattle). • Social impact on 101,885 employees as well as the Increased agricultural productivity and the associated companies and other public and private agencies in standardization processes put greater pressure on the relation with Danone through geographic proximity natural environment and reduce biodiversity. to one of the group’s sites. • Primary environmental impacts from packaging: consumption of non-renewable resources (oil for plastic) and renewables (wood, recycled paper for cardboard), greenhouse gas emissions related to suppliers’ operations. • Mineral waters: these come from natural reserves for which the group has exclusive operating rights. • Danone also has a social impact on all its suppliers, whatever they do, and in particular our milk producers. Responsibilities Responsibilities • Purchase raw materials at prices that offer sufficient • Ensure compliance with fundamental social rights profitability for producers and suppliers and a quality and promote initiatives to further social progress and competitive supply for production sites, as well as at the group’s sites. ensuring compliance with these partners’ fundamental • Contribute to the economic and social development social rights. of local communities. • Guarantee the safety, quality and traceability • Manage the production plants’ environmental impact of raw materials. and the associated industrial risks. • Understand the working conditions and environmental • Promote working methods (travel, etc.) that minimize impact of farming operations to contribute to their the environmental impact of group employees. improvement. • Ensure the long-term viability and protection of the water reserves the group operates. • Reduce packaging without detriment to the services it provides: food safety, transport, preservation, consumer information. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 121 Performance impacts and responsibilities in business, from end to end 3 4 Transports Sales Impacts Impacts • Transport is almost entirely sub-contracted and • Economic impact: throughout a commercial presence is done by road, rail, sea and air (for a small portion). in around 130 countries, Danone registered €19,318 In Europe, trucks carry 95% of dairy products while million in revenues in 2011. Sales are made through 55% of water is carried by truck and 45% by rail. various distribution channels: hypermarkets and Primary environmental impacts: energy consumption, supermarkets, local stores, hospitals and pharmacies. greenhouse gas emissions, atmospheric pollutants, • Primary environmental impacts: energy consumption biodiversity and noise pollution. and greenhouse gas emissions caused by refrigeration • Social impact of the providers of these various equipment in stores and customer travel to points types of transport. of sale. Responsibilities Responsibilities • Minimize the impacts of transporting raw materials • Ensure a reliable cold chain and product traceability. and products by limiting the distances traveled and • Ensure physical accessibility of products, particularly encouraging use of rail transport wherever possible. in emerging countries. • Ensure a reliable cold chain and product traceability. • Guarantee the safety of people handling Danone • Contribute to compliance with the fundamental products through appropriate design. rights of transport service providers, in particular in the road transport sector. 122 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 6 5 Consumption End of Product Lifecycle Impacts Impacts • Economic impact: 4 divisions (or business lines) • The consumption of products generates packaging in 2011: Dairy products (58% of revenues), waste which is then recycled, sent to landfill or Waters (17%), Baby nutrition (19%) and Medical incinerated depending on locally available options. nutrition (6%). • Primary environmental impacts: pollution of soil, • Primary environmental impacts: energy air and water at various levels depending on the consumption and greenhouse gas emissions caused waste-treatment method, and visual pollution. by the refrigeration of dairy products and the • Social impact of populations dedicated to managing transport of products to points of consumption. packaging waste. • Social impacts: product quality/safety, impact on eating habits, product affordability. Responsibilities Responsibilities • Guarantee product quality and safety. • Reduce the impact of packaging end-of-life by • Contribute to developing healthy eating and meet local integrating these concerns into the initial design. nutrition needs in terms of both quantity and quality. • Participate in developing public or private waste • Ensure transparent consumer information, practice collection agencies. responsible communication towards children and • Contribute to developing recycling systems promote dialogue with consumers. for packaging waste. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 123 Performance COMPANY and report PROFILE parameters COMPANY PROFILE 125 rEport PARAMETERS 126 Validation of THE report by an external third party 131 124 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 COMPANY PROFILE The information relative to this section of the report The figures and data in the present report are (company profile) is available in the group’s Registration communicated, unless otherwise specified, for a Document. References to the relevant pages are indicated worldwide body of companies controlled by Danone in the GRI index on page 110-119 of this report. (list of consolidated companies in the Registration Document); the complementary Registration This report covers Danone’s economic, social and Document and Economic and Social Report environmental performance for the period from January are available for download at www.danone.com. 1 to December 31, 2011. Awards received during The indicators and management systems described in this report were prepared in compliance with the the reporting period guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.0). • Danone was selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability These provide a balanced and reasonable presentation Index (DJSI) for the thirteenth year in a row, and is of our economic, environmental and social organization. rated Gold Class in the SAM ROBECO ranking for The indicators are presented using the GRI 3 references the Food sector; (e.g. EC2. Financial implications and other risks and • Danone is also included in the major sustainable opportunities for the organization’s activities relating development indices, Ethibel Sustainability Index to climate change). and ASPI Eurozone, ranked in the categories “Ethibel Excellence Europe” and “Ethibel Excellence Global.” In compliance with the GRI criteria, Detailed results of Danone’s ranking in 2011 by the Danone gave itself a B+ rating. major rating indices are presented on pages 83-86 of this report. The indicators also meet the information requirements of articles R225-104 and R225-105 of the Code of Commerce and take into account the “annual social indicators” jointly agreed upon by the IUF (International Union of Food workers) and Danone in September 2004. A portion of the social and environmental data published in this document was verified by KPMG Audit and is addressed in a report expressing reasonable assurance published on pages 131-133 of this report. The previous report covering the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010 was published for the Shareholders’ General Meeting on April 28, 2011. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 125 Company profile and report parameters REporT PARAMETERS This section of the report corresponds to GRI indicators Indicators for nutrition and health performance cover 3.1 to 3.11 (see GRI index on pages 110-119 of this Report). 39 CBUs across all divisions in 12 countries, representing 68% of 2011 revenues. Percentages reported for 2010 Consolidation scope are percentages of the number of product references sold. Percentages reported for 2011 are percentages of The financial data included in this report corresponds total revenue. to consolidated historic data from the 2011 Registration Document. It has been prepared in compliance with For this scope, social, environmental and safety data IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the European is 100% integrated (comprehensive integration of data). Union on December 31, 2009. In order to take into account disparities in data reporting, The workforce at 12/31/2011 includes all globally a coverage rate is calculated for each indicator published. consolidated Danone CBUs, whatever their activity (production sites, research sites, logistics bases, Variations in scope administrative headquarters, etc.). Scope variations arise from CBU creations, acquisitions, In 2011, social indicators are reported without including disposals or liquidations. The following rules have been the entities that reported no data, covering 99.8% of the established for financial, social and environmental data: workforce at December 31, 2011. • acquisition: data for the acquired entity is included in the consolidation scope from the date the group The Unimilk, Yocream and Womir SPA entities, acquired took control; in 2010, are included only in the indicators concerning • creation: the entity's data is included in the scope from the workforce at December 31, 2011. the date of creation; • disposal / liquidation: data for the relevant entities is Safety indicators also cover all globally consolidated withdrawn from the consolidation scope at the effective Danone CBUs except certain entities which were not disposal or liquidation date in the current financial year. yet integrated in safety reporting in 2011, covering more than 99 % of the workforce at December 31, 2011. Concerning social indicators, “like-for-like basis” indicates that data from the previous year has been recalculated Environmental indicators only cover the impacts of based on the consolidated scope at December 31, 2011 production plants, excluding the Unimilk entity acquired in order to allow comparison between this year's data in December 2010, covering more than 99% of 2011 and that of the previous year on a consistent scope. revenues and 99% of production sites. Concerning environmental indicators, variations The environmental impact of the administrative compared with 2010 are calculated on a comparable headquarters and logistics bases is not included in basis, for the scope of production sites present during the consolidation scope (except for certain indicators, both financial years (excluding production sites acquired when the logistics bases are adjacent to an industrial site). or launched in 2011 and production sites sold or shut down in 2011). 126 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Selection of indicators Specifications and methodological limits The social indicators presented: • correspond to Danone's human resources policy The methodologies used for certain social and in terms of monitoring staff, social performance and environmental indicators may involve de facto limits: employee management and development performances; • due to the absence of shared national and/or • take into account cultural specificities and local international definitions; differences (varying national legislation or legal • due to the need to estimate, the representative nature obligations, etc.). of measurements or the limited availability of external data needed for calculations; The environmental indicators presented: • due to practical data collection and input modes. • correspond to Danone's environmental policy and reflect the progress made by production plants; This is why the definitions and methodologies these indicators are relevant to the group's business; used for the indicators below are specified. • make it possible to monitor Danone’s environmental performance with regard to its primary environmental Workforce challenges. • A negligible portion of the managerial workforce is not collected in the data reporting framework Data reporting guidelines (a few cases of internationally mobile employees on assignment to other group entities); To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across • Short-term contracts and movements within the reporting scope, shared data reporting guidelines the group are not included in the entries/exits; for social, safety and environmental data are transmitted • Long-term leave is not always accounted for and updated each year following data consolidation and homogeneously by the various CBUs; comments by contributors. These guidelines specify the • In China, employees remunerated by Danone, methodologies to use for reporting indicators: definitions, but whose contracts are with a third-party company primary methodologies, calculation formulas, standard (equivalent to a temporary work agency) are not ratios, etc. included in the workforce. Shared data collection tools are also in place to facilitate Average number of training hours / data reporting: Number of employees trained • social data: a specific bundle in the Magnitude • Training data from French CBUs includes training financial data reporting system generally makes categorized as ongoing professional training as well it possible to collect social indicators for all as other types of training; Danone entities; • Disparities in the inclusion or non-inclusion of certain • safety data: in 2011, safety data was monitored and training courses may remain, particularly with regard consolidated each month at group level using a new to “work station” training sessions and internal training; software tool deployed this year (Wise); • The average number of training hours per year per • environmental data: the environmental indicators employee is calculated based on the number of training presented in this report are generally collected with the hours that took place during the year, divided by the specific Enablon tool. average workforce (the average workforce is calculated These three tools provide a systematic presentation of data as the average long-term and short-term workforce from the previous year to facilitate data input and control. excluding temporary workers at the end of each month). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 127 Company profile and report parameters REporT PARAMETERS Employees with disabilities Recycling rate It should be noted that this indicator covers employees The rate of recycling of packaging by European end declared as disabled workers. The definition of a person consumers is calculated based on national plastics and with disabilities is determined by local regulations in the cardboard recycling data provided by Pro-Europe and different countries. In addition, due to local regulatory weighted by the respective production in each country. specificities, certain countries include both externally Certain countries have a recycling rate higher than documented disability recognition and disability 100% because they import packaging for recycling. recognized internally by the on-site occupational This explains the excellent recycling rate. physician. Waste Frequency of workplace accidents The categories of waste addressed in environmental The frequency of workplace accidents is the number reporting were reviewed in 2011. Reporting of waste of accidents with lost time of one day or more that occur data in 2011 is based on four categories (packaging over a twelve-month period, for every one million hours waste, materials waste, other non-hazardous waste worked. The hours worked are real hours worked; by and hazardous waste). Monitoring of construction default, theoretical hours worked are taken into account site waste was also begun this year and rolled based on a 40-hour workweek. Indicators for workplace out progressively to Danone entities. Consolidated accidents also include accidents impacting temporary data for 2011 does not include: personnel working at the sites. • inert waste (construction site waste); • sludge from water treatment facilities; Temporary personnel refers to individuals under Danone’s • returned products (raw materials rejected for direct management for whom working time is available non-compliance, unsold items due to sales issues). (in number of hours); this can create discrepancies in the scope of the workforce accounted for by the sites. As in previous years, it is therefore possible that some waste not included in these categories is not reported. Accidents on the way to and from work are not included However, the quantities involved are negligible. in this indicator. Water consumption Packaging consumption Consumption of well or surface water may be estimated This indicator is also estimated at the global level based when sites have no meters. The definitions and methods on consolidated data provided by the Procurement of accounting for various uses of water (including runoff, department. Monetary data is converted into tonnage i.e. water pumped and returned into streams) are specified based on average prices. It includes purchases of rigid in the technical environmental guide and the specific and flexible plastics, cardboard, paper, PET, tops and software tool developed by Enablon. wrappings, which represent the majority of packaging used by Danone. 128 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 The calculation method used by the group is to: Direct emissions are calculated based on the emission • subtract the volumes of water entering into products factors(1) and global warming potential(1) (GWP) of each (particularly bottled water) from the volume of water fuel. It should be noted that for HFC a single GWP removed from nature, but certain CBUs may still apply corresponding to the GWP value of the HFC gas most slightly different methods; commonly used at group sites (R134a) is applied. • take into account the water used in open cooling circuits (water pumped and returned without any Danone is currently integrating emissions from owned modification except of temperature). or managed vehicles, from recently acquired sites and/or those that have no access as yet to Danone's internal Energy consumption environmental reporting system, as well as from offices By definition, the environmental indicators only and distribution centers, into its global carbon footprint. cover the impact of production sites. When Research and Development centers or other non-industrial sites Wastewater are located adjacent to production sites, estimates may The data presented corresponds to wastewater after be made by the production sites to only take into account internal or external treatment. If no information about their own energy consumption (estimate and deduction external treatment is available, a purified output of 90% of energy consumed by the non-industrial site adjacent is applied. to the plant). Consolidation and Emissions of refrigerants Emissions of refrigerants (CFC, HFC and HCFC) internal control are calculated based on the quantity of gas loaded Danone's Human Resources department, Safety into facilities; the loading does not generally take department and Environment department respectively place every year. consolidate social, safety and environmental data based on the information reported by production sites and Greenhouse gas emissions group CBUs around the world. Atmospheric emissions of greenhouse gases (scope 1) for 2011 are calculated using the methodology Social data is collected in each of the group’s CBUs. described in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard Reported data is generally derived from wage payment (revised 2010 version). systems installed in the CBUs. Data consistency is verified and then approved by the Human Resources department Direct emissions (scope 1) are emissions arising from in each CBU before publication in the Magnitude tool. consumption of fuels (coal, natural gas, propane, heating oil and fuel oil) and from consumption of refrigerants (as described in the GHG Protocol, only HFC and PFC consumption is included). No Danone site uses PFCs. (1) IPCC is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The emission factors and GWPs used in calculating emissions arising from energy consumption correspond to data in the 2006 IPCC guidelines (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 129 Company profile and report parameters REporT PARAMETERS Safety data is collected at the level of each group External controls site (production sites, administrative headquarters, distribution centers, etc.) and consolidated by the To receive an outside opinion on the reliability group Safety department. It is entered monthly at the and robustness of the group’s social responsibility data level of each site into the group’s safety consolidation reporting processes, KPMG Audit was mandated to verify system; data is approved through this system at the level a selection of social and environmental indicators in the of each Country Business Unit, and then at the division current report, identified with the following symbol: √ . level, before the Labor Relations and CSR department Their audit report detailing the work undertaken and communicates monthly group safety results. Consistency their comments and conclusions can be found on pages is checked at the division and group levels, and a formal 131-133 of this report. “post-closure change request” procedure is applied for any corrections. KPMG Audit also reviewed and approved the Danone group’s self-evaluation of its application of GRI (B+ Environmental data is collected at the level of each according to the version 3.0 guidelines). production site by the Environment manager. It is checked and approved by the CBU's Environment Adjustment of previous data coordinator before consolidation in the Enablon tool by ERM. Since the 2010 financial year, the Environment Certain reporting errors during previous financial years Directors of each division have verified and approved may be detected during the course of the current year's consolidation of environmental data before its final reporting. If this situation arises, historic data is readjusted approval by the group's Nature department. to allow better interpretation of results and trends. During consolidation, data consistency is checked by the group's Human Resources, Safety and Environment departments. These checks involve in particular comparisons with the previous year and calculation of specific ratios to detect anomalies. Any difference seen as significant is investigated and if necessary corrected. 130 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Validation of the report by an external third party Danone Head Office: 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 Paris Limited level of assurance report on the Danone Way initiative results and a selection of environmental and social indicators of Danone for 2011 This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers: As requested by Danone, we have performed a review to enable us to provide a limited level of assurance on: • The results of the Danone Way initiative (“the Results”) presented on pages 75-79 of the Sustainability Report for 2011; • The environmental(1) and social(2) indicators for 2011 (”the Data”) selected by the group and indicated by the symbol √ presented on pages 155-199 of the Sustainability Report for 2011. This information was prepared under the responsibility of the Group's Social Affairs and Social Responsibility Department, in accordance with the Danone Way internal methodological protocol (”the Protocol”), which may be consulted at the department. The “Report Parameters” methodological note presented on pages 126-130 provides further details on the consolidation scope, on the definitions and on the methods used to collect data and consolidate the published indicators. Our role is to provide a conclusion on the Data and on the Results of the 2011 Danone Way initiative based on our work. The conclusions below only relate to this piece of information and do not relate to the whole Sustainability Report for 2011. (1)  Total production, Total number of ISO 14001 certified sites, Energy consumption (electricity and thermal energy), Water consumption, Direct greenhouse gas emissions, Final ejection of COD and Total quantity of waste generated (except for sludge from sewage plants). Total number of employees at 31st December, Average number of training hours per employee, Total employees trained, (2)  Frequency of lost-time work accidents. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 131 Company profile and report parameters Validation of the report by an external third party Limited level of assurance report on the results of the Danone Way initiative and a selection of environmental and social indicators of Danone for 2011. Nature and scope of the work We performed a review to provide a limited level of assurance that the Results of the Danone Way initiative and the selected Data do not contain any material misstatement. A higher level of assurance would have required more extensive work. For the selected information, we: • Assessed the Danone Way Protocol with regard to its relevance, reliability, neutrality, understandability and completeness; • Conducted interviews with the persons responsible for implementing the Protocol in the Group Human Resources, Social Affairs and Social Responsibility, and Nature Departments; • Conducted interviews and carried out surveys on the implementation of the Protocol in fourteen Country Business Units(3) for social data and/or the Danone Way initiative, and in twenty-one sites(4) for environmental data; the choice of the sample was based on their contribution to the Group consolidated data, their activity, their location and on the results of the work we carried out last year; • Conducted consistency tests on Data consolidation and on the Results; • Reviewed the work performed by the internal audit relative to the Danone Way initiative. The contribution of the selected entities represents: • between 16% and 28% of environmental Data; • between 21% and 24% of social Data; • and 22% of the turnover for the Danone Way initiative Results. Danone Spain, Danone Mexico, Al Safi Danone, Danone Germany, Danone Belgium, Danone Italy, Danone Portugal, (3)  Danone Water China, Danone Eaux France, Nutricia Russia Baby, Dumex Thailand Baby, Dumex Malaysia Baby, Mellin Italy Baby, Nutricia Pharmaceutical Wuxi Medical Supply. Aldaya, Parets*, Salas*, Sevilla*, Tres Cantos*, Irapuato, Rhyad (Al Kharj), Rotselaar*, Castelo Branco, Casale Cremasco, (4)  Volvic*, Amphion, St Galmier*, La Salvetat*, Villavicencio*, Chascomus*, Zong-Shang, Istra, Samutprakam, Nilai, Wuxi. * For these sites, we did not perform any on-site work. Our audit was performed at Country Business Unit level or remotely. 132 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Limited level of assurance report on the results of the Danone Way initiative and a selection of environmental and social indicators of Danone for 2011. Comments on procedures Based on the work performed, the following comments were made on the Protocol, its implementation and the Data: • The criteria and definitions of some Danone Way initiative fundamentals have been reviewed and adapted to further take into account the specificities of the Baby Nutrition and Medical Nutrition divisions. Moreover, the rules for the Danone Way scope definition have been clarified. However, the awareness of the persons in charge of the Danone Way initiative in the Country Business Units should be further increased regarding: the knowledge of the modifications and the specifications made on the Danone Way Protocol, which is reviewed annually by the Group; the importance of justifying the fact that some Country Business Units consider that they are not concerned by some Danone Way fundamentals. • A new tool has been implemented for the reporting of security Data, and the reporting Protocol has been completed compared to last year. However: the headcount to consider for the reporting of security Data needs to be specified in order to ensure a higher consistency of Group practices; the controls performed to allow a reliable implementation of the new monitoring tool for security Data have to be maintained and reinforced. • The internal control system on environmental and social Data and the Results of the Danone Way initiative has been improved regarding the consolidation of the Group data, but still needs to be reinforced regarding the collection levels, in particular for Data relating to waste, training and worked hours indicators. Conclusion Based on our review, we did not identify any material misstatement that would call into question the fact that the Data reported on pages 155-199, identified by the symbol √ , and the Danone Way initiative Results reported on pages 75-79 of the Sustainability Report for 2011 were prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Protocol. Paris La Défense, 5th April 2012 KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Partner In Charge of the Climate Change and Sustainability Services Department Danone Sustainability Report 2011 133 Performance Performance Governance, Indicators Commitments and ENGAGEMENT Governance 135 COMMITMENTs TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 136 stakeholder ENGAGEMENT 138 134 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Governance Mandatory information about the company's governance according to GRI guidelines (indicators 4.1 to 4.10) 4.8 is available in Danone's Registration Document. Internally developed statements References to the relevant pages are indicated in the of mission or values, codes of GRI index published on pages 110 and 119 of this report. conduct, and principles relevant The key events pertaining to Danone's corporate governance strategy in 2011 are presented on to economic, environmental and pages 100-103 of this report. social performance and the status of their implementation The Danone Way initiative has been in place since 2001 to address the goal of managing the group's relations and impacts with regard to its stakeholders, both upand downstream (see pages 75-79 of this report) including policies and criteria pertaining to environmental and social performance, governance, health and nutrition policy, etc. This approach makes it possible to measure the implementation of policies and performance criteria in all group Country Business Units every year (see pages 75-79, Danone Way results). Many other initiatives and processes have been implemented in the areas of environmental and social policy and supplier relations. To learn more about these initiatives, see the chapters on the performance indicators relative to the environment (see pages 155-181 of this report), human rights (pages 201-205), social policy (pages 183-199), and supplier management (pages 80-82). See also the sections about the Nature and People strategies, as well as the charts presenting the Environment, Employees and Communities commitments (see pages 64, 66 and 68 of this report). Danone has been formally defining its missions, values and internal codes of conduct for a number of years in various documents. For more details, see the chapter titled Reference texts and key dates on pages 105-107 of the current report. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 135 Governance, Commitments and ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS COMMITMENTs TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 4.12 Explanation of whether and Externally developed how the precautionary approach economic, environmental, or principle is addressed by the and social charters, principles, organization or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Protecting the consumer means applying the principle or endorses of Due Diligence which, at Danone, relies on a team of in-house scientific experts and an external network Danone's commitments, as defined in its Business of international experts. Conduct Policy, are based on certain principles referenced in the following international texts: The company's Food Safety Management Systems, • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; based on international standard ISO 22000, ensure the • the international agreements of the International implementation of measures for managing risks in this Labor Organization; area across all businesses. • the guiding principles defined by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development for A periodic review of risks involved in the key processes multinational companies; of most Country Business Units (Vestalis process) also • the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor ensures that proper precautions are taken to reduce rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. the impact and/or the probability of risks identified. This issue is also addressed in the framework of indicator Danone joined the United Nations Global Compact PR1 pertaining to consumer health and safety. in 2003 and reaffirmed its commitment in 2009. In addition, the 7 Fundamental Social Principles defined by the agreements of the International Labor Organization (ILO) were integrated into the DanoneIUF agreements in 2005. 136 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone wished to extend these Fundamental Social Principles beyond its Country Business Units (CBUs) to 4.13 all its suppliers through implementation of its RESPECT Memberships in associations program. Since 2009, this policy has been expanded to (such as industry associations) include Environmental and Ethical Principles to which and/or national/international all suppliers must commit. advocacy organization These commitments are anchored in Danone's values Danone's policy is of membership in all legally and in the foundations of the Danone Way approach. constituted and recognized, sector-specific or national They apply to all employees of every company controlled professional associations representing the food industry. by Danone throughout the world. Danone is committed The group encourages its managers to actively take part to promoting these principles in all the companies in the work of these associations at both local and central in which it holds shares level. Danone or its CBUs are members of all national food industry associations in European Union countries where the group has operations, as well as of Food & Drink Europe which represents the industry at EU level. Danone is a member of more than 100 associations of this type. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 137 Governance, Commitments and ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS stakeholder ENGAGEMENT 4.14 4.15 List of stakeholder groups Basis for identification engaged by the organization; and selection of stakeholders example of stakeholder groups with whom to engage are: communities, civil society, customers, shareholders and Danone has been developing specific dialogue tools for several years to support CBUs in their interactions providers of capital, suppliers, with the various stakeholders at local level: the and employees, other workers stakeholder mapping tool allows to identify the and their trade unions company's stakeholders, to analyze the issues and stakeholder expectations, and to define communication The Danone Way approach launched in 2001 priorities. It also presents best practices in place in other was implemented to respond to the goal of dialogue countries where the group does business. All CBUs are and recognition of impacts with the company's invited to carry out stakeholders mapping every year; stakeholders, which were defined at the start of this is part of the Danone Way fundamentals evaluation the approach: consumers, suppliers, environment, (GOV3 Local communities). employees, shareholders, local communities (scientific, neighborhood, representatives of public authorities and In addition, a Public Affairs kit was designed in 2011 non-governmental organizations). The annual evaluation and distributed to Correspondents in the CBUs in carried out by each Country Business Unit (CBUs) January 2012. on the Danone Way themes allows the group to ensure that stakeholders are truly integrated into the various This tool presents an explanatory overview of the field issues (nutrition-health, employees, environment, of action of a Danone Public Affairs Correspondent. local communities, etc.). It defines the expected practices in communicating with stakeholders (elected officials, public authorities, opinion In addition, for several years Danone has been leaders, etc.) and provides practical guidelines for committed to dialoguing with organizations of civil supporting correspondents in their day-to-day activity. society. The goal is not only to develop active listening with regard to the changing situations and expectations The kit can thus be used to make an exhaustive of various stakeholders, but also to commit the company inventory of local issues, and to qualify those issues to partnership or co-development processes with these with a view to prioritizing them, identifying the players players, as illustrated by numerous initiatives and projects involved and mapping them based on their position developed in partnership with NGOs, with the support and influence, and finally determining the best watch of funds established by Danone. (To learn more about mode for monitoring changes to these issues and the Danone's stakeholder policy, see the section about stakeholder players’ positions. strategy on pages 92-99 of this report). 138 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone also has the goal of encouraging all CBUs to integrate stakeholders into their own strategic thinking. 4.16 To achieve this, methodological tools for strategic Approaches to stakeholder thinking have been developed since 2010-2011 to firmly engagement, including frequency include stakeholders' expectations in subsidiaries’ of engagement by type medium-term strategic planning at local level, whether to build a sustainable development strategy in the broad and by stakeholder group sense, or to strengthen the nutrition-health focus. These The Danone approach is to foster dialogue with methodological materials are integrated into the group's stakeholders at CBU level to remain close to local issues. training programs for the Executive Committees and expert working teams: Sustainability Roadmap, This dialogue may take various forms in each CBU Sustainability Land (see page 207 of this report for more (regular Advisory Board meetings on nutrition-health details) and Credibility Land, which aim to define topics, for example), and the frequency depends on local a nutrition and health strategy for the CBUs based on situations. The group does not centrally consolidate in-depth analysis of its stakeholders (consumers, public all the actions carried out by its CBUs in this area. agencies, NGOs, employees, etc.). However, at group level, regular meetings (5 times per year) are held with certain organizations such as representatives of the IUF (International Union of Food workers) on social issues. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 139 Governance, Commitments and ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS stakeholder ENGAGEMENT 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Listening to stakeholders is a key component of Danone's sustainable development strategy, in order to understand the expectations of its customers, consumers, employees, suppliers, scientists, the populations living near its sites, representatives of public authorities and non-governmental organizations. Taking account of stakeholders' expectations is a foundation of the Danone Way approach initiated in 2001, and is firmly anchored in Danone's culture and social policy approach. The specifics of Danone's strategy of dialogue with stakeholders are presented on pages 92-99 of this report. The Danone approach is to foster dialogue with stakeholders at Country Business Unit (CBU) level; the group does not centrally consolidate all the actions carried out by its CBUs in this area. However, at corporate level, listening to stakeholders' expectations also allows the company to progress in understanding key shared concerns and to launch initiatives in response. In 2011, for example, Danone signed a framework agreement with the IUF on health, safety, working conditions and stress (see page 191 of this report); along these same lines, Danone also implements the Dan'Cares program that aims to improve healthcare coverage for all employees in all subsidiaries around the world (see pages 43 and 44 of this report to learn more). 140 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 141 Performance Performance IndicatOrs EconomiC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 143 MARKET PRESENCE 145 INDIRECT eCONOMIC impacTS 147 142 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 EconomiC Performance EC1 EC2 Direct economic value Financial implications and generated and distributed, other risks and opportunities including revenues, operating for the organization’s activities costs, employee compensation, due to climate change donations and other community investments, retained earnings, In 2011, investments targeting environmental protection amounted to some €46.8 million, or around 5% of the and payments to capital group’s total capital investments: this represents a 21% providers and governments increase over 2010. For data pertaining to directly created economic The main investment categories are the following: value, distributed economic value and non-distributed • environmental compliance: waste treatment, wastewater economic value see the Registration Document, chapters treatment, treatment plants, noise measurement, air 4.1 and 5. quality, etc. These investments are 27% lower than in 2010, building on what had already been accomplished in this area in previous years; • investments targeting reduction of CO2 emissions (energy savings, renewable energy use, logistics, eco-design of packaging). These investments rose by 15%, as reducing our carbon footprint is a priority goal for the group. In addition, since its creation in 2010, the Green Capex approval process (investments for environmental protection) provides financing for projects with high environmental value, but with a return on investment below group standards that would prevent their acceptance under the usual investment approval process. This approach takes into account the number of tons of CO2 reduction achieved by the projects. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 143 ECONOMIC performance INDICATORS EconomiC Performance Operating expenditures related to the environment amounted to around €105.2 million in 2011. EC3 They include €32.2 million for waste, water and air Coverage of the organization’s management and for environmental taxes other than defined benefit plan obligations fees on packaging. This latter expenditure amounted to €54.5 million in 2011. Around 180 executives with the status of Director, and who were under the French pension system at December A comprehensive effort to identify risks and opportunities 31, 2003, are eligible under certain conditions, notably of related to climate change was carried out for Danone’s seniority and presence, to benefit from a defined benefits response to the Carbon Disclosure Project survey. This pension plan. task includes a list of risks and opportunities (economic, regulatory, industrial, fiscal, etc.) in three categories: This system involves the payment of a pension, • changes in regulations; provided the beneficiary is still with the group at the • changes in climate parameters; time of retirement, based on seniority and the most recent • changes related to other impacts due to climate salaries. The amount is paid out after deduction of certain change (consumer behavior). pensions (corresponding, for a first category of group Directors, to the full amount of pension points acquired For each risk and each opportunity, the timeline, over the course of their careers, and for a second category probability and potential impact were assessed, of group Directors, to the full amount of pension points as well as preventive measures implemented by acquired through supplemental retirement plans fully the group to deal with them. paid for by Danone) and amounting to a maximum of 65% of the last salaries. If the employee leaves the group before the age of 55, or dies before retiring, s/he loses all rights to this plan, with the caveat that in case of a layoff after age 55, the benefits from this plan are maintained as long as no further salaried employment is taken up. This retirement plan was closed to all new beneficiaries on December 31, 2003. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government This indicator is not centrally monitored by Danone. 144 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 MARKET PrEsence ADD EC5 The basic starting salary is higher than the local minimum salary for the large majority of sites Range of ratios of standard entry (122 Country Business Units or CBUs) covering more level wage compared to local than 85% of group employees. It is equal to the legal minimum for 14 CBUs, or 5.2% of employees. minimum wage at significant There is no legal minimum defined for 15 CBUs. locations of operation Compared with 2010, a movement towards the extremes This data is derived from the “Magnitude” is noticeable: increase in the number of employees with information system dedicated to managing a basic starting salary above the legal minimum, as well the group’s labor information. as an increase in those working for a CBU with no legal EC5 Ratio minimum salary / minimum salary. minimum legal salary 2010 2011 Number Total % Number Total % of of of of CBUs employees CBUs employees CBUs with a CBU minimum wage / legal 121 78,2% 122 85,7% minimum wage ratio greater than 1 CBUs with a CBU minimum wage / legal 24 14,5% 14 5,2% minimum wage ratio equal to 1 CBUs to which no legal minimum 17 1,3% 15 4,0% wage applies Total reported 162 94% 151 95% Total non reported 13 6% 24 5% Total Danone 175 100% 175 100% These figures are provided on a like-for-like basis with 2010. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 145 ECONOMIC performance INDICATORS MARKET PrEsence EC6 EC7 Policy, practices, and proportion Procedures for local hiring and of spending on locally-based proportion of senior management suppliers at significant locations hired from the local community at of operation locations of significant operation This indicator is not centrally monitored by Danone. Danone is a local employer above all, with 95.2% of its 15,552 managers and directors hired locally. Danone’s aim is to achieve 80% local managers in all Executive Committees. At end-2011, 76% of Directors had been hired locally. 2010 2011 Total workforce 13 984 15 552 (Directors and Managers) of which international staff 649 739 % international 4,6% 4,8% % local 95,4% 95,2% Management Committee Members 879 1 058 (Excluding Executives) of which international staff 234 254 % international 26,6% 24,0% % local 73,4% 76,0% 146 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Indirect economic impacts EC08 Danone's commitment to health and nutrition reaches the most disadvantaged communities in Spain through Development and impact of the FoodBank. The FoodBanks are non-profit volunteerinfrastructure investments and based entities which work to recover surplus food in our communities and redistribute them to those in need, services provided primarily for avoiding any waste or misuse. public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Danone exceeded its goal of doubling its aid by donating more than 10 million product units. Danone is involved in many actions to support public In 2010, Danone and the FoodBank created Juntos interest initiatives as part of its mission to bring health Ayudamos el Doble, a social innovation program that through food to as many people as possible. Three main shows how companies can work effectively with the issues were targeted in 2011 through partnerships with FoodBank. This commitment and relationship between public institutions and organizations as well as NGOs, the food industry and a non-profit organization is especially in health and nutrition education, to support extremely innovative. The company had to evolve from children’s well-being. being an intermittent partner to a continuous supplier to the FoodBank. Beyond making occasional donations The fight against food waste. Two examples of surplus product, Danone has worked together of close collaboration between Danone and with the FoodBank,to analyze its cold storage capacity Food banks in Spain and Argentina and distribution schedules, to match the donation with their needs, treating the FoodBank as a proper Juntos Ayudamos el Doble (Spain) client for the company. By doing so, it helps to prevent Juntos Ayudamos el Doble (Together we double irregularities, potential food supply problems and our help) is the social innovation program jointly uncertainty about how much food is available on developed by the Spanish Federation of FoodBanks a weekly basis to distribute to the people most in need. (FESBAL) and Danone, in which Danone commits With this project Danone exceeded its target of doubling to be a strategic partner by helping FoodBank with donations compared with previous years, delivering more regular product donations. than 10 million product units per year since 2010. Danone also offers consumers the opportunity to be part of the project. Consumers can donate more product units through Gananones website. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 147 ECONOMIC performance INDICATORS Indirect economic impacts The collaboration between Danone and the FoodBank In 2011, Danone has been awarded by the Spanish goes far beyond product donation. FoodBanks with the “Premio Espiga de Oro” (Golden Spike Award). The Executive Committee Danone has approached its partnership with the of the Spanish Federation of Food Banks unanimously FoodBank from a holistic perspective, with collaboration chose Danone. This award is given annually to an in different areas: entity or company that, according to the Food Bank, • Social Awareness: Danone held a social awareness has made the most distinguished contribution to campaign on food resources and hunger in Catalonia, supporting the non-profit organization. The president contributing to education and social involvement in of Danone Spain, Javier Robles, received the award solidarity initiatives. Through a public awareness on October 20th, 2011. campaign, the company sought to inform and raise awareness about the current food crisis and its impact Danone Social Commitment (Compromiso Social on the fourth world. Danone), our company philosophy • Danone Corporate Volunteer: The Juntos Ayudamos Juntos Ayudamos el Doble is a project which is part el Doble program was conducted by a cross-functional of the Danone Social Commitment , social programs team consisting of members from different Danone that respond to the company’s long track record of social departments and the FoodBank. Since then, employees responsibility. The DSC proves the ongoing involvement have been volunteering their business skills for of the company in society in the field of health and consultancy work. Also, employees and their families nutrition. With the Juntos Ayudamos el Doble, Danone have volunteered to help in food collection campaigns reaffirms its commitment to continue bringing health organized by the FoodBanks. through food to as many people as possible, including • Donation campaigns with Clients: The Euro of the most disadvantaged. Solidarity was a campaign launched in 2011 by the FoodBank, Carrefour and Danone in which Danone group donated one euro from every purchase of a product multipack to the Food Bank to support distribution of European Union food surpluses (35,000 metric tons). 148 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Food banks bonds in Argentina The Food Bank network was also the first beneficiary Zero food waste is the ambitious goal that motivates of the deployment of the Fundación Danone’s Healthy the Argentinean Food Banks and Danone companies, Habits program (Nutrición)2 -Nutrición al Cuadrado-. represented by the local Fundación Danone. Nine food banks hosted Nutrición al Cuadrado trainings and distributed kits to community centers, soup kitchens Locally, through almost ten years of initiatives, Danone and other organizations benefiting from the food banks. has developed a strategic partnership with the Food Banks network, and particularly with the Buenos Aires Food Connecting Food Banks with business opportunities Bank, the country’s largest, in order to make a major shift is also part of this particular approach, and in this from product donation towards a broader understanding framework, Fundación Danone presented the Food of food access. Bank’s mission to members of the executive committees of Danone companies in a very rich learning expedition, “Working together with a Food Bank is a very as well as to customers, brands and various corporate convenient choice for a food company, particularly sectors. For instance, the Buenos Aires Food Bank was in a context and in countries with social and economic the social NGO chosen by Trade Marketing to participate vulnerability. Food banks represent a single point of in their huge promotion for the traditional channel, contact between Danone and organizations requesting inviting more than 33,000 small business owners that food donations, and they secure product traceability, contributed with their presence to the Food Bank which is key to work under Danone food safety and collection campaign. quality standards,” points out the Fundación Danone team. “In most of the countries where they operate, Challenges will continue in the years to come, they also have a positive image and strong links among and the focus is to continue developing skills among the industry ecosystem.” the organizations reaching direct food beneficiaries, providing support and empowering Food Banks Today, Fundación Danone manages the donation all over the country. of products out of sale because of due date proximity or extraordinary production or commercial issues. More information and key figures: This is carried out in collaboration with various company http://redbancosdealimentos.org/ departments such as supply chain, sales and logistics, http://www.bancodealimentos.org.ar/ who work with commitment and enthusiasm to secure http://www.fundaciondanone.org.ar/ safe and efficient food bank sourcing and prevent product destruction, which is not only a help to community, but also a source of savings for the company. Donations increased almost 50% in 2011, driven by a precise process and teams dedication. This relationship is not only about donations however, which is why Fundación Danone, as a member of the primary donors committee of the Buenos Aires Food Bank, developed the “Alimentando Redes” (feeding networks) workshops in 2011 with the goal of promoting the network concept among social organizations benefiting from the Food Bank (community centers, soup kitchens, kindergartens, etc.), to support the exchange of resources and optimized purchasing, projects and expenses. During these workshops participants worked on creating a shared resources guide, a well as benefiting from a team-building experience and direct contact with Food Bank representatives. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 149 ECONOMIC performance INDICATORS Indirect economic impacts Children education on nutrition Danone UK have set out to help the government tackle the issue through Eat Like A Champ, a social innovation Eat Like a Champ (United Kingdom) program with a “triple win” objective: Eat Like A Champ is a nutrition education program • make nutrition exciting for kids by inspiring them for primary schools aimed at helping tackle the to adopt the healthy choices of famous champions growing issue of poor nutrition and sedentary lifestyle they admire; amongst children. • maintain high employee engagement in Danone UK through a large volunteering scheme; Great Britain is now the fattest nation in Europe, • build Danone’s corporate reputation on health and with over one in three children overweight and one nutrition in the UK. in six obese. If behavior doesn’t change now, 90% of the British population could be overweight or obese by 2050. This is done through: Research shows that although children understand the • six fun, engaging and interactive lessons, which concept of a balanced and healthy diet, the majority do have been co-created in collaboration with the British not reflect this knowledge in the way they eat. Nutrition Foundation to ensure consistent messages that are linked to the primary school curriculum. Each class teacher receives an extensive toolkit with all the necessary material; • inspiring role models, in this case street dance sensation Diversity, who are the ambassadors of the campaign and were the winners of the TV show Britain’s Got Talent in 2009. They feature in videos and in all the classroom materials; • an innovative volunteering: scheme: during the 6 weeks the program is taught, Danone volunteers are invited to go into schools to help teachers deliver the Eat Like A Champ lessons and activities. 150 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 At the end of the campaign, all children, teachers and Emergency aid in disaster areas. Danone volunteers who took part are invited to meet the In Haiti, and more recently in Japan, champions Diversity at a special Eat Like A Champ show, Danoners rallied in favor of people which is the final reward for the children. in need in the field. Eat Like A Champ was piloted successfully in a few Danone per Haiti in Italy London schools in 2010, then optimized and rolled In 2009, Danone Italy employees voted for one CSR out in over 50 London schools in 2011. In 2012, project from among eight ideas proposed by in-house the program was extended to over 500 schools all teams. The winning project addressed malnutrition in over the UK including England, Scotland, Wales and Haiti in collaboration with Fondazione Francesca Rava Northern Ireland. N.P.H. Italia Onlus, an Italian NGO, which has been present in Haiti for many years. The evaluation in July 2011 showed high self-reported change behavior: 95% of children claimed to eat more The 2010 earthquake changed the project and we had to healthy foods after having completed the lessons. refocus it on the emergency situation of the island. Just a The first campaigns have convinced all stakeholders couple of days later, Danone employees had raised money, involved that the hook of celebrities to get the health which was multiplied tenfold by the company. message across to children is a very powerful model, and so in 2012, the objective is to bring robust evidence The new project, named Danone per Haiti , is meant of behavior change in children’s eating habits after having to create a completely new type of yoghurt based on the taken part in Eat like A Champ. To do so, Danone UK donation of rice servings within the N.P.H. food has partnered with the School Food Trust to conduct an distribution network in the poorest areas of the country. independent study. This report will help shape the future Thanks to all our stakeholders, we were able to provide of Eat Like A Champ, the current ambition being to more than 4.6 million servings of rice in just eight months. become a key partner on healthy eating education and be in 5,000 primary schools by 2015. We also launched a dedicated blog (www.danoneperhaiti.it) the first one for Danone Italy, and created pages on To see or learn more about the campaign, go to: the most important social networks (Facebook, Twitter, www.eatlikeachamp.co.uk or to Flickr) to give visibility to the situation in the country www.youtube.com/user/eatlikeachamp and provide ongoing information about the rollout of the project. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 151 ECONOMIC performance INDICATORS Indirect economic impacts In 2010, a Haitian football team from an N.P.H. Restaurants du cœur: orphanage came to Italy to play the Italian DNC and Three years of expanding partnership! then went to South Africa to play the World Final as the For the third year of Danone's partnership with 40th country participating. Restaurants du Cœur in France, successful initiatives were completed in all three focus areas. In 2011 we turned back to the original project focused on malnutrition. Each multipack sold is linked to a health The first was participation in meal collection: care program and, thanks to our consumers, we were able around 1,300 “Danoners” took part in 2011, to provide health care for more than 1,200 Haitian a figure that has grown steadily since the partnership children, supporting the fight against malnutrition began (1,054 participants in 2009 and 1,124 in 2010). pursued by N.P.H. St. Damien Hospital, the only free They helped collect the equivalent of 1.7 million meals pediatric hospital in the country, which assists thousands in Carrefour and Carrefour Market stores. of children every year. As in 2010, a Haitian football team came to Madrid to play the DNC World Final. One million additional meals were co-financed by Danone and Carrefour after a promotional operation In 2012 we want to keep on with the program, in stores. An accompanying social network campaign hoping to reach even better results. At the end of a made it possible to donate an additional 22,750 meals successful three-year period, 2012 will see the second thanks to messages shared by bloggers. CSR idea contest. Finally, the partnership’s third facet, skills sponsorship, Emergency situation in Japan allowed 35 Restos du Coeur volunteers to receive Following the Fukushima disaster, 2 main types of action nutrition training from Danone professionals in 2011. were put in place: • Contribute to the emergency action plan with The Danone Restos Du Coeur partnership proved a supply of mineral water; itself more dynamic than ever in 2011. • Donations program involving Danoners: Danone gave €306,000 to Yakult Japan, which were put back to Unicef charity organization. Of these €306,000, Moreover two additional programs were conducted €225 000 were a direct donation from Danone group, by Baby nutrition division CBUs: and €81,000 were donations made either by • a pediatric program in Senegal by the Nutricia subsidiaries or directly by Danoners. Spain CBU: visit www.pediatrasensenegal.blogspot.com/ • a malnutrition prevention program in Togo launched by Moreover, a mediumto long-term program has been the Nutricia Belgium CBU: visit www.supportinglife.be/ launched to support the relocation of farmers from the fr/home-2/ area. A first payment of €100,000 was made through the Danone Ecosystem Fund to design the program with proper needs assessment. More programs and projects have been deployed by Danone CBUs around the world. 152 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 EC9 In these different areas, Danone has always taken numerous initiatives in its Country Business Units Understanding and (CBUs) (for example, APIEME at Evian, CEPIV at description of economic impacts Volvic, the AQUA factory in Klaten, Indonesia, etc.) to support the economic and social development of Understanding and description the regions where the group has operations. of economic impacts Within the framework defined by the Danone Danone has always had a vision of its business that Ecosystem Fund, 29 CBUs (representing 35% of the integrates both economic factors (wages paid, purchasing group’s revenues) are committed alongside more than and subcontracting, local taxes, etc.) and social 27 partners – primarily NGOs – in the co-creation of one considerations (employment, contributing knowledge, or more projects aimed at developing the ecosystems of training, support for local initiatives, support for these CBUs. These initiatives have been launched in more education in its areas of expertise, partnerships around than 17 countries around the world (see planisphere). environmental causes). The company's ability to develop positive relationships with its local environment plays a These 35 projects, of which 34 are active today and significant role in its overall performance. The company which represent total investment of €23.3 million, must strike the right balance between this social have had a direct impact on the employment of more commitment and the economic purpose that is its than 3,000 individuals (created and/or consolidated jobs) primary mission. and aim to reach out to more than 37,000 people. Upcoming phases of the projects underway represent Danone’s commitment to local communities is part around €25 million in expenditures. of its “dual economic and social project,” which involves: • knowing the local players and developing sustainable relationships with them; • participating in the economic and social development of its labor market; • developing products that are affordable to the greatest number of people; • participating in maintaining local economies and employment by reindustrializing group sites that have undergone restructuring. FOOD SUPPLY Distribution RecyclING personAL SERVICES local Development Danone Sustainability Report 2011 153 Performance performance IndicatORS Environmental materials 156 energy 157 water 160 Biodiversity 163 emissions, effluents and waste 167 Products and services 173 COMPLIANCE 176 transpoRt 176 overall 179 governance 181 154 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Number of ISO 14001-certified sites Danone bases its environmental management policy on the international ISO 14001 standard. Numerous published guidelines based on this standard help industrial sites progress towards certification. ISO 14001 certification is a prerequisite for achieving the highest performance levels in GREEN environmental audits (see page 37 “Manage and strengthen the fundamentals”). At end-2011, 94 of 163 Danone plants were ISO 14001 certified. The rate of coverage of sites reporting data rose from 94% in 2010 to 99% in 2011 (scope excluding Unimilk). In 2010, this coverage rate represented 98% of the group's revenues. For 2011 data, the coverage rate represents more than 99% of the group's revenues (scope excluding Unimilk). In the following tables, variations compared with 2010 are calculated on a like-for-like basis, for the scope of production sites present during both financial years (excluding production sites acquired or launched in 2011 and production sites sold or shut down in 2011). 2010 2011 Total number of sites (excluding Unimilk) 157 163 Total number of 88 94 ISO 14001-certified sites √ Percentage of 56% 58% ISO 14001-certified sites Coverage (percentage of sites 94% 99% reporting data, excluding Unimilk) √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 155 environmental performance INDICATORS materials EN1 EN2 Materials used by weight Percentage of materials used or volume that are recycled input materials 2010/2011 More than a third of the group's primary and secondary 2010 2011 change on a packaging is made of recycled materials, including 73% like-for-like basis of boxes. Total production 26 472 27 062 +4% (thousands of For its plastic packaging, the group is working to increase √ metric tonnes) the percentage of recycled PET (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in the Waters division, including Volvic, √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. Evian and Bonafont are already using rPET. Total production in metric tons rose by 4% on a like-forAt end-2011, the global share of rPET was 10%. like basis in 2010/2011, due in particular to increased For Bonafont, the share of rPET used in 2011 was 25%. production by the Waters and Baby nutrition divisions. Water division 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total production (in thousands of metric tons) % rPET (g rPET/g PET) 4% 8% 10% 10% 30 000 2010 2011 26 472 27 062 Despite limited availability of recycled PET due to the level of investment needed to create a reliable supply EN1 chain – which is being progressively implemented – Production 20 000 Danone succeeded in maintaining its average rate of recycled PET use in 2011, with a long-term goal of achieving a rate of 50%. 10 000 Energie thermique (avec vapeur) Electricité 180 163,3 158,9 160 EN4 140 Energie 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 2,4 2010 2009 156 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 2,2 2,0 EN8 1,48 1.5 1,32 1,31 WATER 1.0 0.5 0.0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 energy 100 EN3 The August 2011 start-up of the biomass boiler at the Poços90 de Caldas plant in84,1 Brazil 82,3is a noteworthy 85,8 86,1 project87,4 Direct energy consumption 80,6 that 80 produced 18,000 MWh of thermal energy in 2011 VALORIZED WASTE by primary energy source and generated a corresponding reduction in the site’s fossil energy 70 (fuel 64,3 oil) consumption. MWh 2010 2011 60 The graph below shows changes to the thermal energy Natural gas 1 502 693 1 495 749 consumption 50 2000 intensity 2006 at2007 the production 2008 2009 since2011 sites2010 2000. Fuel oil 351 496 232 340 Heating oil 85 028 143 990 Butane/propane 71 888 66 147 Intensity of thermal energy consumption in the production plants (in kWh/metric ton of product) Coal 243 194 203 383 200 Other sources 16 679 0 169,3 Direct energy consumption 2 270 978 2 141 609 132,5 130,6 THERMAL Renewable thermal energy 108,6 ENERGYs 4 228 23 636 93,7 (produced on site) 100 90,0 84,4 Purchased steam 108 326 118 327 Thermal energy consumption 2 383 532 2 283 572 (with steam) Intensity of thermal energy 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 consumption (in kWh/metric 90,0 84,4 ton of product) Thermal energy consumption is decreasing while the group’s production is rising. This reflects improved thermal energy intensity, which reached 84.4 KWh/ 300 275,0 metric ton of product in 2011, a 6.3% improvement 226,1 over 2010. This change is the result of continuous 218,2 200 186,2 TOTAL improvement plans and the implementation of new, 163,3 158,9 151,6 ENERGY more environmentally-friendly solutions. 100 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 100 90 84 90 81 81 78 75 75 80 Profil p127 67 65 66 67 68 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Domaine Domaine Domaine Total Économique Danone SustainabilitySocial Environnemental Report 2011 157 Score minimum DJSI Monde Score Danone Score maximum DJSI Monde 50 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 environmental performance INDICATORS 200 energy 169,3 130,6 132,5 THERMAL 108,6 ENERGYs 93,7 90,0 100 84,4 EN4 The graph below shows changes in the total energy consumption intensity at the production sites since 2000, Indirect energy consumption for the 0 reporting 2000 scope 2006 each 2008 of2007 of the years2009 concerned. 2010 2011 by primary source 2010/2011 change on a Total energy consumption intensity in the MWh 2010 2011 like-for-like production plants (in kWh/metric ton of product) basis 300 275,0 Thermal energy 2 383 532 2 283 572 226,1 (with steam) 218,2 200 186,2 TOTAL Electricity 1 822 740 1 819 939 163,3 158,9 151,6 ENERGY including the purchase of electricity specifically NA 91 271 100 generated from 100% renewable sources Total energy 4 206 272 4 103 511 -3,9% 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 √ Intensity of total energy consumption 158,9 151,6 -7,6% (in kWh/metric ton of product) 1,33 1,32 +4,7% 1,31 √1,31 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. 1,29 -2,0% 1,27 100 On 1,25 a like-for-like basis, the intensity of total energy 84 90 -3,2% 90 81 81 consumption 1,23 was reduced by 7.6% between 2010 and 80 78 75 75 Profil p127 67 66 67 68 2011. 1,21 This improvement is primarily the result of the 70 65 1,19 60 deployment of energy best practices in all group divisions 50 1,17 (see 1,15 the ADD EN5 indicator for more details), as well as 40 of a slight Waterpositive mixoneffect Mix effect (increased Productivity on production Change Waterin 30 consumption a like-for-like a like-for-like of reporting consumption 20 the Waters divisionbasis intensity 2010 sites). basis scope intensity 2011 10 0 Domaine Domaine Domaine Total Intensity of total energy consumption Économique Environnemental Social (in KWh/metric ton of product) Score minimum DJSI Monde Score Danone Score maximum DJSI Monde 160 158,9 158 156 -1,1% Poids en g 154 36 +3,3% 151,6 152 32,0 Font Vella 32 30,0 30,0 30,0 150 28,5 28 27,5 26,5 148 146 24 -6,5% 144 20 142 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2009 2010 140 Total energy Mix effect Productivity Change Total energy consumption of reporting consumption intensity 2010 scope intensity 2011 Poids en g 40 38,0 Volvic 38 37,0 36 34,0 34 33,0 32 30,5 30 2000 2001 2005 2008 2010 158 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 ADD EN5 ADD EN6 Energy saved due to conservation Initiatives to provide energyand efficiency improvements efficient or renewable energybased products and services, Better management of energy was achieved by two and reductions in energy main approaches: • optimizing energy production at the plants. requirements as a result For example, thermal energy efficiency improved of these initiatives by 9% in the Medical nutrition division; Cogeneration • optimizing energy use. For example, electricity intensity Several sites chose to install cogeneration facilities in improved by 11% in the Baby nutrition division. order to produce electricity and heat from a single energy source, thus improving the plant's energy performance. Sharing best practices and fostering emulation between With cogeneration, up to 90% of energy can be plants strengthened this improvement process in 2011. recovered, compared with 40% to 55% for traditional systems. At the Bierun plant in Poland (Dairy products In the Waters division, the “WattWatcher” tool deployed division), this practice prevents emission of some 5,400 throughout all sites helps to define performance objectives metric tons of CO2 each year. The Ochsenfurt plant in adapted to each plant. Since 2008, this tool has led to Germany (Dairy products division) reduced its annual a 14% reduction in the division’s energy intensity and CO2 emissions by 7% with this technology. prevented the emission of 137,000 metric tons of CO2. The goal is to maintain this effort in the coming years. Thermal energy from renewable sources In Brazil at the Poços de Caldas plant, a biomass boiler The energy training known as “Energy Campus” in the was launched in August 2011 to replace the fuel oil used Dairy products division continues to bring energy experts in heat production. This project is based on renewable into play to support implementation of best practices in biomass available in large quantities. It exclusively uses all production plants. In 2011, six meetings were held at natural “wood energy” resources that are certified various sites – in Spain, Poland, Russia, China, Argentina sustainable, and should prevent emission of 18,300 and France – to mobilize every geographic region. metric tons of CO2 each year. Thanks to this use of At each meeting, the host site was audited and an action biomass, the thermal energy used by the plant is 97% plan was developed. This process, applied in a spirit from renewable sources. of collaboration and cross-fertilization, helped connect the best practices shared through the group network Geological conditions in Indonesia make it possible to concrete efforts for improvement on the ground. to capture natural geothermal energy. The Brastagi plant In 2012, the Campus will expand its scope to other is now supplied by this renewable energy source, which fields, such as reducing raw materials losses, reducing prevents emission of some 13,000 metric tons equivalent water consumption and managing waste. These new of CO2 each year. Danone is examining the possibility Nature Campus courses will be implemented in eight of extending this best practice to other Indonesian sites. production plants during the first half of 2012 to cover the eight regions in which Dairy product division sites are located. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 159 environmental performance INDICATORS energy water Purchase of electricity specifically generated from 100% renewable sources EN8 Danone takes part in the development of renewable Total water withdrawal by source energies. In 2011, 5% of our electricity purchases were from certified renewable sources (geothermal energy, Thousands of m3 2010 2011 hydraulic power, etc.). Total water withdrawn 56 253 57 330 from the surrounding area · well water 41 366 42 457 ADD EN7 · municipal water 11 470 11 055 Initiatives to reduce indirect · river water 3 417 3 818 energy consumption and Total water withdrawn includes both water used reductions achieved in the production process, and water used in product formulation. See indicator EN6. 2010/2011 change on a Thousands of m 3 2010 2011 like-for-like basis Water consumption 34 850 35 352 -1,4% in the production √ process Intensity of water consumption related to the production 1,32 1,31 -5,2% process (in m3/metric ton of product) √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. On a like-for-like basis, the intensity of water consumption related to the production process was reduced by 5.2% between 2010 and 2011. This improvement is the result of a positive mix effect (increased production in the Waters division sites) and of the deployment of water management and use improvement processes in all divisions. Water consumption intensity related to production (in m3 per metric ton of product) 1,33 1,32 +4,7% 1,31 1,31 1,29 -2,0% 1,27 1,25 -3,2% 1,23 1,21 1,19 1,17 1,15 Water Mix effect on Productivity on Change Water consumption a like-for-like a like-for-like of reporting consumption intensity 2010 basis basis scope intensity 2011 160 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 160 158,9 158 156 -1,1% 6,0 EN21 5,1 Millier tonnes 5,0 4,2 3,0 1,0 0,0 400 2009 2008 238 231 200 Best practices in the Dairy products division, in particular In addition, in collaboration with Quantis, Danone EN21 the use of water in cleaning cycles, are consolidated in the Dechets continues to develop the water footprint measurement NEPTUNE tool and rolled out to all plants. tool (DROP) based on a Lifecycle Analysis approach, that 0 will enable levers to be identified for improving our water Within the Waters division, the WaterWatcher tool footprint across our products’ entire lifecycle. This tool monitors water use in the bottling sites and helps identify inventories consumption at each stage of the product’s areas for improvement. The water use ratio for the development (ingredients, packaging, production, production process thus improved by 21% between packing), and for transport, consumer use and end of life. 2008 and 2011 (0.6 m3/m3 in 2008, 0.5Réelm2009 3 /m3 in 2011), Objectif 2009 The impact of this consumption, whether quantitative for 0some 6 million m3 saved. This tool has been rolled out EN21 (availability) or qualitative (pollution), is measured in m3 Responsabilités to every division site. In 2011, for example, the Minas Danone equivalent, taking into account local water stress where (Salus) -2 site in Uruguay was able to use this tool to identify the impacts are generated. Compensatory measures the stations with the highest water consumption, and directly related to product formulation (protection -4 thus to reduce its water use ratio by one third compared policy or CSR program) are also evaluated in the form with 2010 (0.9 m /m in 2010 to 0.6m 3 3 5,0 /m in 2011). 3 3 of m3 equivalent credits. This new, exhaustive and -6 regional approach to assessing the “water footprint” The8 graph below shows7,4 the changes in total water (at the level of a rainwater catchment area, of a farm, etc.) consumption intensity related to the group's production is part of current discussions for drafting the international process since 2000, for the reporting scope of each of the ISO standards (planned for 2013). years concerned. In 2011, Danone accelerated the adaptation of this Water consumption intensity related to production tool to its other divisions. In this framework, the group (in m3/metric ton of product) has worked with Quantis and the Livestock Institute to create a module specific to dairy farms which will 2.5 2,22 1,95 be tested in four Country Business Units (CBUs) in 2012. 2.0 1,84 1,67 TOTAL 1,48 1.5 1,32 1,31 WATER 1.0 0.5 0.0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 100 90 85,8 86,1 87,4 84,1 82,3 80,6 VALORIZED 80 WASTE 70 64,3 60 50 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 161 200 169,3 environmental performance INDICATORS water ADD EN9 In 2011, a new scientific tool (Hydre) was implemented at the Evian and Health sites (Danone Water China). Water sources significantly This tool helps to monitor and plan for changes in affected by withdrawal of water water quantity and quality throughout a drainage basin by analyzing geological and hydrogeological data. See indicator EN8 for the various sources of water used. It is currently being rolled out to all sites of the French CBU (Danone Eaux France). The Polish, Argentinean Of the 57 million m3 of water withdrawn, Danone uses and Indonesian plants will be integrated during 2012. some 22 million m3 in formulating its finished products A partnership between Paris 6 University and the (not including production processes), essentially sourced University of Gadjah Mada has also been set up to from 87 bottling sites. improve training for hydrogeologists, at the initiative of the Indonesian CBU Danone AQUA. The group has set a goal of ensuring the protection of the source area (rainwater catchment), the transition See the programs for protection of biodiversity zones zone (path taken by the water in the rock layers) and the under EN11. emergence area (exit zone for the spring). Additionally, every source area is operated in compliance with rules established by the group, in particular with regard to long-term sustainability of stored volumes. ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume Danone drafted a charter titled “Groundwater of water recycled and reused protection policy” signed by Franck Riboud in October 2004. This policy defines our commitment to sustainable Production plants use water for production line management of groundwater in terms of managing cooling circuits. This water is reused in almost all natural and heritage resources. It restates the core cases (open cooling circuits are the exception and not protection objectives and describes in detail the principles the norm). For example, in the Baby nutrition division, for application by all Country Business Units (CBUs) the Brive plant reuses a portion of this water for cleaning around the world. These application principles are the production lines, and another portion for sterilizing systematically assessed for each spring, giving rise to by steam, allowing the site to reduce its water specific action plans. Site evaluation is based on the consumption by around 50%. SPRING tool, which defines management standards for each source of spring water bottled by the group. The production plants also use water for production This tool has been deployed in every Waters division site, line cleaning cycles, which are optimized to reuse the which have established a national and regional availability most during the pre-cleaning cycles. Investments have map to identify pollution risks and risks of water scarcity, been made at several plants to improve water plus priority action zones. recuperation, as was accomplished previously at the Bailleul site in France. Now, four plants in the Dairy products division have dropped below the threshold of 2m3 of water consumed per metric ton of product. 162 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 biodiversity EN11 In this context, APIEME will soon be installing a biomethanizer in the Evian catchment area, which Location and size of land owned, will ultimately enable the region's farming effluents to leased, managed in, or adjacent be treated to ensure the spread of natural fertilizers and serve both to protect biodiversity and produce renewable to, protected areas and areas of energy. Methanization of effluents allows the extraction high biodiversity value outside of biogas which can be injected into a gas distribution protected areas network after purification. This project is a dynamic driver for local development of green energy and The group's sites are located in very diverse ecosystems contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. and climates. Among these sites, many benefit from an exceptional environment and specific protections; this is The association La Bulle Verte (the Green Bubble) true in particular of the Waters division sites, whose founded in 2010 and uniting Badoit and its neighboring rainwater catchment areas are being more carefully towns, is dedicated to preserving natural spaces and managed. Projects initiated several years ago are still biodiversity. In 2011 it pursued the creation of underway (APIEME initiatives in Evian, CEPIV in partnerships with local structures specialized in agricultural Volvic and the Lanjaron association in Spain, etc.). development, such as the Chamber of Agriculture and ARDAB (association of organic farmers of the Rhône In France, together with the Association for the and Loire), and with the Loire Brittany water agency. Protection of rainwater catchment for Evian mineral These partners will now support Bulle Verte in assessing waters (APIEME), Danone has been implementing farms and developing an action program to roll out protective measures in collaboration with local partners agricultural methods that are respectful of water quality. since 1992. This strategy is not limited to Evian and today covers 80% of the group's springs. The creation of the association for the protection of la Salvetat mineral water (called PEPS’S) is nearly In 2009, the Evian spring was added to the list of complete. This association includes the La Salvetat plant wetlands covered by the Ramsar Convention (United and the towns of Salvetat-sur-Agout, Fraïsse-sur-Agout Nations program), which aims to ensure sustainable (Hérault department) and Nages, Anglès and management of these regions that are key to maintaining Lamontélarié (Tarn department). An appropriate action biodiversity. In Argentina, the Villavicencio site extends program will be implemented to protect this region into a natural reserve of more than 70,000 hectares. Very of more than 80 square kilometers around the mineral close to the Andes, the site is home to a wealth of water sources. biodiversity and initiatives have been taken to ensure the sustainable management of the area and protection of In Indonesia, Danone, the CIRAD and a local NGO water resources. Ecotourism and environmental awareness have joined forces in a reforestation project using local projects are developed in the reserve. In 2011, Danone species, in the Klaten catchment area. signed an agreement with the Wetland Foundation that aims to qualify the Villavicencio site in Argentina as a In China at the Longmen site near Shenzhen, a pilot Ramsar site, similar to what was done for Evian. project was launched in cooperation with agronomy institutes and the local authorities and people to eliminate In France, one of the principal approaches is to work the use of pesticides by mandarin tree producers in the together with farmers to promote sustainable agriculture. catchment area. This involves avoiding the use of pesticides and fertilizers that might infiltrate the water table. In the Dairy products division, the Molay plant in France was designated a Natura 2000 zone in 2009. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 163 environmental performance INDICATORS biodiversity EN12 In the areas of agriculture and milk supply, the Dairy products division launched the FaRMS Description of significant initiative with its farmer partners in 1997 (see indicator impacts of activities, products EN26 concerning initiatives taken to promote sustainable agriculture), to help improve and audit farms’ and services on biodiversity in environmental practices (energy and water consumption, protected areas and areas of use of fertilizer and manure, waste, animal well-being, high biodiversity value outside etc.). New biodiversity indicators were added to this protected areas approach in 2010. This tool encourages farmers to leave hedges and grassy stretches on their land, particularly To minimize our impact on biodiversity and contribute adjacent to streams, to protect biodiversity. to restoring ecosystems, Danone seeks to adhere to the precautionary principle and to cooperate with leading Danone also supports projects that foster rational use of experts in the field. pesticides and fertilizers in the fields, and more integrated (Bleu Blanc Cœur, etc.) or organic (“the two cows,” In the Waters division, protection of biodiversity is Stonyfield farms, etc.) agricultural models. one of the core elements of the strategy for protection of natural water resources. The operation of a spring is related to its intrinsic quality. The spring must offer excellent geological and natural protection. The Evian mineral spring, for example, is protected by a waterproof layer several dozen meters thick with an average renewal period of 20 years. Each spring is subject to intensive geological research as well as environmental studies to identify risk factors in the area and implement measures to protect natural and rural resources. The group relies on local and national legislation and on contract agreements to obtain operating rights, which may include restrictions (drilling prohibitions, regulation of polluting activities, etc.). Water catchment takes place primarily through drilling within a closed perimeter inaccessible to unauthorized persons. Catchment facilities ensure the hygiene and consistency of operations and are adapted to the resource's hydrodynamics. Danone thus makes full use of experts to ensure the rational and sustainable operation of our springs. For each site under operation, replacement of the natural resource is the single reigning criteria. We never withdraw more than what the spring can naturally produce. The water is checked for consistent composition through regular sampling by certified independent laboratories. Bottling is carried out under strict hygiene procedures, and water quality is verified daily. 164 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 ADD EN13 ADD EN14 Habitats protected or restored Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater impacts on biodiversity protection program. The impact of Danone’s business on biodiversity is primarily related to upstream agriculture (soil and water). This statement will be verified by a lifecycle analysis in at least one pilot CBU in 2012. The biodiversity plan for upstream agriculture will be implemented as part of the “Acteurs pour un lait durable (Supporters of sustainable milk) program. Sustainable agriculture Several initiatives aim to develop environmentallyrespectful agricultural practices, in partnership with group suppliers. Intensive use of pesticides and fertilizer has been identified as one factor in the loss of soil fertility, and also affects biodiversity. In this area, Danone has sponsored a thesis project with INRA since 2006 which has identified connections between the micronutrient content of milk (fatty acids, vitamins, polyphenolic compounds) and plant diversity in the meadows of three French regions (perpetual meadows of Haute Normandie, Isère and Monts du Vivarais). This research could lead to development programs for meadows, a biodiversity habitat. Danone supports the development of organic agriculture through its Stonyfield CBU in the USA and in France. Stonyfield is the leading global producer of organic yogurts. Launched by the Danone Ecosystem Fund and run jointly with the Livestock Institute and the Lower Normandy Regional Council, the “Reine Mathilde” project supports some 300 suppliers near the MolayLittry plant (which produces the Stonyfield France products), with the aim of expanding their “organic” knowledge and expertise to foster conversions and make this region a benchmark for organic milk production in France. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 165 environmental performance INDICATORS biodiversity Livelihoods Fund initiatives To effectively implement its offset projects, ADD EN15 Danone developed a proprietary tool in 2008, Number of IUCN Red List the Danone Nature Fund, in partnership with IUCN species and national conservation and the Ramsar convention. The fund seeks to support list species with habitats in areas projects that combine water resource management, biodiversity conservation, quality improvement of food affected by operations, by level resources from wetland ecosystems, and improved natural of extinction risk capacity to store large quantities of CO2. Based on its successful experience with this fund, Danone invited The group has no production plants within protected other companies to create the Livelihoods fund in 2011. zones where species on the IUCN red list are found. This fund will continue to invest in carbon programs that benefit poor rural communities and offer high Certain regions outside the plants but still necessary environmental value (target of seven million metric to the group's business are subject to increased protection. tons of carbon stored over 20 years, with a minimum This is true for rainwater catchment areas needed by the investment of €30 million). Waters division, as many springs are located in nature zones whose preservation is a primary goal. In partnership The projects initiated in the framework of the Danone with the Bird Protection League (LPO), Volvic takes part Nature Fund will therefore be extended through the in a program to protect the Red Kite and several species Livelihoods Fund, including: of bat in the Massif Central in France. • the restoration of mangroves in Senegal with the NGO Océanium; The international CITES report inventories the forest • the restoration of mangroves in the Sundarbans delta in species threatened by deforestation in fragile tropical India, a region that is home to great biological diversity, forests around the world. Under the group’s packaging both plant and animal, including the Bengali tiger; procurement policy, all suppliers must strictly comply • an agri-forestry project in support of local producers, with international legislation and not include these in partnership with the Naandi foundation in the species in the paper pulp they use. (See the “deforestation” Araku Valley in India. position on the Danone group website) At end-2011, a new project for restoring mangroves was launched at the north end of the island of Sumatra (Indonesia) in collaboration with the NGO Yagasu. One major goal of this project, which plans to plant 5,000 hectares of mangroves over three years, is to restore this wetland ecosystems and the biodiversity it houses (fish, crabs, etc.). In Cambodia, Danone also supports the GERES (Renewable energies, environment and solidarity group) in the distribution of improved cooking stoves to help limit deforestation, particularly near the Tonle Sap lake. This lake was named a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve in 1997. Water and biodiversity See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater protection program. 166 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 emissions, effluents and waste EN16 EN17 Total direct and indirect Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions by weight (teq CO2) by weight (teq CO2) Total direct or kg eq CO2/kg of product in Cumulative Goal 2010/2011 indirect emissions Danone's scope of responsibility 2008/2011 2008/2012 change on a of greenhouse gases 2010 2011 like-for-like Danone group 27,5% 30% in teq CO2 (Kyoto basis Protocol – scope 1) CO2 emissions 526 604 492 231 With an emissions reduction of 27.5% for the 2008/2011 period, the group continues to demonstrate CH4 emissions 1 255 425 its capacity to achieve its 30% goal for 2012. N2O emissions 532 737 Danone's carbon footprint HFC emissions 2 301 2 604 Carbon footprint measurement has been carried out Total emissions 530 692 495 998 -5,6% since 2008 using the Danprint tool developed for all √ Danone Country Business Units (CBUs) and which √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. has now been deployed throughout the group. Danone’s carbon footprint continues to trend downward With this lifecycle-analysis-based tool, we can assess thanks to ongoing reduction efforts, in particular through our progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions projects for heat recovery, optimizing production against goals defined in the Nature Plan for all activities processes, geothermal power, etc. in Danone's direct scope of responsibility (industrial sites, logistics, packaging and end of life). This reduction is achieved even as a larger proportion of sites are being measured, from 94% in 2010 to 99% The focus of work in 2011 was on the quality of data in 2011 (except Unimilk). On a like-for-like basis, provided to the Danprint tool and its alignment with emissions dropped 5.6%, even as production volumes the PAS 2050 standard which specifies the rules for rose by 4% in 2011. calculating greenhouse gas emissions using product lifecycle analysis. It is in this context that a module co-developed with SAP was implemented and deployed for measuring the carbon footprint based on rules established previously for Danprint. This rollout aims to integrate footprint calculation with the CBUs’ enterprise resource planning systems (ERP), and is successfully leading to extensive automation of data collection. At end-2011 it was deployed in 20 CBUs accounting for around 42% of revenues (except Unimilk). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 167 environmental performance INDICATORS emissions, effluents and waste 0 1 Milk Particular attention is given to the carbon offset project Carbon footprint 6 at group level (in %) Other raw materials for remaining emissions of the Evian brand. This brand, 11 1 Packaging 0 in line with its commitments, has reduced its carbon Production Milk Logistics footprint by 40% since 2008. Since October 2011, 6 Other raw materials 11 Retail sales Emprei the brand’s carbon emissions are fully offset. Certification 11 50 Packaging Packaging end of life of this process is underway for the year 2011 and will Production Product end of life be published as soon as it is completed (Q2 2012). Logistics 11 14 Retail sales Emprei 50 Packaging end of life We obtain the following estimates in g equivalent 7 Product end of life CO2 per kg of product for the group and by division. 14 This data serves as the basis for establishing the Nature 1 plan objectives for 0 1the group’s direct scope of 7 Milk responsibility (all emissions arising fromMilk industrial 8 2 Other raw materials sites, logistics, 6packaging and end of life Other raw materials except Packaging 11 Packaging 1 10 upstream agriculture). Total11scope: 578 g eq CO2/kg product Production Milk Production Danone's scope 8 2of direct responsibility: Logistics Other raw materials Logistics Retail sales 11 Retail sales 2179gCarbone eq CO Empreinte /kg product de2Danone, 12 Packaging DAYRI 50 54 Packaging end of life 11 Production Emprei Packaging end of life Product end of life Logistics Product end of life 11 Retail sales 14 9 15 DAYRI 54 Packaging end of life 4 Emprei 7 Product end of life Carbon footprint of the Dairy products division (in %) Carbon11 footprint of the Waters division (in %) 4 1 Milk Other raw materials 2 7 Packaging 8 Other raw materials 10 Packaging Production 11 Production Logistics Other raw materials Logistics Retail sales 25 7 Packaging 10 Retail sales Production 9 54 DAYRI DAYRI Packaging end of life Empreinte carbone PLF 37 Logistics Emprei Product end of life Retail sales 25 11 DAYRI 4 21 37 Emprei Total scope: 1,570 g eq CO2/kg product Total scope:21 117 gr eq CO2/kg product Danone's scope of direct responsibility: Other raw materials Danone's scope of direct responsibility: 1 0 548 g eq CO2/kg 7 product 10 Packaging 97 g eq CO2/kg product Milk Production 3 Other raw materials Logistics 11 Packaging 1 0 Retail sales 3 Production 25 Emprei Milk 3 Logistics Nutritio DAYRI Other raw materials 37 12 carbone Empreinte 11 Retail sales Packaging 70 Packaging end of life 3 Production Emprei Logistics Nutritio 21 12 Retail sales 70 Packaging end of life 0 1 0 2 0 168 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Milk Milk 3 Other raw materials 6 Other raw materials 11 Other raw materials Logistics 7 10 Packaging Retail sales 9 54 Production end of life DAYRI Packaging Empreinte carbone PLF Logisticsend of life Product Retail sales 25 11 4 DAYRI 37 Empreinte carbone 21 Other raw materials 7 10 Packaging Production ADD EN18 Carbon footprint of the Baby nutrition division (in %) Logistics 1 0 Retail sales 25 Milk Initiatives to reduce greenhouse DAYRI 3 11 37 Other raw materials Packaging gas emissions and reductions Empreinte carbone 3 Production achieved Empreinte carbone Logistics Nutrition Infantile 21 12 Retail sales The Danone group pursues a policy of reducing its 70 Packaging end of life greenhouse gas emissions based on each phase of its products’ lifecycle analysis. Among the most important phases are production (reduced energy consumption and 1 0 waste), transport (choice of site location, truck load rates, Milk choice of transport mode) and packaging (lighter 3 Other raw materials 11 packaging, recycling, use of renewable materials). Packaging Total scope: 10,725 0 g eq CO2/kg product 3 2 0 Production Danone's scope of direct responsibility: Milk In addition Empreinte carbone to the 2008-2012 Plan for reducing Logistics Nutrition Infantile 1,846 12 g eq CO 6 2/product. Other raw materials Retail sales greenhouse gas emissions by 30%, Danone works 70 Packaging end of life Packaging together with its suppliers to reduce the carbon footprint 14 Production throughout the value chain by forming Carbon Pacts Logistics which include a reduction commitment and an action Empreinte Carbone de Danone 43 Retail sales plan médicale Nutrition over three years. These pacts were implemented in Packaging end of life 12 the Dairy products division in 2009, and serve as a tool Product end of life Carbon footprint of the Medical nutrition division (in %) for suppliers who want to commit to better managing 0 their emissions with a view to reducing them. To date, 2 0 23 Milk 74 Carbon Pacts have been signed by suppliers in the 6 Other raw materials Dairy products division, and 71 for the Baby and Packaging Medical nutrition divisions. The approach has begun 14 Production in the Waters division with five Carbon Pacts signed Logistics in 2011. Retail sales Empreinte Carbone de Danone 43 Nutrition médicale 12 Packaging end of life For example, in 2011 the Baby nutrition division Product end of life modified the sourcing of some of its salmon in the framework of the Carbon Pact signed with Ideal Food. 23 This initiative led to a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions arising from transport compared with 2010. Danone's ultimate goal is to work with all of its strategic suppliers. Total scope: 2,488 g eq CO2/kg product Danone's scope of direct responsibility: 822 g eq CO2/kg product Danone Sustainability Report 2011 169 environmental performance INDICATORS emissions, effluents and waste EN19 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting NO, SO, and other significant substances, by weight air emissions by type and weight teq CFC 2010 2011 teq NOx or SOx 2010 2011 CFC 0,58 0,00 Consumption of NOx 1 334 1 051 HCFC 0,46 0,46 Consumption of SOx 2 998 2 447 Emissions arising from the use of refrigerants that deplete the ozone layer decreased in 2011. This reduction was achieved through the progressive modification of the refrigerants used. Certain refrigerants have an impact on the ozone layer, particularly CFCs. Danone has committed to ultimately using only natural refrigerants and technologies that respect the environment. In the framework of the Consumer Goods Forum, Danone has committed to buying only refrigerators with natural refrigerants starting in 2015, to contribute to the emergence of disruptive solutions. Under a policy known as the BCool initiative, Danone began updating its proprietary refrigerator fleet at points of sale (estimated at 150,000 units) in 2010 to ensure that only natural refrigerants based on CH or CO2 technologies are in use. The 2011 plan determined that some 60% of refrigerators purchased would use these green technologies. By also selecting refrigerators with better energy performance and ensuring their end-of-life recycling, Danone assures both reduced energy consumption and a reduction in ozonedepleting emissions. 170 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 8,0 6,0 EN21 5,1 Millier tonnes 5,0 4,2 3,0 1,0 0,0 400 2009 2008 EN21 EN22 200 238 231 Total water discharge Total weight of waste by EN21 by quality and destination type and disposal method Dechets 2010/2011 2010/2011 0 change on a change on a Thousands of metric tons 2010 2011 2010 2011 like-for-like like-for-like basis basis Final discharge of Chemical 5,320 4,881 -7,4% Total quantity of waste 277 284 -0,6% Oxygen Demand (COD) √ generated (in thousands of metric tons excluding sludge √ Réel 2009 Objectif 2009 from treatment facilities) Net COD ratio (kg/metric 0,20 0,18 -11,0% ton of product) Ratio 0 of total quantity of EN21 waste generated (excluding Responsabilités 10,4 10,5 Danone √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. sludge -2 from treatment -4,4% facilities) per metric ton of product (in kg/t) The net COD ratio (i.e. after treatment) continued -4 Total quantity of waste to decrease significantly for a total drop of 11% on a eliminated by a specific process (in thousands of 238 5,0 248 like-for-like basis between 2010 and 2011. This decrease -6 metric tons excluding sludge is the result of a positive mix effect (increased production from treatment facilities) -8 7,4 at Waters division sites), improved measurement at several Proportion of waste recovered by a specific process production sites which have modified their sampling (excluding sludge from 86,1% 87,4% methodology, as well as initiatives to reduce materials treatment facilities) loss during production (reduction in rinsing water levels) √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. or to improve performance at on-site wastewater treatment or pre-treatment stations. On a like-for-like basis, the ratio of waste generated per metric ton of product decreased by 4.4% between 2011 Some sites are also implementing original approaches: and2.5 2010. 2,22 Since 2011, the group has sought to integrate Almirante Brown’s logistics base in Argentina has adopted inert 2.0 waste construction (from 1,95 1,84 sites) into the published a wastewater treatment method based on lagooning, consolidated quantity of waste.1,67 In 2011, 1,48 the inert waste TOTAL WATER 1.5 1,32 1,31 which combines effluent treatment and biodiversity reported by the sites that implemented tracking of this protection. This system is designed to reproduce a typical type 1.0 of waste was 29 kT, in addition to the 284 kT wetland ecosystem and maximize the natural reported 0.5 above. The group continued its waste biogeochemical reactions that take place there. reclamation 0.0 policy in 2011, achieving an 87.4% recovery Local species can also make their homes there, recreating 2000 process2007 rate for a specific 2006 2008 (excluding 2009 sludge 2010 from 2011 a complete ecosystem. Once purified by flowing through treatment facilities). Reclamation takes place through these basins, water can be returned to the natural recycling, reuse of waste, composting and waste-to-energy environment. Gravity and solar energy make lagooning transformation. work, without need for additional energy. Almirante Proportion of waste recovered by a specific Brown has thus reduced its CO2 emissions tenfold process (excluding sludge from treatment facilities) compared with a conventional treatment system, 100 while also drastically reducing its operation costs. 87,4 90 85,8 86,1 84,1 82,3 80,6 VALORIZED 80 WASTE 70 64,3 60 50 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 171 environmental performance INDICATORS emissions, effluents and waste EN23 ADD EN25 Total number and volume Identity, size, protected of significant spills status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related One accidental chemical product discharge occurred habitats significantly affected in 2011 at a Waters division site. This discharge had a limited environmental impact (a pond near the site). by the reporting organization’s Corrective actions were immediately taken, notably discharges of water and runoff the creation of a new holding basin at the site and See indicators EN9, EN11 and EN14 concerning water discontinuation of use of the material involved. supply sources and protecting biodiversity. ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally This indicator does not concern Danone. 172 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Products and services EN26 Ever lighter bottles Since its creation in 1990, the weight of the Evian Initiatives to mitigate 1.5-liter bottle has been reduced by 32%, from 42g to environmental impacts 28.6g. Its new design was studied to make compacting easier, support sorting and improve recycling. of products and services, This reduction was achieved through various innovations and extent of impact mitigation that optimized the distribution of the PET in the mold used to form the bottle. Danone’s initiatives for reducing the impact of its packaging The evolving weight of the Evian bottle (1.5 liters) Innovative practices to reduce weight of packaging 50 42 Reducing packaging and packaging weight is among 40 36 35 32 Poids bouteille Evian Danone's priorities. A number of significant 30 28,6 improvements were completed in 2011. 20 10 Reducing the weight of yogurt pots in the Dairy products division continues, thanks to a technique (FOAM) in 0 1990 1994 1995 2001 2011 which air bubbles are injected into the pot to reduce the amount of plastic used. This project was launched in 2009 and extended to an additional 15 production lines Use of recycled materials in 2011, for a total of 70 production lines. The technique Developing the use of recycled materials has been a major has already reduced the carbon footprint by 55,000 strategic objective for the group for several years, whether metric tons equivalent CO2. through improved collection or optimized packaging end of life. More than a third of the group's primary Projects for reducing the cardboard wrap around and secondary packaging is made of recycled materials, yogurt pots, begun in 2010, continued in 2011 in Spain, including 73% of boxes. The group is strongly committed France and Italy for various products branded Activia and to a responsible circular “from the bottle to the bottle” Taillefine. Deployment to other countries such as Poland, approach, and aims to increase the proportion of recycled the Czech Republic and Romania is planned for 2012. PET (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in the Waters division, including Volvic, Evian and Bonafont are already using rPET. The average rate of rPET incorporation in the Waters division was 10% worldwide in 2011. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 173 environmental performance INDICATORS Products and services Recycling as a lever for local development In 2012 the group will continue its many collaborative Through its Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone initiatives with external experts and partners to improve supports projects that encourage recycling, and in impact measurement and allow the emergence of particular recycled PET (rPET), which has a positive third-generation renewable materials, that is, materials impact on local economies. In Indonesia for example, that are not in direct competition with foodstuffs. Danone supports the Pemulung community of waste pickers who are active in the informal economy, by Initiatives taken by Danone to support helping them organize into a cooperative and developing farmers in developing sustainable a model for equitable collection and recycling. A similar agricultural practices that respect the project was implemented in Mexico with the environment Pepenadores, leading to the launch of the first 100% The group is involved in reflection with various experts rPET bottle by Bonafont, as well as in Argentina with aimed at reinventing agriculture that can feed the world the Cartoneros. A new project began in 2011 involving while integrating Health, Economy, Nature and Social 900 Catadores in 24 cooperatives in 22 cities of the state dimensions. Work in 2011 focused on defining a vision of Minas Gerais in Brazil. These projects combine social and major principles that will be restated as operational and environmental goals and allow Danone to increase its indicators in 2012 to allow a first status review by use of rPET and decrease its carbon footprint for product major region. end of life, while also improving working conditions and compensation for waste pickers. The FaRMS program The FaRMS program (Farmers Relationship In the United Kingdom, Danone launched the Activia Management Software) was expanded during 2011 Yogurt Brigade initiative with Terracycle, to encourage in the Dairy products division with the participation consumers to join together in “brigades” to collect of new countries including Mexico and Brazil. The rate Danone yogurt pots for recycling. For every pot sent in, of coverage of farms in direct contact with Danone is now a donation can be made to an association or charity 85%, or more than 6,600 dairy producers now involved chosen by the participants. This program has helped in this approach. There were 3,319 farm visits (audits) prevent more than 215,000 yogurt pots from going in 13 countries in 2011. New countries will join to landfill since October 2010. the program in 2012, including Ukraine and Chile. It supports producers in implementing best practices that Plant-derived materials are respectful of the environment, and ensures systematic Two years of experimentation with plant-based plastics monitoring of farms on nine key environmental criteria (from sugar cane, sugar cane waste and corn) launched such as waste management, use of crop protection by four brands (Volvic, Actimel, Activia Germany and products, and energy and water consumption. Stonyfield) have taught Danone a great deal in this area, in particular about the environmental implications (lifecycle analyses), compliance with Danone’s sustainability criteria (competition with food, end of life/ always recyclable...), business issues and consumer perceptions. 174 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 The Sustainable Agriculture Initiative platform Danone was a founding member of the Sustainable EN27 Agriculture Initiative (SAI) platform in 2002. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials The SAI comprises 25 member companies and aims to: that are reclaimed by category • acquire and share knowledge between agri-food businesses; See indicator EN2 on the use of recycled PET. • ensure uniform definitions of sustainable agriculture; • approve and develop sustainable agricultural practices; • communicate with decision-makers and consumers; • involve other agri-food industrialists and agents in the sector. Seven specialized work groups were formed within the SAI (dairy, fruit, vegetables and potatoes, grains, coffee, water and meat). Danone is an active member of the dairy, fruit and water groups. These work groups aim to turn sustainable agriculture principles into farming practices, which have begun implementation for the more advanced groups as global pilot programs. Reducing emissions through animal feed In the framework of the COw2 project, Danone published a method with INRA for evaluating methane emissions based on measurements of certain fatty acids in milk in October 2009. This method is designed to help milk producers manage their carbon footprint through animal feed. A pilot phase for monitoring this measurement was launched in nine countries in 2010 (including France, Spain, Hungary, Canada, Brazil and the US) with a group of volunteer producers. Significant progress was made in 2011 with regard to laboratories’ capacity to carry out these analyses on a routine basis. In France, the omega-3-enriched feeding methodology Danone-Bleu Blanc Cœur was recognized in 2011 by the Environment Ministry as an official method for greenhouse gas reduction. This methodology is now in the public domain. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 175 environmental performance INDICATORS compliance Transport EN28 ADD EN 29 Monetary value of significant Significant environmental fines and total number of nonimpacts from transport of monetary sanctions for nonproducts, other merchandise compliance with environmental and materials used by the laws and regulations organization for its business, and from transport of personnel Danone paid a total of €138,000 in the form of penalties and fines for environmental issues in 2011, of which Transport is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. €111,000 at a single site. The share of logistics in products’ carbon footprint varies by division: Dairy Baby Medical Waters Group products nutrition nutrition division division division division Share of logistics in 11% 11% 25% 3% 6% the carbon footprint Overall, the group’s carbon footprint relating to logistics dropped by 25.3% over the 2008/2011 period. While raw milk collection is by nature a local activity (within a radius of 56km on average around production sites in France), Danone seeks to formulate optimal solutions with its transporters for all of its activities. Transport is largely contracted out, but Danone applies numerous best practices to make it more efficient and reduce its energy intensity. In the Dairy products division, two Green Supply Chain Workshops in Europe and the United States, comprising more than 40 Country Business Units (CBUs), helped to share and speed up deployment of these initiatives in 2011. In the Waters division, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for transport represent two-thirds of emission reductions for Evian and Volvic in 2011. 176 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Rail transport Road transport Mass rail transport is a major strategic focus for Raw milk collection by the Dairy products division was the Waters division. In 2011, the “rail/road” ratio out improved with software for route optimization. In Russia, of Evian and Volvic plants improved by seven points Ukraine and Brazil, transport distances were reduced by to 54%. This performance is the result of various 10 to 15%. Similar projects are underway in Turkey and optimizations, including: the Czech Republic. On the distribution side, drivers have • an increase from 66% in 2010 to 70% in 2011 of been trained in responsible driving with the “Eco-drive” the average “rail/road” ratio out of the Volvic and Evian program in Spain, Germany, the Netherlands and the US. plants to Great Britain, thanks to cooperation with rail Danone is also developing co-logistics projects throughout operators (primarily to the Daventry platform); the world to pool transport resources with other • the success of Project Quicksilver from the Volvic plant companies and improve truck loading rates: in the to Germany, which increased the “rail/road” ratio from United Kingdom with Arla Foods, in Canada with 32% in 2010 to 55% in 2011. Almost seven weekly Saputo, in Russia with Ferrero, as well as in Spain, trains carrying 1,000 metric tons of water leave Romania, Saudi Arabia, etc. Volvic for the three German “rail link area” platforms. This flagship project was supported by two grants Constantly streamlining and seeking from the European Marco Polo program (initiatives new solutions for environmental improvements to transport). In the Dairy products division, the Green Supply Chain In addition, a logistics innovation now avoids the Book published for the first time in 2011 lists a dozen return of cases of deposit bottles to the Volvic plant, or so categories of environmental best practices carried which amounts to some 26,000 fewer truck-loads out through concrete applications in the CBUs that have per year on the Volvic-Germany line. implemented them: back-hauling (avoiding empty truck returns) in Brazil, optimization of “weight/space” density Initiatives to supply raw materials by rail have also been in the United Kingdom, the use of trucks fueled by launched. In 2011, for example, more than 400,000 bare natural gas in the Czech Republic, etc. This practical pallets were transported this way from Daventry to our guide, which served as material for the Green Supply Evian and Volvic plants (reverse logistics). Chain Workshops, is freely available so that optimizations already applied in one location can be easily and efficientIn the Dairy products division, products’ lifetime is ly reproduced in other CBUs where they are relevant, and shorter and use of rail transport is not always possible. will be enhanced over time with new ideas as they arise. Nonetheless, several countries have successfully implemented intermodal projects, such as in the United Kingdom with a return synergy to Blédina in France. In Canada, 60% of transport to the west coast is done by rail. The Dannon US and Stonyfield CBUs in the United States have begun supplying their warehouses by train. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 177 environmental performance INDICATORS Transport In the Waters division, ongoing reflection seeking dual Joint carbon performance promotion economic and environmental gains leads to introducing with transport providers specific modes of transport adapted to each line, with the Environmental performance is regularly promoted with aim of reducing the number of kilometers traveled and of our transport providers, and is reflected in improvements switching from road transport to more environmentallyin their own emissions: friendly methods. For example: • investment in electric locomotives by rail operators; • Evian transport towards Russia has shifted from road • modernization of the road transport providers’ truck transport to a rail/shipping/road method via the fleets, investment in Germany in lightweight trailers, etc; Antwerp platform; • continued reduction in emissions by marine transport • the use of multimodal road/rail transport was also providers through the modernization of their ships supported departing from the Badoit and La Salvetat and a significant reduction in speeds (slow steaming), sites, with 26,000 pallets delivered to customers negotiated for the best CO2/service balance. primarily in the Paris region; • in France, an innovative pooled platform design was introduced with Carrefour and its transporter in Miramas, so that this platform can be supplied directly by rail rather than by road. 178 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 overall ADD EN30 Operating expenditures related to the environment amounted to around €105.2 million in 2011. Total environmental protection They include €32.2 million for waste, water and air expenditures and investments management and for environmental taxes other than fees on packaging. This latter expenditure amounted by type to €54.5 million in 2011. Environmental expenditure 2010/2011 change In thousands of euros 2010 2011 on a likefor-like basis Fees paid for packaging 61 568 54 496 collection/recycling Cost of industrial treatment: waste, water, atmospheric 23 399 25 895 emissions Taxes and duties 8 293 6 348 Other environmental costs (studies, certifications, audits, 4 754 5 663 etc.) Costs for managing the CO2 Nb 3 761 emissions reduction plan Third-party damages 107 3 Fines and penalties 1 138 Subsidies received Nb -109 Cost of obligatory CO2 9 Nb emissions trading Environmental expendi98 131 97 195 tures before depreciation Depreciation 5 339 8 966 Total environmental 103 471 105 161 +9% expenditures Nb: The indicators “costs for managing the CO2 emissions reduction plan” and “subsidies received” were added in 2011. The indicator “cost of obligatory CO2 emissions trading” has been withdrawn. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 179 environmental performance INDICATORS overall Environmental investments In addition, since its creation in 2010, the Green Capex approval process provides financing for projects with high In thousands of euros 2010 2011 Variation environmental value, but with a return on investment 2010/2011 that would prevent their acceptance under the usual Investments allowing a investment approval process. This process takes into reduction in CO2 emissions 23 097 26 469 account a theoretical savings derived from applying a (excluding Green Capex) value to metric tons of CO2 reduction resulting from Green Capex 3 431 10 289 these projects. Investments for environmental compliance: More and more initiatives are being implemented under wastewater, waste, 11 404 8 297 air pollution, soil pollution this system, with some €10.3 million committed in 2011, (excluding Green Capex) or 22% of the group’s total environmental investments. Investments in reducing water consumption 757 1 749 (excluding Green Capex) Total environmental 38 689 46 804 +21% investments In 2011, investments targeting environmental protection amounted to some €46.8 million, or around 5% of the group’s total capital investments. This represents a 21% increase over 2010. The two primary investment categories are the following: • environmental compliance: waste, wastewater, air pollution, soil pollution (waste treatment, wastewater treatment, treatment plants, noise measurement, air quality, etc.). These investments are 27% lower than in 2010 as a result of efforts already made in this area; • investments targeting reduction of CO2 emissions (energy savings, renewable energy use, logistics, eco-design of packaging, etc.). These investments increased by 15%, reflecting ongoing efforts to achieve the group’s carbon footprint reduction objectives. 180 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 governance Working to connect Nature and Business Responsible environmental communication To achieve its goals, Danone has transformed its In 2011, in collaboration with the British “antiorganization: appointment of two Nature sponsors to greenwashing” agency Futerra, Danone introduced and the group's Executive Board; creation of a central Nature distributed to all CBUs communicating on Nature topics department (with a Managing Director from the business a Guide to Environmental Claims to provide them side) reporting directly to the group's Executive Board; with all the elements needed to organize responsible addition of Environment directors in each business; and communication around their environmental initiatives. creation of a Finance Nature department. All Country This Nature Claim Management approach, which Business Unit (CBU) CEOs and group directors have a includes an internal approval process for claims, aims to carbon footprint reduction goal as part of their bonus ensure that the group’s environmental communication determination. Finally, the CO2 indicator is integrated respects strict guidelines for conduct in all strategic areas: into the company's major decision-making processes climate change, water, packaging, agriculture and (such as in the investment biodiversity. A second version, enhanced to include and innovation committee, etc.). the experiences of the CBUs, will be rolled out in 2012. The network of environmental correspondents is seconded in each CBU by a Carbon Master in charge of managing the Carbon Plan (measuring the footprint, defining a three-year goal). To involve the maximum number of employees in reducing its environmental impacts, the Dairy products division organized two Nature Days in 2011, in Europe and in America. A total of more than 80 people from 18 different CBUs took part in these events. Spearheaded by the division Environment Director and the group Nature department, these conferences aimed to train environment, purchasing, marketing managers, etc., in the various components of Danone’s Nature strategy, and to promote the exchange of environmental best practices. With the large number of projects that were underway in various group CBUs in 2011, the “NatuRevolution” initiative gave each CBU the chance to present its project in an original format (film, web platform, etc.) to share its best practices and inspire the other group CBUs. A video documentary summarizing all the contributions will be produced and distributed in 2012. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 181 Performance performance indicators Social Employment 183 labor/ management relations 188 occupational health and safety 190 training and education 192 Diversity and equal opportunity 196 182 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region At December 31, 2011, the group had a total workforce of 101,885 employees (longand short-term contracts), including Unimilk integrated at December 1, 2010 (87,164 excluding Unimilk). The table below indicates the breakdown by geographic region and business division, with a comparison for the years 2009 to 2011. For the years 2010 and 2011, the figures are provided with and without the Unimilk CBU. Total workforce At December 31 (except temporary workers) With Unimilk Without Unimilk 2010 (*) 2011 2009 (*) 2010 (*) 2011 Total number of employees 100 995 101 885 80 976 85 073 87 164 √ of which managers in % 15% 16% 16% 16% 17% By geographic region France 8,7% 8,7% 10,6% 10,3% 10,1% Rest of Europe 36,9% 35,6% 26,1% 25,1% 24,7% China 9,1% 8,8% 10,8% 10,8% 10,2% Rest of Asia Pacific 15,3% 15,4% 17,8% 18,2% 18,1% North and South America 24,9% 26,4% 29,0% 29,6% 30,9% Africa and Middle East 5,1% 5,1% 5,7% 6,0% 6,0% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% By business division Dairy products 48,2% 47,0% 38,7% 38,5% 38,1% Waters 35,0% 35,4% 41,1% 41,6% 41,4% Baby nutrition 11,0% 11,2% 13,7% 13,1% 13,1% Medical nutrition 4,5% 5,2% 5,0% 5,3% 6,0% Central functions 1,2% 1,2% 1,5% 1,5% 1,4% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% (*) Historical data. √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 183 France 5,1 8,7 Reste of Europe China Rest of Asia Pacific 26,4 Americas social performance INDICATORS Africa and Middle East Répartition 35,6 Employment 15,4 8,8 Breakdown of workforce by geographic region Breakdown of workforce by Business in 2011 in 2011 (in %, including Unimilk) (in %, including Unimilk) 1,2 France Dairy products 5,1 8,7 Reste of Europe 5,2 Waters China 11,2 Baby nutrition Rest of Asia Pacific Medical nutrition 26,4 Répartition Americas Central functions Africa and Middle East Répartition par zone 35,6 47,0 35,4 15,4 8,8 Breakdown of workforce by long-term, short-term and 1,2 temporary contract 1 This breakdown between long-term andDairy products short-term workforce 20 years 5,2 Waters 8 (including short-term and temporary contracts) Baby nutrition was calculated From 20 to 29 years 11,2 From 30 to 39 years 1 based on average workforce (the averageMedical workforce nutrition is calculated 28 From 40 to 49 years as the average of the total workforce at the end Central of each month). Répartition par activité functions From 50 to 59 years Répartition 22 These figures exclude Unimilk. 47,0 + 60 years Average workforce 35,4 2010 (*) 2011 Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term employees employees 41employees employees Total 84% 16% 85% 15% Europe 88% 12% 88% 12% Asia 82% 18% 84% 16% 1 Rest of the world 84% 16% 84% 16% 20 years By geographic region8 From 20 to 29 years Africa and Middle East 1 39 years From 30 to 87% 13% 85% 15% 28 < 18 ans From 40 to 49 years 4 Asia Pacific 82% Répartition 18%par âge en 2010 10 84% De 18 à 24 16% ans 22 From 50 to 59 years 13 Eastern Europe De 25 à 34 12% ans + 60 years 87% 13% 88% De 35 à 44 ans Western Europe 88% 12% 88% 12% Répartition De 45 à 54 ans Latin America 82% 18% 83% > 55 ans 17% North America 95% 5% 95% 5% 42 41 By business division 31 Dairy products 82% 18% 83% 17% Waters 88% 12% 89% 11% Baby nutrition 78% 22% 81% 19% Medical nutrition 91% 9% 92% 8% Corporate functions 94% 6% 94% 6% (*) 2010 figures on a like-for-like basis. < 18 ans 4 10 De 18 à 24 ans 13 De 25 à 34 ans De 35 à 44 ans Répartition par âge en 2009 De 45 à 54 ans 184 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 > 55 ans 42 31 7 3 11 23 5 22 100 80 59 S 64 68 59 Ages salariés 60 61 par zone 61 40 20 29 29 30 36 16 17 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old Long-term, short-term Net job creation and temporary contracts At December 31, 2011 on a like-for-like basis (excluding Unimilk and other acquisitions or disposals during 2011), 7 7 7 13 2011 12 14 2,542 net jobs were created, representing 3% growth over 100 end-2010. Long-term Short-term Temporary 80 employees (*) employees (*) employees 60 74 65 T More specifically: Total 72 85% 5% 63 7110% 86 Ages managers • by business division, strong workforce growth for 40 Europe 89% 6% 5% par zone Medical nutrition (15.4%) and more moderate growth 20 Asia 78% 21 5% 25 17% for the three other divisions (+3.2% for Waters; +2.6% 21 19 15 Rest0 of the world 7 84% 3% 13% for Baby nutrition; +1.2% for Dairy products); Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East By geographic region Pacific Europe Europe America America • by geographic region, an 8% increase in Latin America, 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old stable numbers in Eastern Europe and an increase of Africa and Middle East 83% 11% 6% between 1% and 2% for the other regions (Africa and Asia Pacific 78% 5% 17% Middle East, Asia Pacific, Western Europe and North America). Eastern Europe 88% 6% 6% Western Europe 89% 6% 5% Latin America 83% 2% 16% North America7 3 96% 12 28 3% 4 27 1% 100 By business division 80 Dairy products 67 84% 3% 59 13% 60 62 56 U Waters 85% 6% 10% Ages staff, 59 54 supervisors 40 et workers Baby nutrition 78% 4% 18% par zone 20 Medical nutrition 31 31 33 92% 5% 37 19 4% 13 0 Central functions 93% 6%Latin Africa & Asia Eastern Western North1% Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America (*) Under contract 30 with a company years old 30 toin49the years old group. Danone + 49 years old Breakdown of workforce by long-term, short-term and temporary contract 10 5 17 13 100 6 5 3 5 75 U 50 Effectifs par 85 89 78 84 nature de contrats et zone 25 géographique 0 Total Europe Asia Rest of the world Danone long-term employees (*) Danone short-term employees (*) Temporary employees (*) Under contract with a company in the Danone group. 12 12,2 10 8 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 185 6 M Salariés à temps partiel 7 7 7 13 12 14 100 80 60 74 65 T 72 63 71 Ages 86 managers 40 par zone social performance INDICATORS 20 Employment 21 19 21 25 15 7 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old Full time/part time 2010 (*) 2011 Full-time employees Part-time employees Full-time employees Part-time employees Total 97,0% 3,0% 97,0% 3,0% 7 3 12 28 4 27 100 Europe 92,3% 7,7% 91,9% 8,1% 80 Asia 99,9% 0,1% 99,9% 0,1% 67 59 62 56 Rest 60 of the world 99,4% 0,6% U 99,5% 0,5% Ages staff, 59 54 supervisors By 40 geographic region et workers par zone Africa 20 and Middle East 98,2% 37 1,8% 99,6% 0,4% 31 31 33 13 19 Asia 0 Pacific 99,9% 0,1% 99,9% 0,1% Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North MiddleEurope Eastern East Pacific Europe 97,5% America Europe America 2,5% 96,8% 3,2% 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old Western Europe 87,9% 12,1% 87,8% 12,2% Latin America 99,9% 0,1% 99,7% 0,3% North America 97,3% 2,7% 97,4% 2,6% By business division Dairy products 10 5 17 97,7% 13 2,3% 97,4% 2,6% 100 6 Waters 5 98,0% 3 2,0% 98,1% 1,9% 5 75 Baby nutrition 95,8% 4,2% 95,8% 4,2% Medical nutrition 89,0% 11,0% U 90,1% 9,9% 50 Effectifs par 85 89 78 84 nature de Central functions 91,8% 8,2% contrats et 92,6% 7,4% zone 25 géographique (*) 2010 figures on a like-for-like basis. 0 Total Europe Asia Rest of the world Danone long-term employees (*) Danone short-term employees (*) Temporary employees % of part-time employees by geographic region This breakdown is calculated for the workforce in 2011 (average workforce) at December 31, 2011. 12 12,2 10 Part-time work is mainly used in Western Europe, and to a lesser degree in Eastern Europe and North America. 8 6 M Salariés à temps partiel 4 zone 3,2 géographique 2,6 2 0,4 0,1 0,3 0 Africa and Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 186 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 LA2 ADD LA3 Total number and rate Benefits provided to full-time of employee turnover by employees that are not provided age group, gender, and region to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations The annual turnover rate for 2011 is 19%. Conditions are extremely varied by region: from 7% in Western Europe This indicator is not monitored at corporate level. to 30% in Latin America. Regions with a high turnover rate reflect the strong demand for qualified workers. On a like-for-like basis, the turnover rate is stable from 2010 to 2011. Turnover rate (*) 2010 (**) 2011 Total 20% 19% Exit rate (****) 2010 (**) 2011 By geographic region By gender Africa and Middle East 18% 19% Women 14% 15% Asia Pacific 17% 16% Men 18% 17% Eastern Europe 19% 19% By category Western Europe 8% 7% WETS (***) Latin America 32% 30% of which women 15% 16% North America 17% 16% of which men 18% 17% By category Managers WETS (***) 21% 20% of which women 12% 14% Managers 15% 15% of which men 14% 15% (*) This indicator is calculated, as per the Danone/IUF agreement, by taking into account external recruitments and departures. (**) Taux2010 de sortie (*) a like-for-like basis. figures on 2009 2008 (***) WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians and Supervisors. Par sexe (****) The exit rates, including all exit reasons, are equal to the number of exits per gender or category over the total workforce, respectively men and women, WETS and Managers, multiplied by 100. Par catégorie Danone Sustainability Report 2011 187 social performance INDICATORS labor/management Relations LA4 LA5 Percentage of employees Minimum notice period(s) covered by collective bargaining regarding operational changes, agreements including whether it is specified in collective agreements The tables below provide data on the percentage of CBUs and employees covered by a collective Danone has signed a global agreement with the IUF bargaining agreement. specifically regarding consultation of employee representatives in case of operational changes with CBUs covered by a collective bargaining agreement 2010 2011 consequences on employment (May 1997). It stipulates a minimum three-month notice period and was revised % of CBUs 68% 72% in 2005. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreement 2010 2011 % of employees 82% 88% These figures are provided on a like-for-like basis and calculated for the CBUs with at least 100 employees, not including Unimilk. The increased share of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement is a result of Danone’s efforts to promote dialogue in labor relations through comprehensive agreements with the IUF at global level and with staff representatives in the CBUs. The introduction of collective bargaining agreements is one element managed through the Danone Way approach. 188 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 ADD LA6 LA7 Percentage of total workforce Rates of injury, occupational represented in formal joint diseases, lost days and management–worker health absenteeism, and number of and safety committees that work-related fatalities by region help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Safety at work has been managed within Danone for several years in the framework of the WISE program, programs which covers all group CBUs and sites. In 2011, Danone strengthened its commitment to systematically introduce Management-Employee The lots time accidents frequency rate is based on committees for defining, assessing, implementing the number of accidents involving at least one day of and monitoring workplace health and safety policies medical leave, compared with millions of hours worked; and programs. it includes accidents involving short-term, long-term, temporary and trainee employees. The global agreement signed in September 2011 with the IUF on health, safety, working conditions and stress After a 20% drop in 2010, the lots time accidents clearly specifies that Danone is particularly committed frequency rate decreased by 29% in 2011, to become 2,2. to creating a specific system for coordinating health and safety at work and working conditions for every site in all Starting in 2011, Danone introduced accounting of Danone’s consolidated CBUs (including headquarters). of the number of days of medical leave as well as an indicator of severity. This information will be reported In 2012 this agreement will lead to a self-assessment when the data at group level has been verified. of CBUs and sites, in particular with regard to Management-Employee consultation on health Data, concerning occupational illnesses and associated and safety matters. absenteeism are not yet collected and consolidated at group level. In preparation for this change, Danone resumed collecting data by site in 2011, with regard to coverage Safety at work improved in 2011 in all business divisions by workplace health and safety committees (this had and regions (except North America). been done by CBU in 2010). In 2011, 86% of employees had a health and safety committee in their CBU (compared with 89% in 2010), and 70% of employees had a committee at their own site (plant or headquarters). Workplace health and safety committees meet quarterly in 98% of cases (87% of CBUs with more than 100 employees have workplace health and safety committees, compared with 80% in 2010). Danone Sustainability Report 2011 189 social performance INDICATORS occupational health and safety 2010 (without Unimilk) 2011 (without Unimilk) Frequency Frequency rate rate Number Number 1 (FR1): 1 (FR1): Number of accidents Number of accidents number number of fatalities with at of fatalities with at of accidents of accidents (*) least 1 day (*) least 1 day Breakdown by business division per million per million of leave of leave hours hours worked worked Water 0 197 2,3 0 134 1,5 Dairy products 3 254 3,8 3 206 2,8 Other 0 44 11,6 0 34 8,4 Baby nutrition 0 42 1,8 0 36 1,5 Medical nutrition 0 26 3,3 1 19 2,2 Total Business Lines 3 563 3,0 4 429 2,2 √ Breakdown by geographic region Africa and Middle East 1 34 2,3 4 29 1,8 Asia Pacific 0 24 0,4 0 26 0,5 Eastern Europe 0 35 1,6 0 39 1,9 Latin America 1 216 3,6 1 138 2,1 North America 1 9 2,2 1 15 2,8 Western Europe 0 245 8,0 0 182 5,5 Total regions 3 563 3,0 4 429 2,2 √ (*) The number of fatalities only includes Danone employees in consolidated CBUs (except Unimilk), excluding subcontractors. √ 2011 figures have been audited by KPMG Audit. 190 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 LA8 ADD LA9 Education, training, counseling, Health and safety topics prevention, and risk-control covered in formal agreements programs in place to assist with trade unions workforce members, their families, or community members On September 29, 2011, Danone signed a worldwide framework agreement on health, safety, working regarding serious diseases conditions and stress with the IUF (International Union With its Dan’Cares program, Danone has set the of Food workers). This agreement follows on from the ambitious goal of ensuring that the company’s 100,000 framework agreement signed in 2010 with trade unions employees receive coverage for basic healthcare by 2013: in France. hospitalization and surgery, prenatal and maternal care, medical visits and pharmacy. The agreement declares that health and safety at work, working conditions and preventing stress in the In 2010 the program began with an audit in 15 countries workplace are complex and closely interwoven issues and 56 CBUs, representing 85% of employees (except that require shared preventive measures. Unimilk group companies); this audit assessed existing social protection systems in each of the countries and The Danone-IUF agreement restates each party’s improvements that would be needed for employees to responsibilities. The company is responsible for the benefit from quality healthcare coverage. health and safety of its workers and of all individuals working at the locations for which it is accountable. Eight countries (China, Spain, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia) began deploying Among other things, the agreement asserts the following Dan’Cares in 2011, and 28,000 employees benefited principles: from improved medical coverage in 2011. • it is imperative to take into account the human consequences of change, in advance of major The group’s goal is to cover an additional 30,000 organizational changes; employees by 2013. • preserving a balance between personal and professional life must be encouraged, among other things by planning work schedules, break times and vacations as far in advance as possible; • involving employees as close to the ground as possible to identify ways of simplifying their work makes it possible not only to find new efficiency levers, but also to improve employee well-being; • employee safety requires their participation in safetyrelated preventive measures, but also their right to withdraw from a hazardous situation; • medical monitoring must be systematically introduced in all CBUs and sites. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 191 social performance INDICATORS training and education The agreement’s implementation in the various companies of the group will be jointly monitored LA10 with the IUF. Average hours of training per year per employee by employee In 2012 this entire agreement will lead to self-assessment category in the CBUs with a view to drafting long-term action plans, or even where necessary agreements with local After two years of consecutive increases (29% over two trade union organizations. The implementation of years), indicators pertaining to training were stable from this agreement will rely on the commitment of CBU 2010 to 2011, which reflects Danone’s ongoing training directors, specific dialogue on these topics with union efforts in all geographic regions. organizations, and employee participation. In 2011: • the average number of training hours per employee was 31. • the number of employees receiving training continues to rise: there were 85,600 employees trained in 2011 (compared with around 83,000 in 2010), which represents 99.6% of the average workforce in 2011 (excluding Unimilk). The significant rise in average number of training hours in 2011 for the Africa and Middle East region is noteworthy: 16 hours in 2011 compared with 13 hours in 2010. Figures for the other regions remained relatively flat. Average number of training hours 2010 (*) 2011 Total 31 31 √ WETS (**) 28 28 Managers 45 43 Numbers of employees trained 2010 (*) 2011 Total employees trained 82 833 85 600 √ WETS (**) 69 489 70 586 Managers 13 344 15 014 Percentage of employees trained (***) 2010 (*) 2011 Total employees trained trained 99,0% 99,6% WETS (**) 99,0% 99,0% Managers 99,0% 100% NB: these figures include employees trained during the year, whether or not they were still in employment at the end of the period; they do not include Unimilk. (*) 2010 figures on a like-for-like basis. (**) WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians and Supervisors. (***) Percentage, where the base is the average workforce for the category. √ 2011 figures verified by KPMG Audit. 192 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Average number of training hours By geographic region 2010 (*) 2011 ADD LA11 Africa and Middle East 13 16 Programs for skills management Asia Pacific 30 30 and lifelong learning that support Eastern Europe 32 31 the continued employability Western Europe 28 30 of employees and assist them Latin America 34 32 in managing career endings North America 53 51 For several years, Danone CBUs impacted by the aging Numbers of employees trained 2010 (*) 2011 of the working population (primarily in Western Europe By geographic region and particularly in France) have either signed agreements Africa and Middle East 3 356 3 186 or adopted action plans that aim to plan for this aging and support continued professional activity to an older Asia Pacific 24 768 25 814 age. Measures implemented notably include: Eastern Europe 13 323 14 100 • training (leadership, ergonomics, skills transmission, Western Europe 14 512 15 181 preparation for retirement); Latin America 24 234 24 761 • mid-career reviews; North America 2 640 2 558 • job adaptations to relieve physical and mental stress. Percentage of employees (**) 2010 (*) 2011 Two initiatives currently promote greater coordination By region and more systematic local initiatives in terms of lifelong Africa and Middle East 67% 60% skills development and training programs designed to Asia Pacific 100% 100% ensure employability: • the implementation of legal obligations by the French Eastern Europe 96% 100% CBUs in the area of preventing physically straining Western Europe 90% 93% work. Two prevention topics dictated by law involve the Latin America 100% 100% development of skills and qualifications, and transitionNorth America 100% 96% to-retirement management, and should lead to joint agreements or action plans; NB: To precisely measure the training effort, these figures include employees who received training, but were no longer with the • the deployment of “CODE Leadership” at the level of group at Dec. 31, 2011 . operational staff. In 2011, efforts were made to adapt Danone Leadership College (DLC) courses and firmly (*) 2010 figures on a like-for-like basis. (**) Percentage, where the base is the average workforce for the category. establish them into day-to-day operational workplace routines, particular in the framework of the DaMaWay policy(1). This deployment aims to increase autonomy of operators and teams in the workplace, and to foster the acquisition of transferrable skills. (1) DaMaWay is Danone’s industrial performance management system that applies to all plants in all divisions. This system supports all operators of every age and qualification level with training and initiatives to allow them to develop their autonomy, team work and share expertise in industrial performance. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 193 social performance INDICATORS training and education ADD LA12 Percentage of employees 100 2010 2011 receiving regular performance 80 84 77 81 and career development reviews 71 59 59 A+B+C 60 Managers RDP + IDP The Individual Development Plan (IDP) that allows 40 + OETAM every individual to look towards the future and define training initiatives beyond the annual performance 20 reviews, continues to apply to a large portion of group 0 employees. In 2011, 81% of managers and 59% of Managers who had a PDR (*) Managers who had an IDP(**) WETS (***) who have had an IDP for WETS (Workers, Employees, Technicians and at least 2 years Supervisors) benefited from an IDP (which represents (*) PDR: Performance and Development Review. a four-point increase for managers over 2010, and a (**) IDP: Individual Development Plan. 98 stable figure for the WETS category). 100WETS: Workers, Employees,Technicians (***) 89 92 and Supervisors. 92 79 80 In the WETS categories, in 2011 as in 2010, Asia and the 66 D RDP Baby nutrition division are ahead of the other regions and 60 managers par zone divisions. Also noteworthy is a strong rise in this indicator 40 for the North America region (78% in 2011, or a 28 point increase over 2010). 20 0 In 2011, 84% of group managers had an annual Africa & Middle East Asia Pacific Eastern Europe Western Europe Latin America North America performance review. Asia, Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition are ahead of the other regions and divisions for this indicator. 100 93 92 88 Changes in this indicator are not comparable between 80 80 2010 and 2011 as the “approved in the information 59 E system” note was removed from the definition in 2011. 60 RDP managers par pôle 40 d’activité These figures are provided on a like-for-like basis, the scope representing 100% of the Danone workforce 20 (except Unimilk) at December 31, 2011. 0 Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central products nutrition nutrition Functions 100 87 89 84 81 80 72 63 F 60 IDP managers par zone 40 20 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 194 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 100 88 90 83 78 79 Middle East Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America America at least 2 years 98 100 80 75,000 2010 40 2009 2011 2008 100 92 92 69,743 100 89 93 92 40 8498 80 100 88 79 100 25 92 63,116 81 922009 2008 2009 2008 80 87 89 84 100 80 89 64 22,19 77 93 59,378 40 92 40 80 81 71 88 80 29 24 79 40 80 66 D 80 3280 A+B+C W 64 72 RDP 80 20 27 27 27 59 59 26 Nombre 32 48 60 63 59 E 60 24 25 27 27 66 24 24 Managers D X Fmanagers RDP + IDP Ymoyen 60 60 RDP par zone 60 IDP 24 15 59 26 24+RDP E OETAM % Nombre heures 48 managers60 managers RDP moyen24 managers par pôle 40 32 16 15 27 25 par zone Salariés heures 40 managers 40 par zone d’activité 16 par pôle formés formation 32 40 40 10 40 20 16 11,884 10,365 d’activité 16 20 20 8 16 20 20 5 2,82 8 20 0 0 2,02 24 24 0 who Total Managers who Staff, WETS (***) whoManagers 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North 0Managerssalariés 0 0 MiddleDairy East PacificWaters Europe Baby Western Europe Medical America Central America 0 PDR (*)& formés 0 had aAfrica Asia had anEastern IDPSupervisors (**) Latin have had anNorth IDP for Western 0 Africa & products Asia Eastern nutrition Latin nutrition North Functions 0 Africa & Middle &AsiaWaters Pacific AfricaEast AsiaEastern Baby & WorkersLatin Western Eastern Latinat leastAmerica years 2NorthNorth Western Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Dairy Europe America Medical Central Europe Middle East Middle Pacific East Europe Pacific Europe Europe America America America Europe America products nutrition nutrition Functions % of managers who had a PDR (*) in 2011 % of managers who had a PDR in 2011 by business division by geographical region 98 40 80 100 93 92 100 40 92 922009 100 88 89 2008 89 100 25 93 2009 2008 100 80 87 100 22,19 79 92 40 9084 88 40 2009 2008 64 25 80 83 88 81 80 3280 87 29 2489 40 84 80 78 79 72 10020 27 81 27 27 66 26 D E 80 24 25 27 27 24 24 RDP X 32 80 63 59 80 72 48 20 60 RDP F 60 24 Nombre Y 80 63 59 26 24 Emanagers 60 Gmanagers IDP 15 F zone par 57 RDP Zmoyen % 60 par IDP pôle 60 managers 60 16 55 15 55 27 25 57 IDP heures 24 Salariés Comparai32 15 d’activité par zone 40 16 managers formation formés 40 managers 60 75 75 managers par pôle Hommes/ 40 10 88 88 par zone par pôle 40 d’activité 16 40 d’activité 40 16 10 20 20 408 20 5 2,82 20 45 2,02 45 24 2443 43 8 20 20 200 05 0 0 25 25 0 Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Africa0& Africa &Asia AsiaEastern Eastern Western 12 Latin Latin 12 NorthNorth Western Africa & Asia Easternnutrition Western nutritionLatin North 0 Middle0East Middle 0 0 products Functions 0 AfricaPacific Dairy Femmes East AsiaEurope Baby & Waters Pacific Europe America Europe Eastern America America Latin Medical America Western North Central Europe 0 Middle East PacificWaters Europe Baby Europe Medical America America Africa & Middle East HommesPacific Asia Femmes Europe Eastern Hommes Femmes Hommes Femmes Hommes Dairy Central products nutrition Western nutrition AmericaLatin AmericaNorth Functions Europe products nutrition nutrition Functions Middle East Directeurs Pacific Europe Europe America Autres America Total et Dirigeants Dirigeants Managers Managers % of managers who had an IDP (**) in 2011 % of managers who had an IDP in 2011 by100business division by100geographical 25 region 93 92 2009 2008 40 87 89 8822,19 100 84 100 40 2009 2008 97 88 81 90 80 2489 40 25 100 80 100 80 87 84 32 83 20 78 79 72 100 88 81 27 27 90 80 63 80 83 100 78 F 78 79 72 59 E Y 20 80 60 IDP 80 60 80 63 15 26 24 RDP % 24 62 G managers 55 55 27 25 57 F 57 managers ZSalariés 80 60 IDP zone 60 Hpar IDP G pôle par Comparai formés 15 60 managers PDI OETAM 60 60 75 75 managers IDP d’activité Hommes/ 16 40 50 40 10 88 88 par pôle managers par zone managers 60 40 zone 40 d’activité par par pôle 10 40 40 20 32 40 20 5 2,82 d’activité 8 24 24 40 20 20 20 45 2,02 45 43 43 5 200 15 20 0 0 25 25 0 20 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Dairy Africa & Waters Asia Baby Eastern 12 Medical Latin 12 NorthCentral Western 0 Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 0 0 products nutrition nutrition Hommes Functions 0 Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Middle East Africa & Femmes AsiaHommesPacific Femmes Europe Eastern America Western Femmes Hommes Latin America Femmes North Europe Hommes 0 0 0 products Africa & Asia Eastern nutrition Western nutrition Latin Functions North Middle East Directeurs Dairy PacificWaters Europe Baby Europe Medical America Autres AmericaTotal Central Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America products et Dirigeants nutrition Dirigeants nutrition Managers Functions Managers % of WETS (***) who had an IDP (**) in 2011 % 100of WETS who had an IDP in 2011 89 25 100 87 by geographical 2009 2008 for at least 2 years 97 by business 88 division 90 for at least 2 years 81region 84 100 83 100 100 78 79 80 97 88 72 90 20 100 80 91 100 83 89 78 63 79 100 78 80 F 80 G 80 Z 60 78 57 57 IDP 15 80 60 62 IDP 80 55 55 80 Comparai 71 H Gmanagers managers 60 75 62 75 par zone Hommes/ 60 63 OETAM PDI pôle 60 88 88 IDP H 50 Ipar 40 60 managers PDI OETAM60 managers PDI OETAM 10 60 40 d’activité 50 par zone managers 40 par pôle managers 43 40 32 par pôle 40 20 d’activité par zone 405 40 20 d’activité 40 45 45 32 43 43 20 25 25 20 15 20 12 12 20 0 15 0 200 20 Africa0& Asia Eastern Western Latin North Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Middle East FemmesPacificHommes Femmes Hommes Femmes Hommes Femmes Hommes Europe Europe America America 0 0 products nutrition nutrition Functions 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Dairy Directeurs Waters Baby Autres Medical Central Total 0 0 products et Dirigeants Dirigeants Managers Functions Managers Middle East Dairy PacificWaters Europe Baby Europe Medical America America Central Africa & Asia Easternnutrition Western nutritionLatin North products nutrition nutrition Functions Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America (*) RDP: Performance and Development Review. (**) 100 97 IDP: Individual Development Plan. 100 88 90 (***)100 WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians, Supervisors. 78 97 83 79 100 91 100 89 78 80 80 100 91 7 3 11 23 5 22 89 80 100 78 G 80 62 71 80 H 60 IDP 60 63 PDI OETAM80 62 71 60 80 50 I managers Hmanagers 60 PDI zone OETAM 60 63 par pôle PDI 59 Spar 40 50 I OETAM d’activité 40 6443 68 32 managers Ages 60 salariés managers PDI OETAM 40 60 59 pôle par zone 61 par zone 43 managers 40 61 d’activité40 32 par pôle 20 20 20 40 15 40 d’activité 20 20 15 0 0 200 29 29 30 36 20 Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Africa & Asia Eastern Western 16 Latin North 17 products nutrition nutrition Functions 0 0 0 Middle East Dairy Pacific Waters Europe Baby Europe America Medical America Central Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Africa & products Asia Eastern nutritionWestern Latin nutrition North Functions 0 Middle East PacificWaters Europe Baby Europe America America Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Dairy Medical Central products nutrition nutrition Functions 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old Danone Sustainability Report 2011 195 97 100 100 91 89 Rest of Asia Pacific 26,4 100 Americas 88 90 Répar 83 Africa and Middle East 78 35,6 79 80 G 60 IDP managers social performance INDICATORS 15,4 par pôle 40 8,8 d’activité Diversity and equal opportunity 20 0 Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central products nutrition nutrition Functions 1,2 Dairy products LA13 Age Seventy percent 5,2 11,2 of Danone employees are Baby Waters under 40 years nutrition Composition of governance of100 age. The 2011 figures are very similar to those from 97 Medical nutrition Répar bodies and breakdown of 2010 in Western Europe, with only 13% Central of employees functions 78 80 47,0 under age 30, while in all 62other regions (except North employees by category according H America) the under-30 category accounts for 30% to to gender, age group, minority 60 40% of the 35,4workforce. 50 PDI OETAM managers par zone group membership, and other 40 32 indicators of diversity 20 15 Gender diversity 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America The share of women within the management population Breakdown by age in 2011 continues to increase, by 1% in 2011, at the manager, 1 director and executive levels. 20 years 8 From 20 to 29 years 100 1 89 From 30 to 3991years 28 2010 (*) 2011 80 From 40 to 49 years Répar 71 22 63 From 50 to 59 years Women Men Women Men I 60 + 60 years PDI OETAM Total Managers 44% 56% 45% 55% 43 managers par pôle 40 d’activité Of which Directors and 28% 72% 29% 71% Executive 20 Of which Executive 11% 89% 12% 88% 41 0 Of which other managers 45% 55% 46% 54% Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central products nutrition nutrition Functions (*) Th  e comparison concerns the Managers category. The Unimilk workforce is excluded. Breakdown by age group by region This progress is underpinned by the “Women” All Danoners in 2011 (in %) 7 3 11 23 5 22 plan launched in 2009. 100 The major items of this plan are the following: 80 < 18 ans 4 • Implementation of specific leadership training for 64 13 68 10 59 De5918 à 24 ans S Ages salariés 60 women, with more than 200 female employees trained; 61 De 25 à 34 ans 61 par zone De 35 à 44 ans • Creation and promotion of women’s networks 40 Répar De 45 à 54 ans (over 200 women, 10 networks); 20 29 29 30 > 36 55 ans • Development of mentoring: more than 80 female 16 17 0 42 mentorees, including many mentored by members Africa & Middle East 31 Asia Pacific Eastern Europe Western Europe Latin America North America of the group Executive Board; 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old • Introduction of precise guidelines for career management and recruitment: inclusion of women on recruiting short lists (internal and external recruitment), specific monitoring by the Resource Committees, specific resources allotted to women’s development 7 7 7 13 12 14 100 in the divisions, reflection on career management approaches, in 80 particular including management of maternity leave. 60 74 65 T 72 63 71 Ages 86 managers 40 par zone 20 21 19 21 25 15 7 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 196 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old 61 61 80 40 59 S 64 68 59 Ages salariés 60 20 61 36 par zone 29 29 30 16 61 17 40 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 20 29 29 30 36 30 years old 30 to 49 years old 16 + 49 years old 17 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old 7 7 7 13 12 14 100 Disabilities Breakdown by age group by region Managers 80 in 2011 (in %) In France, the integration rate for people with disabilities 7 7 7 13 12 14 in the group's French CBUs rose from 3.1% in 2007 100 60 74 65 T 72 86 63 71 Ages to 4.2% in 2008, 4.9% in 2009, 5% at end 2010, and 80 managers 40 par zone5.22% in 2011. Integrating people with disabilities into 60 20 72 74 65 71 T headquarters is the most difficult, given the gap between 86 19 21 63 25 Ages 40 21 7 15 managers training levels and required qualifications. Many 0 par zone Africa & Middle East Asia Pacific Eastern Europe Western Europe Latin America North America companies have signed specific three-year agreements 20 3021 years old 30 19 to 49 years old 21 + 4925years old 15 with labor unions to support a longer-term approach 7 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North to this issue. Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old At the global level, the number of workers with disabilities rose from 581 employees in 2010 to 757 in 2011. Sixty-seven CBUs (compared with 58 in 2010) Breakdown by age group by region employ at least one disabled worker. In these 67 CBUs, WETS in 2011 (in %) the percentage of disabled people represents 1.3% of the 7 3 12 28 4 27 100 CBUs’ overall workforce, i.e. a 30% increase over last year. 80 This average percentage covers a variety of situations in 100 62 7 673 12 56 28 594 27 terms of degree of advancement and integration policy 60 U 59 for workers with disabilities, particularly depending on Ages staff, 80 54 supervisors 40 67 et workerswhether they are subject to legislative measures and the 62 59 par zone 60 20 31 31 56 33 37 U related requirements. 19 Ages staff, 13 59 54 supervisors 40 0 et workers Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America par zone 20 33 37 31 30 years old 31 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old 19 13 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years old 30 to 49 years old + 49 years old In the managers’ category, only 7% of managers in the Asia-Pacific 10 region are 5 under age17 30, which indicates 13 100 the need to speed up recruitment 6 of young local talents 5 through specific programs. This is the case 5 of the “BOLe” 3 75 10 5 17 13 program 100 in Asia, for example, whose goal is to create an 6 “Asian talent pool” 5 by 2013 to support Danone’s growth 3 U 50 5 Effectifs par 75 region. in the 85 89 78 84 nature de contrats et zone 25 U géographique Among 50 the85WETS population, 89 there78are significant 84 Effectifs par nature de differences 0 between Western Europe and the other contrats et zone geographic 25 regions, with Total Europe a higher number Asia of older Rest of the world géographique workers (28% Danone older long-term employeesthan (*) 49) and Danone only short-term 13% employees (*) of workers Temporary employees less than 30 0 Totalyears old. Europe The stability of Asiathe workforce Rest ofin the world this Western European( ) region, due to low( turnover and Danone long-term employees * Danone short-term employees *) Temporary employees limited growth, leads to the identification of more specific issues 12 (physically straining work, career 12,2 management, etc.). 10 12 8 12,2 10 6 M Salariés à temps partiel 48 zone 3,2 géographique 2,6 26 M Salariés à Danone Sustainability Report 2011 197 0,4 0,3 temps partiel 04 0,1 zone 3,2 géographique Africa and Asia Eastern Western Latin 2,6 North social performance INDICATORS Diversity and equal opportunity LA14 The compa-ratio indicates this wage gap independently of the currency and country of reference. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Examples: • A compa-ratio of 1.0 means that the individual Managers and Directors categories is paid exactly the median wage for his or her grade; The data is provided by the “HIRIS” information system • A compa-ratio of 1.10 means that he or she is paid dedicated to Human Resources management indicators. 10% more than the median. The “compa-ratio”, i.e. the basis chosen for comparison, The tables below provide an overview of the gender gaps is the total wages received by the individual compared to by level. the median wages established each year for all managerial and executive categories organized by grade. There are ten grades (excluding Danone Executive Board members) in all 60 countries where the group does business. Directors excluding General Managers: internal Danone grades 6b to 5 (equivalent to grades 20 to 22 of the Hay system). Compa-ratio Average age Grade Women Men Total 2011 gap vs. 2010 gap Grade Women Men Total 5 1,05 1,05 1,05 0,00 -0,02 5 43,9 45,6 45,2 6A 1,06 1,07 1,07 -0,02 -0,07 6A 43,7 44,2 44,0 6B 0,96 0,98 0,97 -0,02 0,03 6B 42,1 42,8 42,6 Total Total 1,00 1,02 1,02 -0,02 -0,01 42,8 43,8 43,5 Directors Directors Total workforce of 1,161 directors of which 29.2% are women and 70.8% are men. These figures include the directors of Unimilk and Yocream. There is a non-significant overall gap of 2% across the entire population, with a reduction of the gap identified in 2010 for the 6A directors. Managers category: Danone internal grades 9.9 to 7 (“Hay system” equivalent 15 to 18). Compa-ratio Average age Grade Women Men Total 2011 gap vs. 2010 gap Grade Women Men Total 7 1,04 1,03 1,03 0,01 -0,02 7 39,7 41,0 40,5 8 0,92 0,94 0,93 -0,02 -0,02 8 37,0 39,3 38,2 9 0,88 0,89 0,89 0,00 0,01 9 34,5 37,3 36,0 9,9 0,92 0,95 0,93 -0,03 0,00 9.9 27,3 28,6 27,9 Total Total 0,91 0,92 0,91 -0,01 -0,01 35,0 37,7 36,4 Managers Managers Total workforce of 13,614 managers of which 46.7% are women and 53.5% are men. These figures do not include managers from the 2010 acquisitions: Unimilk and others. 198 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 There is a non-significant gap of 1% for the overall Workers, Employees, Technicians population, but which grew in 2011 for the entry salaries and Supervisors categories of new graduates (category 9.9). As the group does not have a single classification system for these categories, and deployment of the IT system Overall, the compensation review procedures, guided does not cover all these job categories, data is collected by group policies and including a comparison of from the internal Magnitude reporting system. compensation for men and women, continue to direct attention to this issue where the gaps are small but real. The male-female comparison is made using the median annual male-female wage ratios. The calculation is done from the median annual malefemale wage ratios for the same scope from 2010 to 2011. This reporting covers 98% of the population, excluding Unimilk. The figures published in the 2010 Sustainability Report differ slightly due to the exit of three entities from the scope. 2010 % total 2011 % total 2010 Constant employees Constant Gap employees SR Basis 2010 Basis 2011 vs. 2011 Supervisors, 1,05 98% 1,06 1,03 -0,03 98% ETS (*) Workers 1,05 98% 1,05 1,04 -0,01 98% (*) ETS: Employees, Technicians and Supervisors. The results can be read as follows: 50 % of CBUs pay their male “Employees, Technicians and Supervisors” 3% more on average than the women in these positions, all levels and jobs combined, and 50% of CBUs pay their male “Workers” 1% more on average than the women. Compared with 2010, there is a 3% improvement in the ratio for ETS, and a 1% improvement for workers. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 199 Performance performance human indicators rights Investment and Procurement Practices 201 Non-discrimination 204 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 204 child labor 205 Forced and compulsory labor 205 security practices 205 indigenous rights 205 200 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 • the Danone Way policy (since 2001) including 16 Social and Environmental Responsibility Percentage and total number of Fundamentals at Danone (see pages 75-79 of this report); significant investment agreements • the RESPECT approach (since 2006) which aims to support suppliers in applying the fundamental social that include human rights clauses principles, so that human rights are taken into account or that have undergone human in all investment and purchasing decisions (see page 80 rights screening of this report). Danone's commitment with regard to practices involving human rights is expressed in: • Danone’s membership in the Global Compact since 2003; • agreements between Danone and the IUF integrating the seven fundamental social principles (see below) drawn from International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions and applied worldwide; The Seven Fundamental Social Principles are: 1. Child labor 5. Health and safety at work The company does not employ children aged under 15. If the law sets The company ensures that the workplace and its environment do not endanger a higher minimum working age or compulsory schooling is to a higher the nintegrity or health of employees. Action to reduce the causes of accidents age, it is this limit that applies. Educational programmes and training and improve working conditions is the object of ongoing programmes. are not included in this limitation. Sanitary equipment, canteens and housing provided to employees are built and maintained in accordance with applicable legal requirements. As a minimum, 2. Forced labor the company must provide employees with drinking water, clean toilets in The company does not use forced or compulsory labor, meaning any adequate numbers, adequate ventilation, emergency exits, proper lighting and work or service performed under threat or that is not consented to by access to medical treatment. the person concerned. 6. Work hours 3. Non-discrimination The company must ensure that applicable legal restrictions on working hours With due regard for applicable law, the company refuses to engage are complied with. The normal working week is 48 hours at most. Overtime is in any discriminatory practices. Discrimination means any distinction, on a voluntary basis. Employees have at least one day off each week, except in exclusion or preference limiting equality of opportunity or treatment. exceptional circumstances and for a limited period. It may be based on race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, religion, political opinion, age, nationality, family obligations or other considerations. 7. Pay The company ensures that: 4. Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining • no wage is lower than the applicable legal minimum; The company recognises and respects employees’ freedom of association and • all employees receive a pay slip; their right to freely choose their representatives. The company also recognises • employees receive a decent wage relative to country; employees’ right to collective bargaining. The company ensures that employee • wage rates for overtime are in all cases higher than for normal hours. representatives do not suffer any discrimination. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 201 HUMAN RIGHTS performance INDICATORS Investment and Procurement Practices To ensure that all suppliers comply with these fundamental social principles, Danone includes a specific HR2 “Fundamental Social Principles” clause in its General Percentage of significant Terms of Purchase. This clause is included in all contracts suppliers and contractors that and is compulsory for all suppliers. By signing the have undergone screening on contract, the supplier undertakes to: • comply with the Fundamental Social Principles; human rights and actions taken • promote respect for these principles among their In the framework of the RESPECT approach own suppliers, subcontractors and partners; (see pages 80-82 of this report): • give Danone the right to verify application • 90% of major suppliers have committed their signature of these principles, in particular through audits; to the Fundamental Social Principles; • if non-compliance by a supplier is detected during • 70% of major packaging, raw materials and service an audit, draft a corrective action plan targeting suppliers are registered on the Sedex platform, for a all identified non-compliance issues for approval total of 2,060 suppliers. Among these 2,060 suppliers, by Danone; 184 external SMETA audits have been carried out by • if a supplier refuses to draft a corrective action plan, independent agencies, with non-compliance issues or if recurring non-compliance issues are raised in broken down into the following categories: several audits, recognize Danone's right to terminate the contract with this supplier. Percentage of Topic non-compliance issues Since 2009 the scope of supplier responsibility has been Health & safety 49% expanded to include the Environment and Business Wages 16% Ethics. The contractual clause has been modified Working hours 15% accordingly. For more information about these changes, see the 2009 Sustainability Report, pages 63-69. Environment 5% The Seven Fundamental Social Principles on human Forced labor 3% rights (see previous page) are included in every agreement Freedom of association 2% involving significant investments, encompassing: Child labor 2% • 70% of sales agreements with our customers; Discrimination 0% • 90% of purchasing contracts with our major suppliers; • 100% of acquisitions of majority interests in Other 8% external companies; • 100% of agreements concerning local community development, in particular with NGOs in the framework of Danone Ecosystem Fund projects. 202 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Results in 2011 differ from 2010 on two key points. While Health and Safety is still the area in which nonADD HR3 Total hours of employees compliance issues are the most frequent, the proportion training on policies and significantly increased from 30 to 50% of issues detected procedures concerning aspects by audit. The Working Hours topic, however, which accounted for 23% of non-compliance issues in 2010, of human rights that are relevant dropped to 15%. Audit results in the areas of Child to operations, including the Labor and Forced Labor, which are absolute priorities for percentage of employees trained Danone, reveal administrative non-compliance (supplier unable to provide a copy of an employee’s ID document Employees’ awareness of human rights practices or employment contract for example), but no proven is raised through: negligence was brought to light. • the Danone Way Fundamentals (see pages 75-79 of this report), the target being the entire Danone workforce, with each employee having received the For more information about the control process, Danone Inside Pack documentation that describes see the 2009 Sustainability Report, pages 234-236. the complete DANONE Way policy. More specifically concerned are the eight principles relating to “Human Rights” and “Human Relationships.” It includes explanations of human rights principles, particularly with regard to the abolition on child labor and forced labor, diversity and equal opportunity, and safety at work; • RESPECT (see pages 80-82 of this report) more specifically targets procurement employees who manage supplier compliance on social responsibility, and in particular respect for human rights. A communication guide about the RESPECT approach and the fundamental social principles, which include human rights, was broadly distributed to the purchasing function in 2010. 100% of buyers have therefore been informed. However, the number of hours of training and/or information has not been consolidated at group level. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 203 HUMAN RIGHTS performance INDICATORS Freedom of association Non-discrimination and collective bargaining HR4 HR5 Total number of incidents of Operations identified in which discrimination and actions taken the right to exercise freedom of association and collective An agreement was signed with the IUF concerning bargaining may be at significant anti-discrimination measures and the promotion of diversity. risk, and actions taken to support these rights Every year a Danone representative and an IUF An agreement concerning the right to union organization representative visit several countries and sites together has been signed with the IUF. Every year a Danone in order to promote these framework agreements and representative and an IUF representative visit several concretely verify that they are applied on the ground. countries and sites together in order to promote these Between 2009 and 2011, these joint visits were carried framework agreements and international social dialogue, out in 18 countries. No case of discrimination was and to concretely verify on the ground that the identified during these visits. The Danone Way agreements have been implemented and adapted to local Fundamentals include prevention of discrimination, conditions. Between 2009 and 2011, these joint visits particularly by implementing specific procedures and were carried out in 18 countries. In addition, the IUF measures on site to identify and eliminate any notifies central management if it is informed of failure discriminatory practices. Aside from these joint visits, to respect freedom of association. information about cases of discrimination may be reported via various channels: Freedom of association in the workplace is also a topic • reporting to the human resources department addressed by all CBUs in the framework of the Danone of each group CBU; Way Fundamentals (see pages 75-79 of this report) which • reporting to staff representatives in the CBUs include the Social Dialogue principle, promoting social where they are present; dialogue in all group CBUs. • lastly, some CBUs such as Indonesia, Mexico and the USA have set up a “local ethics” line Danone Way encourages the CBUs to: that integrates this type of reporting channel. • implement the necessary conditions for electing staff representatives, whether unionized or not, in compliance with local legislation; • guarantee staff representatives’ independence with regard to management teams and political parties through the organization of ad hoc elections; • hold economic and social information meetings between staff representatives and management of each site, and with all employees; • confirm agreements between staff representatives and management by signing negotiated agreements. 204 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Forced and child labor compulsory labor HR6 HR7 Operations identified as having Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of significant risk for incidents child labor, and measures taken of forced or compulsory labor, to contribute to the elimination and measures to contribute of child labor to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Respect for this principle is verified through the Danone Way policy (see pages 75-79 of this report). This aspect is dealt with in the same way as the indicator All CBUs are required to put in place the necessary for child labor (HR6). procedures and tools to ensure that there is no child labor at their sites. All the CBUs that carried out the Danone Way assessment in 2011 were in compliance with this fundamental; no non-compliance incidents were identified. security practices indigenous rights ADD HR8 ADD HR9 Percentage of security personnel Total number of incidents trained in the organization's of violations involving rights policies or procedures concerning of indigenous people and aspects of human rights that are actions taken relevant to operations This criterion does not apply to Danone activities. Service providers in the safety sector commit to comply with the RESPECT approach’s Fundamental Social Principles, and are screened by the group manager in charge of life and property safety. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 205 Performance performance indicators Society LOCAL Communities 207 Corruption 210 PUBLIc policy 212 anTi-competitive behavior 214 compliance 215 206 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 LOCAL Communities S01 It allows the CBU to concretely integrate the sustainable development fundamentals defined with Danone Way Nature, scope, and effectiveness (see pages 75-79 of this report) as well as to raise awareness of any programs and practices of how a broad assessment of the CBU’s environment can inspire innovation. that assess and manage the impacts of operations on Sustainability Land communities, including entering, A complement to the Sustainability Roadmap diagnosis operating, and exiting tool, Sustainability Land is a program that helps the CBUs’ Executive Committees to define a business vision The aim shared by all Danone initiatives is to strengthen that integrates local sustainable development issues. teams’ skills and expertise around the following challenges: • understanding social issues and stakeholders; This two-day seminar presented by a dedicated team • measuring social impacts ; is designed for the CBU Management Committees and • co-development and co-management, targets three objectives: in particular with NGOs; • make a precise diagnosis of local issues that support • the commitment of Danone employees sustainable business for the CBU, by bringing together to various programs; the key contributors. This diagnosis is based on the • internal and external communication. Sustainability Roadmap (see previous paragraph); • motivate and raise awareness of Management Integration of sustainable development Committee members with regard to issues for their issues into local strategies: towards greater CBU’s ecosystem, and spread best practices identified CBU autonomy in the group CBUs; Several projects have been undertaken to respond • prioritize key themes with regard to the CBU’s strategic to these challenges and provide the Country Business issues. This prioritization leads to the definition of a Units (CBUs) with tools allowing them to promote goal, strategic levers for achieving that goal, and or implement their local initiatives. The goal for two indicators for monitoring action. of these projects – the Sustainability Roadmap and Sustainability Land – is to move towards greater Seven Sustainability Land seminars were held in 2011: CBU autonomy in defining and implementing in France and China for the group’s Waters division, a sustainability strategy adapted to local conditions. in Indonesia, Colombia, Hungary and Romania for the Dairy division, and in the Netherlands for the Medical The Sustainability Roadmap nutrition division. Launched in 2010 (see page 211 of the 2010 Sustainable Development Report), the Sustainability Roadmap is a Efforts in 2012 will focus primarily on the “MICRUB” support tool for designing a sustainable development CBUs (Mexico, Indonesia, China, Russia, Brazil and the strategy that was deployed in 49 CBUs in 2011. United States) and other strategic countries for Danone: 6 to 7 Sustainability Lands are already planned. By working through four steps (creating a committee in charge of sustainable development issues, identifying the key sustainable development issues for the CBU, prioritizing the challenges identified by the CBU, integrating stakeholders’ points of view) the CBUs are able to use this tool to design a relevant global strategy that addresses all the necessary issues. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 207 SOCIETY performance INDICATORS LOCAL Communities Train teams in managing social This reflection is rolled out in two major actions today: innovation projects • adapting and consolidating the Progress Monitoring To go even further in their transformation goal, Grid (internal monitoring tool for Ecosystem projects, Danone’s teams must be supported in their ability see Diagram 1) and organizing audits of the tool; to manage innovative projects, which often require • carrying out global impact measurement studies on the new skills and attitudes. Co-development with partner various major ecosystem areas (two or three projects per organizations, measuring the impact of projects category) by international experts (with priority given implemented, new governance and business models: to university researchers). all this is knowledge that must be consolidated and provided to the teams through training efforts. 1. Progress Monitoring Grid The Ecosystem Fund monitoring grid is a tool that In the framework of the Phoenix program for aims to evaluate whether projects are progressing correctly. transforming the HR function (see People strategy, pages The direct goal is to verify all Ecosystem projects and 43-55 of this report), the HR teams are continuing to obtain external certification of this tool in order to improve their expertise in the area of social innovation, strengthen its credibility. in particular in the following areas: • mastering the social fundamentals: managing Social impact measurement tool deployment of the Danone Way approach within the Country Business Unit (CBU) and of the RESPECT program with suppliers, identifying the CBU’s employment footprint, etc.; • developing the interface between CBU social projects, Danone employees’ engagement, and employer brand positioning; • identifying the impacts of social projects on jobs and skills, supporting the transformation of functions, developing new career management models that integrate experience in social projects; • capitalizing on knowledge gained from social projects and transferring skills; • fostering reflection by the CBU on ways of creating and sharing value within the Danone ecosystem, in cooperation with stakeholders, by coordinating 2. Global Impact measurement the “Sustainability Land” process described above for the five major areas action axes and organizing social innovation committees within of the Ecosystem Fund the CBUs. The Ecosystem Fund is involved in a global approach for measuring the impact of its projects Measuring the social impact of projects (social, environmental and economic impact). launched This approach is based on a comparison of all methods Reflection on monitoring and measuring the social of measuring impact, as well as on interviews with impact of projects initiated by Danone CBUs was carried international experts. The goal is to compare recognized out in the framework of projects supported by the impact measurement methods with key Ecosystem Fund Danone Ecosystem Fund. projects in the five areas (supply, recycling, services to individuals, regions and micro-distribution). 208 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 In-depth monitoring through impact To date, about 8% of the milk for the Danone Ukraine measurement studies CBU is supplied by these cooperatives, which include Two projects supported by the Ecosystem Fund were more than 2,300 small farmers. used to test both the quantitative and qualitative impact measurement methodologies. These studies by ESSEC’s Pemulung Recycling Communities (with IRENIRENE Institute and IIAC-EHESS reached their initial Research Institute and the ESSEC institute for conclusions at the end of 2011. research and training in negotiation) The project consists in helping the Pemulung (Indonesian Ukraine Milk Communities Project (with the waste pickers) gain more value from waste collected by EHESS School for advanced social science organizing themselves into autonomous groups. It also studies and the IIAC interdisciplinary institute involves centralizing plastic in centers that carry out a first of contemporary anthropology) level of processing and provide socio-economic services This is an ethnographic field study of the deployment to the Pemulung, including access to microcredit. of dairy cooperatives in Ukraine, associating farmers who own two or three cows each with a view to improving This study aims to monitor the social performance of dairy production and sales. This type of study is the Pemulung project based on combined measurements. specifically designed to be critical in order to improve It seeks to demonstrate that better distribution of the project efficiency. The study was completed at end-2011 added value created by recycling is possible based on an with a number of major findings: economic model that enhances the position of the waste • the “post-Soviet” cultural context and village isolation pickers: makes implementing cooperation methods difficult; • studies of a quantitative nature at the Tangerang site • economic empowerment of farmers was not which will provide a measurement of socio-economic systematically associated with social development for impacts on exiting poverty. This study is comparative the community (in the village), while expectations run because it includes waste pickers who are part of the high in this area; program and others who are not; • quality control systems, and the bonuses associated • an evaluation of a qualitative nature based on a with this quality, are not well rooted in local mentalities, sociological study of recycling networks and players which sometimes operate using non-monetary modes operating in an informal economy. of exchange; • the cooperatives’ leaders are essential to the project’s success, but more collegial governance is necessary and seems possible. These various lessons have allowed the project teams to plan a certain number of future actions: • improve the cooperatives’ socio-economic services by involving member villagers in the choice of services; • support leader training and form management committees for each cooperative; • communicate more around the vision and values of the cooperative model; • clarify and explain the quality measurement system and associated bonuses. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 209 SOCIETY performance INDICATORS Corruption Danone’s Business Conduct Policy (BCP) was revised There is also half-yearly reporting of allegations and in 2009. It comprises founding texts such as the Universal proven cases of fraud, in which corruption incidents Human Rights Declaration, a list of Danone’s are classified as “significant fraud,” whatever the amounts commitments within the United Nations Global involved, in order to collect complete information on this Compact, OECD guidelines and the Fundamental type of occurrence. This reporting also includes Unimilk Social Principles in which prevention of corruption for the two 2011 half-year periods. is actively referenced. Finally, since 2005 the DIALERT whistleblowing The latest 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy system has been implemented to allow all employees was distributed to all directors and managers (and even to notify Danone management directly and in confidence more broadly in certain CBUs) by the Human Resource of any breach of: Departments of the CBUs, and supported with special • the group's principles and procedures initiatives to inform employees. This topic is included for internal control; in the Danone Way self-assessment, in the evaluation • accounting and finance rules that could affect of CBU control environments (known as DANgo), the truthfulness of accounts and the financial situation in the internal semi-annual opinion survey, as well of the employee's company or of another company as in the internal audit program each time an audit in the group; in the CBUs addresses these subjects. The 2006 • anti-corruption rules. Q&A document about the BCP was updated in 2011. The visibility of this whistleblowing system is verified Since 2006, directors and managers sign a specific during every CBU audit. There is an internal control clause in their employment contracts indicating item (within the DANgo guidelines) that deals with that they are familiar with the Business Conduct Policy this topic and for which each CBU must run an annual (BCP) and commit to compliance by themselves and self-evaluation. their teams. Various tools have been provided to support effective application of these principles (presentations, Since 2008, the DIALERT system has been extended posters, Q&A booklets, etc.). Additionally, a specific to Danone suppliers (letter from the CBUs to every program to prevent fraud was developed in 2006 major supplier and systematic inclusion in call for tender and has been expanded every year since then. documents) to allow them to report in confidence any breach of the BCP rules with regard to themselves (in An information booklet updated in 2011 was particular possible cases of corruption). The DIALERT distributed once again to the Executive Committees system was extended in 2011 to include the WHO Code of each CBU recommending, inter alia, an annual for Baby nutrition products. evaluation of risks of fraud and corruption in the country business unit. In addition to DIALERT, some countries have implemented local ethical whistleblowing systems. A total of 39 ethical notifications that could be processed were received in 2011. In each proven case of fraud related to internal control, appropriate disciplinary measures were taken. A training tool available on the web, as well as a questionnaire (COMPLY) have been rolled out to raise awareness of corruption risks in the CBUs. 210 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 S02 S03 Percentage and total number of Percentage of employees business units analyzed for risks trained in the organization's related to corruption anti-corruption policies and procedures Within the group's four divisions, every consolidated CBU (integrated into the Danone accounts) is covered All Danone employees were informed of the 2009 by the group's seven-point anti-fraud and anti-corruption revision of the Danone Business Conduct Policy. program. In particular, the first point of this program This was achieved through information meetings, is an evaluation of internal and external fraud risk to presentations and question-and-answer sessions, be carried out annually in each Country Business Unit. and distribution of documents with or without formal acknowledgement of receipt. Managers, and in particular CBU Executive Committees members, received more extensive training and information. Since 2009, an induction document has been drafted and sent to the CBUs to be given to each new hire upon arrival. Titled “Danone Inside Pack,” it contains several pages covering the Business Conduct Policy. It was also distributed to employees working in the CBUs in 2009 for the first time. The business conduct survey first launched in 2010 in more than 160 group CBUs was repeated in 2011, and supplemented by an analysis of the distribution of communication material on these topics (BCP, Danone Inside Pack, etc.). The overall results indicate significant improvement in terms of familiarity with and distribution of these documents, and best practices relating to professional and business ethics. Discussions were also able to raise new awareness of this topic among employees in the field; a summary of results was examined at the highest levels of Danone's organization. Action plans were drafted and are underway. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 211 SOCIETY performance INDICATORS Corruption public policy S04 S05 Actions taken in response Public policy positions and to incidents of corruption participation in public policy development and lobbying Danone strongly condemns all corrupt practices, as highlighted in its Business Conduct Policy distributed Danone views lobbying as a positive action aimed to all managers, as well as to many employees in the at giving politicians and legislators the information they group's CBUs. The sixth point of the anti-fraud program need to address current issues and define a legislative and concerns the corrective and disciplinary measures to be regulatory framework adapted to an increasingly complex applied within each unit. For major cases, a cross-disciplienvironment. Danone has therefore restructured its nary committee (risks, internal audit, HR, safety, etc.) corporate teams in charge of public policy and lobbying meets monthly to verify investigation quality, fairness to better distinguish policy development from factors of decisions and relevance of disciplinary measures. relating to the application and monitoring of regulations. The resources needed to extend these activities to the Half-yearly reporting on internal fraud has been in CBUs have also been defined. place for five years, with the participation of 173 units, or almost every unit in the Danone group. The number In 2011, Danone created a Public Affairs kit and the of suspected and proven cases of fraud reported by Public Affairs Policy. These were sent to the CBUs in CBUs has been stable for two years: in 2011, around January 2012. These tools are used to define the areas and 130 suspected cases were registered each half-year, actions to be implemented in the CBUs. The deployment corresponding to around 80 proven cases every six process has also been formally defined as a Public Affairs months, a majority of which were minor (products best practice (DOM) in the DANgo internal governance or materials stolen, minor misappropriations). None of system to ensure that this policy is actively implemented these cases of fraud had a significant impact on Danone's and monitored every year in the Danone CBUs. accounts in 2011. In the huge majority of cases identified, the contracts of the employees involved were terminated Danone also takes active part in the efforts of industry following the fraud investigations. associations working to contribute to the formalization of public policy at both national and international levels. Monthly meetings for monitoring cases of fraud are held at group headquarters to verify effective supervision and Finally, the group and its subsidiaries s maintain appropriate management in terms of ethics and internal many direct relations with the national authorities control. Detailed information about the nature of major in the countries in which they do business. These relations cases is therefore collected and analyzed by the Risk, are maintained in compliance with the Danone Business Control and Audit department. Conduct Policy. 212 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 ADD S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country As indicated in the Danone Business Conduct Policy, the use of funds or other group assets, either directly or indirectly, to benefit organizations of a political nature may only take place in the framework of the laws and regulations in effect in each country, and must be applied with complete transparency. This use is only possible with formal management approval. This rule became more restrictive in the new 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy. However, Danone encourages its employees to be involved in their local community. These principles were further reinforced in the Public Affairs policy sent out to the Danone CBUs in January 2012. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 213 SOCIETY performance INDICATORS anti-competitive behavior Danone Business Conduct Policy includes the prohibition of anti-competitive practices. Danone expects ADD S07 its employees to observe applicable fair competition rules. Total number of legal actions No agreement or arrangement that serves to reduce for anti-competitive behavior, free competition may be made with competitors. anti-trust and monopoly The Business Conduct Policy is distributed to all directors and managers (and more broadly still in certain CBUs) by practices and their outcomes the CBU Human Resource Departments, which support No legal proceedings are currently underway. this communication with appropriate initiatives to ensure that all employees are informed. Since 2006, not only directors but all managers sign a specific clause in their employment contract indicating that they are familiar with the Business Conduct Policy and commit to compliance by themselves and by their teams. Specific awareness of these issues is raised among buyers through the regular distribution of a specific and more detailed Code of Conduct for Procurement, and among key account managers in direct connection with supermarket retail distribution. Regular training programs are also organized for Procurement Managers and CBUs’ Executive Committee members. A Code of Conduct for functions in contact with customers was also rolled out in 2011 in the CBUs in all countries. 214 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Compliance S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations At Danone corporate level, no significant fines or non-monetary disciplinary actions have been registered for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 215 Performance perfOrmance product indicators responsibility consumer health and safety 217 product and service labeling 222 marketing CommunicationS 225 CONSUMER PRIVACY 228 COMPLIANCE 228 216 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 consumer health and safety PR1 In order to give more tangible expression to the nutrition and health progress achieved in the framework of its Life cycle stages in which strategy and governance, Danone introduced a series of health and safety impacts performance indicators in 2011 and publishes the results each year. Since 2011, these indicators have been of products and services are consolidated for a scope of 12 countries (Germany, assessed for improvement, Argentina, Brazil, China, Spain, US, France, Indonesia, and percentage of significant Italy, Mexico, Poland and the UK), covering the four products and services categories divisions (Dairy Products, Waters, Baby nutrition and subject to such procedures Medical nutrition) and representing around 68% of total group revenue. Consumer health Consumer health is at the heart of Danone's history and Two of Danone’s strategic priorities directly impact mission to bring health through food to as many people consumer health. as possible. 1. Understanding the health and nutrition Today more than ever, Danone's nutrition and health issues of populations strategy is aligned with the food and nutrition objectives In the great majority of countries in which Danone of public health authorities in every country in which operates, the group analyzes in detail local authorities' it operates. There are three major focuses to the strategy: nutrition and health policies, current national programs • in-depth understanding of health and nutrition issues and the latest scientific data in the areas of epidemiology, in each country in which the group does business; food consumption, sociology, etc. To complete this • a unique line of healthy products meeting the health analysis, Danone consults experts in the food and and nutrition needs of populations throughout their nutrition field. This work (“Nutripack” reports) enables lifetime (appropriate products); the company, for example, to know the incidence of • encouraging healthy eating habits. food-related diseases, to assess food intake and eating habits, to estimate nutritional statuses and to identify This strategy is implemented in accordance with any deficiencies in specific populations, such as iron strict governance standards, specific to Danone, deficiencies in infants and children and protein and documented in the form of commitments in deficiencies in the elderly. This analysis was initiated in the company’s Food, Nutrition & Health charter(1). 2004 for adult populations and was actively implemented It is based on ongoing contact with local stakeholders in 2011 on children. It currently covers 37 countries (health authorities, scientific experts, NGOs, health and, in terms of sales, 95%(2) of dairy products (adult professionals, etc.) and on a rigorous scientific approach populations), 98% of baby nutrition products (babies and involving major efforts in Research and Development to: children population) and 93% of products of the Waters • consistently deliver product reformulations and division (fluid intakes of adult populations). innovations to respond to changing consumer needs and guarantee the nutritional superiority of products; • make special investment in scientific research through numerous partnerships with leading research organizations. (1)  vailable on www.danone.com. Application of the commitments in the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter by the CBUs A is subject to annual self-assessment guided by the Danone Way Fundamentals framework. (2) Figure consolidated for 12 countries (Germany, Argentina, Brazil, China, Spain, US, France, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Poland and the UK), covering the four divisions (Dairy Products, Waters, Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition) and representing around 68% of total group revenue. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 217 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance INDICATORS consumer health and safety 2. A unique line of healthy products meeting b. Products meeting special dietary needs the health and nutrition needs of populations These products, generally fortified with essential throughout their lifetime nutrients, include baby nutrition products (infant a. Products designed for everyone and belonging formula and milk, a variety of solid foods), certain to food categories recommended by the public dairy products like Danoninio for children, dietary health authorities supplements for pregnant and/or breastfeeding women 66% of products (in terms of revenue) manufactured or products designed to fight malnutrition caused by by Danone are designed for all consumer groups (75% nutritional deficiencies or certain diseases (Fortimel, of group total sales) and belong to food categories that Forticaire, etc.). The composition of these products is health authorities recommend consuming on a daily generally governed by strict regulations – or else by very basis, of which: demanding internal standards, such as the Danone dairy products (50% of Danone revenue), Nutrition Book or Baby Nutrition Standards. of which health authorities worldwide recommend consuming one to four servings a day; c. Products meeting special health needs providing water (16% of revenue), of which most health appropriate functional benefits authorities recommend consuming 1.2 to 2 liters a day. These products are designed for consumers with specific physiological and metabolic conditions, such as Danacol The nutritional composition of Danone dairy products for adults with high cholesterol, Neocate for babies is also regulated by strict internal nutritional standards. allergic to cow's milk, and Souvenaid for Alzheimer's Fifty-nine percent of Danone dairy products can be disease patients. Danone pays particular attention to the consumed on a daily basis, and thus contribute to a nutrition profile of these products to ensure the product healthy diet. In 2011, almost 15.5 billion servings of delivers the health benefits expected. these daily dairy products and nearly 10 billion portions of water were marketed by Danone. Danone places great value on the taste experience offered by all its products, as it is now widely accepted that taste For example: yogurt (Danone natural and with fruit), and enjoyment are major factors in dietary choice and a fermented milk (Activia, Kéfir), soft white cheese condition for regular consumption of products. (Danio), mineral and bottled water (Evian, Aqua), and fruit-based products such as compotes without In addition to ensuring nutritional quality and functional added sugar (Taillefine Jardins Gourmands) and benefits, Danone also tries to make its products as widely smoothies (C-Optima), etc. available as possible through affordable prices and innovative distribution channels. Food products designed for occasional consumption, or indulgence products are also regulated by internal nutritional standards, such as dairy desserts (Danette, Fantasia) for example. 218 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Strategy implementation relies on major strengths Examples of major nutrition/health innovations made in Research and Development: in 2011 include: • the development of appropriate nutrition solutions Dairy products: Activia Breakfast, a breakfast in response to local requirements (dietary needs, yogurt with a high-fiber cereal topping in a separate taste, cost, eating habits, etc.). This stage generally compartment (Italy); Activia Smoothie, a yogurt proceeds with the help of scientific committees, drink rich in fruit which provides half the which combine complementary expertise in nutrition, recommended daily intake of fruit in each 290g medicine and the humanities. These nutrition solutions bottle (Russia); Milkuat School, a cereal-enriched involve defining internal nutrition standards, modifying milk drink for schoolchildren sold for €0.23 existing products (Nutriprogress program), (Indonesia); Mleczny Start, a milk and cereal bar and/or innovation; rich in fiber, vitamins and minerals sold for €0.16 • strict internal nutrition standards based on national, (Poland); several geographic expansions such as regional and international health authorities' guidelines Danacol (Canada), Densia (Japan), Ser Calci + (Danone Nutrition Book, Baby Nutrition standards, Densia pocket (Argentina), and Activia pouring defining, for example, maximum fat and sugar content, yogurt (France); minimum calcium content) are developed by Danone Waters: Levité Kids, a range of children's drinks based on product positioning (daily/occasional containing mineral water, in individual bottles consumption, serving size); specially designed to fit into lunch boxes for school, • with the Nutriprogress program we continually and three low-sugar fruit juice drinks (50g sugar/l, analyze the nutritional quality of our product portfolio, i.e. 50 to 60% less sugar than in sodas) (Mexico); compare existing products with internal standards Baby nutrition: Blédilacté, a range of dairy desserts and competing products and, if necessary, design specifically adapted to children over six months, reformulation programs (by, for example, gradually providing iron, essential fatty acids and calcium with reducing the fat, sugar or sodium content and/or no artificial flavor (France); Bobovita breakfast cereals fortifying the product with vitamins and minerals). specially designed for infants, representing a first Over the 2009-2011 period, 40% of dairy products on the market (Poland); Almiron, a very affordable were fortified in micronutrients (vitamins, minerals) range of follow-up and growing-up milk (Spain); and 47% of baby nutrition products were improved a protein supplement designed for premature babies nutritionally (reduction in fat, sugar, sodium, (several countries); fortification, etc.); Medical nutrition: Fortimel Max and Fortimel • innovations cover areas as diverse as product families, Compact, two concentrated dietary supplements for eating patterns, new ingredients or health benefits, undernourished people (France); Fortifit, a dietary and geographic expansion. A prior nutritional supplement designed to fight sarcopenia (Austria). evaluation (Nutri-Check procedure) is carried • the development of products providing functional out systematically to guarantee consistency between benefits demonstrated by rigorous scientific research product quality and positioning. In 2011, 45% (sales) and recognized by the publication of results in the of new products were complying with internal standards world's best scientific journals. There were 126 clinical of daily consumption. studies carried out in 2011; Danone Sustainability Report 2011 219 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance INDICATORS consumer health and safety • Danone's involvement in scientific research, beyond At group level, the Quality department lays out the demonstrating its products' health benefits. quality policy and verifies its implementation: definition In partnership with prestigious research organizations, of standards, systems and performance indicators that are Danone contributes to many programs in a variety consistent between the different divisions. This policy is of areas, such as dietary intake (including fluids), the based on science, best practices published by the WHO benefits of better hydration, the influence on long-term and the Codex and on Danone’s own expertise in its own health of early nutrition during pregnancy and the first products and manufacturing processes. two years of life (metabolic imprinting, partnership with the European EARNEST project), and intestinal The Dairy products, Waters, Baby nutrition and Medical microflora's function and impact on health nutrition divisions apply this policy based on the (in partnership with Saint Louis University in the specificities of their business (manufacturing processes, US; INRA and Pasteur Institute in France). In 2011, number of ingredients, sources of supply, etc.). in partnership with Agro-ParisTech, Danone created the ANCA Chair (French acronym referring to diet, Each CBU applies the policy in compliance with national nutrition and dietary behavior) and organized, in legislation and is responsible for integrating consumer partnership with the Pasteur Institute and INRA, the expectations into product development. Danone also 2nd international Microbes for Health symposium promises healthy, safe products to its consumers and which reviewed the latest scientific breakthroughs on must therefore be beyond reproach in the assessment digestive tube microbial communities and their impact and management of potential and actual risks, and in on human health. The symposium was attended by food safety communication. over 366 participants from 34 countries. Within the quality department, this task is assigned Consumer safety to the Danone Food Safety Center (DFSC), whose role Danone has developed a Quality and Food Safety policy is to identify, assess, classify and help manage emerging rooted upstream in scientific research, and responding to and existing risks (chemical, microbiological, physical consumer expectations throughout the product lifecycle. and allergen risks). All employees responsible for quality assurance are committed to this policy. Quality management is A risk management method common to all of the group’s organized according to the internationally recognized divisions has been developed for this purpose that allows ISO 9000 and ISO 22000 standards, applicable across all potential product risks to be managed at every stage the entire production chain from farm to fork. . in their lifecycle (from design to production). The percentage of plants in each division having The DFSC ranks risks by severity and frequency in ISO 22000 certification is given in the table below: collaboration with each division. This phase identifies the major risks specific to each division. The risks are % of ISO Compared categorized as chemical, physical, microbiological and 22000-certified with 2010 plants allergen. Thanks to active scientific monitoring with Dairy products 96 +1% the help of international experts, emerging hazards are Waters 77 +5,5% identified and described as quickly as possible, based on Baby nutrition 86 +11,6% the latest scientific knowledge. The quality directors of the divisions define risk control objectives and resources. Medical nutrition 100 stable The CBUs apply the inspection plans and reinforce them if necessary to meet the specific requirements of their business and local environment, using tools designed by the Quality department of each division. 220 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Risk management objectives and methods are defined globally by Danone (foreign objects, allergens, etc.), ADD PR2 and then more specifically within each division (good Total number of incidents of manufacturing practices, etc.) and lastly within the CBUs non-compliance with regulations (plant cleaning and disinfecting, identification of critical and voluntary codes concerning points). All food safety management system components are regularly audited to guarantee their effectiveness health and safety impacts of and relevance. products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Food safety is a responsibility shared throughout the food chain, “from farm to fork”. To ensure the consistency of In the classification used by Danone, “incidents” occur at food safety management systems and to coordinate the local level and are of limited scope; they are not therefore requirements of the various stakeholders, Danone actively consolidated as they do not lead to formal litigation or participates in international forums such as the GFSI sanctions of any type. Crises however, do reach beyond (Global Food Safety Initiative) that brings together the local level and can have repercussions outside the players from different links in the food chain. The goal CBU; they are thus consolidated at group level. is to form collaborative networks, to share knowledge and best practices and to harmonize management systems The performance indicators for food safety (GMP, GHP, internationally. This is materialized by the development Control and Monitoring Plans, HACCP, Biovigilance, of a shared platform, complying with local regulations Traceability) are monitored daily at the production sites and Codex directives, to which participants can input and combined in the Food Safety Index. This indicator their own specificities and requirements. is analyzed within each division (Dairy products, Waters, Baby nutrition, Medical nutrition) by the relevant This shared platform also supports coordinated Quality departments of the divisions and at group level management of Danone suppliers according to for overall governance. recognized rating systems together with Danone's own specific requirements. With a 1% increase in 2011, the Food Safety Index reached a plateau. In keeping with our continuous improvement policy, the compliance criteria for this indicator have become stricter, and even though progress may appear slight, on a like-for-like basis it is actually excellent. All the divisions achieved outstanding results, notably with improved application of pre-requisite programs and good manufacturing practices. Whenever a serious and immediate threat is posed to consumer health (precautionary principle), Danone initiates product recalls. Incidents are not consolidated at group level. Only significant events classified as crises are reported. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 221 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance INDICATORS product and service labeling PR3 Danone also requires its CBUs to give consumers a way of accessing information that is not on the packaging; Type of product and service at a minimum, a mailing address or a website with information required by nutrition information about the products sold in that country. This nutrition information is also available procedures, and percentage on the Internet for 70% of products. of significant products and services subject to such In addition, 83% of dairy products and 96% of baby information requirements nutrition products provide precise information about the appropriate serving size to be consumed as part of One focus of Danone's nutrition and health strategy a healthy diet. directly concerns the information provided to consumers in the area of nutrition & health. Practical information that is easy for consumers to understand Systematic nutrition information Danone pays particular attention to providing practical To help consumers make informed food choices, information that is easy to understand, to help consumers almost all Danone products provide detailed adopt healthy eating habits for themselves and their nutrition information, even when no local regulatory families. Danone offers information programs and requirements exist. educational tools ranging from paper publications and websites to discussion forums and call centers. These tools For dairy products and beverages, Danone applies its and programs are not limited to Danone product own Nutrition Information Charter based on the system information, but also include dietary and nutrition advice developed by Food Drink Europe (Confederation of the in easy-to-read formats. Most education programs have Food and Drink Industries of the EU), which indicates been developed in partnership with local institutions calories and nutrients per portion, in absolute measures (Ministries of Health, research centers, professional and as a percentage of Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA). organizations and NGOs), to make sure they are suitable An icon on the front of the packaging indicates the for the local community. In 2011, Danone rolled out number of calories per portion and as a percentage 219 information and education programs to encourage of the GDAs. A table on the back of the packaging healthy lifestyles, potentially reaching almost 700 million indicates, per portion and as a percentage of GDAs: people. Three examples are particularly significant: calories, protein, carbohydrates including sugars, lipids • in Poland, the CBU Zywiec Zdroj developed the including saturates, fiber and sodium. This type of educational program Mommy, Daddy, I prefer water information is available on all packaging of products for parents and children, which promotes the regular sold in all EU countries; where there is no voluntary code drinking of water. This program, which received the or local regulation to the contrary, Danone is working to support of the Ministry of Health, the Food and roll out this type of information in non-European Union Nutrition Institute and the Mother and Child Institute, countries, for example in Mexico. increased the percentage of water in fluid intakes of Polish children aged 6 to 9 from 11% in 2006 to 19% in 2010; 222 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 • in Belgium, Danone launched the educational program Enjoy your food, boost your health, ADD PR4 which aims to promote healthy habits in children Total number of incidents of aged 6 to 11. The program was developed in non-compliance with regulations partnership with the European Club of Pediatric and voluntary codes concerning Dieticians, the Belgian Pediatric Society and the Danone Institute. The educational kit was sent out product and service information to 30% of Belgian primary schools in three weeks, and labeling, by type of outcomes on request; • in over a hundred towns in Indonesia, Sari Husada In the classification used by Danone, incidents created bi-annual continuous education sessions in occur at local level and are of limited scope; they are nutrition designed for midwives and run by around not consolidated as they do not lead to formal litigation a hundred local experts and almost 700 employees: or sanctions of any type. Crises however, do reach over 35,000 midwives attended the sessions in 2011. beyond the local level and can have repercussions outside the CBU; they are thus consolidated at group level. For 2011, no incidents were reported under indicators ADD PR4 and ADD PR7, which are also difficult to distinguish as most events relating to product information also relate to advertising. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 223 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance INDICATORS product and service labeling ADD PR5 A global company like Danone must be close to its local suppliers but it must also anticipate needs and Practices related to consumer global trends liable to impact local business in future. satisfaction, including results As a leading company, we aim to supply products that of surveys measuring consumer are better than those of our competitors, and this is what satisfaction our customers primarily expect. Maintaining relations with consumers Over 70 % of Danone’s sales, including its flagship through consumer-focus and local products, are screened via this tool in regions with community based service differing cultures and languages in order to respond The primary mission of Danone's Consumer Services to or exceed consumer expectations on a daily basis. Center is to develop and maintain relationships with consumers. It is a tool that allows the company to offer advice as well as information. The Center helps gather consumers' comments, suggestions and reactions. Danone views it as a local service whose main objective is to rapidly respond to demands and to create added value for the brands. This service can answer any question about the products and brands, and more generally about diet and nutrition. It is also responsible for processing complaints relating to product quality. The Consumer Services Center can be contacted 24/7, on the internet, or by phone (the number is on the packaging). The mailing addresses of the Danone CBUs’ Consumer Services Centers are also listed on packaging. In France, Danone’s Consumer Services Center processes around 50,000 contacts per year by phone, traditional mail and email. Its scope of responsibility covers all Danone products sold on the French market. Danone collects and efficiently processes feedback from consumers to ensure they are satisfied with the products offered to them. Today, Danone obtains consumer feedback via most global communication channels, including social networks, using a specially designed computer tool capable of processing each consumer request and turning it into concrete action. The tool has been designed to meet local needs but also to ensure global governance and monitoring and to facilitate best-practice sharing between the CBUs. 224 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Marketing CommunicationS PR6 Responsible advertising Danone has committed to complying with the Programs for adherence to Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication laws, standards, and voluntary Practice for Foods and Non-Alcooholic Beverages of the International Chamber of Commerce, as well as other codes related to marketing national and regional standards, to avoid for example any communications, including message that might encourage excessive consumption of advertising, promotion, and one of its products and/or a lifestyle that is not conducive sponsorship to health. Danone views the consistency of its advertising messages Self-limitation of advertising towards with its products’ actual nutritional content and health children and in schools benefits to be of crucial importance. It has set the goal for Danone is committed to limiting advertising targeting its advertising and communication to be relevant, reliable children under 12 years of age to products whose and easy for consumers to understand. nutritional profile is specifically appropriate for them, and to refrain from advertising its products in schools. Claims that are reliable and easy This principle is applied throughout the European Union for consumers to understand (EU pledge), where independent auditors monitor 43% of Danone products have a nutrition claim, compliance with commitment, as well as in the United while 22% have a health claim. States (US pledge), Brazil (Brazilian Pledge), Canada (Canadian Pledge), South Africa (South African Pledge) In all cases, Danone ensures that information and Switzerland (Swiss Pledge). These commitments about its products' benefits (claims) is reliable and currently cover 87% of CBUs selling products for expressed in terms that consumers can easily understand. children. Danone is working to expand this selfThe Danone Executives Communication Guidelines help disciplined approach to all of the CBUs concerned. the marketing teams and advertising agencies worldwide express the benefits of a product in language that Additionally, most advertising investments are dedicated consumers can understand, using illustrations, charts to the promotion of the healthiest products: for dairy or scientifically valid symbols. In addition, the internal products, 82% of advertising expenditures were dedicated claim approval procedure ensures the accuracy of the in 2011 to the healthiest products (compliant with nutrition and health claims of Danone products. internal nutritional standards of daily consumption. Danone makes no nutrition and/or health claim for its indulgence products. A strict voluntary code for communication in schools Danone requires that its CBUs participating in educational initiatives in schools comply with a strict in-house code in the countries where no official directive or requirement is in place for schools. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 225 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance INDICATORS Marketing CommunicationS Responsible marketing for breast-milk • independently of any other measures taken by substitutes compliant with the WHO code governments to implement the WHO code, Danone The mission of Danone’s Baby nutrition division is monitors its own marketing practices according to the “to partner with parents and provide specialized nutrition principles and aims of the WHO code and takes steps to babies and toddlers to complement breastfeeding, to ensure that its conduct at every level conforms to its for healthy growth and the best start in life”. policy in this regard. To ensure this mission is live every day, the Baby nutrition In addition to ensuring that all CBUs adhere to this division has committed to upholding the following common set of principles, specific actions have also been guiding principles: undertaken relating to two specific areas of the business: • Danone acknowledges the importance of the World management systems and marketing practices. Health Organization’s International Code of marketing of breast-milk substitutes and subsequent resolutions Management systems of the World Health Assembly; During the past year, Danone has significantly up-graded • Danone supports the WHO’s global public health its internal management systems to ensure they are more recommendation calling for exclusive breastfeeding robust and applied consistently across all the CBUs within during the first six months of life, with continued the Baby nutrition division. They include: breastfeeding up to two years along with the • the clear accountability in each country for introduction of safe and appropriate complementary implementing management systems and monitoring food thereafter; marketing practices; • Danone considers that parents have the right to make • regular training of all non-factory based employees feeding choices that are the most appropriate to their in the WHO code on the marketing of breast-milk family. To do so, they should have access to thruthful, substitutes to make sure they understand and assume science-based information about all feeding options, responsibility for the implementation of these including breastfeeding, infant formula and follow-on principles; formulae and other foods intended for infants and • establishment of an anonymous “whistle-blower” young children; system that allows employees to confidentially report • Danone believes it has a role in supporting health instances of non-compliance with Danone’s responsible workers in their capacity of providing objective marketing policies; advice about how and what to feed infants and • the appointment of an independent auditor to young children; undertake regular audits of both management system • Danone supports and advocates responsible marketing and marketing practices; practices which promote good health and safe nutrition • implementation of a lobbying policy to ensure for all infants and young children; responsible and consistent behavior that does not • Danone works with business partners, trade associations results in conflict with the aim and principles of and industry groups in which the company takes part the WHO code. to operate the same high standards; • Danone is committed to follow all national regulations in relation to the marketing and the promotion of breast-milk substitutes and respect the role of national governments to develop health policies that are appropriate to their social and legislative framework and overall development objectives; 226 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Marketing practices As the leader in the infant nutrition industry, ADD PR7 Danone recognizes the important role it plays in both Total number of incidents of initiating and promoting change, including in the area non-compliance with regulations of responsible marketing practices. Danone constantly and voluntary codes concerning seeks to improve its marketing practices and made some significant commitments at the end of 2011: marketing communications, • following feedback from stakeholders that the use of including advertising, promotion, the Immunofortis trademark on infant and follow-on and sponsorship by type of formulas may be considered as an “implied health outcomes claim” under EU claims regulations, Danone has made a commitment to stop using this trademark on all Danone's commitment to limit advertising towards product labels globally. No products manufactured after children under 12 in the EU countries is audited annually end-2012 will feature the Immunofortis trademark; by external auditors in various European countries as part • in 2007, Danone stopped the marketing of of the EU pledge on advertising to children. In 2011 complementary foods and drinks for use by infants the audit covered France, Ireland, the Netherlands, under six months of age in Africa. Effective 1rst January Poland, Romania and Slovenia. The 2011 audit report 2012, Danone expended this commitment and now indicates a rate of compliance with 2011 commitments doesn’t market complementary food and drinks for by all committed players of 99.1%, 100% and 100% use of infant under less than six month of age in any in the media (respectively TV, printed material and the developing country. Internet) and 98% in schools. For Danone, only 1 to 2% of television advertising analyzed in Ireland, Poland and Romania was considered to be non-compliant. Corrective action was taken to reduce these rates of non-compliance. It should be noted that none of these cases of noncompliance gave rise to consumer complaints or to objections by the public authorities. Danone Sustainability Report 2011 227 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY performance INDICATORS consumer privacy COMPLIANCE ADD PR8 PR9 Total number of substantiated Monetary value of significant complaints regarding breaches fines for non-compliance with of consumer privacy and losses laws and regulations concerning of consumer data the provision and use of products and services This indicator is not consolidated at group level. At Danone corporate level, no significant fines have been registered for non-compliance with the laws and regulations concerning supply and use of its products. 228 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 Danone Sustainability Report 2011 229 This Sustainability Report has been prepared with design, coordination and editing services provided by the Department of Social Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility. This report is also the product of an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. You are invited to share with us your comments and ideas on the manner in which Danone can improve its approach, via our website: www.danone.com or by mail: Danone Department of Social Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility 15, rue du Helder 75439 PARIS cedex 09 France or via our blog: http://downtoearth.danone.com/ Contacts: Marc Grosser Social Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Director Nathalie Viel Corporate Social Responsibility Director Xavier Marcadé Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Myriam Cohen-Welgryn General Manager Nature VP Environment Worldwide Photography credits: ©Angie, ©Guillaume Beguin, ©Rodrigo Cruz Sipa Press, ©Luc Henri Fage, Agnès Martin Global Nutrition and Health Policy Director Thomas Haley Sipa Press, ©Hellio Van Ingen, ©Felix Hug, ©Mac Gregor & Gordon, ©Eric Manas, Numico, ©Ohle, ©Opos, ©Jose Luis Pelaez Inc, ©Laurent Vautrin, ©Ale Ventura Photoalto, © Andhy Zakaria, ©Danone, ©Danone Environnement © Design : www.landmarks.be Danone 15, rue du Helder 75439 PARIS cedex 09 France Visitors: 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 PARIS Self-evaluation of the application of GRI Tel: +33 1 44 35 20 20 according to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI www.danone.com with approval by © KPMG Audit.
