looking after the future Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 18 Looking After The Future 03 2011 Sustainability Report 03 Integrity 04 Reflections on 2011 30 05 People and Corporate Sustainability Teamwork Parsons 40 Brinckerhoff in 2011 06 What We Do 06 06 How We Achieve Success Excellence 06 Parsons Brinckerhoff Globally 06 Parsons Brinckerhoff A–P 50 06 Balfour Beatty 07 Sustainability in Parsons Brinckerhoff 08 Progress on 2011 Goals Respect 10 2012 Goals 11 Stakeholders 11 Governance 12 Directorate 17 Remuneration Appendix 60 GRI Table of Contents 60 71 Glossary and Shortened Forms 73 Definition of Emissions 74 Data Collection Assumptions 02 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report During 2011, Parsons Brinckerhoff hosted Materially, there were three areas of a two day development workshop with emphasis during 2011 — our Zero Harm some students associated with The Smith safety program, bringing our Reconciliation Family. The question was asked, ‘What is Action Plan to life and a focus on leadership sustainability?’ The answer came back — training. Other changes to the business ‘It’s looking after the future’. This report are discussed in the report but these is named in honour of the accuracy and were the two areas that have significant elegant simplicity of that reply. The design sustainability impacts. of this report has been created to reflect the natural elements that support that future. Any questions or comments about this report can be directed to me This is Parsons Brinckerhoff Australia– cholmstrom@pb.com.au Pacific’s (A–P) fourth annual sustainability report. It discusses the company’s operations in Australia and New Zealand for the financial year 1 January to 31 December 2011. Our people and our clients are our greatest stakeholders. It is important that this document speaks to them and is representative of Parsons Brinckerhoff. Our parent company, Balfour Beatty, is also a significant stakeholder. A change that has affected the structure of the report from previous years is the decision by Parsons Brinckerhoff to adopt the values of Balfour Beatty. It was decided that the Balfour Beatty values Caroline Holmstrom of Integrity, Teamwork, Excellence and Responsibility were closely aligned with Corporate Parsons Brinckerhoff values and adopting Sustainability them made sense in forming an aligned Executive future-facing company. As these values encapsulate our business succinctly and eloquently, we have used them to structure this report. We continue to use the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.1 to guide our content. These guidelines cover economic, social and environmental performance, and have been used by thousands of organisations worldwide as the basis for their sustainability reporting. During the year additional indicators were added and some changed — these are highlighted in the indicator table. Parsons Brinckerhoff 03 Looking After The Future Reflections on We recognise that staff, clients and community demand that the principles of 2011 sustainability be entrenched in all aspects of the organisation. We reduced carbon emissions by 11% compared to 2009 Parsons Brinckerhoff has always been levels with a goal of to reduce by 20%. committed to “making a difference” and Reducing our impact on the environment ensuring we leave a positive legacy for will continue to be a strong area of focus future generations, specifically: in 2012. ——We work alongside our clients Our focus has always been on servicing to make a difference and share our clients: their success is our success. in their success. We now ensure that all our systems, processes and support roles match with ——We work with our people to ensure this client-facing focus. In this context, they are given the opportunities our Regional Directors also become and skills to grow and succeed Client Directors, with alignment to specific as professionals. markets and clients — this focus will continue in 2012. ——We always follow our values and ensure we keep the community In 2011, the Asia and Australia–Pacific and our people safe. Power businesses merged, as part of an initiative to be as efficient and effective The broad value that sustainability brings as possible, and to ensure we are to our organisation is as a focus and leveraging expertise across all regions. constant reminder to look after the future As a continuation of this initiative, in in all that we undertake. Sometimes it 2012 the Power business will operate as as simple as a reminder to stay safe, a business unit discrete from A–P. This sometimes as complex as an innovative follows the success in 2011 of separating engineering design — in either case the the Global Mining Business from the larger result is a positive impact on the future. A–P business, in order to provide the focus and expertise to grow this area The year 2011 marked a period of and align with our clients’ needs. consolidation and adaptation to the market, one in which we worked hard In 2011, we saw the fruition of key areas to build a platform for 2012 and for the of our strategy with growth in Western future. In a tight and highly competitive Australia (WA) and New Zealand (NZ), with marketplace, we ensured our business key project wins in both regions. WA and and services aligned with the market and NZ will both continue to be key areas of our clients’ needs. The business group focus in 2012. Sustainable Communities and Water was restructured, and re-named Environment We continue to be committed to the and Water to better reflect their services ten principles of the United Nations and meet clients’ needs. As part of this, Global Compact (UNGC). In 2011, we we saw value and synergy in absorbing saw the consolidation and adoption the skills of the business line of Climate of these principles into the business. Change and Resource Efficiency into the Initiatives leading our response include larger environment group. the Diversity Council, with a commitment from directorate to increase the number Globally, Parsons Brinckerhoff and Balfour of female leaders in the organisation, the Beatty are moving towards a sustainability Corporate Responsibility program and our program built on principles which run Reconciliation Action Plan. More detail on across all business and service lines, and these initiatives is contained in this report. integrate with all projects and pursuits — versus operating as a discrete service line. We achieved much in 2011, but there is This program is designed to be embedded still more to accomplish. Our continued in the way we think, the way we operate success in A–P is contingent upon working and the services we provide. together across Parsons Brinckerhoff, Jim Mantle and our larger parent company of Balfour Managing Director Beatty, in particular working alongside Asia, Australia–Pacific Power, Strategic Consulting and Global Mining. 04 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report People and Corporate Sustainability Sustainability is a concept that touches all aspects of society and business. Understanding the interdependency of the financial, environmental and social triple bottom line is fundamental to the future. Flexibility and responsiveness are also fundamental to sustainability. In understanding this, sustainability was reviewed in 2011 and as a result, responsibility for corporate sustainability at the directorate level has now become part of my portfolio, adding to and enhancing the People function. The relationship between human resources and sustainability has rarely been explored beyond attraction and retention strategies. We are keen to look for the opportunities that sustainability has for personal and professional development as well as how to knit the concept into our people strategy and beyond. It is also a new way to explore the connection sustainability has to our clients and their businesses; to consider our corporate functions from a business Deborah Burt delivery perspective, a healthy approach Director People and given the current economic climate. As a Corporate Sustainability consulting company, relevance to business is paramount. Parsons Brinckerhoff 05 Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2011 What We Do Parsons Parsons Brinckerhoff Brinckerhoff A–P INSPIRE the world’s Globally best teams to CREATE The A–P team is made up of professionals offering a comprehensive range of innovative solutions Parsons Brinckerhoff is one of the services and total delivery. We have for physical assets world’s leading planning, environment and infrastructure firms. worked on infrastructure projects for more than 40 years. that ENHANCE our Our comprehensive services include In Australia, our work spans nationcommunities for future strategic consulting, environmental studies, building projects in transport, power, generations. design, construction management, and renewable energy, urban development, project and program management. water, resources and industry. In New Zealand the team has developed a strong We are an integral part of a 14,000-strong presence in the power and hydro sectors How We global team working in 150 offices across and, more recently, in transport and water six continents. Since our inception over Achieve Success 125 years ago, we have worked on some of the world’s most significant infrastructure projects. Integrity In October 2009, Parsons Brinckerhoff became part of Balfour Beatty plc, Balfour Beatty We always do the international infrastructure group what’s right. operating in professional services, In October 2009, Balfour Beatty plc construction services, support services completed the acquisition of Parsons Teamwork and infrastructure investments. Brinckerhoff Inc., which became a whollyowned subsidiary company. Balfour Beatty We are better In 2010, A-P became organised as an is a world-class business with a pool of operating company consisting of: Asia, together; we partner Australia–Pacific and southern Africa. 55,000 employees globally. with our clients Balfour Beatty has four market-leading Parsons Brinckerhoff enhanced its businesses in professional services, and care for our capabilities with the addition of Heery construction services, support services International, serving as its US buildings colleagues. and infrastructure investments. It delivers operating company, and Halsall services essential to the creation and care Associates, serving as its Canadian Excellence operating company with a focus on of infrastructure assets, including investment, project design, financing and management, We share knowledge delivering sustainability. engineering and construction, and facilities management services. These services can to solve difficult Parsons Brinckerhoff serves as the be brought together in any combination to global professional services division challenges. of Balfour Beatty plc. provide an integrated capability. Respect Balfour Beatty is guided by the vision articulated in their 2020 Sustainability We understand roadmap and the view that sustainability is a collective responsibility. Sustainability and accept our is at the heart of their business strategy. responsibility to each other, to our community and to our environment. 06 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Balfour Beatty plc (GBR) Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Ltd (GBR) BICC Overseas Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd (BOIL) Group Inc (GBR) (GBR) Balfour Beatty & Parsons Parsons Brinckerhoff Brinckerhoff Ltd Ltd (GBR) Partnership (AUS) Balfour Beatty Holdings Parsons Brinckerhoff UK PB Australia Pty PB New Zealand Ltd Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) Ltd Ltd (AUS) (NZL) (AUS) (GBR) Balfour Beatty Parsons Brinckerhoff Australia Pty Australia Pty Ltd Ltd (AUS) (AUS) Parsons Brinckerhoff Parsons Brinckerhoff Australia Pty Ltd PPK International Pty ACN 006 475 056 Associates Ltd Papua New Guinea Ltd (AUS) Pty Ltd (AUS) (NZL) #506 Branch (PNG) #570 Sustainability The drive to enhance sustainability within Parsons Brinckerhoff is being led by the in Parsons newly formed Sustainability Council, chaired by Peter Halsall, President of Brinckerhoff Halsall and Global Market Leader for Sustainability. ‘The aim is to create the structure and processes required to Around the world, Parsons Brinckerhoff is embed a coherent sustainability program taking steps to incorporate sustainability throughout the firm and to allow it to win into how projects are delivered. ‘There work through sustainability expertise.’ is an urgent need for setting a strong The Council seeks input from all areas strategic plan to make sustainability an of Parsons Brinckerhoff and A–P is integral part of the way we do business’ represented by Caroline Holmstrom, says CEO George J Pierson. ‘Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Executive. needs to be embedded in the way we In addition, during 2011 in A–P, a think, the way we operate and the services Sustainability Leadership Team was we provide to clients.’ formed to oversee the sustainability strategy. The team consisted of directors and executives. Parsons Brinckerhoff 07 Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2011 Goals Progress on 2011 Goals 2011 Goal Result Reduce Parsons Brinckerhoff’s all-injury frequency rate (AIFR) Not achieved — only a 9% reduction was achieved due to many by 20% compared to 2010 performance. very minor injuries being reported. However, a 35% reduction in lost time injury rate was achieved which is an exemplary result. Increase the proportion of safety audits completed by Parsons Achieved — 79% increase from the previous year. Brinckerhoff managers by 20% compared to 2010 performance. Increase Parsons Brinckerhoff’s hazard observation frequency rate Achieved — a 344% increase was achieved. by 100% compared to 2010 performance. Each Green Team to arrange at least one event or initiative Partly achieved — a variety of collaborative events and initiatives have collaboratively with a co-tenant, client or joint venture partner. been held around Australia and New Zealand in order to positively influence others. Reduce Parsons Brinckerhoff’s overall carbon emissions by Not achieved —only a 10.7% reduction was achieved, however a 20% compared to 2009 performance. 20% reduction has been achieved compared to 2008 data. Reduce the amount of paper used by 40% compared to 2010 Not achieved — only a 3.4% reduction was achieved, however a performance. 40% reduction has been achieved compared to 2008 data. Information — select and implement a Library Management Achieved — in a thorough review and selection process a Library System, the measurement of which will be through an online Management System has been selected and key staff trained on catalogue of resources and services. how to use the system. Parsons Brinckerhoff library and catalogue data is being input into the system and will ‘go live’ in 2012. Collaboration — establish a workable methodology for the start-up Achieved — a full start-up and sustainability methodology has and sustainability of Communities of Practice (CoP), the measurement been created alongside a very thorough how-to guide for CoP of which will be through anecdotal evidence and survey. leadership teams. Changes in Parsons Brinckerhoff have seen some CoPs disband as the business structure allows this type of knowledge sharing to occur as an everyday part of work. However, there is still demand for CoPs in some parts of the business. The A–P connection with the global CoP program remains strong, and we see many staff participating in and accessing knowledge and expertise through these global communities. Lessons Learned — deploy Lessons Learned framework and Achieved — the lessons learned framework and procedures procedures, the measurement of which will be through the number have been created, deployed and embedded into our Business of Lessons Learned activities being conducted and entered into an Management System. Our Business System Managers have been online Lessons Learned library. conducting lessons learned activities on many projects. The lessons are stored and made accessible to staff in an online library on the intranet. To date 111 lesson documents are included in the library. PB–CUSP (Curtin University Sustainability Policy Unit) Alliance — Not achieved — in 2011 we reviewed our research needs and 2011 will also see a far greater alignment of the Alliance outputs decided to pursue other avenues for innovation opportunities. with the needs of the four PB A–P business groups. The focus will be on identifying links between the PB–CUSP Alliance and the needs of our Brand clients. continues next page 08 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Progress on 2011 Goals – continued 2011 Goal Result Achieve 2% below the Consult Australia industry average of Not achieved — the Consult Australia turnover percentage for employee turnover by December 2011. 2011 was 14.9%. Our result for 2011 was 13.5%. Operational excellence — achieve a 5% improvement on our 2010 Achieved — while these areas of operation were not measured customer service baseline measure in operational excellence in individually, the overall result for 2011 was 84% — an improvement critical service delivery areas (mobility, recruitment). on the 2010 of 66%. Good leaders — achieve a 7% improvement in our 2010 leadership Achieved — according to our employee engagement survey our 2011 effectiveness scores (measured on our staff engagement survey) by figure was 63% — an improvement on our 2010 result of 49%. developing and implementing a leadership development approach that ensures Parsons Brinckerhoff has leaders and managers capable of delivering our business and people strategies. Employee growth and development — achieve a 4% improvement Not achieved — our figure for this metric has remained stable at 62%. in our 2010 employee growth and development baseline scores (measured in our staff engagement survey) by embedding Success Profiles across the business and therefore creating a career development framework. Workforce plans and talent management — embed workforce Partially achieved — talent management reviews held in Business planning and talent management processes across our business to Groups for the top two layers and results recorded using nine box ensure our resource requirements can be met. grid. Succession Planning for top two layers has occurred. Competitive remuneration practices — develop and implement a Achieved — our result for 2011 was that 64.8% of our staff believe competitive remuneration strategy with the goal of at least 60% of they are fairly remunerated. staff satisfied that they are fairly remunerated. Gender leadership targets — by 2013, Parsons Brinckerhoff A–P Partially achieved — we attribute the shortfall in our overall figures will have achieved the following increases in the representation of organisational redesign in 2011 and realise that a concerted effort female leaders: needs to be made in 2012 to achieve our target for 2013. Revised targets are included in goals for 2012. The figures for 2011 were: Overall — from 22% to 27% Overall — 17% General Manager — from 11% to 20% General Manager — 10% Director — from 8% to 20% Director — 6% Executive — from 12% to 20%. Executive — 14%. Parsons Brinckerhoff 09 Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2011 2012 Goals Making safety personal — all employees to document a safety objective in their personal RYP objective setting process — each section to ‘make SHE personal’ by documenting and sharing at least one personal SHE story or lesson learned. Hazards — increase hazard/observation reporting rate equivalent to one per employee per year. Injuries — reduce total recordable injury frequency rate below 2.8 per million hours. Carbon — reduce CO2 emissions by 5% from the previous year (per capita). Information and Library — go live of the Library Management System with all collections available online, the measurement of which will be through an online catalogue of resources and services by the end of 2012. Information Management — development of supporting information management practices and principles to enable the successful implementation of the new content management system (CMS). This will be measured through the successful incorporation of the practices and principles into the CMS. Knowledge Networks and Retention — a move in focus towards multiple tools/ approaches which can be tailored to help projects, business units and capability teams share their knowledge more effectively and build capability. The measurement of this will be through the availability of a knowledge resource centre. Lessons Learned — integration of lessons learned practice into projects through incorporation into the business management system, the measurement of which will be through the number of Lessons Learned activities being conducted and entered into the online Lessons Learned library. Operational excellence — maintain or improve the 2011 result for operational excellence, i.e. 84% or better. Good leaders — achieve a 5% improvement in leadership effectiveness scores as measured in the staff engagement survey. Employee growth and development — achieve a 4% improvement in our 2011 employee growth and development score as measured by the staff engagement survey. Competitive remuneration practices — ensure Parsons Brinckerhoff has competitive remuneration practices so that at least 65% of staff believe they are fairly remunerated as measured by staff survey. Gender leadership targets — increase women directors from 5% to 15% by end of 2014— increase women in leadership from 10% to 20% by the end of 2013. Leadership roles include general managers, executives and leader roles. 10 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Stakeholders Governance Our stakeholders are those we engage with who are involved in the funding, delivery and operation of infrastructure Managing Director in the markets in which we operate — water, transport, urban development, government, power, mining, oil and gas and industry sectors. They include: ——clients Director of Regional Directors ——current, past and future employees Finance ——government ——industry bodies ——other similar firms we team with Director of ——suppliers Operations and Legal Counsel Capability ——media. Our engagement Director of approach includes: Director Markets, People and Strategy and Corporate ——participation on key industry Communications Sustainability association committees ——attendance at industry functions ——sponsorship of industry events Director Energy, Director and research Director Strategic Director Transport Mining and Environment Consulting ——industry award submissions Industry and Water ——corporate communications (publications, website) ——client and stakeholder events on various subjects and technical disciplines run by Parsons Brinckerhoff ——media relations ——trade displays ——meetings ——government relations (in NSW, we employ a dedicated Government Relations Manager). Through our Trusted Adviser Program (TAP) and as part of our business procedures, we perform client satisfaction audits throughout each project milestone. In addition, each year we participate in an industry benchmarking study, Engineering Beacon, that rates the performance of Australian engineering firms (also see Teamwork). The results of the audits help to shape our client relationship management plans and inform our client relationship managers (CRMs) on any key issues. Parsons Brinckerhoff 11 Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2011 Directorate There is regular communication with all staff through: Managing Director The highest governance body within the ——a monthly e-newsletter with Parsons Brinckerhoff A–P region is the intermittent all-staff emails for urgent directorate, consisting of directors from news items each of the three business groups: the ——articles posted on our intranet site director of strategic consulting, the director of people and corporate sustainability, ——a corporate-wide monthly the director of finance, the director of presentation delivered by the operations and capability, legal counsel, regional director or, in smaller offices, a representative for the regional directors the local office manager and the A–P managing director who ——PB Notes via email and hard copy chairs the directorate. ——team meetings. In November a director of markets, strategy and communications was In September and October 2011 the appointed, replacing the Asia, Australiamanaging director, or in smaller offices Pacific, southern Africa (AAPSA) director the regional director, made a presentation of communications, and they now also to staff on 2011 performance and attend the directorate. From November expectations for the rest of the year. 2011 the business group Sustainable, The managing director followed this Communities and Water was renamed up in November and December 2011 Environment and Water to align more with a presentation to staff on the year with clients. The managing director for in review and the strategy for 2012. A-P reports to the chief operating officer These presentations also provided the for AAPSA. opportunity for staff to ask questions. Informing the directorate are committees for: Dr Jim Mantle ——people and culture ——clients and delivery Jim is committed to working alongside our ——finance and operations. clients and staff to make a difference and ensure we leave a positive legacy for future These committees link directly with generations. our strategic plan. Jim has been Managing Director of Across our corporate governance A-P since 2008. Previously at Parsons structure, we abide by our values Brinckerhoff, Jim was director of operations and ethics. and led the Victorian arm for over 15 years, growing the practice from a project ‘startSubcommittees operate providing up’ operation to more than 250 staff. specific areas of expertise, such as the remuneration committee which sits under Jim has over 22 years of project delivery the finance and operations committee. and leadership experience. He has assisted in delivering exceptional results Employees have the opportunity to raise for government and industry clients issues with the directorate through contact across a broad range of infrastructure with the directors or managers. and environmental engineering projects, including Airport Link, Tullamarine-Calder Interchange Alliance and the M1 West Gate Freeway Alliance. Jim is Chair of the Board of Engineering Aid Australia, a registered charity that aims to grow the number of Indigenous engineers in our community. 12 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Business Group Directors Mark Keogh Roger Pattison Dr David Adams Director Director Director Transport Energy, Mining and Industry Environment and Water Mark’s key focus is on all operational and Roger brings 15 years of hands-on David was appointed to the role in June business development aspects of Parsons engineering experience in mining, 2009, when Parsons Brinckerhoff moved Brinckerhoff’s transport group and the transport, water and urban development to a markets-aligned business model. accelerated capability development of this to his position, and a further ten In his leadership role, David oversees business. years experience managing complex water, government services, environment multidisciplinary studies and projects. and planning. Mark’s professional consulting specialities include project director He has been at the forefront of some of David has helped develop sustainable and manager of multidisciplinary Queensland’s most notable engineering outcomes for complex projects for a project development commissions, projects, including the Rolleston Coal wide range of our transport, energy, environmental impact assessments, Project, Dawson Valley Project, Tugun mining, industry, sustainable communities strategic and statutory planning studies, Bypass Planning Alliance, Port of Brisbane and water clients. ‘The Environment strategic communications advice, Motorway, Future Port Expansion Seawall and Water group adds value to all our policy development and environmental Alliance, Tarong Alliance, North–South projects by aligning client and community management reports. Bypass Tunnel, Lake Lindsay, Airport Link expectations,’ David states. and the Coal Stream Alliance – Jilalan. Mark has previously fulfilled the roles of Parsons Brinkerhoff’s NSW Environment and In his previous role as regional director, for Planning Executive, Parsons Brinckerhoff’s Parsons Brinckerhoff Queensland, Roger NSW Infrastructure Executive, Director led a values implementation program of National Delivery and Director of that encouraged and supported staff in National Services. achieving excellence in all aspects of their working life. Roger is a member of Griffith University’s Industry Advisory Panel for Environmental Engineering, and is active in a range of professional associations. Parsons Brinckerhoff 13 Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2011 Shared Service Directors Deborah Burt Shaun Nugent Director Peter Hiley Director People and Corporate Director Operations and Capability Sustainability Finance As director for operations and capability, Deborah is the steward of Parsons Peter is a seasoned CFO with over 25 years Shaun has been instrumental in the Brinckerhoff people management experience in professional services within growth and continued prosperity of the strategy, which aims to ensure that every legal, consulting and engineering across business groups within Australia and New staff member can realise their potential Asia and global enterprises. He has strong Zealand. He brings to his position 21 years while helping to achieve the company’s expertise in leading finance under GAPP of hands-on engineering experience in priorities and goals. In her role, she and IFRSs, and the management reporting civil infrastructure, structural, materials offers a wide range of business skills in to international stakeholders. handling, coastal, ocean and systems change management, negotiation, and engineering. He has extensive experience learning and development. These are Specific functions incorporates the in the design and delivery of power and further coupled with project management, development of strategies to deliver industrial sector projects that require financial acumen and leadership skills. effective and efficient services from multidisciplinary teams, and has taken a the finance function, business process number of these projects from inception Deborah has over 30 years HR experience, re-engineering, asset/cash management, to full operation, guiding them through the most recently as a freelance HR consultant risk management, project profitability, and feasibility study stage, permitting, design providing services in human resource implementing cost reduction strategies. and construction. management, mediation and corporate sustainability. Prior to this, she was with Immediately before joining Parsons Shaun has been involved in some of our Zurich Financial Services Australia, where Brinckerhoff, Peter was a financial most notable engineering projects as a she worked for more than six years as consultant to many of the leading legal member of alliance leadership teams and Head of HR and for six months as Acting firms within Australia. His experience project boards. He has collaborated with Chief Information Officer. Deborah is a includes roles as a CEO and also as a clients and project members to determine graduate of the Australian Institute of Chief Financial Officer (Asia-Pacific) for strategy, stimulate innovation and ensure Directors, holds a Bachelor of Economics Norton Rose, National Business Director projects meet and exceed their key (Hons) and is currently studying for a and Controller of Ernst & Young Consulting performance indicators. He has been a Masters in Environmental Management. (Asia-Pacific). Peter initially trained as an part of the senior management teams for auditor with PwC. the Rolleston Coal Project, Dawson Valley Project, Tarong Alliance, North–South Bypass Tunnel, Lake Lindsay, Airport Link and the Coal Stream Alliance — Jilalan. 14 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Shared Service Directors REGIONAL DIRECTORS Ross Young Dr David Director Cruickshanks-Boyd Paul Reed Markets, Strategy Regional Director Regional Director and Communications South Australia Western Australia Ross has been involved in infrastructure David is responsible for developing and Paul has over 34 years of experience as a planning and delivery in the mining, power maintaining strategic client relationships for consulting engineer, primarily in Western and water sectors for over 30 years. He Parsons Brinckerhoff in South Australia. Australia but also with consulting firms has worked in the public and private Since 2002, he has led Parsons Brinckerhoff with national and international operations. sectors and has a broad mix of project, through an aggressive growth phase to He is currently a Director of Consult business and management experience. the point where the firm now delivers Australia, a Fellow of Engineers Australia many of South Australia’s most significant and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of As Director Markets, Strategy and infrastructure projects. He is an advocate Logistics and Transport. Communications Ross is accountable for alternative project delivery methods, for guiding the creation and execution of and has an excellent understanding of the During his career, Paul’s consultancy the firm’s strategy, positioning Parsons benefits of modern alliancing approaches experience has encompassed the Brinckerhoff as the firm our clients and delivery models. planning and design of major road and and partners most want to work with. rail infrastructure, planning for ports Fundamental to success is that all our David is the former deputy chair of and marine infrastructure as well as people are engaged in the strategy, South Australia’s Environment Protection associated industrial sites, solid waste achieved through a commitment to Authority, and was actively involved with management and disposal, contaminated extraordinary communication. the State of the Environment Report in land assessments, development and late 2003. A Fellow of Engineers Australia, implementation of clean-up strategies, he is the Immediate Past President of community consultation programs, Engineers Australia SA Division. He is and the leadership of term consultancy also on the Board of the Engineers contracts for government agencies. Australia Centre for Engineering Leadership and Management (CELM). Paul has held a leadership role in a major In his role with Engineers Australia David road alliance contract and for a variety of is on the National Steering Committees high profile consultancy contracts. He has for Code of Ethics, and Reconciliation worked within consulting organisations to Action Plan. David is also on the Board set and lead the implementation of strategic of Austraining International. directions for the business. He has prepared and administered contracts across the industry, including consulting assignments, design and construct, alliance, procurement and construction projects. Parsons Brinckerhoff 15 Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2011 REGIONAL DIRECTORS David Stuart-Watt Regional Director Denis Cook Derek McCoy New South Wales and Regional Director Regional Director Australian Capital Territory Queensland New Zealand David was educated in Australia and Denis applies more than 40 years of Based in Auckland, Derek has over France and holds Bachelors and Masters experience in engineering and project 30 years’ experience in infrastructure degrees in Engineering, and a Master of management to lead a regional strategy engineering in the United Kingdom, South Business Administration. He is a Fellow based on high performance and a Africa and New Zealand. During his career of the Institute of Engineers Australia and client-focused culture. He is responsible he has developed special competence in a Member of the Australian Institute of for engaging with our Brand clients in commercial management, negotiation of Company Directors, President of Roads Queensland and working with the infrastructure contracts, planning consents Australia and a member of the World business groups to strengthen the and associated legal agreements, Executive Committee of International organisational culture. management of transportation, Road Federation. development and multidiscipline While Denis holds qualifications in civil engineering projects. Before joining Parsons Brinckerhoff, David engineering, specialising in estuarine was the Director of Licensing, Registration and coastal processes, for the past 20 Derek has developed strong working and Freight with the NSW Roads and years his focus has been on strategic relationships within the New Zealand Traffic Authority, as well as a Director planning and the early stages of Transport Agency, the NZ Government’s of ARRB Group, Transport Certification project development. transport delivery organisation, and Australia and the former Tow Truck within major New Zealand contracting Authority of NSW. Prior to working with Parsons Brinckerhoff, organisations. Since his appointment in Denis was the Deputy Coordinatorearly 2010, Derek’s local knowledge and For 25 years, David held a variety of General for the Queensland Government, experience has been a great asset as he positions with the Department of Main providing strategic leadership to the state’s focuses his efforts on guiding Parsons Roads and then the Road Transport economic development and infrastructure Brinckerhoff’s strategic growth across Authority (RTA) before joining local initiatives. He was awarded the Public all sectors. government in London, England. In 1995, Service Medal in the 2006 Queen’s David returned to the RTA as a Director, Birthday Honours for outstanding public He joined Parsons Brinckerhoff after and in 2000 was a Director of Transport service and leadership in the planning, a successful consulting career in New Operations for the Sydney Olympic development and delivery of major Zealand, as well as various UK-based Games. David has held senior executive infrastructure throughout Queensland. consultancies. roles for the past 15 years, and has over Denis is a Director of the Australian Green 30 years’ experience in infrastructure, Infrastructure Council and Fellow of regulation, traffic and transport. Engineers Australia, and a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. 16 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report REGIONAL DIRECTORS Remuneration Senior staff are eligible for an annual bonus, based on the financial performance of the company and in relation to identified key responsibility areas and performance indicators. These indicators range across the areas of values, people and culture, clients and delivery, and finance and operations, and are a means of assessing the performance of the directorate. The three components to the scheme are: ——key performance indicators (KPIs) — a one-in-all-in notion of shared responsibility for our achievements against our company key result areas and strategy ——business unit function KPIs — evaluated against business unit or functional targets ——individual KPIs — tied to our annual performance review program, John Theodoulou Realise Your Potential (RYP). Regional Director Victoria The system is open and transparent and drives alignment between individual, team and corporate goals. Everyone John has more than 29 years’ experience in the scheme is given feedback on in engineering, marketing and business their individual performance and on the management in consulting services firms company as whole. The scheme also and the construction sector. His skills contains a discretionary bonus clause for include business unit management, staff who sit outside the bonus plan but business development, strategic planning, are identified by management as deserving design management and financial analysis. of recognition. His career spans project and design work in buildings, bridges, maritime structures, oil and gas, and the industrial sector. John is responsible for optimising the total outcomes for Parsons Brinckerhoff in Victoria, ensuring collaboration across all areas of the business, providing strategic and long-term focus, and developing and delivering capabilities and processes that meet clients’ needs. Parsons Brinckerhoff 17 Integrity To me, integrity is not just about acting consistently within your values, it is also about understanding what your values and beliefs are, and how they impact others in terms of creating a sustainable and positive culture in our society at large. For me, it’s about taking a stance even at personal cost, and helping others understand and see different perspectives. I think it is not only important to have integrity, but also to ask yourself to what and whom do I have integrity. Integrity is not just about being honest, it is about holding yourself and others to account. I see the value of integrity as critical for my role and personally. Jodi Needham Group People Executive, Energy, Mining and Industry 18 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Integrity Our Approach As a subsidiary of Balfour Beatty, we have aligned with their code of conduct policy, We understand that the advice we give to all stakeholders needs to be consistently which includes access to an ethics hotline. objective, unbiased and based on the Parsons Brinckerhoff believes in acting appropriate laws, regulations and industry The Balfour Beatty ethics training adds standards. with integrity and respect across all to the standards, procedures and codes operations and business dealings. We that cover expectations of our behaviour To ensure our values and ethics continue believe sustainability is, above all, an in regard to our professions, our personal to inform how we think, act and behave, ethical responsibility that involves respect conduct, the way we do business, an e-learning module was developed, for our environment, our population and the integrity of our marketing and the and in 2010 all staff were requested future generations in equal measure. standards of our project partners. to review the module and affirm their At Parsons Brinckerhoff acting with commitment to the values and ethics that integrity in servicing the needs of our Balfour Beatty has in place policies based drive our business. clients, upholding the law, caring for the on the company’s values of integrity, environment and generating beneficial teamwork, excellence and respect. Balfour All new staff joining our business are outcomes for our own and our clients’ Beatty’s code of conduct stems directly introduced to our values and ethics soon stakeholders, governs how we work. We from its values. These policies and values after commencing. This represents some also consider disclosure of our financial ensure that all employees make the 737 employee hours spent in values and status to be an issue of integrity, and right decisions and prevent them from ethics training during 2011. therefore report our financial performance conducting business unethically or from under this value. being exposed to serious risks. The code underlines the company’s ethics and the responsibility of all employees to Our Code protect the company from risk, both legal and reputational. It also offers employees of Conduct principles on how their values can be translated into everyday actions. Parsons Brinckerhoff’s reputation as a Key issues covered within highly ethical global organisation is one of its most valuable intangible assets. This the Balfour Beatty code reputation, forged over more than 125 of conduct include: years in the engineering and construction ——risk management management industry, provides assurances to our clients, teaming partners, vendors, ——safety and health and employees that the organisation is ——environment committed to the highest standards for ——human rights honesty, respect, integrity, and transparency. In support of this commitment, Parsons ——equal opportunities Brinckerhoff implemented a Global ——ethics and competitive behaviour Compliance Program with its Code of ——data protection. Conduct. The Code of Conduct provides guidance and instruction to all stake holders on personal and business integrity, working relationship, sustainability, company property, resources and information management. The company insists on integrity in all aspects of its business and from those with whom it conducts business. Ethics Training Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Employees Hours Employees Hours Employees Hours Employees Hours Employees Hours 130 194 125 175 126 181 115 187 496 737 Parsons Brinckerhoff 19 Integrity United Nations UNGC 10 principles and Parsons Brinckerhoff responsive initiatives Global Compact Principles Responsive initiatives 1 Businesses should support Corporate Responsibility program based Parsons Brinckerhoff became a signatory and respect the protection of on Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), to the UNGC in 2009, and since then we internationally proclaimed human Organisation for Economic Co-operation have mapped new and ongoing initiatives rights and Development (OECD) guidelines, 2010 to these principles. Our focus in 2011 representation on UN Global Compact was on diversity through the initiatives working group on business and human rights outlined by the Diversity Council and in our Reconciliation Action Plan. 2 Businesses should make sure Ethics training and hotline they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3 Businesses should uphold the Human Resources policy freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Businesses should uphold the Procurement policy elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Businesses should uphold the Not identified as a problem within the effective abolition of child labour business 6 Business should uphold the Diversity Council, Reconciliation Action elimination of discrimination Plan, signatory to the UN Women’s in respect of employment Empowerment Principles and occupation 7 Businesses should support Since 2009, the precautionary approach a precautionary approach to has been included in our Environment environmental challenges policy 8 Businesses should undertake Climate Change policy, Green Teams, Flyinitiatives to promote greater Free Weeks, Environment Week initiatives, environmental responsibility partnering with Conservation Volunteers 9 Businesses should encourage Investment in research and development the development and diffusion and innovation, including the Sustainable of environmentally friendly Built Environment national research centre, technologies and founding members of the Australian Green Infrastructure Council 10 Businesses should work against Ethics training and hotline corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 20 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report UNGC – Parsons Brinckerhoff Women’s Empowerment Principles and Parsons Brinckerhoff responsive initiatives Hosts Inaugural Principles Responsive initiatives Training Session 1 Establish high-level corporate CEO-level hard commitment to increasing leadership for gender equality female representation at Board and On June 6 2011, Parsons Brinckerhoff leadership level on 2012 strategic plan hosted the inaugural UNGC national training day. The session, run by Rosemary CEO’s Statement for Support of the UN Sainty of the UNGC focal point, coached Women’s Empowerment Principles those who attended through reporting requirements and provided an opportunity Women’s Network replaced by Diversity for signatories to talk about their experience Council to allow focus on gender diversity in implementing the UNGC. Corporate more broadly — not just female-focussed Sustainability Executive, Caroline Holmstrom issues of Parsons Brinckerhoff, talked about the implementation of the Women’s Diversity Council and associated strategy Empowerment Principles in the organisation. invests in creating an inclusive culture by valuing and promoting women in our business UN Women’s Managing Director and Directorate involvement in understanding why Empowerment women leave Parsons Brinckerhoff Principles Recruiting female leaders The inclusion of a non-executive director of multiple Australian companies involved In 2010, Parsons Brinckerhoff became a in Diversity Council signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. These principles provide Parsons Brinckerhoff with a framework to 2 Treat all women and men fairly Supporting carer responsibilities ensure a holistic and values-based strategy at work — respect and support human rights and non-discrimination Enabling successful part-time managers towards gender diversity, challenging the company to broaden its thinking. Below Corporate code of ethics and conduct is a summary of the principles and Parsons Brinckerhoff’s response. Corporate values Corporate policies for harassment, bullying and discrimination 3 Ensure the health, safety and Whole of Life strategy and program wellbeing of all women and men enabling flexible working arrangements workers and employment conditions Increased maternity allowance of 16 weeks’ pay for permanent female employees Accreditation from the Australian Breastfeeding Association for the provision of breastfeeding facilities in our main capital city offices continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 21 Integrity Ethics and Women’s Empowerment Principles and Parsons Brinckerhoff responsive initiatives – continued Communicating Principles Responsive initiatives With Our Clients 4 Promote education, training Female role models and mentors program Parsons Brinckerhoff has a media policy and professional development in its second year with 96% enrolment that outlines our ethical approach to media for women in 2011 relations. In addition, our clients and markets business procedures describe Strengthening of female external and the actions to be taken to implement internal networks our marketing plan and to support the marketing function across the business. Focus on realising women’s leadership potential as part of the overall approach The Parsons Brinckerhoff brand is an to leadership important and valuable asset. The way our brand is represented has a direct Talent management strategy, including influence on our reputation. It is the sum of Success Profiles for each capability and our attributes: our name, values, offerings, role type within Parsons Brinckerhoff people, history, reputation and the way we do business with our clients. Coaching Clinic to encourage a coaching approach to leading and managing people We do not indiscriminately email clients with promotional material and our group 5 Implement enterprise development, Sponsorship of International Conference email communication with clients is supply chain and marketing for Women Engineers and Scientists — for purposes of event invitations, email practices that empower women nine papers presented or included in newsletters for clients in selected markets proceedings and for the distribution of our company magazine. The magazine is informative, Considerations in the development highlights points of interest, and provides and implementation of employee value technically related, project-oriented proposition and recruitment campaigns information to our clients to educate them with industry-relevant advice and research. 6 Promote equality through Supply chain procedures updated to community initiatives and include human rights and labour practices Each email targets a list of existing clients advocacy and stakeholders nominated by our staff Parsons Brinckerhoff involvement with and provides an unsubscribe option. Event Business and Professional Women through invitations and email newsletters are sent the Corporate Sustainability Executive from a named employee with clear contact and feedback within the email. 7 Measure and publicly report on Setting gender leadership targets We use Vision6 for our internal e-newsletters progress to achieve gender equality Annual Equal Opportunity for Women and external group communications. The in the Workplace Agency reporting system has an ‘unsubscribe’ feature. 22 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 Partnerships Engineering Aid Australia Corporate Engineers without Borders Engineering Aid Australia (EAA) is a philanthropic organisation that aims to Responsibility Engineers without Borders (EWB) is an encourage Indigenous students to pursue engineering careers. Program 2011 international development organisation. The Indigenous Australian Engineering It provides opportunities for engineers to volunteer on projects in disadvantaged Summer School (IAESS) is its principal 2011 was the second year of our program on behalf of young Indigenous communities in Australia and overseas. formal corporate responsibility Australians. The school is held annually program. Corporate responsibility is an EWB aligns with our core business, as for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander acknowledgment by organisations that well as being an organisation that is students from around the country. It they have an obligation to contribute well supported by our people. Parsons is a seven-day, live-in summer school, to the overall wellbeing of society and Brinckerhoff people have been involved in featuring a combination of engineering and communities. a variety of roles with EWB over the years. social activities that give students a taste of engineering studies and careers. Underpinning the program are the 10 Through our partnership with EWB and in principles of the United Nations Global the spirit of our Reconciliation Action Plan, Parsons Brinckerhoff has been a supporter Compact (http://www.unglobalcompact. Abtin Misagh from the Sydney office was of IAESS since the first school in 1998. org/aboutthegc/thetenprinciples/index. given the opportunity to experience first Support of EAA aligns with our core html), OECD Guidelines (http://www. hand what connection to land is all about. business, builds the skills of our people oecdguidelines.nl/guidelines/generalas they share their knowledge with the humanrights/) and the Millennium Travelling with 11 passionate engineers Indigenous students, builds capacity for Development Goals (http://www.un.org/ and technical professionals from across the students and demonstrates Parsons millenniumgoals/). Australia, relevant issues and concerns Brinckerhoff’s commitment to Aboriginal to Aboriginal communities were studied. and Torres Strait Islander communities. Dialogues on Country (DoC) was a unique Our support of EAA aligns with the intent opportunity to learn from traditional elders of our Reconciliation Action Plan. on country about the Aboriginal culture, community development and connection In 2011 the schools were run in the to country. University of New South Wales and Curtin University in Western Australia. DoC is aimed at connecting engineering professionals with the traditional owners of the land. This initiative is in its second year and is themed around connecting land, water and culture. Approximately 5000 kilometres was covered in two weeks through Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Learning about water use at Murra Murra Parsons Brinckerhoff 23 Integrity “Before the Summer School I had an interest in engineering and was keen to Other Activities learn more about it and if it would be right for me. [I discovered that] an engineer is In addition to support of the above partners, essentially a problem solver, similar to a Parsons Brinckerhoff also donated to the super hero that saves the day with the Queensland Premier’s flood fund, and the best solution. After completion of the Japanese and Christchurch earthquakes Summer School I knew I definitely wanted through the Red Cross. to be an engineer.” Below is a summary of After his rewarding Summer School experience, Thomas was set on following regional activities: a career path that led to engineering, and started his Engineering Degree in 2009 at Queensland the University of South Australia. Thomas YoungCare has since completed the first three years of his degree and is specialising in structural Cerebral Palsy League Thomas Farren engineering with ambitions to become a Daniel Morcombe Foundation Graduate of EAA professional Structural Engineer. Summer School 2007 Premier’s Disaster Relief “I look forward to being able to feel a Appeal sense of accomplishment in physically seeing a structure and knowing that Western Australia Engineering Possibilities I played a part in its creation.” Dreamfit Foundation Indigenous high school student Thomas Farren always had an interested in how Royal Flying Doctor Service World Vision things worked and how they came to be, Royal Flying Doctor Service is a not-forState Emergency Services but was uncertain about how to utilise his interests and where they could take him in profit service that provides aero-medical emergency and primary health care to South Australia the future. It was then that an opportunity with the Indigenous Australian Engineering people who live, work and travel in regional WaterAid Summer School program became and remote Australia. The Smith Family available, and Thomas joined the Summer We see partnership with the Royal Flying School at the University of New South State Emergency Services Doctor Service as an extension of Parsons Wales in January 2007. Brinckerhoff’s occupational health and safety policy as it enhances the capacity to Victoria The Indigenous Australian Engineering Summer School (IAESS) is an annual care for our people working in remote areas. Cancer Council Victoria event, established 14 years ago by Melbourne City Mission Engineering Aid Australia. The program Conservation Volunteers provides a challenging environment for Red Cross Indigenous students to meet engineering Conservation Volunteers is a not-for-profit, role models and to gain insights into the non-political organisation committed to New South Wales opportunities engineering can provide to providing opportunities for the community our communities. Humpty Dumpty Foundation to make a positive contribution to the environment, through participation in Hunter Medical Research The Summer School program exposed Thomas and the other students to many managed volunteer projects that deliver Institute on-ground conservation outcomes. experiences both within and outside the Multiple Sclerosis Australia university walls. Students participated in hands on activities that explored the many New Zealand areas of engineering, and were taken on a tour through Sydney to see engineering at Christchurch Earthquake work, for example, the CBD underground Response power station and the internal infrastructure for pumping water at the Taronga Zoo. Salvation Army The students also got to meet the likes of Life Flight – Auckland, New South Wales Governor, Marie Bashir at Kirribilli House, as well as former prime Wellington and Christchurch minister, Bob Hawke. 24 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Smart The location of these communities means that access to town water and other Reconciliation Infrastructure services is not available. Naturally elevated levels of nitrate in the groundwater supply in ParsonS Project Award had meant that water quality did not meet the Australian Drinking Guidelines. Brinckerhoff Parsons Brinckerhoff has worked with the WA Department of Housing, the The Remote Area Essential Department of Health, technology Services Program (RAESP) providers and the community to develop – Winner, Providing essential a solution to remove the nitrate from the indigenous services potable supply. Parsons Brinckerhoff – RAES Commonly used technologies such as Program manager; CleanTeq reverse osmosis and ion exchange were – Technology provider ruled out, meaning a unique solution was required. The Remote Area Essential Services The Smart Infrastructure project award Program (RAESP) provides essential recognises excellence in conception and services like sewerage, power and water, commission of smart technologies to deliver to 89 remote Aboriginal communities. The better infrastructure services — and takes program has been managed by Parsons into account Infrastructure Australia’s Brinckerhoff since 2005. key themes. Parsons Brinckerhoff 25 Integrity Reconciliation The Professional Action Plan Growth Network During 2011 we began to act upon the (PGN) and actions that we committed to in our 2010 Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). This saw Corporate several changes in the organisation, from celebrations of Reconciliation Week, to the Responsibility creation of regional engagement strategies and establishing an Aboriginal and Torres In 2010, the PGN A–P rebranded Strait Islander Advisory Committee. The Community Involvement Week as Corporate committee oversees our RAP and, more Responsibility Awareness Week (CRAW) to importantly, acts as a point of reference better align with the Corporate Responsibility for guidance on any Aboriginal or Torres program. CRAW proved so successful that Strait Islander matters. in 2011 the program was extended to a month thus becoming CRAM. Our approach to creating Parsons Brinckerhoff’s RAP has been to look to CRAM was held from 9 May to 3 June in where we already make an impact, such 2011 and included marking Reconciliation as our work in remote areas and our Week. support for the Engineering Aid Indigenous Rebecca Rule Summer Schools, and provide pathways to The key goals of CRAM in Corporate Responsibility build on and improve these relationships. 2011 were to: Initiative Leader In support of our focus on education as ——build sustainable relationships with an employment strategy, we provide five the communities in which we live, scholarships for Aboriginal and Torres work and play Strait Islander tertiary students. These are ——increase awareness of the existing Learning to Lead administered by The Smith Family. CR Program “The role of initiative leader for Corporate ——promote corporate responsibility Responsibility is an extremely rewarding within Parsons Brinckerhoff position within the PGN leadership team. ——encourage client participation It was very satisfying participating in the ——be as inclusive of as many staff CR committee and playing an active role as possible in promoting and supporting our partners ——incorporate Reconciliation Week. and providing opportunities for staff to be involved with the program. The role Over 900 people were involved across gave me increased exposure to senior Parsons Brinckerhoff A–P, including management and the chance to meet and family and friends of staff and clients, with report to the directors in our organisation. over $10,000 being raised for Parsons I developed many important skills which Brinckerhoff partner organisations. young professionals would not always get until later in a professional career including leadership, people management, project management, problem solving and conflict resolution, communication and reporting.” 26 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Sustainable Sustainable Built External Business Australia Environment Sustainability National Research Initiatives Sustainable Business Australia (SBA) draws membership from many sectors and including investors, bankers, Centre technology and infrastructure developers, consultancy and engineering companies. The Sustainable Built Environment SBA is a not-for-profit membership-based National Research Centre (SBEnrc) is the organisation, and has no political ties. successor to the CRC for Construction Funding is derived from membership Innovation. Established on 1 January subscriptions and from staged events 2010, the SBEnrc is a key research and conferences. broker between industry, government and research organisations for the built Parsons Brinckerhoff has been member environment industry. of SBA for the past two years and is represented on the National Council The SBEnrc’s goal is to build an enduring of Directors. value-adding national research and development centre in sustainable In May 2011, Parsons Brinckerhoff infrastructure and building with significant sponsored an SBA forum, ‘Energy funding from Commonwealth, state Efficiency’s role in Australia’s Green and industry members around Australia Economy’, featuring Martin Bowles, and internationally. Deputy Secretary from the Department Climate Change & Energy Efficiency, and The three research streams focus on other industry specialists. environmental, social and economic sustainability, areas identified by national industry stakeholders as the key areas that will drive productivity and industry Australian Green development in the built environment industry over the next ten years. Infrastructure Council (AGIC) The Australian Green Infrastructure Council (AGIC) is a member based industry association committed to the delivery of more sustainable outcomes from the design, construction and operation of Australia’s infrastructure. AGIC was formed in 2008 by industry professionals from engineering, environmental, planning, legal, financial and construction backgrounds working in both private and public organisations related to infrastructure. Parsons Brinckerhoff is a Foundation Member of AGIC. A number of our staff have also supported AGIC since its inception in a voluntary capacity. The principal method for achieving AGIC’s aims is through the development of an infrastructure rating scheme due for release in 2012. Parsons Brinckerhoff 27 Integrity In 2010 and 2011, we saw less reliance Some of the group’s major on government stimulus investment, wins and project completions Financial with funding returning to the private sector. However, the federal government were: Disclosure stimulus package introduced in response to the global financial downturn has seen ——Ulan coal mine project management, New South Wales a significant number of projects near completion. New investment is taking ——Te Mihi geothermal power project, Our Approach place despite the consistent rises in the cost of capital through the year. New Zealand ——Energy Australia Alliance power We understand that financial management We see an ongoing demand for mass systems project, New South Wales. and reporting to stakeholders contributes transit across urban areas. We also see to the economic impact an organisation an ongoing investment in roads and in Transport provided a significant has on the communities in which it public transport, due to population growth contribution to company performance operates and is an issue of integrity. Good still driving demand for core infrastructure, and growth, albeit below expectation. governance and recognition of codes of not only in transport but in power, water, behaviour and ethics is paramount. property, education and health. Some of the group’s major projects were: As one of the world’s leading planning, Parsons Brinckerhoff remains a major environment and infrastructure design contributor to growth in infrastructure, ——Airport Link, Northern Busway firms, Parsons Brinckerhoff plays as we support our clients to meet (Windsor to Kedron) and Airport an important part in the growth and local demand for infrastructure and to Roundabout Upgrade, Queensland development of the economy, by accommodate their growth in supply ——Ipswich Motorway Upgrade, facilitating investment across transport, of services to the growing economies. Queensland power, mining, renewable energy, urban development, water resources, industry, Our business has invested in excess of ——Victoria Park Tunnel, New Zealand and federal projects. $220 million in wages and salaries for our people, and more towards training. We ——Hunter Expressway Alliance, We conduct business from approximately have a spend profile across Australia and New South Wales 60 locations across Australia, not only in New Zealand that supports a broad range ——Glenfield Junction Rail Alliance, our cities and core urban centres, but in of industries, with dominant expenditure New South Wales. regional communities and on project sites. in travel, equipment, recruitment and We are supporting all areas of the market consulting services. Sustainable Communities and Water (now through employment and investment Our business now operates under various Environment and Water) has also been across diverse locations. market groups — Power, Engineering affected by the economic environment, Our contributions to the economy are Services, Mining, Transport, and which has resulted in a slowdown in through the direct and indirect employment Environment and Water. In support of environmental work. and use of skilled personnel, investment these market groups, we provide Strategic in capability, research and product Consulting services. Some of the group’s development and, ultimately, servicing major wins and project industries within the infrastructure sector. Energy, Mining and Industry continued to completions were: feel much of the impact of the slowdown in Government projects represent a the economic environment across 2010– ——continued delivery of Victoria’s significant proportion of our services, 2011, with the proposed introduction of desalination plant, now into the presenting us with the opportunity to the mining industry resource super profit construction phase participate in community programs such tax, and continued uncertainty around the future of the emissions trading scheme ——Moorebank Intermodal Project, as roads, railways, ports, environmental impacting upon business certainty in New South Wales work, townships and water utilities. Australia. The 2011 financial year did not ——North–South Interconnector System The social programs delivered have see a reversal of this indecision, but we Project, South Australia. been diverse and have affected the wealth saw stronger resource prices leading to and growth of the nation. These programs new investment in infrastructure spending vary from assisting in the development and greater opportunities in the market. of housing, communities and towns, to the remediation and clean-up of contaminated sites, or design and program management around the building of bridges and roadways. 28 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Key Financial Environmental Indicators Protection Expenditure Earnings, Assets We consider environmental protection and Revenues to be an ethical integrity issue and have invested in ensuring all our people are 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 trained in environmental awareness. ($m) ($m) ($m) ($m) ($m) Training is further supported by ongoing initiatives aimed at raising awareness Retained $39 $69 $114 $138 $175 and minimising environmental impact in Earnings addition to provision of unlimited access to up-to-date environmental legislation through the online database EnviroLaw. Current $82 $103 $105 $152 $258 Assets The sharing of costs across various areas of the business has made it difficult Gross $256 $363 $448 $470 $538 to accurately determine environmental Revenues expenditure. However, we estimate that in 2011 we spent approximately $130,000 — based on budgets, sound logic and, wherever possible, realised costs. Financial Contributions to Assistance Political Parties Precautionary Received from Principle Parsons Brinckerhoff works with many Government state and federal government departments to deliver essential infrastructure An outcome of the 1992 Rio Conference, the precautionary principle states that if throughout Australia. To engage with an action or policy might cause severe The Research and Development (R&D) tax government, as a significant client, or irreversible harm to society or the concession, administered by AusIndustry, Parsons Brinckerhoff is in regular contact environment, in the absence of a scientific is an ongoing scheme designed to increase with departmental staff in the usual course consensus that harm would not ensue, the level of R&D being conducted by of business development, project planning the burden of proof falls on those who Australian companies. It is broad-based, and infrastructure implementation. advocate taking the action. neither industry-specific nor market-driven, and the applicant decides on the scope Parsons Brinckerhoff is a member of Parsons Brinckerhoff seeks to and timing of the R&D. several organisations that engage with business on behalf of political parties implement the precautionary Parsons Brinckerhoff and our clients in Australia. Memberships to these principle in the following ways: have generated a significant amount of organisations, in the 2011 financial year, R&D expenditure. This includes salary ——adopting a risk-based, context-driven totalled $16,100, which is down from expenditure, contracted expenditure paid approach to all decision making, $16,380 the previous year. Memberships to registered research agencies, and other notably with respect to safety and with these organisations include a expenditures (including overheads and environmental management schedule of free events, which allow consumables) incurred directly in respect Parsons Brinckerhoff to remain engaged ——continually improving the company’s of eligible R&D activities. in policy developments affecting the environmental management system infrastructure sector in Australia. to keep pace with best practice Eligible R&D expenditure into the industry has increased ——responding to the challenge of climate change by striving to significantly: continually reduce our carbon emissions and offsetting those ——$23m in 2007 which cannot be reduced. ——$38m in 2008 ——$29m in 2009 As a values-driven company, we ——$27m in 2010. recognise that the work we do impacts the environment and our communities, so At the time of printing, the figure for 2011 we strive to implement the principles of was unavailable but will be updated in our sustainable development in all our work. next report. Parsons Brinckerhoff 29 Teamwork Together Everyone Achieves More. Corny or truism? Have you ever thought about it? What does the saying really mean? Surely it’s more than a play on words. I asked around and this is what my colleagues say about teamwork. ——united with one purpose in mind ——mutual trust and respect ——working collaboratively and supporting each other in solving our clients challenges ——confidence in all those around you ——faith and hope in times of adversity, problem solving and high workloads ——a sense of belonging and camaraderie amongst like-minded souls ——shared leadership. Scott Newman Section Executive, Structural Engineering 30 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Teamwork Being a Trusted Adviser Throughout 2011, we continued to develop our Trusted Adviser Program (TAP), which is dedicated to building client relationships. The TAP program: ——recognises that client relationships are long-term ——regards client relationships as a role that everyone in the business plays ——understands that client relationships impact at strategic, cultural and operational levels ——understands that client relationships are ongoing and not just projectbased Queensland staff volunteering with Conservation Volunteers Photo – Chris Jensen ——recognises that relationships are formed and maintained through direct, personal contact. Our Approach Our internal training and development programs underpin the success of this People are what makes our business. The CLIENTS program, and our systems allow us to involve technical experts from across power of people working together makes for a better workplace, better outcomes the world to contribute to the success of a project. and better project delivery for our clients. Our Approach Collaboration is critical to the success The challenge of providing infrastructure with less funding, fewer resources and of this approach, and we take practical We work with our clients, not just for them. steps to work effectively with our clients, more environmental constraints poses Our client relationship management (CRM) such as agreed relationship and service complex issues for our clients: how should approach aims to direct our resources briefs, joint meetings to discuss industry we invest, organise, implement? Clients to our clients’ projects and continues to issues and problem-solving and regular require business and engineering solutions strengthen these relationships through client satisfaction audits throughout that are practical, intelligent and innovative. excellent delivery. each project. Teamwork is at the core of bringing We invest in understanding our clients’ together such solutions. The Strategic business environment to provide a Consulting Group works as an integral consistently high standard of project capability within the wider Parsons delivery. We provide practical advice Brinckerhoff team to leverage expertise that meets our clients project needs in the business and the Balfour Beatty and business drivers. Group. Within the Strategic Consulting Group, project managers work closely with dedicated industry sector leads and client directors to focus expertise and services for clients in mining, power, energy, transport, environment and water. Collaboration and knowledge sharing are essential to create efficiencies for our clients, and promote the development of emerging markets, such as facilities management. Strategic Consulting Group Parsons Brinckerhoff 31 Teamwork Post-Project Top Three Client Client Survey Strengths and Relationships We survey our clients about our Weaknesses A team representing all of Parsons performance (service and technical quality) Brinckerhoff’s operating companies and at the end of our projects. The surveys Heery International have been working are conducted face-to-face, by telephone together to review the tools needed to or by email. The outcomes of the survey globally support our client relationship are forwarded to an appropriate person management approach. In 2012, we will for follow-up as required. Reports on Top Three be implementing a global client relationship individual strong performance or poor Strengths management solution, Oracle CRM performance are sent to the Business OnDemand. This system will support the Systems team and included as part of Score technical needs and collaboration required the improvement process. out of 10 to further enhance our CRM approach. A number of key performance indicators Friendly/strong rapport 8.35 In addition to project conversations, we (KPIs) relating to client satisfaction are need to undertake more relationship outlined in the A–P strategic plan and Technical expertise 8.12 level conversations with clients that can measured from this survey process. provide insight into their business and check the strength of our relationship. We In 2011, 301 surveys were completed, from Listened to your needs 8.03 also need to increase the level of training 444 surveys sent — a 68% strike-rate. related to client relationship management methodology, so that people within the business and those who have taken on roles as part of CRM teams have the skills they need for success. Top Three Weaknesses Score out of 10 Occupational health and 7.24 safety leadership and/or performance Value provided by 7.27 Parsons Brinckerhoff on the project as assessed by project performance relative to fees paid Cost consciousness 7.35 32 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Principles Manager effectiveness score was 63%, showing a significant improvement on COLLEAGUES That Drive 2010 (49%) but with more work to do when compared to the global average Our Approach of Kenexa clients 74%. Our Approach Both of these scores, and the corresponding priority items, have continued to inform A Positive Culture the actions Parsons Brinckerhoff is taking Parsons Brinckerhoff understands that the We are proud to have established a to positively influence engagement and sustainability of our business is driven and positive and constructive corporate culture. manager effectiveness. This applies at an influenced by the performance, motivation Since 2007, we have set up strategies to A–P employee, business group, and in some and productivity of our people, along with purposefully develop a sustainable working cases, team level. the efficiency and effectiveness of the culture that is fair, safe, challenging and In 2011, the results were shared with all systems, policies and procedures in place rewarding — both for our people and our staff and a summary of their feedback to support them. We see that delivering clients. We strive for a culture where we comments was also provided. Individual on our commitment to be a sustainable can seamlessly and efficiently realise the managers with their HR partners used business requires significant investment potential of our business and our people in the material to hold discussions with in a range of strategic and operational an environment focused on achievement their teams on an ad hoc basis. Analysis people initiatives. and collaboration. of different group results enabled In 2011 our focus was on: We have conducted external benchmarking senior management and HR to identify and measurement of culture using the specific problem areas and implement ——driving operational excellence in Human Synergistics Organisational Cultural improvement plans. critical service delivery activities Inventory (OCI) in 2007, 2008 and 2009. (including mobility, recruitment Our next survey is planned for March 2012. and system effectiveness) ——enhancing our leadership and A commitment to Respect for management development approach that ensures we have the leaders Employee Engagement Individual Choices: and Satisfaction and managers capable of delivering our business strategy Freedom of Our global employee engagement survey ——embedding career development is undertaken annually and is administered Association framework to ensure our people are and Collective by Kenexa. able to work on interesting projects with interesting career paths Our most recent survey was undertaken ——using workforce planning and talent in May 2011 and was completed by 1,549 Bargaining employees within A–P, equating to a 74% management processes to achieve employee participation rate — a significant a competitive advantage Parsons Brinckerhoff respects its improvement from 61% in 2010. employees’ freedom of association. Our ——developing remuneration strategies The survey provided a snapshot of staff current employee contracts and collective and practices that sustain our engagement, based on their responses agreement set no boundaries on this. business performance and drive employee attraction and retention. to four questions which comprise the employee engagement index. In addition, In 2011, 32% of employees were covered employees were asked to provide a by a collective agreement. This agreement As a values-based organisation, we have is specific to clauses that comply with the a long history and heritage of developing rating in response to the statement ‘my manager is an outstanding leader’ as an building and construction industry code of our people, and creating a positive, flexible practice. All other terms and conditions of and rewarding working environment. indication of the overall effectiveness of our managers. employment are included in relevant state Our initiatives include flexible work hours, awards, Notional Agreement Preserving a recognition of individual performance, and State Award (NAPSA), and supplemented The employee engagement score was offering services and benefits that contribute in individual contracts. steady at 62% as a year-on-year result. to the wellbeing of our employees. However, global average scored by Kenexa clients increased from 65% in 2010 to 74% in 2011 creating a considerable gap in our result. Parsons Brinckerhoff 33 Teamwork A Snapshot of Our Staff Turnover and Retention Absenteeism Workforce Profile By the end of 2011, the annualised turnover rate was 13.5% compared to an The number of days lost through sick or carer’s leave as a % of payroll has been: industry average of 14.9%. 2009 — 2.1% Striving for sustainability through In 2009, a concerning trend in our female operational efficiency and excellence. 2010 — 2.0% retention rate was identified, with the rate being some 30% higher than our male 2011 — 2.2% Recruitment Practices turnover rate. After initiatives supported by our Women’s Network, formed in 2009, This rate is not considered to be a cause The recruitment focus for 2011 was to the business experienced a significant for concern. support strong organic growth in certain reduction in the percentage of female sectors, for example mining, and maintain turnover, with the difference between employment levels in other sectors such males and females falling to 16% by end as transport and environment. We prefer of 2010. At the end of 2011 we were very to conduct our own recruitment using pleased to see that voluntary turnover in-house recruitment specialists. amongst women was 12.7% compared to 14.1% for men. Our source of hires has changed significantly over the past few years. We have decreased our recruitment agency usage to only 11% of hires, with a corresponding decrease in cost to the business. With this decrease, we have seen Employment Profile an increase in other sourcing methods such as advertising, direct approach and employee referrals, which in 2011 Category Full-time Part-time Casual and Fixed-term Total accounted for 28% of new hires. This permanent permanent in-house contractors has almost doubled in the past two years. contractors Our focus on these strategies has also P13 Financial 1,395 114 212 74 1,795 led to an increase in the retention of our year 2007 new starters. In 2008, 11.35% of new starters left in the first six months. In P13 Financial 1,794 152 257 42 2,245 2011 there was a 7% turnover amongst year 2008 new hires. This has significant impacts on the sustainability of our recruitment function, and is also a large saving for our P13 Financial 1,842 163 244 45 2,284 training and development, and recruitment year 2009 budgets. It means that the people we select are competent to perform the role P13 Financial 1,988 172 191 36 2,387 and a good fit for our culture. year 2010 In 2011, we saw a 7.3% decline in our P13 Financial 1,822 170 178 23 2,193 workforce, with total employee numbers year 2011 decreasing from 2,387 at the end of 2010 to 2,212 at the end of 2011. The vast majority of this decline occurred as a Parsons Brinckerhoff A-P financial year is divided into 13 four-week reporting periods. direct result of the decision to start a new P refers to those four-week periods. business — the Global Mining Business. A large number of engineering employees with mining experience previously employed by A–P transferred to the Global Mining Business, which is not covered by this report. 34 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Notice Periods Diversity While the notice period as outlined below Our overall workforce numbers have been did not alter during 2011 from our previous relatively static during 2011, and so too is structure, during 2011 we did improve our workforce profile of age, gender and the redundancy compensation for longer years of service. serving employees (20 years and over) to 22 weeks’ pay for <45 years and 26 Parsons Brinckerhoff continues to induct weeks’ pay for over 45 years. all new staff into our diversity and equal opportunity polices, with 304 people trained in 2011, representing 285 hours of investment. Notice Periods Gender At the end of 2011, our permanent Employment Pay period Years of Minimum workforce gender profile was 31% female type service notice period and 69% male. This ratio has remained stable for several years. Notice to be Any Not applicable On probationary 2 weeks In April 2011, we reported on our current given by the period performance in gender pay equity. This employee when was 92% of female pay to male for an termination is Permanent Fortnightly Not applicable 2 weeks equivalent position. Given the wider initiated by the industry statistic that shows females employee Permanent Four-weekly Not applicable 4 weeks typically earn 18% less than men, it is important to note that performance in Notice to Any Not applicable On probationary 2 weeks gender pay equity in Parsons Brinckerhoff be given period is much more balanced. by Parsons As we are committed to performanceBrinckerhoff Permanent Fortnightly Not more 2 weeks based remuneration structures, gender when the than 3 years salary parity will continue to be monitored. termination continuous During 2011, justifiable steps were taken is initiated service to specifically address this issue, with the by Parsons average salary increase for female staff Brinckerhoff* Permanent Fortnightly More than 3 3 weeks members being 5.03% compared or Four-weekly but not more to 4.83% for males. than 5 years continuous service * The Notice period given by Parsons Brinckerhoff shall increase by one week if the employee is over 45 years old and has completed at least two years of continuous service with the employer. The above notice periods also do not apply for redundancy situations; redundancy notice periods are given below. Notice Periods – Redundancy Period of continous service Notice of termination in redundancy situations Less than 1 year At least 1 month 1 year and less than 5 years At least 1 month 5 years and over At least 5 weeks Parsons Brinckerhoff 35 Teamwork In 2011 a survey was conducted and found Gender % by Position Categor FY11 the following: 100% 95% 76% 100% 6% 14% 10% 26% 25% 56% 20% ——Awareness 90% While staff are making use of 80% various facilities provided in the Whole of Life program, a large 70% number appear to be unaware of the details of the program. In 60% particular, managers need to be made aware of the program, 50% and need to apply it consistently throughout the organisation. 40% ——Perceptions 30% While 89% of respondents indicated 20% that they felt that their colleagues were supportive of flexible work 10% arrangements, there were multiple 5% 24% 94% 86% 90% 100% 74% 100% 75% 44% 80% comments relating to poor 0% perceptions held by colleagues. n tio or to r r to ive er er er tor l na ist ica l The prevailing workplace attitudes vis ag ad ag ial na re and practices have not adapted to ra c ut re c sio hn ist Ad or ec an Le an es ec di Di Di Sp Te m in Co Ex al M M g in Prof c accommodate carer responsibilities. er Ad en an ag Women are expected to work as G M hard or harder than their colleagues to advance. Men with carer Male Female responsibilities are in an equally difficult position as the expectation that they have a wife who will manage care remains, despite the large Following a restructure in 2009, we The following initiatives number of women in the Australian established new position categories in work force. 2010, with staff being mapped to the new are highlighted: structure. This restructure makes some The Women’s Network, formed in late ——Advancement data difficult to compare with data prior to 2009, was renamed The Diversity Council 2009. However, the results in 2011 have Staff making use of flexible work in 2011 to better reflect the inclusive not improved when compared to 2010: hours have expressed concern nature of the group’s work. In 2011 about limiting their career the Council focused on flexibility: ——We have seen no change in gender advancement through missing out representation at director and ——enabling successful part-time on the major projects that require general manager level during the working relationships and promoting full-time involvement. Respondents reporting phase. the concept of part-time managers noted that it is easy to become ‘out of the loop’ when your availability ——The increased number of women ——understanding whether there are any is limited. Others tend to schedule holding managerial positions in cultural or systems barriers to ensure meetings during non-core hours, at 2010 — from 22% in 2009, to 28% part-time work is a successful and short notice or on days when not all in 2010 – has declined slightly, from viable option for staff. The number participants are available. 28% to 26%. Most positions in our of people categorised as managers new structure were appointed via an and working part-time at the end of open and competitive process. 2011 was 165 We continue to work to improve gender ——understanding the support needs equity in the workforce, and we see of our staff (child care/elder care). this as a challenge that will enhance our workplace and make us a more sustainable organisation. To help address our gender balance, we have developed initiatives aimed at attracting and retaining women in our workplace. 36 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report The following initiatives are in Family-Friendly Workplace Discrimination response to the survey results: Program Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to providing an environment where ——Women’s mentoring Parsons Brinckerhoff continues to provide a family-friendly workplace by providing employees and others in the workplace are In 2011, all women falling into the paid maternity leave, support for fathers treated fairly and with respect, free from category ‘executive’ which includes after the birth of a child and flexible discrimination, harassment and bullying. managerial and non-managerial working hours. roles (29 women), were offered We have equal-opportunity guidelines the opportunity to partner with a In 2011 we decided to continue our that all employees can easily access on mentor, either internally or externally 16 weeks paid maternity leave (offered Hub, our global intranet. The purpose of sourced — 27 accepted. In late 2011 to permanent female employees with these guidelines is to ensure employment we began the process to match all a minimum of 12 months service) in decisions are based on an individual’s female team leaders with a mentor as addition to the legislated parental leave merit and relevant attributes. well. Four female team leaders have entitlements. Fathers may access Should any employee believe they are been matched to a mentor so far. their accumulated sick leave to take a being discriminated against or harassed, maximum of 10 days carer’s leave when we have easily accessible advice regarding ——Development opportunities their child is born. reporting procedures. We also provide for women contacts for outside agencies that can The major leadership development Women in Leadership be of assistance. programs in 2011 were the Accelerated Development Program The number of women holding senior (ADP), which had a 36% female leadership roles — director or general participation rate, and Leadership manager — has not improved. Steps Essentials which had a 23% taken in 2011 to change this include: participation rate. ——Directorate (our senior leadership team) have agreed to be accountable ——Women’s internal for achievement against leadership networking targets and will review progress on Regional representative teams a quarterly basis. conducted a variety of guest speaker ——In taking on this accountability, and networking opportunities for directors understand expectations female staff within each office/ about preferred background region. Male staff were invited to and experience must change. participate though the emphasis on The potential to perform a role each occasion was to explain the is now based less on traditional role of the Diversity Council and/or career progression and more on showcase a female leader and their transferable competencies and journey to reach their career goals. capabilities. The appointment of two non-engineering people to ——Diversity council engineering management roles in communications 2011 is a sign of a new willingness by traditional business managers The 2011 Diversity Council Annual to reconsider the relative priority Report showcases our work and of different selection criteria. raises the profile of men and women who are taking advantage of the opportunities provided for Nationality of Origin flexible work practices and personal development. Australian legislation prevents the collection of data regarding ethnicity except on a voluntary basis. Although we ask employees to volunteer this information when we collect new hire information, approximately only 5% of employees do so. Therefore, to report this data would be a false representation of our employee profile. Parsons Brinckerhoff 37 Teamwork Flexible Working Working in Wellbeing Arrangements Parsons Brinckerhoff Flexible work hours allow the best Employee possible balance between our employees’ work requirements and their personal Assistance commitments. Benefits Program Parsons Brinckerhoff has a range of flexible working arrangements, including permanent part-time work, part-time work In Australia, legislation requires that all Our Employee Assistance Program after parental leave, casual work and carer’s part-time employees (except temporary provides short-term, free, confidential leave. Our Whole of Life program includes: employees) have the same benefits as counselling and support for our people and full-time employees. These employees their families. This covers both work and ——variable starting and finishing times, receive: personal issues they would like to discuss. with core hours between 10 am and 3 pm ——annual leave The program is provided by PPC Worldwide, ——sick or carer’s leave an international organisation whose main ——self-funded annual leave — the focus is employee wellbeing. All coaching opportunity to purchase additional ——compassionate leave and counselling is provided either off-site annual leave ——long service leave at one of PPC Worldwide’s national ——mid-service leave — the ability to ——parental leave. counselling locations or over the phone. PPC accrue 12 weeks over three years Worldwide’s counsellors are all professionally and take three months leave In our Australian operations, we pay qualified psychologists or social workers employer contributions of 9% to an ——parental leave — up to 16 weeks with substantial experience, located employee’s superannuation fund, as salary (increased from six weeks throughout Australia and New Zealand. required by legislation. In New Zealand we in 2010) in paid maternity leave to comply with the appropriate legislation. permanent female employees with over 12 months service; new fathers Employee may take a maximum of 10 days carer’s leave at the time of their Recognition child’s birth. Self-funded annual leave has proved Quarterly Excellence popular. Numbers decreased slightly from in Values Awards 297 in 2010 to 294 in 2011 after a 45% increase from 2009 to 2010. Permanent Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to full-time and part-time employees are able acknowledging and rewarding employees to purchase additional annual leave (up to who show exceptional effort and outstanding two more weeks per year). This scheme achievement that aligns with our values. has been introduced to allow greater Every quarter, employees can nominate flexibility for employees to achieve effective a team or individual in one of the award work–life balance. categories. The winner receives a recognition plaque and a monetary award of $500. We Self-funded leave can be taken in also offer a travel opportunity each year to conjunction with other forms of paid and further recognise one of our award winners. unpaid leave such as annual leave, longservice leave, parental leave and leave without pay. Length of Service Awards Parsons Brinckerhoff recognises the need to celebrate and reward employees who have achieved significant service anniversaries with us. Gifts are presented to employees who achieve 5, 10, 15 or 20 (or more) years of service. 38 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Geospatial Information and Technology Association Global MEMBERSHIPS Hunter Coal Environment Group Opportunities IN 2011 Infra–News (in conjunction with PB Consult) Program Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Alliancing Association of Australasia Institution of Professional Engineers Being committed to professional Asia-Pacific Professional Services New Zealand development extends beyond our own Marketing Association business to providing the possibility of Institution of Railway Signalling Engineers secondments to, and exchanges with, Association of Consulting Engineers our clients and key industry partners, both New Zealand International Association for Hydrogeologists interstate and internationally. Association of Land Development Engineers International Association of Public Transport Australia/New Zealand Australasian Institute of Mining and International Society for Trenchless Mobility Profile Metallurgy Technology Australasian Railway Association Melbourne Mining Club Our Mobility team offers a variety of services Australasian Society for Trenchless to support the business with its mobilisation Technology Millennium Forum, Liberal Party of Australia needs, such as assisting managers in assignment planning (structuring assignment Australasian Tunnelling Society Minerals Council Australia packages, researching visa, tax and migration issues) and supporting employees Australian Contaminated Land Consultants Mining & Energy Services Council of Australia in coordinating their relocation activities. Association National Association of Testing Authorities All of the initiatives undertaken by the Australian Geothermal Energy Association New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Mobility team are aimed at improving Australian Green Infrastructure Council Development service levels to our employees, ensuring Parsons Brinckerhoff is seen as a compliant New Zealand Geothermal Association Australian Industry Group employer within the communities in which we work, and most importantly, ensuring Australian Institute of Energy Permanent Way Institution our people are supported as much as possible when relocating. Australian Institute of Project Management Planning Institute of Australia Australian Institute of Traffic Planning and Progressive Business, Australian Labor Party Management Property Council of Australia Australian Water Association Queensland Resources Council Business SA Rail Track Association Australia CEDA (Committee for Economic Development of Australia) Railway Technical Society of Australasia Chamber of Commerce and Industry Roads Australia Western Australia SAI Global (Standards) Clean Energy Council South Australian Chamber of Mines Concrete Institute of Australia and Energy Consult Australia (formerly ACEA) Stormwater Industry Association of WA Defence Teaming Centre Sustainable Business Australia Energy Supply Association of Australia Sydney Mining Club Engineers Australia Urban Development Institute of Australia Water Industry Alliance Environmental Consultants Association (WA) Water Industry Operators Association Five Hundred Club (500 Club) of Australia Western Sydney Business Council Parsons Brinckerhoff 39 Excellence Excellence ... is bringing together the best minds and our relevant experience and knowledge from around the globe and working with our Clients to solve challenging issues in a way that creates value for them. Ross Young Director, Markets, Strategy and Communications 40 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Excellence 2011 Awards Industry Adelaide Rail Revitalisation Consult Australia Awards for Excellence, Certificate of recognition Specialist Services category Brimbank City Council Alternative Water Strategy Stage 2 Stormwater Victoria Excellence Awards, Excellence in Strategic or Master Planning Award Gippsland Water Factory Clare North Substation Project Engineers Australia, South Australian Gippsland Water The Gippsland Water Factory is also home to the Vortex Centre — Gippsland Engineering Excellence Award Project Infrastructure category Factory Water’s new water educational resource. The state-of-the-art ‘green’ facility features interactive displays, touch-screens and The award winning Gippsland Water Factory videos, with a focus on water conservation CLEM 7 is a wastewater treatment and recycling and sustainable water management, highlighting water as a precious resource Engineers Australia Queensland Awards plant that processes 35 million litres of residential and industrial wastewater each at a local, state, national and global level. ——1. Infrastructure over $50 million day from more than 15,000 households category Parsons Brinckerhoff first began working and businesses in the Gippsland region with Gippsland Water on the project in ——2. Hawken award of Victoria. The plant, the first of its kind in 2001. The focus — which started as a the Australia, also produces 8 million litres of development of a management strategy Engineers Australia, National Excellence high-quality recycled water daily which is to solve short term environmental issues Award sold to Australian Paper for use in industrial — quickly turned into looking at the longprocesses at its Maryvale Mill. term sustainability of the entire region’s water supply, and assessing the variety By selling recycled water to Australian Coal Stream Alliance Paper, the Gippsland Water Factory frees of benefits the plant could deliver. up an equivalent amount of freshwater Safety plaque for ‘2 million man-hours lost In late 2011, the Gippsland Water Factory (about 3 billion litres annually) from the time injury free’ project won three awards at the 2011 region’s rivers and reservoirs — enough Banksia Environmental Awards: the ‘Water’ water to service a town of 40,000 people award, the ‘Education’ award for the for an entire year. The project’s carbon Vortex Centre and the Gold Banksia award. Dalby Wastewater footprint was constrained from the start and Recycling Scheme design decisions were guided using carbon Parsons Brinckerhoff was one of four emission foot printing, with greenhouse gas companies (including Gippsland Water) Water Awards (QLD), Commendation emissions being reduced by 38%. comprising a project alliance to deliver the Infrastructure Project Innovation category project, which began operations in 2010. Parsons Brinckerhoff 41 Excellence Gallipoli Underpass Logan Water Alliance Individual Cement & Concrete Aggregates Australia QLD Water Awards, Infrastructure Project (CCAA) Public Domain Awards Innovation category Nicolai Ahlstrand, Global ——1. Special commendation Concrete Walls category Mining Regional Team M1 Upgrade: Monash, Executive ——2. State Winner – SA CityLink, West Gate Freeway and West Gate Australian Institute of Building, Leighton Contractors Young Achiever of the Year Gippsland Water Factory Bridge Strengthening Engineers Australia Victoria Awards Banksia Environmental Awards Infrastructure category Jim Mantle, Managing ——1. Water category Director, Australia-Pacific ——2. Education category for its North South Interconnection Top 100 Australia’s Most Influential Vortex Centre and ‘Water Wonders’ Engineers, Consulting category, Engineers education program System Project (NSISP) Australia Magazine ——3. Gold Banksia Award South Australian Spatial Excellence Award Infrastructure and Construction category Ian Cameron, Environment Glenfield Junction Alliance and Water Technical Parsons Brinckerhoff Executive, Logan Water WorkCover NSW SafeWork Awards finalist ‘Best workplace health and safety Fire & Emergency Safety Authority of Alliance management system’ category Western Australia, Volunteer Employer Water Professional of the Year, QLD Recognition Program Bronze category Permanent Way Institute Erickson award, Water Awards Permanent Way Institute Remote Area Essential Sean Myers, Transport Services Program (RAESP) Ipswich Motorway Upgrade Project Manager IPA National Infrastructure Awards, Consult Australia Awards in Excellence, Young Engineer of the Year, Railway Smart Infrastructure Award Gold Award Transport & Civil category Technical Society of Australia Queensland Major Contractor’s Association, Project Safety Excellence award Victoria Park Tunnel Ceit Wilson, Environment New Zealand Contractors Federation and Water Graduate AFM National Awards 2011 Planner Jacinth-Ambrosia Mineral Sands Mine ——1. AB Equipment Safety Award Ministers Town Planning Prize, Planning (Projects over $10M) Institute of Australia Australian Institute of Project Management Achievement Awards, South Australian ——2. AB Equipment Safety Award Thesis topic: Housing Resource chapter (Supreme Winner) Communities: The Role of Mining ——3. Hynds Group Environmental Companies in rural development ——1. Regional development category Excellence Award (Projects over ——2. Project of the Year $10M) National Project Management Achievement Award Regional West Gate Freeway Alliance Development category Australian Constructors Association, Australian Construction Achievement Award Johnsonville Tunnels Consult Australia Awards in Excellence, Certificate of recognition Transport & Civil Institution of Professional Engineers New category Zealand, Engineering Excellence Awards 42 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Speros Galanopoulos Jin Weng Lim Executive for New Electrical Engineer Business Initiatives Emerging Parsons The University of Adelaide’s Vice Chancellor, Professor James McWha, Professionals Brinckerhoff said that the alliance would not only expand and develop the competition itself, Paper Winner Partners with but also build and sustain a culture of innovation for both organisations, stating Jin Weng Lim The University of ‘We have seen the benefits this leading entrepreneurial competition brings for Each year Parsons Brinckerhoff holds Adelaide to Foster our own students, for new developing businesses and for the community, and a global technical paper competition for emerging professionals. In 2011 Innovation we believe that Parsons Brinkerhoff will similarly benefit from the energy and the question posed by the paper was, innovation this competition helps create ‘How can Parsons Brinckerhoff and its Parsons Brinckerhoff once again and direct.’ employees harness innovation to create demonstrated its commitment to a more sustainable world?’ Judged by a innovation by committing to a three year Parsons Brinckerhoff Executive for New global panel, the competition was won by partnership with The University of Adelaide’s Business Initiatives, Speros Galanopoulos, Jin Weng Lim, Electrical Engineer based in Entrepreneurship, Commercialisation said of this new partnership ‘It comes back the Adelaide office. & Innovation Centre (ECIC) in its new to creating a sustainable business, and to Corporate eChallenge competition. do that you’ve got to…foster innovation, His submission explored the issue of The competition will run alongside the foster development of ideas that enable sustainable living and the connection to existing ZEN eChallenge program, where our business to continue to differentiate and importance of engineering design students develop a business plan around ourselves in a very competitive marketplace.’ in making this a reality. The paper also a new previously unfunded concept. explored the mechanisms required in an Mr Galanopoulos said that in the past the The Corporate eChallenge, developed in organisation to deliver — both internally company had committed about $250,000 partnership with Parsons Brinckerhoff, and the reach required to create an per annum on the ‘front end’ development expands the student model to cultivate an understanding of the value of sustainability. of 130 new ideas in its own program, of innovative culture within an organisation. which six were developed into new ventures. Parsons Brinckerhoff 43 Excellence Increased A Complimentary Suite of Services KNOWLEDGE Services to Meet The Knowledge Management team in MANAGEMENT Internal and Parsons Brinckerhoff A–P provides a strong suite of capabilities and services to External Client help foster knowledge creation, access, Our Approach sharing and transfer. These include: Needs Parsons Brinckerhoff library We believe that the sharing of knowledge services that encompass: 2011 has seen the team’s skills grow in — knowledge about who we are and the area of facilitation. This has been a ——corporate memory what we can achieve, both corporately response to business need. The addition and technically — is important to create ——collecting all Parsons of facilitation services now provides a sustainable organisation. Knowledge Brinckerhoff-published content guidance to teams for effective resolution sharing and the systems that support and solution generation. This is mostly ——research knowledge sharing are essential for us applied to the d6 Creative Problem Solving to honour our sustainability principles. program, strategy workshops, planning ——collection growth and lessons learned. ——provision of access to interlibrary loans and obscure information articles. This past year has seen an emergence Knowledge of need from our clients for help with knowledge and information management. Knowledge development Management Therefore, much of our effort has concentrated on offering direct advice programs: in Parsons and service to our clients on information ——d6 creative problem solving management projects. We have delivered ——Lessons Learned Brinckerhoff this by developing sound information ——Communities of Practice. management principles, practices and architecture relevant to their business. Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to Intranet services: working as an ongoing trusted adviser with This emphasis on information our clients to provide the best possible management is also being experienced ——Hub management solutions to their challenges. in the Parsons Brinckerhoff business. By ——intranet set-up and management articulating the information management consultancy. The major asset we leverage in delivering vision for our own business, we will be sustainable solutions is our knowledge. able to deliver more value to our clients Our knowledge is a combination of Knowledge consulting service: through both improved internal work expertise in our key disciplines and our practices and to bolster capabilities ——leading knowledge management experience in delivering solutions. and knowledge sharing. practices We support our staff to sustain knowledge At the culmination in late 2012, ——training and facilitation in various acquisition, creation and sharing through the business will conduct a pilot knowledge management activities, a number of systems, tools and practices, implementation of a content management strategy and planning including our corporate Hub, library system. This will support access to services, knowledge networks, creative ——information management consultancy information, easy management, improving problem solving, organisational learning find ability and increasing trustworthiness ——bid advice in knowledge management. and sound information management. of our information to support better decision-making. Parsons Brinckerhoff views its knowledge and that of its employees as a strategic asset. It provides not only a rich resource for our employees to draw from, but is also an indispensable tool. The value we place on knowledge can be seen in our approach to attracting and retaining employees, capability development, increased problem-solving speed, improved continuous improvement practice leading to greater outcomes, and an increase in overall motivation. 44 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Performance Management Professional Programs and Leadership Development Development Parsons Brinckerhoff A-P offers a wide range of opportunities to help employees Parsons Brinckerhoff’s management and Training discover and develop their talents and capabilities and advance their careers. leadership development programs are based on our five leadership competencies The following are some of the as described in the leadership success An essential element of Parsons Brinckerhoff A–P’s operations is the most popular offerings: profile. They are: opportunity to provide all staff with training ——leading with vision and development options, and access to ——Realising Your Potential ——delivering exceptional results interesting and meaningful work. (RYP) is our performance and ——building strategic relationships development plan tool. RYP provides ——growing capability all employees with the opportunity to set performance objectives ——connecting with people. and personal development goals that align with, and complement, The development programs take a graded 2011 approach focusing on key skills at each our business strategy. This formal Training level. The learning includes a blend of process occurs twice yearly, formally at the end of year and informally workshops (one to five days), online State avg per employee mid-year, using an online system. courses, coaching and online toolboxes. We currently have four streams of ACT 58.14 management and leadership development: ——Success Profiles NSW 30.03 are the architecture of ——1. Leadership Essentials is a Parsons Brinckerhoff’s career 24 month program focusing on development framework. They leadership skills and developing NT 6.39 specify the competencies, skills, capability. The program consists of experiences, personal attributes assessments, a five-day residential in QLD 29.46 the first year followed by a three-day and organisational knowledge required for a particular role. Each residential 14 months later. On the SA 30.09 competency — core, leadership, job learning is included, together functional and job family — consists with self-reflection, coaching and VIC 43.57 of defined behaviours in five mentoring. This program’s target proficiency levels. Learning is aligned audience is ‘managers of managers’ WA 41.67 to the competencies and employees (middle managers). To date we have can assess themselves using our successfully trained 115 leaders. online tool. Success Profiles also NZ 17.50 ——2. Accelerated Development assist our employees to plan Program is an 18-month program their career. Total 256.85 consisting of assessments, individual development plans, professional ——Our graduate program coaching, quarterly reviews and (EVOLVE) is a three-year program a final 1.5 day program of selffor graduates that includes: awareness and culture. Consulting 101 (a 3.5 day face-to——3. Directors’ Leadership Program face program); Online Soft Skills is for the senior leadership team (communication, time management, (directorate). This is a series of and managing upwards); Project workshops that combine content Management (five modules); discussions on various business Business Development (three problems, decision making and modules); and Introduction to planning with new leadership Management (a blend of online and learning and practice. face-to-face modules). Parsons Brinckerhoff 45 Excellence The Professional Development Program, While we offer a formal range of career Business development training a signed agreement between Parsons enhancing courses, we also encourage Brinckerhoff Australia and Engineers our employees to have an holistic view ——business development for everyone, Australia, assists our emerging towards development opportunities and pursuit management, client professional engineers to obtain their encourage the use of the 70:20:10 formula relationship management, writing Chartered Professional Engineer status. as the basis for all development: skills, and presentation skills Engineers obtain a specified range of competencies, which they must be able ——70% of learning on the job, such as to demonstrate. job rotations Leadership and management ——20% of learning through other training We also have a global accreditation and means of education such as intranet certification program that encompasses ——coaching clinic, painless performance, workspaces, global communities certification in Project Administration, quality RYP discussions, and of practices Technical Excellence, Project Management behavioural interviewing Excellence, Professional Excellence, and ——10% of learning through formal Business Development. These are offered learning. at three different levels — associate, Accelerated Development senior and principal. A new certification Program (ADP) — Design Management Certification — was launched in 2011 targeting Design Managers in A–P. Programs for ——introduction to ADP and quarterly review calls Our on-line university, Parsons Brinckerhoff Lifelong Learning University (PBU), offers a wide range of Graduate programs courses covering a range of skills. Online Programs for skills management and ——evolve 101, time management, modules from SkillSoft and Harvard lifelong learning that support continued working in teams, negotiation, ManageMentor and internally developed employability of our employees include: decision making, and effective email programs are always available. A variety of technical training is available Induction and business Technical professional training and is delivered in-house. This includes extensive project management training for systems training ——conferences and seminars, team all levels, business development training workshops, professional accreditations ——introduction to sustainability, code (approximately eight courses to different and tertiary assistance programs. of conduct, project management levels) and occupational health, safety and process training, internal auditor environment training. A new Commercial training, diversity and equal Development Pathway was launched in employment opportunity , RYP, 2011 to increase the commercial skill set environment management system of our commercial managers. and PBU Parsons Brinckerhoff also offers a mentoring program, coaching, induction, tertiary Project management training studies assistance, and opportunities to gain new experience through our Global ——scope management, budget Opportunities program (see page 39). management, communications management, client relationships and teamwork, policy and ethics, and safety management ——knowledge management ——d6 problem solving. Safety programs ——occupational health and safety inductions (levels 1 and 2), manual handling, senior first aid, driver training, safety leadership, and construction industry training 46 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report PGN Executive with Managing Director Jim Mantle (left) Professional Growth Network The Professional Growth Network (PGN) is a group of staff with 10 years or less professional work experience. It is designed to encourage them to develop both professionally and personally to become leaders in the business. It is supported by senior people who challenge the group and are just as often challenged by them. Parsons Brinckerhoff 47 Excellence The lessons How to be influential without As a ‘matrix within a matrix’, the PGN teaches us about position power dealing with organisational complexity, and the importance of relationships and knowing your stakeholders. Relevance As an overhead function, this teaches the value of having clear organisationally aligned objectives, of demonstrating value and being outcome focused. The value of good As a voluntary organisation, the PGN makes a good case governance and a for what can be achieved when a team is made up of common sense of purpose people who want to be there and believe in what they’re doing. It is clear that ‘fit’ matters, especially when it comes to the alignment of values. Members learn the importance of establishing clear expectations and accountabilities, and establishing common goals as well as understanding individuals’ motivations. It demonstrates that in a service industry, people truly are your greatest asset. Cynthia Lie PGN Chair 2011 Investing in the future The PGN empowers emerging professionals to be ‘for’ emerging professionals, and is a good example of investing in the future of the organisation. The Power of Global perspective As a global network, the PGN challenges members to look beyond our own backyard and seek to understand how Being in the PGN and why business and cultural norms overseas (or even interstate) are different or similar to our own. It reminds us that ‘our way’ is not necessarily the only (or the best!) way. “I was asked the question ‘What makes working in a team like the PGN such a Cabinet solidarity As a trusted adviser to the Parsons Brinckerhoff powerful experience?’ organisation, the PGN teaches members how to communicate positions, view different perspectives, Below are some of my reflections on this respectfully challenge others, and the importance of as someone who has been involved in the showing a united front. PGN over several years. I believe there are some important lessons for the wider Anyone can be a leader As a team made up of emerging professionals, the Parsons Brinckerhoff organisation as well.” PGN reminds us that anyone can be a leader if they are empowered to do so. Sometimes, it shows us what can be achieved when you don’t know what you can’t do. Where Parsons Brinckerhoff has identified gender equity as our greatest diversity challenge, the PGN leadership team has consistently attracted a high proportion of women relative to our workforce. 48 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report PGN Manager of the Year Award The Manager of the Year Award allows emerging professionals to acknowledge managers who have had a significant impact on their growth and development. In 2011, 30 nominations were received for 26 different managers. The judging criteria were based on our success profile for managers, and nominators were required to identify their manager’s specific behaviours in support of their nomination. This year’s winner was Guy Tuck, Team Manager, EMI, South Australia. Guy’s success was attributed to his achievement focus, ability to seek feedback, empower others and recognise team members’ Guy Tuck achievements. Guy promotes a shared Team Manager, Energy, leadership approach and supports all Mining and Industry members of his team to be leaders in their role, supporting their involvement in development opportunities outside their technical roles. He is described as very values driven, openly and actively living Parsons Brinckerhoff’s values. “The Manager of the Year award was very unexpected but it’s an honour to be recognised by the team and PGN, as it affirms that you must be doing something right as a manager. I’m fortunate to work with a great bunch of people, and while appreciative of the award, I am more so proud of the team and how it reflects on them, their achievements and the team culture. I would also like to recognise the PGN for this initiative and their very professional approach during the selection and interview process. It is great to work for a company that is very supportive of the development of our emerging professionals, which is evident in the level of active participation in the PGN and their many initiatives.” Parsons Brinckerhoff 49 Respect Respect is not something that we consciously work at every day, but it is at the heart of all that we do and we would quickly notice if it was missing. Respect amongst our colleagues plays a large role in making work enjoyable. Respect for the communities and environments that we work in helps us make a positive difference. Martin Predavec Capability Executive, Environment 50 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Respect Performance Occupational Metrics health and safety Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to continually improving our OHS performance. To achieve this, objectives and targets are established and reviewed Our Approach annually. We also have a system of collecting, reviewing and reporting key performance metrics. We are constantly aware of the need to Over the last five years, Parsons provide safe working conditions for our Brinckerhoff has significantly increased people, clients, subcontractors and others the rate of positive lead indicators, such who are involved with our projects. Our hazard and near miss reports in excess of goal is for zero harm in our operations. 300%, all the while reducing the frequency of lag indicators, such as total recordable injuries, by around 75%. Safety Performance Metrics 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 No. of staff 1200 1600 2300 2290 2349 2271 Hours worked 2,368,384 3,032,048 3,774,750 4,271,211 4,328,762 4,007,554 LTI 4 5 3 5 5 3 Days lost 13 27 24 13 17 8 LTIFR 1.69 1.65 0.79 1.17 1.16 0.75 MTI 27 19 27 19 17 10 MTIFR 11.40 6.27 11.40 6.27 4.50 2.5 Total recordable FR 13.09 7.92 5.30 3.75 3.93 3.25 Occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 All injury FR 29.13 23.09 22.25 18.73 17.56 16.0 Near miss FR 54 52 70 77 125 72 Hazard observation FR 0 0 3 15 26 115 Parsons Brinckerhoff 51 Respect Leadership Subsequently, the Directorate reviewed the focus groups’ recommendations, and Behaviour-Based The Parsons Brinckerhoff approach to selected three actions from each group to be consolidated into a Zero Harm Action Safety OHS is underpinned by strong, sustained Plan. Many incremental improvements and visible leadership. Our Managing have been made as a result of the Zero As part of Parsons Brinckerhoff’s approach Director assumes overall responsibility Harm activity during 2011, which will to behaviour-based safety, the ‘don’t for OHS by establishing our OHS policy, continue in 2012. walk by’ motto is applied to encourage providing resources, delivering initiatives, proactive reporting of hazard observations. regularly reviewing our performance We believe the more hazards we identify, and actively participating in formal the less likely we will be harmed by them. management reviews. Technology Getting in to the habit of reporting hazards does not stop at the workplace, and we As support for the Managing Director, regularly see Parsons Brinckerhoff workers all Parsons Brinckerhoff line managers At Parsons Brinckerhoff we have demonstrating leadership by reporting and are also charged with providing OHS implemented the online Integrated Safety eliminating hazards in the community. leadership throughout the organisation. Management System (iSMS) to help us To be more effective, line managers are capture, review and report OHS incidents Our focus on behaviour based safety provided with OHS leadership training that and corrective actions. The technology has resulted in an increased rate of focuses on practical strategies to routinely has been developed in-house and is in positive lead indicators such as hazard demonstrate commitment to OHS. the process of being commercialised to observations by over 300%, and reduced external client organisations. iSMS is also the incidence of lag indicators such as lost Furthermore, OHS leadership is strongly designed to operate effectively on mobile time injury frequency by around 35% from encouraged for all workers though our devices such as smart phones and tablets. the previous year. induction program and ongoing behaviourFor more information contact based initiatives. OHS responsibilities for iSMS@pbworld.com all levels of employees are clearly identified in our OHS Management Manual and within employees’ position description/ success profiles. Positive safety behaviour is recognised The Effect of Hazard Reporting and rewarded in a variety of ways at on Recordable Injuries Parsons Brinckerhoff. Employees who 140 14 demonstrate positive OHS behaviour are openly praised by their managers and 120 12 Occurrence per 1 mil hours peers. For any outstanding examples of 100 10 positive behaviour, employees may also be formally recognised with a quarterly 80 8 excellence in values award. For executivelevel employees, annual performance 60 6 bonuses include a safety component. 40 4 20 2 Zero Harm 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Our Zero Harm Journey Plan, which commenced in 2011, centred on the Haz FR TRIFR formation of six employee-led focus groups. Each Zero Harm Focus Group was tasked with critically reviewing one of our six highest risk activities then recommending changes to eliminate or reduce the associated health and safety risk. These groups were: ——Driving ——Ground penetration ——Manual handling ——Remote area assignments ——Workplace stress ——International travel. 52 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Awards Support Incident During 2011, Parsons Brinckerhoff Parsons Brinckerhoff employs a team of Management was recognised externally for positive trained and experienced Safety, Health safety performance, which includes the and Environment (SHE) advisors who Parsons Brinckerhoff has trained personnel, following awards: are geographically dispersed throughout and documented processes, to immediately A–P. The SHE Team members, together and appropriately respond to incidents. We ——Origin Alliance, Ipswich Motorway with regional safety committees and also have an online incident management Upgrade Queensland Major line managers, are available to provide system to promptly report and follow up all Contractors’ Association (QMCA) training, advice, support and assurance to incidents and near-misses. award for Project Safety Excellence implement our OHS systems on the ground. In the event that an incident investigation ——Glenfield Junction Alliance project Parsons Brinckerhoff people can access is required, the SHE Team are specifically WorkCover NSW SafeWork Awards SHE support whenever they need it trained in root cause analysis and human finalist Best workplace health and through either a SHE Hotline (ext. 6666) factors incident investigation techniques. safety management system category or SHE@pb.com.au email, as well as an Any lessons generated from an investigation ——Coal Stream Alliance Safety plaque intranet Safety support site. process will be shared with others to received for ‘2 million man-hours lost prevent a repeat occurrence. time injury free’ In the event that workers are injured, ——Victoria Park Tunnel New Zealand Contractors Federation AFM Subcontractors Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to support them back to health and return National Awards: them to work as soon as possible. All Parsons Brinckerhoff’s procedures aid in injured workers have a tailored return ——1. AB Equipment Safety Award the pre-qualification of tenderers, contract to work plan to ensure their condition (Projects over $10M) formulation, subcontractor selection, improves and is not exacerbated. ——2. AB Equipment Safety Award award negotiations and subcontractor (Supreme Winner). management. Our procedures can identify appropriate subcontractors who are committed to achieving a safe outcome and are clear about their Monitoring and Risk Management OHS obligations. We include them in Checking contract documentation and once they are engaged, we effectively manage and All projects involving site work, whether monitor their performance. Parsons Brinckerhoff has a monitoring or not Parsons Brinckerhoff controls and checking program to drive continual the site, are required to have a projectimprovement and to provide assurance specific health, environment and safety that our OHS system is applied effectively plan (HESP). The HESP applies the hierarchy of control to manage risks so Safety in Design and control strategies are adequate. far as reasonably practicable and helps Internal OHS audits regularly take place in with proactive hazard identification, risk the office, in the field, for legal compliance During all phases of a design project, assessment and control. and personal protective equipment. Senior an OHS risk management approach managers are responsible for the majority is applied that is consistent with best Each HESP is developed to be consistent of our OHS audits — to ensure their practice legislative requirements. During with current legislative requirements, integrity and as an opportunity to visibly design works, we use a staged series of Parsons Brinckerhoff’s standards and demonstrate OHS leadership. risk assessments to anticipate potential client’s standards as required. Before it operating, maintenance and public Senior management also formally review is adopted, each new HESP is reviewed hazards over the life of a facility. our OHS system’s effectiveness annually. and approved by line management and the SHE Team. All people working Actions arising from the management Such risk assessments involve a under the HESP are made aware of their review are documented and acted upon representative mix of design, operating responsibilities and sign on to demonstrate through section action plans. and other stakeholder participants, who commitment and accountability. offer a range of experience and expertise. Our OHS management system is Parsons Brinckerhoff staff are experienced independently audited and certified by Det in qualitative risk assessment methods, Norske Veritas to meet the requirements such as HAZOP, failure mode and effect of AS/NZS 4801 and ISO18001:2004 analysis, ‘What if...?’ and checklist – Occupational Health and Safety analysis. Methods are chosen for the best Management Systems. In addition, our fit, based on perceived risk, complexity OHS system is regularly audited as part of and experience. Results from the risk our clients’ own prequalification process. In assessments and various reviews are recent years, clients such as Rio Tinto and incorporated into design output and Caltex have rated our OHS system highly. future construction/operating plans. Parsons Brinckerhoff 53 Respect Communication What Does Safety and Consultation Mean? Parsons Brinckerhoff has established “Safety has existed as a concept since mechanisms to respond to employee the beginning of time, it is only in the last and customer queries, suggestions and 60 years or so that it has been defined, concerns and to ensure communication legislated, regulated and corporatised. But and consultation: if we look back to where it all started it may give a view on what is at the core of safety. ——internally between Parsons Brinckerhoff offices and with Primitive humans reacted to their the wider Parsons Brinckerhoff environmental context in a very similar way organisation to how we as modern humans react to similar situations. For example, a powerful ——externally with clients, contractors, animal with large teeth is dangerous, suppliers, regulatory agencies, hence if you wish to live a long enjoyable government organisations/agencies and prosperous life, things must be and other stakeholders. done to stay safe — like run away. We do these things to stay safe because we Each geographic region has an active all have a role and function in family and OHS committee, empowering employee Shaun Nugent community units that we need to perform representatives to champion OHS Director Operations and be happy doing so — this has not issues and initiatives. Each committee and Capability fundamentally changed over time.” also provides the organisation with a consultative forum for management and “Based on the above logic, safety is all employees to constructively discuss OHS the things we do/need to maintain good matters. OHS committees provide an physical, mental and social well-being important way to harness both employees’ at work, at home, day and night, for our practical knowledge of the workplace and family and our work colleagues and other its hazards, and management overview of inhabitants of the planet. Stay safe — it’s the workplace and organisation. In 2011, more fun and productive that way. One approximately 4% of our employees were thing that has changed in all of this time directly involved in OHS committees. is that we are a lot better at proactively managing our safety rather than leaving it to chance.” Safety Responses Primitive Situation Modern Situation On the lookout for threats Identifying hazards in the workplace Avoiding areas where predators gather Assessing risks and implementing the appropriate controls Hunting in packs Teamwork Learning from the mistakes of others Knowledge sharing Protecting less experienced members of the tribe from harm Safety leadership Using primitive tools such as a stick or club Implementing engineering controls and using Personnel Protective Equipment Resting in a safe place Security 54 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Emissions ENVIRONMENTAL Management MANAGEMENT Parsons Brinckerhoff’s response to climate change is to be an industry Our Approach leader in emissions management. We have embraced our parent company’s aggressive emissions reduction target of 50% by 2020 — this is per employee Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to based compared with 2008 figures. acting in an environmentally responsible Furthermore, through our Carbon Neutral manner. As consultants, we continue program, we continue to voluntarily to work to mitigate the social and offset the emissions we can’t reduce environmental impact of the projects based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol in which we work, and the services we methodology. provide to our clients. We do not emit any ozone-depleting To achieve this, we have implemented substances as part of our operations, an environmental management system nor do we emit any nitrogen oxide (NO), (EMS) which is independently audited and sulphur dioxide (SO2) or other significant certified by Det Norske Veritas to meet the air emissions, with the exception of requirements of ISO 14001. carbon dioxide (CO2). The below data demonstrates a steady decline in CO2 emission rates since we began collecting Products and data in 2008, due to multiple initiatives listed throughout the following sections Services of this report. Performance Summary: We recognise that many of our business activities have the potential to adversely ——2.5% reduction in per capita impact the environment, which is why emissions from previous year we have implemented our EMS to ——22.9% reduction in per capita manage and minimise the risk. We also emissions since 2008. recognise that through the technical advice we provide our clients we have the opportunity to positively influence and generate sustainable outcomes. We take this responsibility seriously and pride ourselves on the many ‘little’ differences CO2 Emissions Since 2008 that we make each day, which culminate into some of the world class project examples shown throughout this report. 14000 7.0 Per Capita CO2 Emissions (tonnes) 12000 6.0 Total CO2 Emissions (tonnes) Initiatives Contributing 10000 5.0 to Performance: 8000 4.0 ——developing sustainability training for our project managers 6000 3.0 ——implementing processes to 4000 2.0 ensure our designers consider environmental impacts during 2000 1.0 the design phase. 0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Per Capita Parsons Brinckerhoff 55 Respect Electricity CO2 Emissions Since 2008 Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to minimising our electricity consumption 2008 2009 2010 2011 wherever possible. We recognise that while electricity consumption is required Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 12,709 12,572 12,093 11,657 to operate our business, we continue to demonstrate that it is possible for a growing business to continually reduce Scope 1 331 488 477 352 electricity consumption. Scope 2 2,311 2,254 2,124 2,065 Performance Summary: Scope 3 10,066 9,830 9,491 9,240 ——24% reduction in per capita electricity consumption since 2008 CO2 emissions rate 6.5 5.6 5.2 5.0 ——2% reduction in per capita electricity consumption from the previous year. Initiatives Contributing to Performance: Direct and indirect Energy Consumption by Source ——achieving 5 green star ratings for most of our office accommodation ——creating network rules which power Source 2011 Direct Indirect down idle electrical equipment more aggressively Vehicle diesel (kl) 76.4 25.4 ——supporting awareness raising initiatives such as Earth Hour Vehicle petroleum (kl) 47.1 445.6 ——smarter use of our facilities enabling Vehicle bio-diesel (kl) 0.1 0.0 more people to occupy the same or less floor space. Vehicle LPG (kl) 1.0 26.0 Building natural gas (GJ) 600 0 Building electricity (kWh) 2,436,226 2,401,532 Aviation fuel (CO2 equivalent tonnes) 0.0 5,137 Electricity Usage 2008 2009 2010 2011 Electricity usage total (kWh) 5,511,281 5,312,467 4,972,497 4,837,758 Indirect 2,593,544 2,522,920 2,475,317 2,401,532 Direct 2,917,736 2,789,548 2,497,180 2,436,226 Electricity usage rate 2,723 2,669 2,113 2,068 56 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Transport Travel Emissions Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to minimise our transport use as much as is practicable and to utilise energy efficient 2008 2009 2010 2011 modes of transport where journeys cannot be avoided. It is noted that to completely Air travel (miles) 18,481,195 17,479,527 17,056,281 15,647,755 avoid travel is not a sustainable option since serving our clients often requires it. Air travel rate 9,459 7,754 7,291 7,314 Performance Summary: Vehicle usage (km) 3,709,039 5,076,849 5,543,676 5,916,372 ——steady decrease in per capita air Vehicle usage rate (km) 1,898 2,252 2,362 2,529 travel since 2008 but a marginal increase during 2011 ——steady increase in vehicle travel since 2008 proportionate with our growth in revenue. Resources Performance Summary: Initiatives Contributing ——40% reduction in per capita paper Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to use since 2008 to Performance: minimise resource use as much as is ——3.4% reduction in per capita paper ——maintenance of an extensive network practical through reducing, re-using and use from the previous year of video conference facilities recycling. We also recognise our ability to influence the supply chain through ——approximately 50% increase in the responsible procurement. Our approach proportion spent on paper and ——providing training to support to resource management is detailed within stationary products containing employee use of WebEx and other our resource management standard recycled materials. technologies to minimise the need to travel and includes preferentially procuring goods from local suppliers with recycled Initiatives Contributing to ——continuation of awareness raising content. We are also continually looking to implement better and smarter ways to Performance: campaigns such as Environment Week and Fly-free Weeks reduce our paper consumption, which ——investigating print on demand has historically been our most significant software to minimise unwanted ——maintenance of six hybrid technology resource consumed. prints and provide greater vehicles without our corporate fleet accountability to monitor printing behaviour ——making public transport tickets available as an alternative to taxi ——greater emphasis upon electronic vouchers. forms and approval flows reducing the reliance on paper prints. Paper Usage 2008 2009 2010 2011 Paper usage (reams) 23,323 22,905 17,100 16,481 Paper usage rate 11.9 10.2 7.3 7.0 Parsons Brinckerhoff 57 Respect Water Waste and Spills Biodiversity Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to Parsons Brinckerhoff is committed to reduce water use wherever possible and eliminate unnecessary waste disposal protecting biodiversity including native ensure that only clean water is returned and product spills. Some form of waste flora, fauna and ecosystems. Due to the to waterways. No water sources have streaming occurs in all our offices in nature of Parsons Brinckerhoff’s business, been significantly affected by Parsons order to maximise the volume of material no land is owned, leased, managed in, or Brinckerhoff’s activities to date. that is re-used or recycled and minimise adjacent to, protected areas and areas the remainder sent to landfill. While no of high biodiversity value. Similarly, our Since Parsons Brinckerhoff office space is significant spills have occurred to date, we activities have not made any significant generally shared and third party managed are prepared to respond in the event of a adverse impact to such areas. we have no way of accurately knowing our spill to minimise the environmental impact water consumption or discharge. Using an through the provision of spill kits. Parsons Brinckerhoff’s in-house Ecology estimate of 4kl per employee per year, our Team continues to provide expert 2011 water consumption is assumed to advice to our clients. During 2011, be in the order of 9,000 kl with a discharge Initiatives Contributing approximately 50 projects were worked assumed to be conservatively 80% of this to Performance: on by the Ecology Team contributing to figure, approximately 7,000 kl. Parsons the protection and restoration of many Brinckerhoff does not have operational ——introduction of organic waste ecologically significant areas. control of any other facilities thus we streams in to most offices assume no associated water consumption, ——improved employee awareness of discharge, recycling or re-use. recycling facilities through clearer signage and removal of personal Initiatives Contributing waste bins. to Performance: ——maintenance of water saving devices in all buildings ——use of perimeter hay bales at all Waste to Land Fill work sites where there may be a risk of rain events spreading sediment and adversely impacting waterways. Mixed Food Paper Total Waste to landfill (tonnes) 24.9 26.0 28.3 79.1 58 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Engaging One of the key initiatives developed by Parsons Brinckerhoff was the facilitation STAKEHOLDER Stakeholders of a mutli-criteria workshop to assist with the initial corridor selection process. The ENGAGEMENT on Warwick workshop brought together the project’s key decision makers to review the corridor to Stanthorpe options and ensure that stakeholder input was duly considered. This workshop Our Approach Proposed 110kV resulted in an adjustment to the preferred corridor to mitigate potential concerns Parsons Brinkerhoff’s Stakeholder Powerline Project from a key stakeholder group and, in turn, reduced project risks for the client. Engagement Team offers a unique combination of technical and communication The Ergon Energy Warwick to Stanthorpe This project will continue well into 2012 skills. Our national team of specialists proposed 110kV Powerline Project will with the Parsons Brinckerhoff and Ergon is experienced in the delivery of local, upgrade the existing energy network Energy partnership well placed to deliver on-the-ground stakeholder and community to ensure the Southern Downs region positive project outcomes. engagement that provides clients with a in Queensland is provided with safe, valuable presence in the community. Our secure and reliable power. Ergon Energy strategic thinking delivers results, and our investigated a number of line route options approach allows us to anticipate and be and identified a preferred corridor, chosen responsive to the engagement needs of to maximise the use of existing easements, the community and our clients. minimise the need to clear endangered vegetation and minimise the impact on We tailor our strategies to reflect the tourist scenic drives in the region. social, political, cultural, economic and environmental factors that could potentially Parsons Brinckerhoff worked with impact each individual project and base Ergon Energy to undertake preliminary our approach on the early identification, consultation on the proposed project and ongoing proactive management of, corridor. The community and stakeholder project risks and issues. feedback gained from this process will help deliver a tailored and relevant consultation process as required by the Queensland Government regulated Community Our Achievements Infrastructure Designation process. 2011 Drawing on a decade’s worth of experience in delivering community consultation for power projects, Parsons Brinckerhoff In 2011, Parsons Brinkerhoff’s Stakeholder assisted Ergon Energy to develop and Engagement team enjoyed a rewarding implement a comprehensive stakeholder year working on projects in the mining, communication and engagement plan. This energy, defence, transport and water included the development and review sectors throughout Australia. The team of project key messages, development continued its sustainable growth while of communication materials, issues working in partnership with existing and and data management, attendance at new clients in a continually changing social on-site stakeholder meetings and public environment. displays, and the ongoing provision of strategic advice. In 2012 we will continue to support our company-wide focus on safety and Working collaboratively, Parsons delivering quality outcomes for our clients, Brinckerhoff and Ergon Energy consultation while looking forward to expanding our activities provided the opportunity for reach across Australia. Community stakeholder and community input to be and stakeholder communication and addressed as part of the upfront planning engagement will continue to be a and decision making processes. challenge for our clients, and our team is dedicated to managing issues and building better relationships for our clients and the communities in which they operate. Parsons Brinckerhoff 59 Appendix GRI Table of contents 2011 GRI Table of Contents GRI index Reference Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO statement 4 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 4 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of reporting organisation 3 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 6–7 2.3 Operational structure 4, 7, 11 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Parsons Brinckerhoff’s head office is located in New York. The head office of Balfour Beatty is in London 2.5 Countries located 6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 2.7 Market served 7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 6–7 2.9 Changes during reporting period 3, 4 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 41 – 42 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 3.3 Reporting cycle 3 3.4 Contact point of questions on report 3 3.5 Process for defining report content 3 3.6 Boundary of report 3 3.7 Limitations on report scope or boundary 3 continues next page 60 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Report parameters 3.8 Reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries and In financial year 2011, there continued to be no basis for leased facilities reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities or outsourced operations 3.9 Data measuring techniques 74 – 75 3.10 Re-statements from earlier reports Nothing material 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods 3, 4 3.12 Table identifying location of standard 60 – 70 3.13 External assurance As there have been no significant changes to our methodology in data collection, this year the report has not been independently verified and have self-rated at an A standard Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 7, 11 4.2 Chair and EO 4 4.3 Independent members of highest governance body 12 – 17 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee 5 recommendations to highest body 4.5 Link between compensation to senior management 17 and performance 4.6 Process for the highest governance body to avoid The directorate avoids conflict of interest through adherence to conflicts of interest our ethics policy, and to date there have been no breaches 4.7 Process for determining expertise of highest 12 – 17 governance body 4.8 Internal systems relevant to sustainability 55 performance 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body 4 for overseeing sustainability performance 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance 8 body’s sustainability performance 4.11 Explanation of how the organisation addresses 29 the precautionary principle 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary sustainability 27 initiative the organisation subscribes to and/or endorses continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 61 Appendix 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Report parameters Governance 4.13 Significant association memberships 39 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 11 organisation 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders Stakeholders have been identified within our strategic process and within our values 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 11, 58 4.17 Key stakeholder issues and concerns 32 Economic performance indicators Core Aspect: Economic performance EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 23 – 24, 28 – 29 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and 4 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC 3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit 33, 38 plan obligations EC 4 Significant financial assistance received We recieve no significant financial assistance from government from government Additional Aspect: Market presence EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage PB renumerates competitively compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Core EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Not applicable as all procurement occurs on a local basis on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC 7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 15 – 17 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation continues next page 62 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Economic performance indicators Core Aspect: Indirect economic impacts EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 23 – 26, 28 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Additional EC 9 Understanding and describing significant indirect 28 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Environment performance indicators Core Aspect: Materials EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume 55 – 58 EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled As part of our resource management standard, wherever possible, input materials purchased materials are to be re-usable or recyclable, contain recycled material, be non-toxic and, ideally, be locally sourced Core Aspect: Energy EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 56 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 56 Additional EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 55 improvements EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 55 energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 55 and reductions achieved Core Aspect: Water EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 58 Additional EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Not applicable of water EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not applicable and re-used continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 63 Appendix 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Core Aspect: Biodiversity EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Not applicable in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN 12 Description of significant impacts of activities, No significant impacts in 2011 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Additional EN 13 Habitats protected or restored Not focussed on in 2011 EN 14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 58 managing impacts on biodiversity EN 15 Number of International Union for Conservation of Not applicable Nature Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Core Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waste EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 55 – 56 by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 56 by weight Additional EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 8, 55 reductions achieved Core EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not applicable EN 20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Not applicable type and weight EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 58 EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 58 EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills have occurred at any Parsons Brinckerhoff sites or as a result of our activities continues next page 64 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Additional Aspect: Biodiversity EN 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Parsons Brinckerhoff does transport small amounts of asbestos treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms and other samples from project sites which we do not weigh. We of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, may also advise a client on the appropriate management and percentage of transported waste shipped of hazardous substances internationally EN 25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Not applicable value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Core Aspect: Products and services EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 55 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not applicable. Parsons Brinckerhoff does not sell products materials that are reclaimed by category that require packaging Core Aspect: Compliance EN 28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number In financial year 2011, there were no fines or sanctions for of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations environmental laws and regulations Additional Aspect: Transport EN 29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 57 products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Additional Aspect: Overall EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures 29 and investments by type continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 65 Appendix 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Society performance indicators Core Aspect: Local Communities SO 1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs 58 and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO 9 Operations with significant potential or actual 58 negative impacts on local communities SO 10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented 59 in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Core Aspect: Corruption SO 2 Percentage and total number of business units All Parsons Brinckerhoff employees are trained in ethics, analysed for risks related to corruption which includes anti-corruption SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s 19 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption In financial year 2011, there were no incidents of corruption Core Aspect: Public policy SO 5 Public policy positions and participation in public 27 policy development and lobbying Additional SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to 29 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Additional Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour SO 7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive In financial year 2011, there were no legal actions for antibehaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices their outcomes Core SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number In financial year 2011, there were no fines or sanctions due of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with to non-compliance with laws and regulations laws and regulations continues next page 66 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Labour practices and decent work performance indicators Core Aspect: Employment LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 34 contract, and region LA 2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age 34 group, gender, and region LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after parental As this is a new indicator we have not captured this data leave, by gender Additional LA 3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 38 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Core Aspect: Labour/management relations LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 33 bargaining agreements LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant 35 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Additional Aspect: Occupational health and safety LA 6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Not reported in 2011. We are moving to a model of total formal joint management-worker health and safety workforce ownership and engagement of health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Core LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 51 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region LA 8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and 38 risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Additional LA 9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not applicable. Collective agreements are made directly with agreements with trade unions employees continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 67 Appendix 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Core Aspect: Training and education LA 10 Average hours of training per year per employee 45 by employee category Additional LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong 45 – 46 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular In 2011 our RYP system was reviewed and our data is not accurate performance and career development reviews Core Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 10, 36 of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee 35 category Human Rights Performance Indicators Core Aspect: Investment and procurement practices HR 1 Percentage and total number of significant Not applicable as we do not have investment agreements investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors While human rights screening is not of direct relevance to our and other business partners that have undergone business, our people are encouraged to identify ethical issues, on human rights screening, and actions taken including procurement, through our ethics framework or using the ethics hotline Additional HR 3 Total hours of employee training on policies and 19 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Core Aspect: Non-discrimination HR 4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and In financial year 2011, there were no instances of discrimination actions taken continues next page 68 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Core Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR 5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise In financial year 2011, none of our operations were identified as freedom of association and collective bargaining being at significant risk may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Core Aspect: Child labour HR 6 Operations identified as having significant risk for In financial year 2011, none of our operations were identified as incidents of child labour, and measures taken to having significant risk for child labour contribute to the elimination of child labour Core Aspect: Forced and compulsory labour HR 7 Operations identified as having significant risk In financial year 2011, none of our operations were identified as for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and having significant risk for forced or compulsory labour measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Additional Aspect: Security practices HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Parsons Brinckerhoff A-P does not have security personnel organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Additional Aspect: Indigenous rights HR 9 Total number of incidents of violations involving In financial year 2011, there were no instances of indigenous rights of indigenous people and actions taken rights violations Core Aspect: Assessment HR 10 Percentage and total number of operations that None have been subject to human rights review and/or impact assessments Core Aspect: Remediation HR 11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, In financial year 2011, there were no grievances addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Core Aspect: Customer health and safety PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety 52 – 54 impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 69 Appendix 2011 GRI Table of Contents – continued GRI index Reference Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Additional Aspect: Customer health and safety PR 2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with In financial year 2011, there were no instances of non-compliance regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes Core Aspect: Product and service labelling PR 3 Type of product and service information required Not applicable by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Additional PR 4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance In financial year 2011, there were no instances of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 32 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Core Aspect: Marketing communications PR 6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, 22 and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Additional PR 7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance In financial year 2011, there were no instances of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning in regard to our marketing behaviour or complaints regarding marketing communications, including advertising, breaches of customer confidentiality promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Additional Aspect: Customer Privacy PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding In financial year 2011, there were no breaches breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Core Aspect: Compliance PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonIn financial year 2011, there were no fines for non-compliance compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 70 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Glossary and shortened forms Glossary and Shortened Forms ABS Australian Bureau of Statistics AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate AAPSA Asia, Australia-Pacific and southern Africa BTA Business Travel Administration CMS Content Management System CRM Client Relationship Manager or Client Relationship Management FR Frequency Rate GAPP Generally Accepted Privacy Principles GBR Great Britain GFC Global Financial Crisis GJ Gigajoule Green Team Group of Parsons Brinckerhoff people who work to help to achieve sustainable operations in our offices Hub Parsons Brinckerhoff global intranet IHC In-house contractor IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards KPI Key Performance Indicator KRA Key Reporting Area LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas LTI Lost Time Injuries LTIFR Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate MTI Medical Treatment Injury MTIFR Medical Treatment Injury Frequency Rate continues next page Parsons Brinckerhoff 71 Appendix Glossary and Shortened Forms – continued NABERS National Australian Built Environment Rating System NAPSA Notional Agreement Preserving a State Award Near-miss Potential hazard NOx Nitrogen oxide OCI Organisational Culture Inventory — a tool for measuring the culture of an organisation OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OHS Occupational Health and Safety PBU Parsons Brinckerhoff University — an online global education and training system PGN Professional Growth Network — employees with less than 10 years’ experience PPP Private Public Partnerships R&D Research and Development RYP Realising Your Potential — Parsons Brinckerhoff’s performance management tool SBEnrc Sustainable Built Environment national research centre SHE Safety Health Environment SO2 Sulphur dioxide SWP Standard Work Practice TAP Trusted Adviser Program TRIFR Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate UNGC United Nations Global Compact VCS Voluntary Carbon Standard 72 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report DEFINITION OF EMISSIONS Definition of Emissions Scope emissions Emission Definition Examples classification Scope 1 The release of greenhouse gas into the Fleet vehicle fuel atmosphere as a direct result of a company’s consumption on-site operations Scope 2 The release of greenhouse gas as a result Office electricity of a company’s operations that generate purchased from electricity, heating, cooling or steam, which a utility is generated elsewhere Scope 3 Other indirect releases of greenhouse Business travel such gas that occur outside the boundary of a as airlines and taxis; company as a result of its business activities also downstream emissions from a supply chain Parsons Brinckerhoff 73 Appendix DATA COLLECTION ASSUMPTIONS Data is collected using a variety of means, and various industry best practice assumptions are applied where required. The table below summarises the measurement techniques and assumptions made for each type of data. Data Collection Assumptions Data type Data collection methodology Assumptions Air miles Employee air travel reports are provided by To convert air miles travelled into CO2 our travel agent each month and forwarded (tonnes equivalent) a factor of 0.000204 to the A–P SHE Manager for collation is applied to the kilometres travelled equivalent. This is based upon the Carbon Planet flight calculator Electricity Manual viewing and reporting from utility In most cases, base building energy invoices. Rates are calculated per employee consumption is estimated using a NABERS and total usage methodology which factors a building’s location, floor area and NABERS rating. In the event that air conditioning data is available, this is assumed to be the value for base building energy consumption (only in our Perth office) Emissions Rates are calculated per employee and based on raw consumption data Injuries Frequency rates are calculated per million hours worked Natural gas (office) Manual viewing and reporting from utility Raw data is only provided as a dollar invoices amount. Quantity estimate is based on a likely cost per unit Pool vehicles Oracle expenditure reports, based on Fuel efficiency is based on the national Motorpass reports of kilometres travelled average for passenger vehicles, as published in the ABS Survey of Motor Vehicle Use 2007 Taxi usage Oracle expenditure reports of Cabcharge All taxis are assumed to be fuelled by usage, as well as AMEX reports LPG. The Department of Climate Change’s Green Vehicle Guide is used to determine typical fuel efficiency and a national average flagfall is calculated based on each state’s rates continues next page 74 Looking After The Future 2011 Sustainability Report Data Collection Assumptions – continued Data type Data collection methodology Assumptions Turnover rate We measure our turnover rate in comparison to the industry figures proved by Consult Australia Paper usage Rate is calculated per employee and based on raw consumption data Personal vehicles Oracle reports of kilometres travelled Fuel efficiency is based on the national on personal expense claims average for passenger vehicles, as published in the ABS Survey of Motor Vehicle Use 2007 Rental vehicles Records obtained from individual rental Fuel efficiency is based on the national companies upon request. These records average for passenger vehicles, as generally provide rental dates, vehicle type published in the ABS Survey of Motor and distance travelled (km) Vehicle Use 2007 Safety data Collated monthly by the A–P SHE Manager using iSMS based on employee provided notifications Water Based on reported employee numbers Based on the Australian Bureau of Statistics, average office water consumption is estimated to be 4 kL per person per year Waste Due to the often unsafe and unpleasant It is assumed that the results of the task of accurately quantifying the volume annual waste audits are reflective of of our waste streams, an approximation waste disposal practices throughout has been used the remainder of the year Project information Project information is provided on a regular It is assumed that the information provided basis, and as part of our SWP by project staff is correct People information People data is measured on full-time equivalents w Parsons Brinckerhoff 75 Get in Touch Australia New Zealand Adelaide Auckland Phone: +61 8 8405 4300 Phone: +64 9 377 9941 Brisbane Christchurch Phone: +61 7 3854 6200 Phone: +64 3 365 4081 Canberra Wellington Phone: +61 2 6281 9500 Phone: +64 4 499 1000 Darwin Phone: +61 8 8981 6740 Gold Coast Phone: +61 7 5503 5700 Melbourne Phone: +61 3 9861 1111 Newcastle Phone: +61 2 4929 8300 Perth Phone: +61 8 9489 9700 Singleton Phone: +61 2 6572 3377 Sunshine Coast Phone: +61 7 3854 6670 Sydney Phone: +61 2 9272 5100 Caroline Holmstrom Corporate Sustainability Executive cholmstrom@pb.com.au www.pbworld.com Printed on on ecoStar 100% recycled stock using vegetable-based inks.
