Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers CSR report October 2012 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers | Ørestads Boulevard 114-118 | DK-2300 København S | Tel. +45 8877 6699 | www.cpcopenhagen.dk contents Statement of Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 CSR at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Good Governance & Business Ethics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Our commitment Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Plans for 2012/2013 Workplace. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Our commitment Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Plans for 2012/2013 Responsible Supply Chain Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Our commitment Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Plans for 2012/2013 Environment & Climate Change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Our commitment Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Plans for 2012/2013 Community. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Our commitment Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Plans for 2012/2013 ANNEX 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS3 Statement of Support CSR at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers At Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, we strive to be a pioneer in sustainable development in the Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is delighted to express its continuing support of the ten principles international hotel industry. We are convinced that a responsible and proactive approach to social, of the UN Global Compact. In the year that has passed since out last Communication on Progress environmental and economical development is not only the right thing to do, but will also ensure us we have continued to act as a pioneer in sustainability, while holding fast in our belief that running a long-term profitability. profitable business and living up to our social, environmental and economic responsibilities are, and must continue to be, compatible goals. We believe that running a profitable business and living up to our social, environmental and economic responsibilities are, and must continue to be, compatible goals. To this end, it is the responsibility of In order to pursue this goal, we decided to elevate our work with CSR in a new strategic direction. everyone working at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers to ensure that: In October 2012 we are thus proud to have become the first hotel in the world to be certified in accordance to the CSR standard DS 49001. The DS 49001 CSR management system is in compliance n We will always choose the most sustainable solution, as long as it makes sense and adds value. with the ISO 26000 guideline on social responsibility. In addition, DS 49001 requires a functioning n We will abide by local laws and international legislation. This includes the respect and support of management system as well as an obligation to continuous improvement. Our CSR Management internationally acclaimed human rights including, but not limited to, the four core labour rights. System is also fully incorporated with our newly acquired ISO 14001 Environmental Management n We will continue to support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. System. The subjects in DS 49001 to which we comply are all consistent with the 10 principles in Global n We will “walk the talk” and embed CSR into our operational processes. Compact. n We will use our position in the marketplace to raise awareness of CSR and help facilitate change to minimise impact on the environment and our community. On the basis of the standard, we have committed ourselves to a new CSR strategy and CSR policy. We consulted our employees and other stakeholders and conducted several analyses in order to Alongside the commitments formulated above, our CSR Policy can be divided into five principal determine where we should concentrate our CSR efforts. In the light of this process, we have chosen segments based on an ongoing materiality assessment. It has been decided by the CSR Board to focus on the following five areas for our CSR work: Good Governance & Business Ethics, Our to prioritise the areas Environment & Climate Change, Good Governance & Business Ethics and Workplace, Responsible Supply Chain Management, The Environment & Climate Change and Our Responsible Supply Chain Management in 2012/2013. Community. We are subject to an external certification by DS Certificering A/S on an annual basis to ensure that our company continuously improves and develop in terms of CSR. Our CSR policy supports and adheres to the UN Global Compact and is based on our company values of *True*Green*Excellence*. Over the past year our whole organization has demonstrated great dedication and ambition in creating the best structure for our continual work with CSR. As a result we are now meeting the future head on, with greater optimism and enthusiasm than ever before. Allan L. Agerholm Managing Director/CEO Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 4 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 5 Good Governance & Business Ethics Plans for 2012/2013 In the year to come, we will be to continue to develop and maintain our fundamental governance structure. In addition, we also aim to be recertified next year in accordance to DS 49001. We will also How we treat our guests, customers and business partners and how we manage our company focus on strengthening our stakeholder engagement process, focusing on compliant handling. sustainably. UNGC Principles DS 49001/ISO 26001 Subjects Principle 1 Organisational Governance Principle 2 Fair Operational Practices Principle 5 Consumer Issues Principle 10 Human Rights Our commitment n We will aim to develop strong relationships with our guests, customers, suppliers and other business partners. Through continuous dialogue we will increase our knowledge and understand future concerns and thereby minimise our impact on and promote CSR in all our business activities. n We will conduct our operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and will abide by all applicable regulations. n We will apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. n We will provide high standards of service to our guests and customers, and will provide several channels for complaints to ensure their concerns are efficiently addressed on those occasions where there is a problem. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes Our main objective in the last year has been the implementation of our CSR Management System, in accordance with DS 49001. We believe that the implementation of this management system is key to providing a solid foundation for Good Governance within our company, which in turn helps us to structure all our CSR efforts. We are happy to announce that we achieved this objective in October 2012, by becoming the first hotel in the world to be DS 49001 certified. Engagement with our stakeholders has also been an objective. In addition to our continuous dialogue with our stakeholders, we have successfully improved our CSR communication on our website. We also continue to actively engage with our stakeholders on social media. We have developed a Social Media Policy and continue to receive feedback from our customers via this channel. CSR is today a fixed point at every management meeting. We have decided on this action so as to improve leadership engagement and to ensure the anchoring of CSR in all our business activities. We also introduced a new CSR governance structure to further ensure that CSR activities are firmly anchored in our organisation. Our CSR Board, consisting of selected members of top management, issues guidelines for our CSR efforts, ensures all activities are in line with our business strategy and makes certain that the necessary resources are provided. The CSR Core Team consists of selected team members at the hotel. The team has the opportunity of providing feedback in relation to our CSR efforts and acts as an open forum where employees can state their expectations to the company. This governance structure is furthermore supported by our HSE organisation and Works Committee. 6 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 7 Workplace Plans for 2012/2013 One of our main objectives for the coming year is to provide employees with more structured training and development opportunities. We thus have plans to introduce a Crowne Plaza Training Wheel, Where we work, how we recruit and how we work with our staff. Trainee Academy and a Supervisor Academy in 2013. UNGC Principles DS 49001/ISO 26001 Subjects We also plan to develop a new employee satisfaction survey to help us better understand and Principle 1 Human Rights measure our employees’ attitude, opinions, motivation, and satisfaction. We thus plan to use this data Principle 2 Labour Practices to define areas which need improvement Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Our commitment n We will work with our employees and other relevant stakeholders to ensure the best possible physical and psychological work environment. n We will embrace diversity and view it as a key strength of our business. n We will give equal treatment to all employees and will not tolerate any form of discrimination. n We will support employees with training and opportunities for promotion to help them reach their potential and maximise their contribution to our company strategy. n We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the basis of objective criteria, their qualifications and abilities required for the job to be performed. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes One of our main objectives this last year was our Heart of House project. This entailed transforming our ‘Back of House’ (staff-only area) into a place that creates energy and passion around our workplace. Artwork and different visual information areas tell employees about our brand, our hotel and provides a new interactive form of communication. It is a place where everybody can get involved, be inspired and get engaged, so they can get the most out of their working day. We believe this project has been a great success in getting our team to feel connected to something big and inspiring, as they learn about the special part they play in their team, our hotel and our brand. We have continued to implement initiatives to foster a culture of inclusion and to promote fair treatment and equal opportunities for all. At present, we have permanent employees representing 27 nationalities in our hotel. In addition, our employee gender ratio is 48,2% (w)/ 51,8% (m). We have also had Chinese cultural training for our employees. This was done to better equip our employees in understanding and receiving guests and team members from China. All of our employees have also undergone ‘One Step Ahead’ training during 2012. One Step Ahead is our global brand service behaviour training which gave our teams the opportunity to learn all about the Crowne Plaza brand, our new service behaviours and the part they play in delivering service that is one step ahead 8 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 9 Responsible Supply Chain Management Plans for 2012/2013 By May 2013 we would like to have implemented our Supplier Code of Conduct completely and have received acknowledgement and commitment from all our contracted suppliers. Within the How we procure and how we work with our suppliers. same timeframe, we would also have liked to have reduced our supplier base by 10% and introduce electronic invoicing with all of our suppliers. UNGC Principles DS 49001/ISO 26001 Subjects Principle 1 Human Rights We recognise that managing our supply chain responsibly is not without challenges. We will continue Principle 2 Fair Operational Practices to focus our efforts on purchasing responsibly and working actively with our suppliers to ensure Principle 7 The Environment progress in terms of our long term goal. Principle 8 Principle 9 In the year to come, we plan to make an in-depth risk analysis of our entire supplier base. Suppliers will Principle 10 consequently be categorised as low, medium or high risk. Consequently this will contribute to a more focused approach in ensuring that suppliers comply with the requirements of the CP Supplier Code of Our commitment Conduct, either through e.g. self assessments or visits to the suppliers’ premises to ensure compliance n We will only purchase goods and services which are required and suitable for carrying out the with our expectations. purposes of business for Crowne Plaza. n We will aim to ensure that the best value for money is being obtained and that its resources are being used to the greatest benefit. n We will work towards a system of ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are environmentally responsible, are not complicit in any violations of human rights or labour rights and do not participate in or permit corruption in all its forms. n We will in all dealings with suppliers and potential suppliers, seek to preserve the highest standards of integrity, objectivity, fairness, efficiency, courtesy and professionalism and will look to suppliers to set similar standards. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes In this last year we have commenced a long term plan to strengthen our responsible supply chain management approach. We have started by formulating the requirements we expect our suppliers to live up to. The expectations have been communicated by means of Supplier Code of Conduct to all our contracted suppliers. So far approx. 75% of our suppliers have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have within the last year also successfully introduced electronic invoicing with approx. 90% of our suppliers, in order to reduce the use of paper and in order to increase efficiency. We have also aimed at strengthening our relationships with our suppliers. We have allocated a relationship manager to our Top 10 suppliers the aim being the maintenance and development of an open dialogue, in terms of sustainability and quality. Working with our suppliers to minimise our impact on the environment, has continued to be a priority for us. We implement this objective by using local food and beverage suppliers, within a radius of 300 km, in order to support the local economy and minimize transportation, as long as it is sensible to do so. We also minimise deliveries of non-fresh merchandise to as few times a week as possible. In addition, we attempt to give preference to suppliers who have accredited environmental management systems and environmental certifications relevant to applicable industry. 10 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 11 Environment & Climate Change We have also identified a need for further environmental training for our employees, especially in terms of energy and waste management. We hope to have developed this training by April 2013. How we approach environmental sustainability and climate change. By December 2012, we are aiming to be Green Mobility Lease certified, giving assurance that we have an environmentally friendly corporate vehicle fleet. UNGC Principles DS 49001/ISO 26001 Subjects Principle 7 The Environment In terms of energy consumption, we have a reduction goal of 25 KwH pr. Guest Night by the end of Principle 8 2017. We will also aim to reduce our use of utility water by 5% by the end of 2013. Principle 9 Improved waste management is also an environmental focus area for us. During 2012, we are collecting Our commitment waste management data, so that we can compose relevant goals for this area. Nevertheless, we do aim n We will generally apply a precautionary approach to the environment and climate change. to reduce our paper use by 20% by 2014 n We will continue to improve our environmental performance and will implement environmentally friendly solutions, wherever it makes economical and environmental sense and without compromising the experience of quality and comfort which our hotel offers. n We will make the most efficient use of our energy, water and other natural resources, promoting conservation and savings wherever possible. n We will optimise our waste reduction through recycling and limiting our use of hazardous material where alternatives are available, economical and suitable. n We will incorporate environmental considerations into our procurement decisions and raise environmental awareness among our employees and key stakeholders. Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes We are very proud to have received an ISO 14001 environmental certification this year. In the last year we have actively worked with IHG to improve and develop the environmental management reporting system – Green Engage. We have also invested a lot of resources in the development and implementation several action plans in the areas of Operations & Processes, Energy, Building Envelope, Mechanical, Water, Waste, Product & Materials and Site. We are currently in the process of acquiring a Green Engage Level 3 assurance and hope to be the first hotel in the world to reach this high level of certification. We have continued to encourage our employees and guests to use environmentally friendly transport methods. One of the initiatives we have launched this last year is our Sleep & Drive Green hotel package, where guests can hire one of our electric cars as part of their hotel package. We have also continued to focus on animal welfare in the last year. All our meat is sourced exclusively from Grambogaard, a small independent farmer where animal welfare is the central of their business philosophy. We have also continued to purchase local, organic and seasonal produce when available and these considerations are integrated as an innate part of our food sourcing considerations. Plans for 2012/2013 In the year to come our environmental efforts will focus a lot on implementing environmentally friendly products and procedures in our newly acquired housekeeping department. We thus hope to have systematised this department in accordance to ISO 14001 to such an extent, that it may be included during our recertification in 2013. 12 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 13 Community Annex 1 How we engage with the community as a vital part of our responsible commercial activity. Crowne Plaza CSR Focus Areas DS 49001 / ISO 26001 UNGC UNGC Principles DS 49001/ISO 26001 Subjects Good Governance & Organizational governance Business Ethics Stakeholder Dialogue Community involvement & development Management’s composition and organisation Risk Management & Due Diligence Principle 1, 2, 5 Our commitment Decision-making processes and structures n We will regularly engage with our local community as a means to assist and address our key Fair Operational Practices business objectives and community needs for mutual benefit. Anti-corruption Principle 10 n We will through local partnerships, support our local community and stimulate the local economy Responsible political involvement Principle 10 by providing jobs, apprenticeships and trainee positions to people who may face added obstacles Fair competition in finding work, to help them develop skills and find employment. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Principle 10 n We will invest resources in the community through mutually beneficial partnerships, contra-deals Respect for property rights and sponsorship agreements with key local stakeholders. Consumer Issues Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information Objectives, actions implemented and measureable outcomes and fair contractual practices We have continued to focus on diversity in our recruitment of staff. In collaboration with Copenhagen Protecting consumers' health and safety municipality, the hotel provides internships and jobs for candidates coming from diverse cultural and Sustainable consumption religious backgrounds, who all face problems in finding employment. So far in 2012, Crowne Plaza has Consumer service, support, and complaint and accommodated 21 candidates in an intern position as well as 11 student interns in positions lasting dispute resolution various periods of time. Consumer data protection and privacy Access to essential services Education and awareness Plans for 2012/2013 In the year to come, Crowne Plaza will continue to provide opportunities for those candidates who Workplace Human Rights wish to improve their job-skills and to provide employment opportunities whenever possible. Civil & political rights Principle 1, 3 Economic, social & cultural rights Principle 1 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Principle 1, 5, 6 Resolving grievances Principle 1 Avoidance of complicity Principle 1, 2 Human rights risk situations Principle 1, 2, 4, 5 Fundamental principles and rights at work Principle 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 Labour Practices Employment and employment relationships Principle 3, 6 Conditions of work and social protection Principle 3, 4, 6 Social dialogue Principle 3, 6 Health and safety at work Human development and training in the workplace Principle 6 14 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS CSR REPORT OCTOBER 2012 15 Crowne Plaza CSR Focus Areas DS 49001 / ISO 26001 UNGC Responsible Supply Chain Human Rights Management Avoidance of complicity Principle 1, 2 Fair Operational Practices Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Principle 10 The Environment Prevention of pollution and promotion of cleaner Principle 8 technology Sustainable resource use Principle 7, 8, 9 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Principle 7, 8, 9 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and Principle 8 restoration of natural habitats Animal Welfare Environment & Climate Change The Environment Prevention of pollution and promotion of cleaner Principle 8 technology Sustainable resource use Principle 7, 8, 9 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Principle 7, 8, 9 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and Principle 8 restoration of natural habitats Animal Welfare Community Community Involvement & Development Community involvement Education and culture Employment creation and skills development Technology development and access Wealth and income creation Health Social investment 16 CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS
