Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 1 VocaLink 2011 awards Our expertise and commitment to CSR has been recognised by a range of prestigious awards. Hallmark of Innovation Financial World – Innovation Awards 2011 Financial World Innovation Awards September 2011 Shortlist – 2011 VocaLink was shortlisted for our initiatives in Driving Customer Advocacy through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), as part of the ‘Innovation in CSR’ category. UK Customer Experience Awards July 2011 VocaLink won the ‘Financial Services – banking category’ for delivering a significant improvement in measured customer experience, through an internal cultural change and a transformation in customer engagement. HR Excellence Awards 2011 June 2011 VocaLink was a named finalist in the ‘Best use of CSR in HR’ category in the HR Excellence Awards 2011. Young Enterprise Award June 2011 In recognition of our continued support, VocaLink received this award for ‘outstanding support for enterprise education in schools’. Welcome to our 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report At VocaLink we focus our CSR activity 2011 as well as informing the social We strive to set an example of what on a quadrant of four key areas: and environmental issues that we can be achieved through the next our people, our marketplace, our report on. wave of CSR models: creating deeper communities and the environment. shareholder value and sharing In April 2011 we were proud to resources to reduce dependence in Over recent years we have become receive accreditation at Bronze status charities on direct donation. much more disciplined around how for achieving 75% in the BiTC index. we plan, measure and report on our Just as importantly our assessment There are several names for this form progress in each area. This annual has shaped the focus of the initiatives of CSR such as ‘Shared Value’, we see report contains information relating that we are sharing in this report. it simply as creating mutual benefit. to our progress against each area of Creating mutual benefit The benefits of a much deeper our 2011 CSR Vision. During 2011 we have built on the integration of CSR into our business This CSR Vision is coordinated by a framework that was established psyche are clear. We have deepened dedicated Board, and progress is last year to really focus on how our the value of our relationships routinely discussed at the VocaLink products and services can have a with existing customers. We had Limited Board. Each sector of the positive social and environmental our eyes opened to new product quadrant is led by a member of impact while still supporting business development opportunities and had the VocaLink leadership team who innovation, growth and profit. the chance to work with professionals ensure that we remain focused on from the Third Sector who have given For example, our international creating value for our shareholders us a fresh, valuable and challenging research and work with 23 UK as well as the communities where perspective on how we do business. charities has led to the design we do business. We continue our of mobile payments products to If you would like to comment on the commitment to human rights and do support charitable giving. content of this report, or join forces this through the framework of the UN to create mutual benefit, then please Global Compact. This year we have proved our email us at: csr@vocalink.com groundbreaking theory that there Business in the Community: BiTC is a measurable linkage between VocaLink is a member of Business in our visible commitment to CSR the Community and we participate and customer advocacy which we in the BiTC Index to measure the measure through net promoter score. Mark Chapman effectiveness of our CSR Vision and Indeed, our thought leadership Chairman of Corporate Social its implementation. Our membership has been recognised through four Responsibility at VocaLink has been of significant value because external awards this year. it has helped to shape our focus for Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 1 About us – the smarter payments partner Spirited Smart Reliable VocaLink is a specialist payments We design and deliver smarter We’re enormously proud of partner for banks, their corporate domestic and international our service delivery record. Our customers and government automated payments systems, plus platforms operate on never-fail departments. Progressive, smarter ATM switching solutions. In technology – 24 hours a day, seven pioneering and with 40 years fact, our switching platform connects days a week – ensuring that we at the forefront of electronic over 60,000 ATMs – the world’s continue to meet our customers’ payment technology, many major busiest network – while our payments requirements of 100% reliability organisations rely on our services. platform processes over 500 million and availability. payments every month. 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Our culture Leading edge technology may be at Of course there is a management This philosophy applies to our the heart of our business but people hierarchy with clear lines of reporting customers. We were recognised by remain our most vital asset. And in place. We believe it is essential the UK Customer Experience Awards. with the right people, we can create to provide structure within our VocaLink won the ‘Financial Services successful, ongoing partnerships. functional teams, to shape how we – banking category’ for delivering a work together and give everyone significant improvement in measured We aim to work with like-minded a sense of accountability and customer experience. people who share our values and responsibility. who enjoy working as a team. Our desire to be of service extends Regardless of position or job title, much wider than our colleagues and A ‘can do’ attitude influences and we never lose sight of role models at customers. shapes every aspect of working life, every level within the company; the particularly in the pursuit of excellent At VocaLink, we do not just pay lip very people who demonstrate our service. This is core to the values of service to CSR – we take action. Our values of being ‘Spirited’, ‘Smart’ and our Partner Promise. steering group consists of members ‘Reliable’ in everything that they do. of the Leadership team and our CEO We support each other and create a We understand that everyone reports CSR to the board. common focus so that everyone feels has a role to play in motivating part of a winning team. Success is We also work collaboratively with and encouraging colleagues and celebrated and enjoyed; and when other organisations – both corporate recognition of effort begins with a events are not going to plan, we pull and not-for-profit – to create wider simple ‘thank you’. together – and always in a positive way. CSR awareness. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 3 We commissioned art from Watford Mencap to hang on the walls of our new office in Gresham Street, London. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility – the business case CSR is ‘the’ essential ingredient Linking CSR with advocacy Tying product research and VocaLink is a leading provider of Just like many international development into mitigation of payments solutions and works companies we use net promoter community risks with large international brands. score (NPS) to measure customer In the Communities section of We provide services to major UK advocacy. This asks a simple this report we explain how risks banks and stand behind household question “How likely would you to our business are looked at names in personal payments. It is be to recommend VocaLink” and in combination with risks in the practically guaranteed that all of the customers are asked to score us communities where we work and companies that we work with take on a scale of zero to ten. Scores do business. This enables us to CSR seriously and that they demand of nine and ten are classified as create mitigation strategies that are evidence of sustainable behaviour advocates – individuals that would mutually beneficial to society and our during any contractual process. recommend us to people at other business; we call this ‘mutual benefit’. Indeed, VocaLink will only enrol companies. We measure the impact We have recognised that payments new suppliers who sign up to the of our CSR activity on our customers should be sustainable and they principles of the UN Global Compact. and have statistical evidence that should be inclusive, because some Completion of the BiTC Index and the we have turned existing customers form of payment typically lies at the development of an annual CSR report into advocates for VocaLink by heart of any developed community has proved invaluable because we sharing CSR activity with them. activity. have documentation that can be This is an important part of the One important strand of our drawn on quickly to authenticate business because advocates are CSR strategy is to tie product our CSR activity. For example, we proved to purchase more products development into charitable gifting recently received an invitation to and services – and they recruit whilst showcasing our technology. tender for a contract which required new customers for you. Mark The rationale is that debate around evidence of specific CSR activity Chapman, our Chairman of CSR, has the sustainability of payments and and we were able to respond within spoken on this subject at several community focussed activity is a the timescale because we publically events in 2011 including the BiTC common ‘glue’ that bonds people report information, whereas less well Responsible Business Convention internationally. On this basis we committed competitors would have and an international net promoter began to demonstrate the way that failed to make the deadline. conference. our new mobile payments solution Our efforts were shortlisted in would work by allowing people the CSR category of the Financial visiting our exhibition stands to Innovation Awards. donate some of our CSR budget to one of three charities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 5 We followed this approach for two of reducing overheads to charities Our drive for efficiency has also years, and as well as raising valuable so that more of the combined included an initiative to further funds for charities we also met personal donation and Gift Aid reduce waste recycling. During 2011 individuals from other organisations could go straight to the target cause. we removed personal waste bins who shared our passion for CSR The positive impact of this could across all sites and replaced with and sustainable payments. We potentially be millions of pounds. shared recycling points. Collecting investigated the societal impact of co-mingled recycled waste has Having completed the research and mobile payments on the elderly, allowed us to make recycling easy identified the needs of donors and young people and small businesses. and quick. We also have on-site charities, we are now progressing During an exhibition at the facilities for our staff to recycle with a detailed feasibility study Responsible Business Convention phones and batteries from home. which involves the creation of a new 2011, we were approached by business partnership model. The positive business impact in 2011 UK charities wanting to see our has been an increase in recycling of mobile payments demonstration Business efficiency materials from 17.5% to 30.5%. We and to understand when it would CSR makes our business more have a target to increase this to 40% be available to support charitable efficient and self reliable. For by the end of 2012. gifting. We then commissioned example, our CSR Vision for 2011 research with 23 charities to explore included a significant Data Centre the potential for mobile gifting and Migration programme. The scope the business case in terms of more of the initiative included a new cost effective payment fees. Our aim computer server rack design in the was to collaborate to identify ways Development and Test Area. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Our four key focus areas for Corporate Social Responsibility Our marketplace We want to be certain that every action is ethical, lawful, environmentally sustainable and socially responsible, not just in our own business, but right across our supply chain Procurement Director Rick Hillier All members of staff have been VocaLink Code of Conduct which all is responsible for our marketplace supported through a mandatory VocaLink suppliers are required to strategy. During 2011 Rick has programme of training. sign. continued to focus on the framework VocaLink requires that its third party VocaLink actively supports the provided by UN Global Compact and suppliers, agents and partners have Universal Declaration of Human also worked with other members of in place adequate policies and Rights. We will not carry out business the Leadership team to implement processes to monitor and mitigate with any other countries or regimes the VocaLink Anti-Bribery and bribery and corruption risk. VocaLink where flagrant human rights abuses Corruption Policy which implements will exit third party relationships if are known. the principles of the Anti-Bribery Act. any third party is found to be actively VocaLink has a Dignity at Work Policy Anti-Bribery and Corruption or passively condoning bribery or and is committed to ensuring that all VocaLink saw the implementation of corruption. our employees are treated fairly and the Bribery Act 2010 in July 2011 as Human Rights: UN Global Compact with respect. an opportunity to align and affirm In 2010, we launched a new code its existing policies and processes In the coming year we will work with of conduct for suppliers, based around bribery and corruption. our significant supply chain partners on the UN Global Compact. The to see if they are signatories to the We have a zero tolerance policy UN GlobalCompact is a strategic UN Global Compact and if they are to bribery and corruption which is policy initiative for businesses that not, to actively encourage them to reflected in our Anti-Bribery Policy are committed to aligning their support and join. and business processes. operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in Measurement of outcomes Although overall responsibility the areas of human rights, labour, In the past year, neither VocaLink for the day to day management of environment and anti-corruption. nor any of our suppliers have been bribery and corruption related risk subject to any investigations, legal rests with the VocaLink Leadership As well as reflecting the Global cases or incidents involving human Team; each member of VocaLink staff Compact in our internal working rights violations. is encouraged to actively monitor practices, we have incorporated the and report improper activity in Global Compact into the principles accordance with VocaLink’s Antiand working practices which we Bribery Policy and Whistleblowing require of our suppliers and partners. Policy. These standards can be found in the 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Environment • Keep suppliers’ trade secrets • Principle 7: Businesses should strictly confidential and respect support a precautionary approach their property, both physical and to environmental challenges intellectual • Principle 8: undertake initiatives • Promote supply chain initiatives to to promote greater environmental reduce packaging and to increase responsibility; and recycled product content where it • Principle 9: encourage the is feasible. development and diffusion Responsible, sustainable marketing of environmentally friendly Human Rights Responsible, progressive marketing technologies. • Principle 1: Businesses should methods can transform sustainability support and respect the protection Anti-Corruption from an idea into a working model. of internationally proclaimed • Principle 10: Businesses should We have also substantially increased human rights; and work against corruption in all the extent to which we reuse existing • Principle 2: Make sure that they its forms, including extortion marketing materials. are not complicit in human rights and bribery. abuses. Whether we are marketing our In addition to this, we will endeavour services or talking to internal Labour to: stakeholders, we always seek to • Principle 3: Businesses should • Seek mutual understanding and provide accurate, clear and concise uphold the freedom of association maintain long-term relationships communications. We strive to make and the effective recognition of the with chosen suppliers a positive contribution to local right to collective bargaining • Respond to all supplier offers communities, particularly in overseas • Principle 4: the elimination of all sincerely, ensuring that they are markets and wherever we advertise forms of forced and compulsory all able to compete on a level our services. labour. playing field • Principle 5: the effective abolition • Not request quotations from of child labour; and suppliers where there is no • Principle 6: the elimination of intention to enter a future business discrimination in respect of relationship employment and occupation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 9 Our people The greatest assets we possess as a business are the people who work here 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Debbie Lombard, Human Resource of everything that we do and we treated. We also extend this to the and Organisation Director, leads engage our people in all aspects of way that internal customers are the workplace steering group. She our business. We do this through treated too. oversees strategy for our people, quarterly face to face staff briefings We formally measure customer attracting, retaining and developing where the Leadership team share our satisfaction and advocacy – the the best people, implementing plans and progress as well as regular propensity for a customer to policies, projects and learning intranet and internal communication recommend us – externally and opportunities that benefit the programmes. benchmark ourselves. And this VocaLink team at every level and can In the top 2% of UK organisations discipline is replicated when we result in positive social change. We Our efforts in this area have been measure the way that employees plan to have invested £900,000 in the recognised. For over a decade, feel too. continual development of our people VocaLink has been taking part by the end of 2011. We were proud to Our Partner Promise recognition in Investors in People (IiP). When be named as a finalist in the ‘Best use portal was launched in 2010 and we were re-accredited in 2010 we of CSR in HR’ in the HR Excellence forms a critical part of the way achieved silver status, putting us Awards. colleagues can recognise each other in the top 2% of UK organisations. for living our values of being spirited, Culture at the heart of the Brand Recognition for living our values smart, or reliable. The creation of our corporate The experience of our customers is mission and values was based on the In 2010, 472 nominations were vital to the success of our company, definition of a brand comprising of received from members of staff. We and this is inextricably linked to the Culture, Reputation and Products are on track to achieve a targeted way that our employees understand and Services. We recognise that 10% increase in 2011. how our customers should be our culture is a critical component Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 11 Continual, measurable, progress It is important that we continually measure the progress that we are making towards our goals. We measure staff satisfaction and investigate the effectiveness of knowledge transfer and the impact on our culture. Staff satisfaction 2011 (2010) “I feel motivated in “I am aware of my current job” the company’s long measure: term goals” 70% (up from 55%) measure: 89% (up from 72%) “I receive feedback “My last evaluation that is timely accurately reflected and constructive” my performance” measure: measure: 71% (up from 53%) 77% (up from 66%) “Taking everything into account, I am satisfied with VocaLink as a company to work for” measure: 79% (up from 66%) 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Performance management These workshops started in Q1 2011 understanding and collaboration We believe that having an open and 45% of managers have now between individuals within the team. culture is important. This philosophy attended. The areas covered are as This information is only shared with does require certain standards in follows: the explicit consent of each team how people communicate, especially • Recruitment member. when entering into a two way • Family friendly Equal opportunities dialogue about individual and team • Disciplinary and grievance As an equal opportunities employer, performance. • Absence management. our people are protected from Our performance management Mentoring discrimination, harassment and workshops focus on the tools and VocaLink’s formal mentoring scheme bullying. standards within the organisation, continues to grow and is proving We abide by a ‘dignity at work’ and we use trained actors to help successful. An outline of the scheme policy which explicitly outlaws with role play exercises. has been sent to all line managers discrimination on the basis of age, so that they are informed about how During 2011 we decided to gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, they should support a member of run performance management disability, religion, political affiliation their team who is being mentored by workshops for all line managers to or trade union membership. another individual. Since inception ensure that we all work to the same in 2010 we now have 30 formal HR&OD track and report our gender standards. Workshops are held every mentoring partnerships. pay gap, employee profile and other month and we have already absence rates internally. achieved attendance from 70% of Team profiling and exploration line managers (we have been running We recognise that teams are Our recruitment policy is to seek the these since 2008). formed of individuals with a range best person for the role, rather than of personality profiles. Some teams being driven by candidate profiling. Advanced management workshops have taken advantage of formal Besides our continual focus on personality profiling which is then performance management we summarised and shared at team level also offer in-house 2-hour courses by the Organisational Development designed to make managers aware of team. The result has been better their wider responsibilities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 13 Implementation local communities, support favoured family and friends to the business VocaLink has a Grievance Procedure charities and do their bit for the via our two-week work experience in place and offers mediation to staff environment. To encourage this, each programme. Many colleagues also at work as a first stage resolution to member of staff is entitled to a day’s work with local schools providing any problems experienced in the paid annual leave for voluntary work. one-to-one mentoring. We workplace. provide a range of opportunities Engineering apprenticeship to undergraduates in the form of Where there are changes within the Engineering sits behind all of the 12-month student placements. organisation, extensive consultation services that VocaLink provides. exercises are run to ensure staff are As a well regarded centre of This popular scheme honours our involved in the process. excellence we decided to establish commitment to working with young an Engineering apprenticeship people, as well as nurturing bright We have a range of human resource programme in 2011. individuals that often join VocaLink policies which reflect VocaLink’s on a more permanent basis after pro-active stance on human rights Young Enterprise Scheme graduation. including Equal Opportunities, We support local schools and Dignity at Work, and Flexible provide them with skills and insight Payroll giving Working. into real business issues. One of During 2010 we joined the Pennies our Young Enterprise advisors won from Heaven direct payroll giving. Health and safety the 2010 East of England advisor of For those taking part, gross pay Maintaining a healthy, safe working the year award and has since been is rounded down to the nearest environment is fundamental. invited to join the Watford area Board pound and the remaining pence We are accredited to BS OHSAS of Young Enterprise. In recognition of are donated to charity. For the first 18001, the international standard our continued support, we received a year participants in the scheme have for occupational health and safety Young Enterprise Business Award for nominated Marie Curie Cancer Care management systems. ‘outstanding support for enterprise as their preferred charity. Supporting community work education in schools’. We run a number of schemes which Industrial placements provide opportunities for colleagues With us, work life and family life to engage and volunteer with their can co-exist. Staff can introduce Our People: Mark Chapman being interviewed at the BiTC Responsible Business Convention about the use of mobile payments for charitable donations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 15 Our communities The payments company at the heart of the community 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Assurance Director, Bryan Sharkey economic indicators and we share and to dare to dream about it. is responsible for our communities this openly giving an insight into the Working with Mike we launched the programme. His role is to promote monthly take home pay levels in the Live the Dream Schools Programme interaction between VocaLink and UK. and supported this initiative with the communities where we do Payments in communities interactive tools that children could business. It is hard to imagine any community use to map out their personal Community risk and mitigation operating without some form of ambitions. Our focus in 2011 has been payment transactions. During 2011 Mike joined us at the Sibos payments on identifying risks within our we have included assessment of conference in Hong Kong and communities that could impact community risks within our research delivered his inspirational message both VocaLink and our community programme around new ways to pay. to young people at the Island School partners. This means that we have included and the Royal Hong Kong Yacht Club. older people in our research as well Our CSR Strategy has always had Whilst at the Island School we met as small business owners who are a core focus on supporting and another remarkable seventeen year currently impacted by the downturn inspiring young people because their old called Ajit Gidwani. in the UK economy. energy and enthusiasm has a strong Since our meeting, Ajit’s own fit with our corporate outlook. This We have also undertaken remarkable story has become was one of the reasons that VocaLink groundbreaking international inter-twined with our communities became a member of the Prince’s research into consumer attitudes to programme. During 2009 Ajit spent Trust Technology Leadership Group. mobile payments. Importantly we some time at a rural school and have engaged the Third Sector in We are concerned about the risk to hospital near New Delhi in India this research and our research into young people inherent in rising levels because members of his family lived charitable giving through mobile of unemployment, decreases in take nearby. Touched by the remarkable payments has been covered by the home pay relative to inflation and differences between his own Telegraph and Guardian in the UK, reductions in community funding. education at the outstanding Island as well as receiving international We consider not only the impact that School and the environment at the coverage. this will have on society but also the Kabliji school, Ajit decided to put a impact on our employees and their Our CSR Ambassadors place at Exeter University on hold families – because our people make In 2009 VocaLink realised the impact so that he could develop the Kabliji us successful. that young people with vision and school curriculum to inspire more determination could have on others creative thinking. At the heart of UK payments when we sponsored Mike Perham Given our position at the heart of Ajit has documented his personal to become the youngest person to UK payments we are also aware of journey whilst working at the school circumnavigate the globe, at the age the risk to our business if volumes in a special Kabliji school CSR case of seventeen. The real lesson for us of payments are impacted by these study which is available from our was how someone like Mike could changes in our communities. website. connect with other young people The VocaLink Take Home Pay Index to inspire them to think about what is now one of the UK’s leading could be possible in their own lives Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 17 Throughout this period VocaLink continued to fund raise for the school using our mobile payments demonstration at conferences. The money that we raised has funded a library, a power generator for the school and hospital, and dedicated teaching support around the schools cultural awareness agenda. We continue to work with Ajit who is now shaping a cultural exchange programme between the Kabliji school, India, and another school in Hertfordshire, UK. Then in 2010 we met an inspirational young woman called Bonita Norris who, aged 22, wanted to become the youngest British woman to climb Mount Everest. We successfully tied Bonita’s Mount Everest Challenge into the promotion of our Mobile Phone Top-Up service whilst raising money for charity Global Angels. This was our first commercially focussed CSR project and the business results were astonishing. We generated a 4% increase in mobile phone topups and generated media coverage worth £1.5M. We funded the Kabliji school library to help the inspirational Ajit Gidwani teach New Delhi children. Ajit deferred his place at Exeter University in order to work and live in this rural community. His aim was to build a sense of confidence and creativity in these young people. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 After completing the Everest Hospice Care. The objective of Our staff have been involved in challenge Bonita joined our schools these agreements is to document fundraising and team building days programme and has made many what both parties expect to achieve at Watford Mencap homes, where inspirational visits to schools and through the partnership over a we have decorated, gardened and youth centres. Having suffered from number of years. provided strategic assistance. We Bulimia at an early age, Bonita wants also provided art materials to the Watford Mencap to act as a role model to young Watford Mencap Children’s Centre Close to our Rickmansworth office women. This vision was realised and in return we received a number is Watford Mencap; an independent when one young woman contacted of paintings which we were able self-funding charity serving more Bonita after a school visit and shared to auction to our customers. This than 500 people in the South West the story of her own eating disorder. win-win activity not only afforded Hertfordshire area with learning The young woman then went on to VocaLink an opportunity to deepen disabilities, as well as their parents have enough confidence to enter and relationships with customers, it also and carers. win an art competition. raised essential funds towards the While they are affiliated to the Watford Mencap Children’s Centre. After securing our initial support national Mencap charity, Watford Bonita has gone on to attract other Henshaws Society for Blind People Mencap is self-funding and has to corporate sponsors, having launched Situated near our Harrogate offices raise all its own funds. It is one of the a new car for Nissan and becoming is Henshaws Arts and Crafts Centre largest local Mencap societies in the an ambassador for Karrimor. in Knaresborough for the blind UK with a long-established history and visually impaired. The centre During March, April and May 2011 of providing high quality services to is a focal point within the local arts Bonita raised money for Forces people with learning disabilities and community and offers an exciting Children’s Trust whilst undertaking their families in Watford, Three Rivers programme of events and activities the VocaLink North Pole Challenge. and Hertsmere. Watford Mencap for people of all ages, in addition This campaign also promoted one currently employs 120 staff, has to being a day care service for of our key products and usage over 140 volunteers and provides people with a range of disabilities. increased approximately 11% over 2 support to over 500 local people The centre is fully accessible, and months. with learning disabilities and their during the week visually impaired families. Formal community partnerships art makers use the eleven arts and In 2011, a lot of focus has been To show our commitment to the crafts workshops. Henshaws also run given to the way that we engage fantastic work Watford Mencap do a social enterprise – ‘Handmade at with our community partners to in our community, VocaLink signed Henshaws’ – offering real vocational mitigate against shared risks. a two year partnership agreement opportunities to art makers, college Recommendations from the 2010 which will support them to achieve students and volunteers. Anything BiTC Index assessment have been their objectives for 2011/2012 and made in the workshops or grown in adopted through the design provide us with a smarter way of their plant nursery is sold with profits and implementation of formal working together. being ploughed back into the centre. partnership contracts with our VocaLink work with Watford main community partners; Watford Mencap on more than one level. Mencap, Henshaws and Keech Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 19 Following a long relationship and care with maximum comfort and of annual activities and charitable many years of support, in 2011 dignity for patients. endeavours, including; 30 mile bike VocaLink committed to ongoing rides, 5k sponsored Santa Runs, as VocaLink have been involved with support for Henshaws and a well as providing and distributing Keech Hospice Care for several years, partnership agreement was signed. gifts for the children at Keech every supporting them through a variety Christmas. VocaLink have worked with Henshaws around their product pricing and in 2011 we sold their handmade bags at the BiTC Responsible Business Convention. This was part of our joint commitment to creating a commercial platform for shared value. Keech Hospice Care VocaLink recently signed an official partnership agreement with Keech Hospice Care. Based in Bedfordshire and close to one of our sites, this highly-regarded charity runs two purpose-built hospices; one for adults in the Luton and south Bedfordshire region and the other that supports children and young people across Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire and Milton Keynes. Keech Hospice Care enables those that use their services to enjoy the highest quality of life. They also provide essential support to family and friends, enabling them to cope with the process of terminal illness and bereavement. Since opening their doors, Keech have addressed changes in treatment, resulting in a state-ofthe-art In-patient unit being opened in 2009. This combines the most modern equipment and up-to-date Bonita Norris trained for the VocaLink North Pole Challenge by pulling car tyres 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Our environment Growing our business while shrinking our footprint Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 21 Ian Gausden, our Chief Operating comparison data available which will Environment dashboard Officer, oversees our environment tell us exactly how much CO2e will be Our energy consumption patterns strategy. Not only is he in charge used per e-bill. To that end VocaLink have been measured since 2006 and of the environmental management is currently completing a project in we have automatic meter reading in system but is also responsible conjunction with the Carbon Trust all of our sites. for managing Carbon Reduction and one of our billing partners to This year we introduced an Commitment Energy Efficiency publish the full carbon footprint of environment dashboard to provide Scheme (CRC) compliance, setting both a paper bill and an e-bill. summary reporting. It allows us targets and improving environmental Adopting best practice to monitor energy consumption, performance. Effective environmental management waste and recycling for the group Paperless billing with OneVu is not just about carrying out CSR as a whole. Being able to track our VocaLink’s business OneVu, is a measures or meeting mandatory organisational footprint will facilitate service which allows customers to regulations; it’s fundamental to our CRC compliance and allow us to opt to receive their utility bills on the business performance. identify further energy savings. internet rather than through the post. When it comes to energy CSR projects go beyond our VocaLink believe that this is a much management, we strive to set legislative obligations, promoting more environmentally sound option, the standard across the industry. greener economic growth. An and we have already successfully VocaLink were one of the first UK ongoing initiative is the recording added over 400,000 users to businesses to sign up to the CRC, of company-wide consumption the service, which represents a which became mandatory in April of natural resources such as gas, significant reduction in resource use. 2010. electricity, water and waste. Going forward, this will enable us to reduce We would like to be able to advertise We share best practice by working our environmental impact and the environmental benefits of this closely with the Carbon Trust and realise opportunities for increased service on a much wider basis. In as members of the Prince’s Mayday efficiency. order that we can do this we need network. to be able to have the verifiable 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Reductions that make a positive This volume of processing power the amount of colour printing has impact in a high density rack generates been drastically reduced. All forms In 2011 VocaLink consumed 9050 significantly more heat than the of written internal correspondence is tonnes of CO2 equivalent from traditional server racks that were now in electronic form, which has had energy use, business travel and being replaced. Working with a profound effect on both cutting waste management. This equates suppliers, VocaLink selected a new down paper wastage and how we to 8237 tonnes for energy use, 813 rack configuration called a ‘POD’ communicate with each other. We tonnes for business travel and waste design. This creates an enclosed have not reduced this by any more arising is 133.27 tonnes. space for the servers, trapping but maintained the lower level of heat generated by the servers and 2010 for 2011. In our head office, we have reduced immediately cooling the air. This our energy consumption by an Reducing waste approach is more efficient than average of 5.55% over the last four We have also increased office waste attempting to cool the whole hall and years or 200,000kwh or 108.2 tonnes recycling rates from 17.5% to 30.5% thought to be a 60% energy saving of CO2e. That is a saving of 2.9% in during 2011. on alternative configurations. We will 2011. know more about actual savings in We have maintained our ISO14001 Our CSR Vision document included 2012. environmental standard at all the Data Centre Migration VocaLink sites. Reducing printed output programme as a key initiative New printer technology has been We have introduced a unified and this needed to consider introduced to help reduce energy recycling policy across VocaLink to energy efficiencies. The scope and minimise unnecessary printing. maximise waste recycling. of the initiative included a new computer server rack design in the Paper usage fell by 2.7 million The next step is to see how we Development and Test Area. This copies during 2010 – an impressive can best recycle heat and utilise part of the project was challenging reduction of 45% on 2009. This renewable energy sources. This because we had to fit greater equates to a carbon saving of 385 applies not just to the data centres numbers of servers in a smaller trees, each capable of capturing one but in all the locations where we do area. The solution was to select high tonne of carbon annually. Double business. density racks hosting ‘blade servers’. sided printing is now mandatory and Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 23 A greener way of getting to work – a further 19 staff joining the scheme A review of our travel policy is Those that can, bike it in 2011. currently being carried out. We are With on-site parking being restricted tracking travel habits on a monthly We also encourage car-sharing and at all locations, we continue to basis to identify ways to reduce costs are currently measuring our staff encourage colleagues to consider and save energy. commuting habits, to consider the alternative, more active and opportunities available for reducing We are already implementing environmentally-friendly methods of our carbon footprint. a solution with state-of-the-art coming to work than by car. VocaLink telepresence equipment installed at is a member of the Cycle to Work Going further by travelling less our primary sites. It’s working well; Scheme, which promotes fitness and Getting people to work colleagues are finding they interact is part of the Government’s Green collaboratively is a continual effectively, travel time is reduced, Transport Plan. challenge for a large, multi-site fuel is saved and costs reduced. operation. We know it can be more Thanks to the incentive of VocaLink efficient for colleagues to meet faceproviding bikes on loan, storage to-face, but it is equally important facilities and funds for maintenance, to minimise our transport costs and our Cycle to Work scheme has seen carbon footprint. the uptake in 2010 of 30 people, with 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 VocaLink is a specialist payments partner for banks, their corporate customers and government departments. We are committed to managing our business responsibly and to building mutually supportive relationships with each other and our wider communities. We achieve this through a programme of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). It reinforces almost everything we do and has been formalised in a CSR Vision. To track the progress of all our CSR initiatives in 2012, please visit our website: www.vocalink.com. We look forward to marking our successes and our achievements in the CSR report for 2012/13. 25 Head Office VocaLink Drake House Homestead Road Rickmansworth WD3 1FX United Kingdom +44 (0)203 450 6573 info@vocalink.com 34001902011111 www.vocalink.com
