Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report About this report This is the Deloitte network’s third corporate responsibility report, covering the organization’s 2011 fiscal year, 1 June 2010 to 31 May 2011. DTTL is committed to reporting annually on Deloitte’s activities as a responsible organization; prior Deloitte corporate responsibility reports can be found at www.deloitte.com/crreport. Several Deloitte member firms also issue their own reports on corporate responsibility activities. 1 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report This report in brief About Deloitte Deloitte member firms provide audit, tax, We aspire to be Performance highlights Community investment and education • US$162.3 million in aggregate member firm consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple the standard of Client service • US$28.8 billion in aggregate member firm community investments • 709,000 hours of pro bono and volunteer industries. With a globally connected network excellence, the first revenues, the most ever recorded by the global work, valued at US$72.1 million in more than 150 countries, Deloitte member firms bring world-class capabilities and highchoice of the most member firm network • 8.4 percent aggregate member firm revenue • 35 percent of member firm community investments toward education and skillsquality service to clients, delivering the insights sought-after clients growth in U.S. dollars (7.7 percent in local building organizations they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte's approximately and talent. currency): strongest increase since FY2008 Environmental sustainability 182,000 professionals are committed to Talent • Aggregate Deloitte network carbon emissions Deloitte’s vision statement becoming the standard of excellence. • 181,566 professionals worldwide increased 8 percent but stayed constant per • 49,152 professionals hired across the global full-time employee Vision and values Outlook on corporate responsibility network, adding 12,000 (net) new jobs: 7.1 • First global response to Carbon Disclosure The Deloitte Shared Values succinctly describe Deloitte’s most significant impacts on society percent increase compared to FY2010 Project the core principles that distinguish the result from the work that member firms do • 21 percent employee turnover, down 0.4 Deloitte culture: for their clients, day in and day out. As providers percent from last year and within the same 0.5 of auditing and accounting services, member percent range as in the past four years • Integrity firms have a responsibility to act as guardians • 21.7 percent women among new member firm • Outstanding value to markets and clients of the public's trust in the capital markets. partner, principal, and director admissions • Commitment to each other As providers of consulting and advisory services • Strength from cultural diversity to non-audit clients, member firms work with Quality and risk management: Initiated clients on creating enduring prosperity. comprehensive update of enterprise risk framework and issued new quality and risk The policies and practices of DTTL and its materials member firms are vital to the network’s ability to foster prosperity and societal well-being. Ethics: New anti-corruption policy adopted These elements establish the connections between Deloitte’s outlook on the network’s Privacy and data security: Comprehensive global role in society and its day-to-day decisions. privacy policy passed 2 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and outlook | 4 Impacts in society | 8 Responsible business practices | 19 How we report | 32 3 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and outlook Deloitte’s vision and values provide a foundation for all of the organization’s decisions. They also serve as the basis for interpreting the big issues that society faces today and for focusing Deloitte’s own efforts in areas where the Profile and outlook organization can have the greatest impacts. Vision and values Profile and outlook A letter from Barry Salzberg, DTTL CEO Profile and outlook Outlook on corporate responsibillity 4 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and outlook A letter from Barry Salzberg, DTTL CEO It’s a commitment that As you will see in the report, reflects a growing trend of FY2011 alone is testament executives recognizing corporate to the strength of Deloitte’s responsibility as a driver of commitment to excellence in business strategy, and of the all areas. Of course, even in a public expecting companies to year of great highs, there are play a role in promoting the challenges. And when it comes common good. to tackling societal issues, collective action is sometimes By assisting member firm clients required. To that end, the global The Deloitte member firm in fulfilling their missions and network continues to support network’s (Deloitte) delivering benefits to their the UN Global Compact, the commitment to driving stakeholders, Deloitte is doing its World Business Council for societal change is a part to build a more prosperous Sustainable Development, the defining characteristic of and sustainable society. As more World Economic Forum, and Deloitte’s culture and an businesses thrive, economies other organizations that share integral part of the way grow and jobs are created. Deloitte’s commitments to member firms do business. advancing the interests of society. Throughout this report, you will see numerous examples of the Thanks in advance for taking great work member firms around the time to read the stories in the world are doing in this area. this report. I hope you find them As DTTL Global CEO, I’m as inspiring as I do. proud of the fact that member firm professionals are working Please reach out to together As One across functions globalcorporateresponsibility@ and geographies to deliver truly deloitte.com with any feedback. outstanding quality and results – not just for their member firm Regards, clients but for society as a whole. I’m also proud of what Deloitte is doing to raise the standard for responsible business practices – a must if member firms are to maintain the trust of their member firm clients, markets, Barry Salzberg regulators, and the public CEO, Deloitte Touche at large. Tohmatsu Limited 5 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and outlook Vision and values Our vision: We aspire to be the standard of excellence, the first choice of the most sought-after clients and talent. Personal, business, and societal success are inseparable. When risks and opportunities are thoroughly understood, and impacts on the environment, society, and the public interest are managed responsibly, Deloitte believes that business and society can flourish together. Given the crucial role of business in driving innovation and building a prosperous society, it is helpful to understand what organizations do day in and day out. The member firms of DTTL work with clients to create value for society, sustain growth, and protect confidence in a global business environment characterized by complexity, challenge, and rapid change. Their focus on quality helps the member firms to establish The Deloitte Shared Values and safeguard trust with companies, Integrity Commitment to each other investors, and wider society. We believe that nothing is more We believe that our culture of important than our reputation, borderless collegiality is a The audits that Deloitte member firms and behaving with the highest competitive advantage for us, and perform are important in helping clients levels of integrity is fundamental to we go to great lengths to nurture maintain their credibility in the capital who we are. We demonstrate a it and preserve it. We go to markets, and their enterprise risk on managing change and people. together, providing the basis for trusting strong commitment to sustainable, extraordinary lengths to support services promote good governance, The network’s financial advisory one other and enabling the network to responsible business practices. our people. including anti-corruption efforts, and services practices provide support with achieve its vision. intelligent risk management. With mergers and acquisitions, litigation Outstanding value to markets Strength from cultural diversity tax services, member firms assist clients and arbitration, and other issues. The nine Ethical Principles of the and clients Our member firm clients’ business in meeting their financial obligations Deloitte member firms further define We play a critical role in helping challenges are complex and benefit to governments. As they deliver services to clients, the the culture of our organization. These both the capital markets and from multidimensional thinking. people of Deloitte member firms are principles set forth unchanging standards our member firm clients operate We believe that working with Member firms’ consulting professionals working harder than ever to be leaders in of professional conduct for Deloitte’s more effectively. We consider people of different backgrounds, are helping clients to unlock efficiency setting the standard for respect for leaders and people. They promote this role a privilege, and we know cultures, and thinking styles helps and innovation in their organizations others and focus on quality and value. excellence and accountability, including it requires constant vigilance and our people grow into better with strategic thinking, high-performing The Deloitte Shared Values bind the responsibility to wider society. unrelenting commitment. professionals and leaders. operations and IT systems, and advice people of the Deloitte member firms 6 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Profile and outlook Outlook on corporate responsibility Deloitte member particular client as shareholdfirms enjoy far-reaching ers or employees. involvement with the business world This report presents some and wider society. examples of the work that Literally thousands of Deloitte member firms carry client assignments are out in the marketplace. These carried out day in and stories focus on the missions day out, all over the and activities of the featured globe. Because of these clients that member firms endeavors, Deloitte work with – because in most member firm leaders, instances it is their products partners, and profesand services that wider society sionals have a unique experiences directly. The point vantage point from of these stories is to illustrate which to consider and some of the ways in which influence the impact of The goods, services, external conditions that favor commentators. The growing Deloitte member firms provide business in a globalized and knowledge that busitheir continued success. interest and debate support and advice that help society. What is apparent nesses create, produce, and Looking back over the recent surrounding these ideas is clients to build a sustainable is that the core busimake available – from period of global economic exciting, and positive. and prosperous society. ness of business affects pharmaceuticals to home shocks and stagnation, it is society most, and much appliances, motor vehicles to hard to dismiss the detriment Deloitte’s place in this The report also documents more than philanthropic telecommunication networks, to wider society and to complex landscape is a the principles and manageendeavors alone. textiles to cement, financial business that results when privileged one, insofar as ment approaches of DTTL instruments to schoolbooks – elements of globalized busiDeloitte member firms have a and its member firms. These are all about building society. ness systems unravel. dual function in the business elements are important Business pioneers innovation, world. As providers of audit because they provide a and innovation drives changes Some business leaders have services to public companies, framework for the culture and that enable the realization gone further, to champion member firms are conscious behaviors that allow member of society’s goals. It is hard to the idea that their companies of the important role they firms to deliver high-quality imagine society without will embrace their roles as play in reinforcing the public’s service. It is because of qualbusiness or the breakthroughs agents of prosperity and social trust in the capital markets. ity, ethics, independence in technology, trade, health, progress, and have adapted And as providers of consulting policies and controls, learning information management, their company strategies and advisory services to their and development programs, and organizational developaccordingly. Yet questions non-audit clients, member commitments to diversity, and ment that business has remain about business’s firms work with clients on other forms of organizational facilitated. specific responsibilities in this innovations, strategies, and capital that Deloitte’s people regard. These questions are improvements that create manifest the integrity and Many business leaders the subject of ongoing public enduring prosperity: financial focus on value that Deloitte is recognize that by promoting discussion among executives, wealth, as well as societal known for. the well-being of society, government officials, socialbenefits for people who do their companies also create sector leaders, academics, and not have a direct stake in a 7 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Impacts in society Value creation and public trust are the most significant outcomes from Deloitte’s activities in society. Here are some stories from this fiscal year about member Institutional strength firms’ work for clients, which provides the greatest opportunities to create societal benefits and promote progress, as well as Deloitte’s collaborative efforts to address issues of shared concern. South Sudan Risk intelligence Liberty Group Responsible leadership Regulatory and public policy Business conduct BAE Systems Sustainability Water stewardship Merger integration Ecuador’s national oil companies The talent gap IT efficiency Education and skills KT 8 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Risk intelligence Accounting for value created As part of its integrated annual report, Liberty Group Liberty Group: Managing risk for a globalized market computes and documents the value that it creates for its stakeholders. According to the company’s value added Liberty Group Limited (Liberty) is a large statement for the year ended 31 December 2010, Liberty insurance and investment company in created approximately US$6.9 billion (R53,731 million) South Africa. Like most financial in wealth, of which US$5.9 billion (R45,375 million) institutions, Liberty is subject to a was distributed to policyholders as claims, benefits, and complex array of regulations in each of increases in reserves. Employees received US$294 million its business lines. And as South Africa (R2,270 million) in salaries and other benefits, and the has taken a greater role on the global government received US$272 million (R2,098 million) economic stage over the past few in taxes. decades – in 2009, the Ministry of Finance was invited to join the Financial Source: http://liberty.investoreports.com/ Stability Board, a forum for national liberty_ar_2010/reviews/value-added-statement/ financial authorities to promote effective regulatory and supervisory guidance – its financial regulators have updated the country’s laws for consistency with advances elsewhere. For insurers, the biggest South Africa’s regulators have Solvency II’s mandates. The II compliance are likely to be regulatory development begun instituting Solvency capabilities affected include substantial, as EU insurers of late has been Solvency Assessment and Management capital funding and risk have found, over time the II, a European Union (EU) (SAM), a regulatory regime transfer, strategic planning business benefits ought to be program. Solvency II, which modeled on Solvency II that and capital allocation, even greater. The programtakes effect at the end is expected to take effect in product development and matic enhancements should of 2012, will replace 13 January 2014. Meanwhile, pricing, asset and liability lead to regulatory compliance insurance directives and Liberty and other South Afmanagement, investment as well as improved returns harmonize regulations across rican insurers are seizing the management, performance on risk-adjusted capital, the EU. The program includes opportunity to get in front of measurement and incenreduced volatility of experinew mandates for authorizaSAM. As European insurers tives, and external reporting. ence variations, lower costs tion, corporate governance, are learning, implementing To address these areas, the of capital, and enhanced reporting to supervisory Solvency II-compliant proSouthern African member reputation. These business bodies, public disclosure, risk grams presents an opportufirm is fielding a crossbenefits, in turn, should management, and capital nity to improve internal risk functional team and working promote revenue growth, holding. By requiring insurers models, reporting systems, with senior professionals asset growth, and margin to develop a more sophistiand capital requirements. from Deloitte UK who have enhancement. Much of the cated understanding of risks extensive experience on resulting value would accrue and match their capital reTo begin, Liberty has been Solvency II engagements for to Liberty’s policyholders as serves more closely, Solvency working with Deloitte EU clients. increased security and wellII should give policyholders Southern Africa to analyze being – both tangible benefits more confidence in the insurthe changes the insurer While the up-front costs for for society. ance they buy. must make to comply with Liberty to attain Solvency 9 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Business conduct BAE Systems: Building public trust in ethical business programs In June 2008, BAE Systems, a UK-based aerospace and defense company and one of the largest companies in its industry worldwide, received the final report of the Woolf Committee, an independent committee that the company had appointed to review its ethical policies and processes. For several years prior, BAE Systems had been dogged by controversy over alleged bribes to Saudi Arabian officials as part of arms deals between the UK and Saudi governments. The Woolf Committee conducted a review of good practices for ethical business conduct and issued BAE Systems with a report containing 23 recommendations, which the company pledged to adopt over a three-year period. The Woolf Committee’s of statements made by Deloitte UK did present stepped up their anti-bribery report highlighted external BAE Systems’ management independent conclusions as and anti-corruption enforceassurance of ethics policies within its annual Corporate to the statements made by ment activities significantly. and programs as an imResponsibility reports with management in relation to Anti-bribery and corruption portant aspect of ethical regard to progress against activities that were being laws are also becoming more business conduct. The Woolf the Woolf Committee undertaken to address the stringent: the UK’s Bribery Act Committee went on to recommendations. Woolf Committee’s recom2010, which many consider recommend that BAE Systems mendations and on the the toughest anti-bribery and “commission and publish an Deloitte UK’s work did not accuracy of reported ethical corruption legislation anyindependent external audit of provide assurance over conduct data. where, received Royal Assent ethical business conduct and whether BAE Systems’ ethics on 8 April 2010 and became the management of reputaprograms are designed to, or Assurance statements such effective on 1 July 2011. tional risk in the Company will, meet the requirements as these reflect growing Through their audit work with within three years and at of the Woolf Report. (Such a expectations across wider clients such as BAE Systems, regular intervals thereafter.” review has been performed society that enterprises Deloitte member firms are BAE Systems announced in by Ethical Leadership Group, should be open about how helping to build public trust September 2008 that Deloitte another consulting company they combat bribery and in companies’ efforts to abide UK would be engaged specializing in ethics and corruption. Over the last by high standards for ethical for a three-year period to integrity.) However, in its few years, prosecutors and business conduct. undertake ISAE 3000 audits assurance statements, regulators worldwide have 10 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Merger integration Ecuador’s national oil companies: Seeking integration This is a fascinating project. We are very proud that we are and efficiency given an opportunity to review and redesign an integrated operation, Over the last 50 years, an from geological formations all era of abundant oil and gas supply capacity has been the way through to the gas stations. dominated by integrated oil Our 30 or so consultants in Ecuador companies, especially those are literally making history in known as the “supermajors.” In the wake of the the Amazonia. resource nationalizations of the 1960s and 1970s, howOmar Itcovici ever, national oil companies Partner, Deloitte LATCO (Argentina) (NOCs) have assumed a more important role in the market. The contributions that NOCs appointed Minister of NonRepresentatives from the practices for corporate make to government finances Renewable Natural NOCs subsequently met with governance, financial can support societal welfare Resources decided to embark a member firm client that management, and talent dein any number of ways. on an ambitious initiative had gone through a previous velopment, amongst others. Consequently, for the citizens aimed at realigning the merger to hear about of countries with national operations and increasing the its experiences. All these changes are oil companies, the global efficiency of both NOCs. critical to enhancing competitiveness of a NOC Deloitte LATCO’s Argentina the Ecuadorian NOCs’ can be a vital matter of public Deloitte member firms have practice was awarded the ability to compete interest. long provided services to project, and the practice on a global stage. Moreover, PetroEcuador and PetroAmainitiated its work with the the synergies and business Ecuador is home to two zonas and received the tender two companies in March improvements from the national oil companies: for the job of transforming 2011. The NOCs stand to restructuring activities are PetroEcuador, a fully the two companies. Deloitte gain considerable efficiency expected to help the integrated oil company, and LATCO’s Argentina practice by combining a series of NOCs generate greater PetroAmazonas, an upstream worked together with DTTL assets and functions and by financial returns. Such oil company. Together, they and member firm leaders consolidating suppliers and financial returns have the produce about 300,000 for the Energy & Resources contracts. Their restructurpotential to enable further barrels of oil equivalent per industry and many member ing should also position the social and economic progress day, in a country that holds firm specialists in the oil & companies to ratchet up their for Ecuador and its nearly the third-largest oil reserves gas sector on a proposal. exploration and develop15 million people, who are of South America after The proposal showcased ment activities and to secure stakeholders in the success Venezuela and Brazil and has member firms’ work on, and international financing. And of the reorganized NOCs. tremendous potential for proven approaches to, similar the enterprises can work output growth. The recently transformational initiatives. on instituting enhanced 11 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report IT efficiency KT: Promoting economic growth and information access Telecommunications services have enabled companies, individuals, and organizations to achieve manifold improvements in productivity and innovation. Telecommunication can be a substitute for travel, providing a means of growing and maintaining relationships across distances, and offer access to information people can use to improve their lives in many different ways. Mobile telecommunications, in particular, offer people phase of this IT transformaKT services they buy. When resources to innovation: in developing countries tion: the integration of KT’s they have support or service developing and offering new an inexpensive technology business support systems inquiries, they will be able telecommunications and for creating markets and (BSS) and operational support to raise them through one information services. Such doing business without an systems (OSS). These systems channel to KT staff, who are innovations can enable better investment in fixed-line are used to manage networks equipped with a single view of experiences for commercial infrastructures. as well as products, billing, all the customer’s activities. and business customers. and customer accounts. They The Republic of Korea has also facilitate the delivery of KT’s efforts to streamline its As KT Chairman and CEO an especially sophisticated customer service through IT and service platforms offer Suk-Chae Lee wrote in the telecommunications system, websites, call centers, and benefits to the company and company’s 2010 sustainwhich affords broadband other channels. to its extensive customer base. ability report, “KT has been Internet service to more than The less time that KT customa leader in raising industrial 80 percent of households. The project will see KT move ers need to spend managing productivity and creating a Yet the country’s telecommuthese systems onto one their bills and accounts or ‘smarter’ society. […] KT is an nications providers continue platform, which is a relatively resolving service issues, the enterprise that consistently to deliver new products and advanced approach. Jae Lee, more time they have available changes the world and makes to seek improvements. KT senior vice president of KT’s to pursue other activities. it a more enjoyable place.” By (formerly known as Korea Business and Information Over a large customer base, working with KT to streamline Telecom), one of the country’s System Transformation (BIT) shorter transactions add up to the company’s IT systems, largest telecommunications Center, has commented in substantial society-level gains Deloitte Korea is helping companies, has invested the press that integrating KT’s in productivity. Moreover, the create efficiencies that save significantly in enhancing its BSS and OSS systems makes efficiency gained from the time for customers and better IT infrastructure. Following a customers’ relations with system transformation should enable the company to fulfill merger, KT selected Deloitte the company seamless and free KT’s executives and its broader role in society. Korea and other consulting convenient. Customers will managers to devote more of vendors to work on a major receive a single bill for all the their time and the company’s 12 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Institutional strength South Sudan: Creating conditions for peace and prosperity For most of the last half-century, South Sudan has been engulfed in civil war. The most recent conflict raged for more than two decades, displacing four million residents and claiming more than two million lives before the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) was signed in 2005. Among other things, the CPA established the principle of one country with two systems of governance, enabling South Sudan to become a semiautonomous region. During a weeklong balloting period in January 2011, South Sudanese voted overwhelmingly – nearly 99 percent in favor – to make the region an independent nation. The six-year CPA process Development (USAID) ended on 9 July 2011 when committed itself in 2004 South Sudan attained to helping strengthen independence. The jubilation institutional structures in felt by many new citizens the region. Several years of South Sudan is tempered ago USAID turned for help the Deloitte U.S. team’s returns database. By the gradually become less depenby the tremendous difficulto the Emerging Markets work on setting up a fairer, end of April 2011, some dent on oil revenue. Richard Deloitte U.S.’s Emerging ties that the country must practice at BearingPoint, simpler, and more harmo1,000 employers had been Laliberte, Director, Deloitte Markets practice is best surmount to become prosperwhich later came to Deloitte nized taxation system. registered with identification Consulting LLP (U.S.), who has ous and peaceful. These U.S. in a 2009 transaction. South Sudan’s Intergovnumbers. The team also 16 years of experience in the known for its work in challenges include extremely These Emerging Markets ernmental Fiscal Relations helped the tax directorate Emerging Markets practice post-conflict countries and low literacy (15 percent), a practitioners have assisted the Task Force, comprising develop an approach and has been overseeing the transitional economies. weak private sector, minimal Republic of South Sudan (RSS) representatives of all 10 to collecting excise tax on project in Juba for the last infrastructure (fewer than with establishing the legal states and top finance and selected goods. 15 months, says this sort of Our work is focused on 100 kilometers of paved road framework for the creation taxation officials, created economic governance project creating the conditions for in a nation with more than of a Central Bank, improving high-level recommendations These developments are has an impact worldwide: peace and stability – where twice the land area of Italy), the budget planning and for such a system over three important for the RSS “Through projects such as this high infant mortality, tribalexecution processes at the plenary meetings that the because oil revenues one, Deloitte U.S. is helping governments can govern and ism – and the unwinding of national level and in all team helped organize. Other currently represent 98 governments make significant people can better their lives. Sudan and the formation of 10 states, and marketing its practitioners worked with percent of their revenues and and lasting improvements to two sovereign countries. petroleum products. the Directorate of Taxation oil production is declining. the lives of people in about to design a software If properly implemented, 40 countries in transition.” Kate Thompson Where to start? The U.S. One further area of significant application for tax registraSouth Sudan’s new taxation Principal, Deloitte Consulting LLP (U.S.) and Agency for International activity during FY2011 was tion and to create a tax system should help the RSS to leader of the South Sudan engagement 13 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Responsible leadership Regulatory and public policy engagement: Proactively contributing to instill confidence in the capital markets Deloitte proactively engages in the dynamic regulatory and political environment, as part of the network’s efforts to uphold public trust in the capital markets and to protect investors. The professional services industry is responding to an increasing number of regulatory and legislative developments, particularly those initiated in response to the global financial crisis. Depending on the direction independence. Investors regulators and authorities responsibility to choose the these overlapping processes deserve information to explore lessons from the right auditor for the job. take, they could have guide their decisions about financial crisis, Deloitte Deloitte urges enhancements profound cross-border deploying monies into the believes they could set a path to corporate governance implications not only for the capital markets, and this focus to improvements in financial practices around the world, entire Deloitte organization, on quality and relevance reporting, including audit including strengthened but also for companies that should be the cornerstone quality reforms – and urges communication between engage professional services when considering the costs them to collaborate in audit committees and audiorganizations around the and benefits of any reforms this debate. tors, and has weighed in on world. It is incumbent upon to financial reporting. DTTL initiatives exploring this area. the Deloitte organization and Deloitte U.S., respecAudit committees and and other capital market tively, have contributed to the company management have DTTL and its member firms participants to reflect meanInternational Auditing and important roles in the financial call on national authorities to ingfully on lessons that Assurance Standards Board’s reporting process. The work together in the interest can be learned from the crisis and the Public Company positive correlation between of consistency and converand to respond pragmatically Accounting Oversight Board’s effective corporate governgence of regulations to enable to the concerns being current projects intended to ance, audit quality, and sound ease of cross-border activity raised. Deloitte welcomes enhance auditor reporting to financial reporting should and to promote transparency. this challenge. meet the needs of investors, not be underestimated. In Deloitte’s view, setting and the European Economic Audit committees perform a path to consistent audit At the heart of the Area member firms of DTTL the unique function, indepenreforms, effective corporate regulatory agenda is the role have also responded to the dently from management, governance, and the use of of the auditor: specifically, European Commission’s Green of overseeing companies’ one single set of high-quality the issues of audit quality, Paper on Audit Policy and financial reporting proglobal accounting standards the relevance of financial support initiatives that address cesses as well as the external will further instill confidence in reporting, and auditor these objectives. As these audit processes, including the capital markets. 14 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Sustainability Water stewardship: Providing strategy and risk insight for sustainability Increasing demand for water and declining water quality present immediate risks for society and for businesses. Nearly one billion people worldwide do not have regular access to safe drinking water, and an estimated 47 percent of the world’s population will face water shortages by 2030. Water scarcity is poised to be a major economic and social issue in the 21st century, one that will impact member firms’ clients and their local communities to varying degrees. Deloitte member firms are at the critical information on water usage from governments, civil society groups, forefront when it comes to helping large businesses to inform the global and communities to manage water clients address water scarcity and marketplace about water-related sustainably at the level of individual quality issues and providing enterprise investment risks and commercial watersheds. A Deloitte U.S. team of water strategy services. In December opportunities. The agreement between professionals based in the U.S. and India 2010, Deloitte U.S. acquired the Deloitte and CDP will entail collaboration is working on the Hub’s development in assets of DOMANI Sustainability on thought leadership and will leverage collaboration with the Pacific Institute, Consulting LLC, expanding the U.S. insight gleaned from Deloitte member the International Business Leaders firm’s capabilities in designing and firms’ years of work with some of the Forum, and the German International implementing water stewardship world’s largest companies. The Development Agency (GIZ). programs. With a vision that companies collaboration with CDP will help Deloitte should embrace sustainability as a core member firms bring water stewardship By continuing to invest in their water business function, the combined teams into business strategy for their clients stewardship capabilities, Deloitte are using their experience in water and to stimulate broad-scale innovation. member firms are equipping themselves stewardship to help clients create to work with clients on achieving About Sustainability & Climate Change Services positive economic and social impacts. Since early 2011, Deloitte U.S. has long-term sustainability, which promotes Water stewardship is just one of the innovative services delivered by Deloitte been working with the United Nations brand protection, business continuity, member firms’ Sustainability & Climate Change practices. Comprising During FY2011, Deloitte U.S. and Global Compact CEO Water Mandate’s and growth. And through their a dedicated group of 750 sustainability specialists, these practices are Deloitte Canada began work with the Water Action Hub (the Hub). The Hub involvement in collaborative, multicommitted to helping clients transition to the sustainable business models Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) to is envisioned as a groundbreaking public stakeholder projects, Deloitte member and practices that will deliver topand bottom-line growth for the long advance CDP Water Disclosure, a online tool that will allow companies firms are helping establish the public term. Deloitte member firms have been working with clients for more than pioneering program that aims to bring to collaborate across sectors on water awareness, frameworks, and tools for 25 years to help them implement multifaceted responses to sustainability greater transparency to business water conservation projects. The Hub advancing water stewardship challenges and deliver on their own opportunities to create environmental use. CDP Water Disclosure provides has the potential to enable businesses, approaches that benefit wider society. solutions. This work represents the most important contribution that Deloitte member firms make to the sustainability agenda. 15 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report The talent gap Education and skills: Inspiring young minds to achieve great futures Access to quality education and skills development is crucial to a flourishing society. Almost half of the world’s young people do not attend secondary school, and many who do finish with insufficient skills. By supporting high-impact, scalable education programs around the world, Deloitte is addressing the skills gap and helping underserved young people realize their potential. Through Deloitte21, a global initiative, scaling their impact – including geohighest youth unemployment rates, member firms are helping education graphic expansion, more efficient service entrepreneurship provides a path for leaders to identify ways to prepare young delivery, and improved student outcomes. achieving long-term success. Member The world is currently facing a people for success in secondary school, firms’ work to address the education and growing talent gap between what higher education, and ultimately the DTTL recognized two emerging programs skills gap includes consulting on systempotential workers are learning 21st century workforce. More than 20 supported by Deloitte member level needs; capacity-building to help Deloitte member firms are investing firms with a US$250,000 Deloitte21 organizations serve more students, more and the actual skills needed to in local programs that will have a Challenge Grant for Innovation. Pratham effectively; and advancing knowledge thrive today and in the future. It is lasting positive impact on young people’s USA is working with Deloitte U.S. to and thought leadership. Deloitte member imperative for businesses worldwide lives, the community, and society’s create achievement centers that provide firm professionals around the world carry long-term prosperity. young women in India with training in out projects for education institutions, to recognize this void and take technology, leadership, entrepreneurship, and also lead career skills workshops, action toward adequately preparing In FY2011 Deloitte member firms creativity, and problem-solving, as well mentor students, and coach young entreyoung people for a knowledge-based stepped up their commitment to educaas assistance finding jobs and starting preneurs. In all these respects, member tion and 21st century skills development businesses. INJAZ al-Arab is working firm professionals are using their skills and economy. through the Deloitte21 Challenge. with Deloitte Middle East to introduce experience to contribute to transformaMember firm professionals used their the “Be Entrepreneurial” curriculum tive solutions and to equip young people business skills to help local education and launch a regional business plan with the skills to achieve great futures. Barry Salzberg organizations develop strategic plans for competition. In a region with the world’s DTTL CEO 16 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report The talent gap Education and skills: Inspiring young minds to achieve great futures Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono work by member firm people, FY2009-FY2011 Pro bono work and skills-based volunteering accounted for 76 percent of the value of all volunteering and pro bono work performed by member firm people. Aggregate community investment by Deloitte member firms, FY2011 ($USm) 709,000 Hours Community investments aligned to education and skills now represent 35 percent of aggregate community investments, up from 241,000 Traditional 32 percent in FY2010. volunteering 588,000 463,000 187,000 275,000 Skills-based 9.1 212,000 volunteering Volunteering and 247,000 pro bono Member firm 136,000 28.4 193,000 Pro bono work and foundation donations 154,000 115,000 US$162.3m 72.1 Member firm partner and employee donations FY09 FY10 FY11 52.7 Member firm management Aggregate community investment by Deloitte member firms, FY2009-FY2011 Total community investment for member firms in FY2011 increased 15 percent over member firms reporting in FY2010. 162.3 US$m 141.6 138.9 FY09 FY10 FY11 17 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report The talent gap Education and skills: Inspiring young minds to achieve great futures Member firms are supporting more than 40 education and skills programs around the world. Examples include: • Since 2007 Deloitte Belgium and Fund Isaan have reached more than 6,500 students, providing quality educational opportunities, Internet-ready computer classrooms, and skills development. • Close the Gap, supported by Deloitte member firms in Belgium and the Netherlands, provided over 16,000 IT assets and installed 15,000 computers in 2010. More than 270 nonprofits providing youth and young adults with job training received IT assets. It is estimated that each week at least 1 million young people use computers repurposed through Close the Gap. • eLearning for Kids and eLearning for Life Foundation, supported by Deloitte member firms around the world, continued to expand their reach and impact. To date, more than 5 million young people in 190 countries have used their free online and CD-ROM-based courses. • Deloitte Finland’s work with the OK! Program to improve the work readiness of young immigrants has expanded and to date has reached more than 100 students, providing them with a launching point for future employment opportunities. • The Winning Twinning program was launched between Deloitte France and Sarcelles High School, reaching 500 students and teachers during its first year. The program focuses on improving achievement and career aspirations of underprivileged students. • Deloitte Germany is collaborating with the JUNIOR program to strengthen employability and entrepreneurship skills among young people across Germany, helping to spark innovation and entrepreneurship. • Deloitte Netherlands collaborates with the IMC Weekend School to help youths develop a strong foundation of employability skills. Deloitte Netherlands professionals provide business strategy, learning, and technology skills to support the school’s expansion plans. • Deloitte Southern Africa is helping scale Project Siyakhula – “we are growing” – a program designed to provide accounting lessons and educational assistance to disadvantaged students. It’s been scaled to 38 secondary schools and reaches over 400 students per year. • Deloitte UK’s Employability Initiative has reached more than 25,000 young people since its founding in 2001, with nearly 90 percent going on to education at a higher level or to full-time employment. • Working with College Summit, Deloitte U.S. works to strengthen college-going culture and college-readiness for more than 25,000 underserved young people per year. • With the World Economic Forum’s Global Education Initiative, Deloitte sponsored regional roundtables on entrepreneurship and 21st century skill development that were held on the occasion of the Forum’s regional summits in Europe, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America. Deloitte member firm leaders are engaged in each region to carry forward the priority areas for action. 18 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Responsible business practices The policies and practices of DTTL and its member firms are vital to the Safeguarding information organization’s ability to foster prosperity and societal well-being. These elements establish the connections between Deloitte’s outlook on its role Data privacy and in society and its day-to-day decisions. security A year of job creation Effectiveness at all levels Talent engagement Organization and growth structure Responsive management Richness and inclusion Leadership and Diversity governance Culture of integrity Keeping people safe Ethics Physical security Commitment and controls Quality and risk A lighter footprint management Environmental sustainability Sustained objectivity Independence 19 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Effectiveness at all levels Organization structure The DTTL network of member firms is made up of firms that are members of DTTL, an English private company limited by guarantee. This structure allows the Deloitte member firm network to be a leader at all levels – locally, nationally, and globally – because its central governance policies are sensitive to the professional environment and culture of individual countries. At the same time, individual member firms have access to cross-border skills and knowledge, the ability to consult with the entire network, and the benefit of the network’s market recognition and reputation. DTTL itself does not provide services to clients. Member firm structure a global parent. Rather, they are separate • Aligning national plans, strategies, The partners of DTTL’s member firms are and distinct locally formed legal entities and operations with those of DTTL, as generally the sole owners of their respecthat have voluntarily joined the network appropriate, in consultation with DTTL tive member firms. Their member firms to coordinate their approach to executive management are organized on an individual country or client service. regional basis, and each operates within • Adhering to DTTL requirements the legal and regulatory framework This structure also confers significant regarding professional standards, of its particular jurisdiction. They are strengths: a deep understanding of local shared values, methodologies, separate and independent firms that are markets, and a sense of responsibility governance, and systems of quality owned and managed locally. These firms among member firm professionals, who control and risk management have come together to practice under a have a direct stake in the integrity and common brand, methodologies, client growth of their practices. • Advising DTTL’s executive Global policies service standards, and other professional management of the details of all joint The DTTL Policies Manual comprises a set of global policies standards and guidelines. Global cooperation ventures, joint practices, proposed that provide the basis for member firms to establish Member firms support and adhere to the mergers, and other combinations of consistent and rigorous quality and risk management The member firm structure fosters compurposes and policies of DTTL by: any type with other member firms, as processes and procedures. DTTL regularly works on pliance with rules of local ownership and well as practice activity in jurisdictions developing and enhancing its global policies. Other pages management governing the accountancy • Conducting themselves in a manner other than those assigned to the of this report provide information about new and revised profession in many countries. It also that advances the reputation of the member firm policies on anti-corruption, privacy, independence, and reflects the fact that the member firms Deloitte member firm network other matters. are not subsidiaries or branch offices of 20 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Responsive management Leadership and governance Strong, well-conceived governance Member firm leadership and leadership structures help To foster effective and responsive manmake it possible for Deloitte agement within member firms, DTTL has member firms to maintain high adopted standards to be implemented levels of quality and integrity and by member firms describing specific sustain the trust of their clients, leadership and governance structures their people, the capital markets, including: and the public. As a global network comprising member firms and • A managing partner, senior partner, their affiliates in more than 150 or equivalent who is responsible countries, the DTTL network of for managing the member firm and member firms has governance and ensuring that the firm delivers management structures in place at high-quality services in accord with both the global and member professional standards and firm levels. DTTL policies The DTTL Executive The DTTL Board and Governance The board has a standing Govern• A governing body, such as a board of The DTTL chief executive officer is ratiCommittee ance Committee, which has oversight directors or board of partners, to fied by the partners of DTTL’s member The Board of Directors is DTTL’s highest responsibility in respect of DTTL’s facilitate sound governance of the firms and serves a term of four years. governing body. Currently chaired by management. The Governance Comindividual practice, implementation The DTTL chief executive officer (CEO), Steve Almond, the board addresses mittee is multicultural with one seat of local rules and regulations, and currently Barry Salzberg, chooses the DTTL’s most important governance allocated to each of the largest member implementation of DTTL policies and members of the Executive subject to issues, such as global strategies, major firms, and it engages in open discussions procedures approval by the Governance Committee transactions, and the election of the of issues and matters within its purview. of the board of DTTL. CEO. The board is to be multicultural, Each committee member has one vote • A representative to serve as a liaison and its members are appointed by indion matters considered by the committee. to DTTL and to represent the member The Executive comprises DTTL’s most vidual member firms that are themselves To avoid conflicts of interest, no member firm at the DTTL World Meeting, held senior leaders. It is responsible for selected based on size, the number of of the Governance Committee may also annually to discuss strategy and establishing DTTL’s vision and strategy. significant clients they serve, and other serve on the Executive, except for the initiatives proposed by DTTL With members from various regions factors. The board also includes three CEO. The board also has a number of management and to vote on specific around the world, the group works in regional seats, ensuring that smaller other committees that coordinate and DTTL matters, such as approval of a collegial style and attempts to reach member firms are represented. Determirecommend action on a wide scope of board members, financial statements, decisions through consensus. nations regarding the allocation of DTTL financial and administrative issues. voting entitlements of the member board seats are made every four years. firms, and changes in the governing documents 21 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Culture of integrity Ethical Principles of the Deloitte Member Firms Ethics All of the Deloitte member firms have adopted the following Ethical Principles, which provide the foundation for ethics programs: Deloitte member firms Against Corruption play a critical role not only in maintaining investor Initiative (PACI) – Since April 2010, a DTTL leader • Honesty and Integrity – “We act with honesty and integrity.” confidence but also in has held a position on the creating improvements in business performance PACI board to represent the professional services • Professional Behavior – “We operate within the letter and the spirit of applicable laws.” and economic conditions sector. Ordinarily that drive growth and job creation. To fulfill this rotated annually among the Big Four, this • Competence – “We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every client assignment.” role, Deloitte member board position was firms must maintain their reputation for integrity offered to Deloitte for a second year, through • Objectivity – “We are objective in forming our professional opinions and the advice we give.” and ethical behavior, April 2012. DTTL also which underpins their relationships and good leads a new PACI working group on • Confidentiality – “We respect the confidentiality of information.” standing with clients. business relationships. The DTTL Ethics team and management. The agenda and gifts and entertainment. • UN Global Compact – • Fair Business Practices – “We are committed to fair business practices.” the member firm ethics covered exemplary member This policy was supported DTTL Ethics sits on the firm practices, emerging with guidance to member officers work together to build trust in and among issues such as social media firms on conducting corGlobal Compact’s working group on anti-corruption • Responsibility to Society – “We recognize and respect the impact we have on the world around us.” member firms’ professionals. and anti-corruption, and ruption risk assessment and (the tenth Global Compact external speakers to share third-party due diligence. Ethics-related initiatives and activities are designed to perspectives and experiences Other ethics-related principle). Deloitte has recently taken a lead role • Respect and Fair Treatment – “We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy, and fairness.” help member firm people around ethical leadership. activities planned for FY2012 in a new sub-group that is In FY2011 DTTL continued include rolling out new understand expectations for professional and ethical to perform ethics practice ethics communication and developing a corruption risk assessment tool • Accountability and Decision-making – “We lead by example, using our shared values as our foundation.” behavior, develop skills for reviews on a rotational e-learning materials to help for business. ethical decision-making, basis. These reviews evaluate sustain a culture of integrity acquire the confidence to member firm compliance with at Deloitte. • The Conference Board – speak up about challenging the DTTL ethics policy and DTTL Ethics sits on ethical situations, and provide recommendations for Engagement in public the Executive Committee take responsibility for program enhancement. discourse of the Conference protecting and sustaining DTTL participates in Board’s Global Council the Deloitte brand. In February 2011, DTTL collaborative efforts to on Business Conduct, adopted an anti-corruption promote ethical behavior whose membership In October 2010, more policy for the member firm in business. Our consists of chief ethics than 40 member firm ethics network that addresses involvement includes: and compliance officers met for a one-and-amatters such as bribery, officers from some of half day workshop to share facilitation payments, political • World Economic the world’s largest ideas in ethics program and charitable contributions, Forum Partnering global organizations. 22 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Commitment and controls Enterprise risk framework The ongoing success of DTTL and the member firms depends in part on Quality and risk management maintaining a current understanding of how changes to internal and external Deloitte strives to be Practice reviews conditions may pose risks to the services consistently recognized Each member firm is responmember firms provide and how they make by its stakeholders for sible for conducting practice strategic and operational decisions. DTTL’s world-class quality and reviews under the guidance enterprise risk framework is a core process risk management and for and oversight of DTTL. Held that allows DTTL to monitor business its continued commitment at least once every three risks and provides leadership with the to the public interest. years, these reviews consider information and insights needed to The unrelenting pursuit whether member firms’ own effectively manage and mitigate such risks. of quality and brand policies and processes comply, This year, DTTL initiated a comprehensive protection is at the core at a minimum, with DTTL refresh process of its existing enterprise risk of the Deloitte network policies and are operating framework to validate existing risks and and is evident in Deloitte’s effectively in practice. Practice identify new ones that could potentially unfettered commitment reviews cover all functions impact Deloitte’s ability to realize to consistent high-quality and service lines within each its strategy. client service. This commember firm. The practice mitment to quality and review process also assesses risk management brings do the right thing under any identifying and addressing firm’s functions. Responsibilithe quality of work performed Deloitte one step closer to circumstance, even if that independence and potential ties for these leaders include and services delivered by the becoming the standard results in declining a prospecconflicts-of-interest matters developing and implementing member firm. These reviews of excellence. tive client, engagement, or and determining an engagepolicies and procedures that often involve detailed reviews even terminating an existing ment risk classification. address specific quality control of individual engagements. Global quality and risk manclient relationship. DPM Policies can be supconsiderations for their funcFindings and recommendaagement policies, processes, plemented by member firm tions and for the member firm tions from a member firm’s and methodologies (collecSpecific Policies contained policies that take into considoverall. practice review are presented tively referred to as “Policies”) in the DTTL Policies Manual eration local market practices, in a report and management are applicable to all member (DPM) define quality controls local laws, and regulations During FY2011, DTTL letter to the member firm’s firms’ functional areas and are and comprehensive processes within their jurisdiction. developed and rolled out to leadership. In response to critical in providing client to be applied by member the member firms a series of the report, the member firm service that helps protect and firms in each client relationA cornerstone of Deloitte’s new qualityand riskrelated establishes a detailed action enhance the reputation of the ship and on each engagequality and risk management materials including new and plan to address findings and Deloitte member firms. These ment. These Policies specify framework is that each memrevised global policies, risk recommendations together Policies are designed to help rigorous processes to help ber firm has a “reputation and communications, learning with a mechanism for monimember firms address unique ensure that member firms risk leader” who is charged aids, and leading practices toring the resolution of the considerations associated evaluate the acceptability of with the responsibility to that continue to embed and findings. with the delivery of highevery client and engagement lead the member firm’s risk reinforce the importance of quality services while also and the related engagestructure, supported by risk quality and risk management challenging professionals to ment risk, which includes leaders in each of the member to the Deloitte network. 23 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Sustained objectivity Independence Maintaining independence from member firm audit clients entails compliance with rules and regulations. Yet it is also a matter of appearance. In both respects, standards for independence are shaped by legislation, regulations, professional guidance, and public expectations, given that Deloitte member firms, as auditors of public companies, have a duty to protect the public interest. Accordingly, DTTL and its member firms have instituted robust policies and processes to DTTL that it has carried out procedures help member firms and their to determine that the firm and its people safeguard their objectivity. professionals have complied with DTTL’s independence policies. Among DTTL’s independence specialists the necessary procedures is the are responsible for designing, confirmation by all member firm implementing, and monitoring the personnel that they have complied with multifaceted independence programs DTTL’s independence policies during of DTTL and the member firms. They the year. provide member firms with information and guidance on independence issues DTTL and its member firms are Adjusting to new standards and management approaches, continually making improvements to The International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants including frameworks and sample global and local independence (IESBA) released an update to its Code of Ethics in materials for their inspection and programs. Besides the changes made in 2009, which was generally effective on 1 January testing regimes, and they assess response to the new Code of Ethics of 2011. In anticipation of the changes, DTTL updated its member firms’ independence controls. the International Ethics Standards Board independence policies, processes, and implementation The DTTL team also administers for Accountants (see sidebar), one materials. DTTL revised its network-wide independence elaborate systems that assist member example of such an improvement during policies significantly, and in accordance with these firm personnel in complying with FY2011 was the expansion of the online revisions, the DTTL independence team updated its independence requirements. system that helps member firms check learning courses. The overall effect of these changes for potential conflicts, particularly across was to make DTTL’s independence requirements more In each member firm there is a partner borders. The expansion will enable stringent. In addition, the team has enhanced its responsible for independence member firms to conduct checks for compliance tools such as the entity search system and monitoring in that member firm. Each independence issues before they enter independence monitoring system. year, every member firm reports to into business relationships. 24 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Safeguarding information Data privacy and security The nature of the work that Deloitte member firms do routinely requires their clients to entrust them with highly sensitive information. Deloitte member firms also hold information about their employees that if lost or misused could result in identity theft or in some cases damage to reputation. Keeping such information confidential is thus a critical aspect of the written and implicit contracts between member firms and their stakeholders – not to mention a legal requirement in many jurisdictions where Deloitte member firms do business. Inevitably, breaches of privacy do setting up programs that aim to limit • Regular privacy communications occur: laptops or smartphones the harm that can result from privacy and training programs for member can be lost or stolen, and confidential breaches. In early 2011 DTTL took firm people documents might be accidentally a major step in this direction when it Safe Harbor Certification mailed to the wrong address. The achieved its goal of adopting a • An annual self-assessment of The Safe Harbor Framework between the opportunities for such problems comprehensive global privacy policy. compliance with the policy United States Department of Commerce are multiplying as computing devices The new policy, which took effect in and the European Commission (EC) gives and communications technologies August 2011, requires every member To help member firms institute these United States organizations a set of proliferate. Governments have firm to put in place: elements, the DTTL privacy office requirements for complying with the EC been toughening their privacy has created a toolkit, sample policies, Directive on Data Protection, which governs laws in recognition of these • A privacy policy that defines global and an online training program that the transfer of personal information from developments. One notable trend is principles to be followed in all data member firms can modify if they wish the European Union (EU) to the United the increasing adoption of breach handling processes and systems and for consistency with local regulations. States, among other issues. This framework notification requirements. that meets the requirements of local During the coming fiscal year, DTTL is designed to bridge differences between laws, customs, and regulations Global Privacy Officer Murrell Shields the privacy protection approaches of the DTTL and its member firms have moved and his team plan to visit various United States and the EU. In November rapidly to keep their privacy policies • A designated privacy leader member firms to examine their privacy 2010, DTTS, the organization that employs and practices up to date with mandates programs and provide firsthand personnel working on behalf of DTTL in the and stakeholder expectations. Not only • A process for responding to privacy feedback and recommendations United States, recertified its adherence to are they putting considerable effort into incidents for improvement. the Safe Harbor Framework following a preventing data breaches, they are also comprehensive verification process. 25 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report A year of job creation Talent engagement and growth For the Deloitte organization, designed to recognize the importance of FY2011 was a year of job creation. senior managers to the network, provide DTTL and its member firms hired a a more globally consistent, world-class combined 49,152 professionals, development program, and prepare adding some 12,000 net new jobs up-and-coming leaders for their next to the network-wide workforce – a roles, responsibilities, and continued 7.1 percent increase in headcount progress through the network. compared to FY2010. The network’s total workforce now In FY2011, more than 2.1 million online comprises approximately 182,000 course sessions were completed across member firm partners and the member firms, and 56,000 professionals worldwide, and professionals attended more than 5,100 Deloitte plans to increase its total virtual classes. DTTL and its member firms combined workforce to 250,000 administered an average of 44 hours of professionals by FY2015. training per full-time employee – as tracked by the network’s online learning To achieve that growth, Deloitte takes platform. Nearly 50,000 learning an innovative approach to talent elements, including 15,000 courses, acquisition. Its Global Universities aimed at meeting those expectations. communications from the network’s 25,000 books, and 3,200 Harvard Program, for example, makes it easy for The People Survey is a key instrument leaders, help to reinforce the Deloitte Business publications were delivered thousands of international students to used by Deloitte member firms to assess brand and talent experience. 24/7 through the organization’s online pursue career opportunities with their professionals’ interests, concerns, learning platform. DTTL also introduced member firms in their home countries and overall level of engagement with the Commitments to continuous learning three new industry curricula and four and has earned Deloitte recognition as a network, which bears a direct correlation and professional development, career industry learning guides, with an eye to leader in cross-border student to turnover. The People Survey helps and performance management, and helping professionals develop the recruitment. Growth is also dependent member firms identify actions and shape customized career-life fit policies and industry knowledge that distinguishes on member firms sustaining their talent strategies to strengthen the kinds programs are improving the working member firms in the marketplace. These commitment to providing fair, open, of ties with their people that lead to lives of member firm professionals and figures represent a lower bound for and inclusive working environments. To improved retention – particularly among helping to create a differentiated and measures of learning because certain deliver against these commitments high-performers. Employee turnover globally aligned talent experience. types of training such as conference Deloitte’s approach to talent across the network has varied by less Development of the next generation of programs and courses and some management mirrors member firms’ than half a percentage point from year to leaders is a Deloitte priority, and to member firm sessions are not tracked in approach to client service: year over the past four years. Other support this goal, DTTL launched an the online learning platform. understanding viewpoints, setting talent engagement opportunities, such innovative Senior Manager Milestone expectations, and developing solutions as open meetings with and regular program in FY2011. The new program is 26 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report A year of job creation Talent engagement and growth ASIA PACIFIC Asia Pacific The Branding Institute and CMO Council’s Best Employer Brand Award recognized Deloitte in the Asia Pacific region. Australia Deloitte Australia made the 2011 Equal AMERICAS Opportunity in the Workplace Agency (EOWA) Employer of Choice for Women list. Canada Deloitte Canada was named one of Canada’s China Best Diversity Employers for 2011. Deloitte China was named to the China’s Top Employers 2011 list. LATCO Apertura magazine ranked Deloitte LATCO’s Argentina practice 10th among the “Best Employers in Argentina.” Mexico Deloitte Mexico was named to “The Great Place to Work for Women” list. USA • Working Mother named Deloitte U.S. a top company for multicultural women. • The Human Rights Campaign named Deloitte U.S. one of its Best Places to EMEA Work for LGBT Equality. • Deloitte U.S. led the Big Four on Fortune’s Ireland “100 Best Companies to Work For” list. Deloitte Ireland was named best employer to work for in gradireland’s • Chief Learning Officer magazine “100 Leading Graduate Employers” list. selected Deloitte U.S. as one of its 2011 Learning Elite. Spain • Deloitte Spain was one of the top 20 companies to work for in Spain for the fifth year in a survey by the Corporate Reputation Business Monitor. • Deloitte Spain was among the best Spanish companies to work for in a study by Actualidad Económica. UK Deloitte UK was named to The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers list for the third year in a row. 27 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Richness and inclusion Diversity Deloitte believes that an organization that is diverse is stronger. This is why strength from cultural diversity is a Deloitte shared value, and why diversity is an integral part of talent and business strategies. It is also why Deloitte fosters a culture in which people have access to opportunities to do their best work and are valued for their contributions, empowered, and committed to excellence in client service and sustained growth. Representation of women In FY2011, women accounted for 21.7 Deloitte defines diversity with driving the global percent of combined new member as the richness of people’s effort to increase the firm partner, principal, and director viewpoints, experiences, representation of women admissions, down from 23.1 percent in cultures, and backgrounds in leadership. At the 2011 FY2010. Growth through acquisitions, and inclusion as the World Economic Forum in changes in reporting – including in behaviors, policies, and Davos, Sharon Allen, then emerging markets with lower female practices that allow all chairman of Deloitte U.S., representation – and external direct Deloitte member firm presented The Gender entry partner hiring are partially people to achieve their full Dividend: Making the Public Sector Industry included in member firm responsible for declining numbers. potential. The network business case for investing Leader, participated in a partner development Several member firms almost doubled takes a global and local in women. The Deloitte UN Global Compact event, curricula and used to their female partner admissions over approach to diversity, Global Center for Corporate “Equality Means Business: prepare professionals for FY2010, but these numbers represented instilling a culture of Governance launched Putting Principles into international assignments smaller percentages of total partner inclusion and supporting Women in the boardroom: Practice,” commemorating and working on multicultural admits. Decreases in the representation member firm initiatives A global perspective, a study the one-year anniversary teams. Through the Global of women among newly admitted shaped by local market and examining 12 countries’ of the Women’s Internship Program and member firm partners, principals, business realities. In FY2011, legislative efforts to require Empowerment Principles. International Student and directors will be addressed by Deloitte’s diversity priorities minimum numbers of Deloitte contributed to Business Forum, Deloitte recommitting member firm leadership to were the advancement women on publicly the development of the also offers participating diversity – a priority for Barry Salzberg, and empowerment of listed companies’ boards principles, which were students multicultural DTTL CEO. Women were 44 percent of women and strengthening of directors. endorsed and committed experiences. In FY2011, total member firm personnel, 34 percent the multicultural to by then-DTTL CEO Jim mobility assignments across of managers, and 45 percent of new competency needed to Deloitte marked Quigley. member firms increased 16.5 hires. At the end of FY2011, there were work in a borderless International Women’s percent from the prior year, three women on DTTL’s 35-member business environment. Day on 2 March 2011 with Multicultural competency with 4,429 people deployed leadership team, four women on the its third annual global is key to the success of the on shortand long-term 35-member DTTL Board of Directors, The Global Retention and webcast, attended by cross-border teams that assignments designed and no women on the 20-member Advancement of Women nearly 1,000 people from deliver a significant, and to transfer skills, develop DTTL Executive. Council, comprising 47 countries. Thousands increasing, proportion globally minded leaders, and partners, principals, and more attended member firm of member firms’ client better serve member firms’ directors from Deloitte events worldwide. Greg projects. Cultural cross-border clients. member firms, was charged Pellegrino, then DTTL Global competency training is 28 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Keeping people safe Physical security The work that Deloitte member firms do for their clients requires member firm people to travel all over the world. Most of their business trips happen without grave incidents. On rare occasions, however, member firm people are asked to venture to Responding to crises locations that are risky or The GSO tracks and responds to virtually every major find themselves caught security incident that takes place, from severe storms in dangerous situations to civil unrest. Here is how the GSO addressed some in otherwise safe places. headline-making events of FY2011. DTTL and its member firms recognize that it 650 requests from member also responds to clients’ December 2010 – After violent protests began in Tunisia, has a duty to protect firms for advice on travel to inquiries about Deloitte’s GSO learned of a Deloitte Canada employee and his family their people, and they high-risk locations. To provide travel security protocols and who were vacationing there. Within 48 hours, GSO had handle this duty with the thorough information, capabilities. This year, the worked with on-site security contacts to arrange escorted utmost seriousness. the GSO has a network of GSO provided location-specifground transportation to the airport, where the family specialized security providers ic training courses on security boarded a commercial flight out of the country. DTTL’s Global Security Office based in many higher-risk loto several engagement teams (GSO), headed by DTTL Chief cations, whom the office can that were bound for high-risk January 2011 – Moscow’s Domodedovo International Security Officer Don Ainslie, call upon for direct support locations. The office also Airport was the site of a bombing attack. The GSO used its has a multifaceted approach of member firm engageprovided support with plantraveler-tracking system to identify Deloitte people who to keeping Deloitte’s people ment teams. The GSO also ning travel, choosing hotels, might have been there and confirmed their safety. safe, whether they are traveencourages member firms and organizing on-theling for work or on their own to make security-checking ground project logistics. February and June 2011 – Christchurch, New Zealand was time. One important function procedures a part of their struck by two serious earthquakes. Each time, the GSO of the GSO is making sure travel services, so that trips to When security emergencies worked with the member firm there to account for the that Deloitte’s people are high-risk locations can only happen, the GSO mobilizes safety of its people and travelers. aware of particular risks that be booked with permission its capacities for providing asmay be present in places they from member firm leadership. sistance to Deloitte’s travelers March 2011 – When a devastating earthquake struck visit. The GSO also has capaand local personnel alike, as Japan’s largest island, the GSO worked with Deloitte bilities for responding when The GSO often consults well as their families. FY2011 Japan and other member firms to account for the safety crisis-level incidents occur in with member firm partners saw a number of dangerous of Deloitte people who may have been in areas affected places where Deloitte people about security precautions incidents take place, which by the earthquake, the nuclear emergency, and possible are working. for locations that might be the GSO responded to using a tsunamis. Because of spreading radiation, the GSO risky before they accept an number of mechanisms recommended that member firms with expatriate staff in During the year, the GSO engagement involving travel (see sidebar). Japan consider temporarily repatriating those staff and responded to more than to such locations. The office their families. 29 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report A lighter footprint Environmental sustainability DTTL believes that businesses travel without compromising the and institutions need to become quality of client work. DTTL and its more sustainable in order to member firms are also engaging with secure long-term prosperity for their suppliers to reduce the impacts of society and themselves. Deloitte procurement and purchasing. member firms’ most important contributions to the sustainability This year marked the first time that agenda come through their services DTTL submitted global responses to to clients, which are explained on the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Investor page 15. DTTL and its member and Supply Chain surveys, providing firms are also committed to detailed GHG emissions data and minimizing environmental harm describing key risks, opportunities, from their activities, particularly and strategies related to climate with respect to greenhouse gas change. In FY2011, Deloitte expanded (GHG) emissions, which is the major participation in its sustainability environmental issue of DTTL and performance measurement program to the member firm network. cover DTTL and 21 member firms. The member firms of Australia, Canada, the During FY2011, the DTTL Global Working Group, which sets the internal policies and priorities. Seven member United Kingdom, and the United States Corporate Responsibility Council sustainability strategy. DTTL’s priorities firms have set GHG emission reduction use software to track and report their oversaw the network’s internal for internal sustainability are identifying targets, and these firms and others have GHG-emitting activities and the sustainability efforts. This council was opportunities to reduce environmental programs focused on measuring and resulting emissions, which account for led by John Connolly, then DTTL Global impacts, including the impacts of our lessening GHG emissions and other more than half of Deloitte’s aggregate Chairman, and included senior supply chain, and enhancing member environmental impacts related to travel, global emissions. Plans are under representatives from 18 member firms firm reporting. building services, and office functions. way to extend use of the emissions and DTTL global departments. Nick Member firms continue to improve measurement software to other Main, DTTL Global Leader, Member firms manage their virtual workplace capabilities for their member firms. Sustainability & Climate Change sustainability programs at the local level, people so they can travel less, and they Services, served as chairman of the in line with the DTTL Corporate are working with clients to find modes council’s Operational Sustainability Responsibility Policy and their own of providing services that require less 30 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report A lighter footprint Environmental sustainability • Deloitte Australia is rewarding eco-ingenuity by establishing a Green Champions network, a Chairman’s Award for Carbon Reduction, and a Staff Green Innovation Award for a great GHG reduction Idea. • Deloitte Canada embedded green goals into the performance management system, launched green orientation information with green welcome gifts, and designed an e-learning course on operational sustainability. • Deloitte Finland received a World Wildlife Fund Green Office certificate, in part for its regular environmental training for employees and reductions in paper waste, electricity usage, workplace traveling, and mobile work strategies. • Deloitte Ireland, Deloitte UK, and Deloitte Central Europe (Czech Republic) carry ISO 14000 certification. • Deloitte Ireland was noted as one of the top 10 Green Businesses in Ireland at the annual Green Awards in April 2011. • Deloitte UK achieved Platinum Status in Business in the Community’s 2011 Corporate Responsibility Index. The firm was also honored for its work to preserve the Rubeho Forest in Tanzania with a species of frog named Nectophrynoides deloittei. • Deloitte U.S. has incorporated Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) requirements into its standards for office selection and configuration. The firm intends to pursue LEED certification for all major new construction and remodeling projects, with a goal of LEED-certifying 30 percent of its office space in the U.S. by the end of 2012. Business growth during FY2011 influenced increases in emissions. While a focus on energy efficiency and intelligent workspace planning resulted in a drop in GHG emissions from facilities, GHG emissions from business travel and resources (paper) increased as services to clients and the number of Deloitte personnel grew. Total GHG emissions increased approximately 8 percent while emissions per full-time equivalent employee showed no significant change from FY2010 to FY2011. Aggregate GHG emissions of DTTL and its member firms, FY2011* Change in GHG emissions by source, FY2010 to FY2011 Metric tonnes CO2e Percentage Scope 1, 80,910 15.2% Business travel 9% Scope 2, 212,060 Scope 3, 566,056 11.5% Resources 859,026 25% Mt CO2e 66% -4.9% Buildings * Aggregate GHG emissions shown on this page do not account for offset credits of 7,053 Mt CO2e. After accounting for those credits, aggregate GHG emissions are 851,973 Mt CO2e. 31 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report How we report DTTL adhered to widely accepted standards in developing this report. These Technical approach standards define a systematic approach to understanding the issues that the report should cover and measuring and documenting performance with regard to Scope and methods those issues. for performance measurements Interaction and insight Engaging and responding to stakeholders Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content Promoting relevance index Materiality analysis and matrix Communicating progress United Nations Touchpoints Global Compact Stakeholder content index engagement summary Around the world Global presence Measuring up Performance data 32 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Interaction and insight Engaging and responding to stakeholders Through their business operations Deloitte member firms have the ability to affect and be affected by a large number of people and groups. Regular engagement with these stakeholders informs Deloitte’s focus areas for programs, policies, and member firm services as well as the content of this report. The report is one of many ways in which the Deloitte network responds to stakeholder interests and provides accountability and transparency to both internal and external stakeholder groups. Stakeholders were identified • Influence or control The priority stakeholder through internal discussions the success of groups are ones with whom guided by knowledge of the Deloitte endeavors Deloitte conducts regular business. Extensive interviews and ongoing interactions. were carried out across DTTL • Have a key stake in The two largest stakeholder business units to collect the success of groups are Deloitte member information on the nature Deloitte endeavors firms’ clients and Deloitte’s of stakeholder interactions people. Engagement with and topics of interest. DTTL • Be highly affected by both of these groups occurs business units were chosen as Deloitte endeavors continually across the entire the points of inquiry because network. A detailed list of they have direct or indirect • Affect the supply of stakeholders, the approaches engagement with stakeholdresources critical to success to engagement, and key ers through their own activiof Deloitte endeavors topics and concerns are in the ties or through knowledge of table on pages 35–38 of this member firm activities. • Alter the business report. Stakeholders likely to environment or industry use the report include current The stakeholder groups priorenvironment in which and prospective employees, itized for engagement were Deloitte member member firms’ clients and those considered to have the firms operate suppliers, and the broader most significant ability or sustainability community. tendency to: 33 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Promoting relevance Materiality analysis and matrix High-materiality issue: issues according to their importance to Employee Findings from stakeholder High development Ethics and Addressed by member stakeholders and to DTTL, with resulting integrity engagement were used as key Protection of firm strategies and investors considerations for defining the topics of particular importance in the and markets Diversity and Client programs and described upper-right area of the matrix. DTTL satisfaction in this report report’s content. Stakeholders’ fair treatment interests were combined with aims to test the relevance of its reporting Governance, GHG emissions Medium-materiality issue: by engaging stakeholders for feedback Concern to Stakeholders risk, and broader societal expectations, risks and energy use Education for compliance identified by DTTL business units about this report and responding to them Compensation underserved Actively managed by and Deloitte member firms, and to a practical extent. young people Anti-corruption Deloitte and discussed strategic priorities identified by with constituencies Public policy This materiality matrix reflects one CR commitment that have a direct stake DTTL leadership. This year’s identififrom leadership positions cation of material information to change from last year’s version, which Privacy and Supply be included in the report also was to move the “Public policy positions” chain data security issue higher on both axes, “Concern to Low-materiality issue: incorporated the findings of last Water use Stakeholders” and “Current or Potential Monitored or managed year’s work to develop the Physical by member firms As One strategy. Impact on Member Firms.” This change security through policies and has been made because regulatory interprograms but not The resulting set of business issues was est in auditors has increased significantly Biodiversity a subject of regular considered with respect to significant in certain markets and Deloitte has been dialogue Materials changes in the external environment contributing to the dialogue. Please refer use and waste during the past year. This necessitated to the “Regulatory and public policy Low some modifications to the material engagement” section for more informatopics in the previous years’ analysis. The tion on these developments. Low Current or Potential High diagram at right classifies the material Impact on Member Firms 34 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Touchpoints Stakeholder engagement summary Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response Areas of high concern typical frequency of interaction members (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Member firm clients Ongoing • Publicly traded company clients, • Service needs of clients • New service offerings • Ethics and integrity • Client interaction including their audit committees • Independence • Organizing client service • Client satisfaction during engagements and boards of directors • Ethics around industries • Governance, risk, and • Client satisfaction process • Closely held company clients • Security and privacy concerns • Lead client service roles and compliance • Business development • Government clients • Value of trusted advisor responsibility • Protection of investors and activities • Non-profit clients relationship • Adoption of anti-corruption market • Conferences • Past and potential clients • Need for industry understanding policy • Anti-corruption • Proposal responses and • Sustainability reporting • Adoption of policy regarding • CR commitment from follow-up on losses privacy programs and leadership leadership • Privacy and data security • IT security policies • GHG emissions and • Voluntary sustainability energy use reporting • Supply chain standards Deloitte people and Ongoing • Current, former, retired, and • Job satisfaction elements • Flexible work arrangements • Employee development their families • Internal discussions prospective employees • Work-life balance • Benefits package changes • Diversity and fair treatment • Alumni network • Spouses/partners, children, • Career advancement • Extension of certain services to • Ethics and integrity • Social media and family members of • Fair treatment family members • Client satisfaction • Recruiting events Deloitte employees • Privacy • Mentoring programs • Privacy and data security • Exit interviews • Security • Coaching programs • Governance, risk, and • Confidential ethics hotline • Contributions to society • Opportunities for global compliance • Training sessions • Environmentally sustainable deployments • CR commitment from operations • Opportunities to join internal leadership Multiple times a year • Access to technology sustainability teams and • Protection of investors and • Performance reviews • Diversity competitions market • Employee councils • Ethics • Industry training • Advisory councils • Wellness programs • Town-hall meetings • Updates to software and • Affinity groups hardware Annual basis • People survey • Partner meetings 35 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Touchpoints Stakeholder engagement summary Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response Areas of high concern typical frequency of interaction members (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Governments and Ongoing and/or ad hoc • National financial market • Auditor independence • Participation in advisory and • Protection of investors regulators • Contribution to shaping of new regulators • Transparency advocacy groups and market regulation • Audit oversight bodies • Quality • Independence policies and • Anti-corruption • Collaboration on policy • Finance ministers and central • Competitiveness of markets monitoring • Public policy • Participation in development of bank governors • Diversity • Audit standards • Ethics and integrity standards • Corporate governance • Responses to reviews • Diversity and fair treatment • Website and current event • Employee diversity programs • Governance, risk, and monitoring • Supplier diversity programs compliance • Responsiveness to inquiries • Issuance of transparency • Privacy and data security reports • GHG emissions and Annual or regular recurring energy use basis • Quality/performance reviews Professional Ongoing • Associations of certified/ • Governance • Standards for engagement • Public policy positions associations • Involvement in committees chartered accountants • Barrier-free trade acceptance and performance • Ethics and integrity and working groups • Associations of tax • Sustainable development • Peer reviews • Governance, risk, and • Representation on leadership professionals • Adherence to professional • Commentaries on proposed compliance councils • Management consulting performance standards standards • Protection of investors and • Attendance at conferences professional associations • Standards for auditing of non• Training market • Financial advisory professional financial information • Thoughtware • Anti-corruption Ad hoc associations • Strategy formulation • CR commitment from • Collaboration on industry leadership white papers • GHG emissions and energy use • Speaking engagements • Diversity and fair treatment • Participation in development of standards 36 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Touchpoints Stakeholder engagement summary Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response Areas of high concern typical frequency of interaction members (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Non-profit Ongoing • United Way Worldwide • Training • Skills-based volunteering • Education for underserved organizations • Board representation • College Summit • Performance improvement • Community volunteering young people and • Pro bono engagements • African Rainforest Trust • Funding • IMPACT Day • Diversity and fair treatment community • Collaborations • Help for Heroes • Marketing • Pro bono engagements • Ethics and integrity organizations • Volunteering • Accounting for Sustainability • Specific agendas germane to • Foundation and firm • Employee development • Social media • Carbon Disclosure Project their cause (e.g., sustainability, monetary and in-kind gifts • Anti-corruption • Electronic mail • Local business organizations education, water, diversity, etc.) • Voluntary sustainability • CR commitment from • Meetings and conferences • Local business promotion reporting leadership • Speaking engagements • Transparency in reporting • Privacy and data security • GHG emissions and energy use • Water use • Material use and waste International Ongoing • United Nations • Establishment of and • Pro-bono engagements • Ethics and integrity multi-stakeholder • Steering committee • World Economic Forum adherence to international • Internal and external training • Anti-corruption organizations memberships • World Business Council for norms • Thoughtware • Public policy • Organizational stakeholder Sustainable Development • Understanding of frameworks • Working toward integrated • Protection of investors and reporting for Deloitte meetings • International Integrated and initiatives • Voluntary reporting on market Reporting Committee • Economic, social, and sustainability • Diversity and fair treatment • Global Reporting Initiative humanitarian development • GHG reduction targets in place • Education for underserved • Cross-industry business or in development (varies young people alliances across member firms) • Governance, risk, and compliance • CR commitment from leadership • Privacy and data security • GHG emissions and energy use • Water use • Biodiversity 37 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Touchpoints Stakeholder engagement summary Key stakeholder groups Engagement approach and Sample of representative Sample topics Type of response Areas of high concern typical frequency of interaction members (may vary across Deloitte) (see materiality matrix) Suppliers Ongoing • Software suppliers • Purchase volumes • Establishment of alliances • Ethics and integrity • Negotiations • Hardware suppliers • Purchase projections • Establishment of preferred • Anti-corruption • Meetings • Travel service suppliers • Pricing vendors • Diversity and fair treatment • Proposals • Certainty • Establishment of green • Privacy and data security • Industry meetings • Opportunities for (mutual) purchasing practices sustainable solutions • Contracts • Opportunities for collaboration • Supply chain audits Analysts Ongoing • Forrester • Capabilities • Improved performance • Client satisfaction • Dialogue • Gartner • Growth • New service lines • Ethics and integrity • Question and answer • IDC • Leadership • Strategy refresh • Governance, risk, and sessions • Kennedy • Innovation • Innovation programs compliance • Webinars • Verdantix • Anti-corruption • Provision of information • CR commitment from leadership Educational Ongoing • Funding of chairs and • Subject matter knowledge • Deloitte21 • Education for underserved institutions/academia • Participation in programs scholarships at universities • New perspectives • Matching gifts young people • Collaborations • Cambridge Programme for • Leading research • Guest lecturers • Ethics and integrity • Recruiting Sustainability Leadership • Career placement • Funding • Diversity and fair treatment • Guest lecturing and speaking • Employee development engagements 38 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Measuring up Performance data Please see the Basis of Reporting document at http://www.deloitte.com/2011crreport for additional details on performance data methodologies. Please see previous reports for FY2010 and FY2009 performance data. • Deloitte 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report, published in December 2010 • 2009 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Corporate Responsibility Report, published in October 2009 Measurement FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Member firm revenue Aggregate member firm revenue US$28.8Bn US$26.6Bn US$26.1Bn (rounded) By functional area • Audit • US$12.3Bn • US$11.7Bn • US$11.9Bn • Financial Advisory • US$2.3Bn • US$2.0Bn • US$2.0Bn • Consulting • US$8.6Bn • US$7.5Bn • US$6.5Bn • Tax • US$5.6Bn • US$5.4Bn • US$5.7Bn By region • Americas • US$14.3Bn • US$13.0Bn • US$12.5Bn • Europe/Middle East/Africa • US$10.3Bn • US$10.0Bn • US$10.2Bn • Asia Pacific • US$4.2Bn • US$3.6Bn • US$3.4Bn Global presence • Number of member firms • 53 (47 as of 1 June 2011) • 53 • 55 • Number of countries where Deloitte • 153 • 147 • 140 operates Numbers may not tally to totals because of rounding. 39 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Measuring up Performance data Measurement FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Member firm people Aggregate member firm people 181,566 169,587 168,651 Aggregate member firm people by level • Partners, principals, and directors • 9,673 • 9,538 • 9,555 • Professional staff • 138,790 • 129,219 • 130,207 • Administrative staff • 33,103 • 30,829 • 28,888 Aggregate member firm people by region • Americas • 78,957 • 72,858 • 70,663 • Europe/Middle East/Africa • 65,455 • 62,732 • 63,834 • Asia Pacific • 37,155 • 33,997 • 34,154 Aggregate employee turnover rate 21% n/a n/a • Americas • 19% • n/a • n/a • Europe/Middle East/Africa • 22% • n/a • n/a • Asia Pacific • 24% • n/a • n/a • Male • 20% • n/a • n/a • Female • 23% • n/a • n/a Percentages of women at Deloitte member firms • Overall • 44% • 45% • 45% • Among partners, principals, and directors • 18% • 19% • 19% • Among managers • 34% • 35% • 35% • Among new hires • 45% • 47% • 47% Percentages of women in DTTL leadership • On DTTL leadership team • 9% • n/a • n/a • On DTTL Board of Directors • 11% • n/a • n/a Mobility: Number of Deloitte member firm 4,429 3,801 1,670 people on mobility assignments Numbers may not tally to totals because of rounding. 40 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Measuring up Performance data Measurement FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Community investment Number of reporting entities. Numbers below are 18 member firms + DTTL 17 member firms + DTTL 15 member firms for reporting entities, and estimates have not been (73% global workforce) (73% global workforce) (70% global workforce) made for non-reporting entities. Aggregate community investments US$162.3m US$141.6m US$138.9m • Contributions toward education and skills• 35% • 32% • n/a building organizations Aggregate donations US$81.1m US$71.7m US$81.3m • Member firm/foundation donations (monetary • US$52.7m • US$45.5m • US$54.5m and in-kind) • Member firm partner and employee donations • US$28.4m • US$26.2m • US$26.8m (to member firm-supported organizations and fundraisers) Aggregate member firm/foundation costs US$9.1m US$6.6m US$6.9m for managing community investment programs Aggregate value of volunteer and pro bono US$72.1m US$63.2m US$50.7m work by member firm people • Pro bono work • US$33.7m • US$31.1m • US$24.1m • Skills-based volunteering • US$20.9m • US$18.4m • US$10.7m • Traditional volunteering • US$17.5m • US$13.7m • US$15.9m Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono 709,000 588,000 463,000 work by member firm people • Pro bono work • 193,000 • 154,000 • 115,000 • Skills-based volunteering • 275,000 • 247,000 • 136,000 • Traditional volunteering • 241,000 • 187,000 • 212,000 Value of pro bono and skills-based 76% 78% • 69% volunteering as percentage of value of all volunteering and pro bono work Numbers may not tally to totals because of rounding. 41 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Measuring up Performance data Measurement FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Environmental sustainability Number of reporting entities. FY2011 and FY2010 21 member firms + DTTL 19 member firms 15 member firms emissions shown include extrapolation to cover (76% global workforce) (73% global workforce) (70% global workforce) DTTL and all its member firms. Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time 4.8 tCO2e/FTE 4.9 tCO2e/FTE n/a employee (FTE) Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions 851,973 Mt CO2e 790,028 Mt CO2e n/a • Buildings: electricity • 201,739 Mt CO2e • 213,360 Mt CO2e • 155,860 Mt CO2e • Buildings: other sources • 35,916 Mt CO2e • 36,550 Mt CO2e • n/a • Business travel: air travel • 360,339 Mt CO2e • 297,966 Mt CO2e • 197,567 Mt CO2e • Business travel: other sources • 242,293 Mt CO2e • 225,348 Mt CO2e • n/a • Resources • 18,738 Mt CO2e • 16,803 Mt CO2e • n/a • GHG offset credits • (7,053) Mt CO2e • n/a • n/a Aggregate greenhouse gas emissions by GHG Protocol scope • Scope 1: direct GHG emissions • 80,910 Mt CO2e • 82,618 Mt CO2e • n/a • Scope 2: electricity indirect GHG emissions • 212,060 Mt CO2e • 221,363 Mt CO2e • n/a • Scope 3: other indirect GHG emissions • 566,056 Mt CO2e • 486,047 Mt CO2e • n/a Aggregate usage of purchased electricity in 423,397 MWh 438,156 MWh 308,252 MWh Deloitte facilities Numbers may not tally to totals because of rounding. 42 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Technical approach Scope and methods for performance measurements Performance measures for Estimates of carbon emissions were percent of aggregate Deloitte people community investment and prepared according to the Greenhouse and 88 percent of aggregate member environment are based on widely Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and firm revenues. Extrapolations were used recognized guidelines. Reporting Standard created by the World to account for the operations of the For reporting on community Resources Institute and the World remainder of the organization. investment, DTTL and its member Business Council for Sustainable firms observed standards from Development. DTTL and the member Other qualitative and quantitative the Committee Encouraging firms have applied recent, authoritative, information in this report pertains to the Corporate Philanthropy and the and locally specific GHG emissions entire Deloitte organization except London Benchmarking Group. factors available and as appropriate for where otherwise noted. Performance The monetary value of community the countries in the report’s scope. In data was obtained from financial activities by member firm people October 2011, the World Resources reporting systems, other internal was estimated according to the Institute and the World Business Council records, and outside sources such as type of service performed. for Sustainable Development issued a travel agencies, utilities, and property new standard, the Corporate Value managers. DTTL performed a quality The value of volunteer work is based on Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and review on the member firm submissions local member firms’ staff costs. Pro Reporting Standard. Deloitte will by identifying, and adjusting as bono work, defined as work that the consider the methodologies set forth in appropriate, inconsistencies or member firms might otherwise sell but the Scope 3 standard for future significant outliers. DTTL did not have that was performed for free or at a reporting. While the reporting for the data independently verified. discount below firm cost, has been FY2011 includes a significant number of valued at local member firms’ market Scope 3 sources, it does not consider full In addition to adhering to the UN Global rates for client service, less whatever upstream and downstream emissions Compact and Global Reporting Initiative fees organizations may have paid. across all sources. frameworks for reporting, this report was prepared according to the principles Community investment data was The environmental performance data in of inclusivity, materiality, and submitted for 18 member firms and this report was collected from 21 responsiveness from the AA1000 DTTL, which represent 73 percent of member firms as well as DTTL, an AccountAbility Principles Standard aggregate member firm people. organizational scope representing 76 (AA1000APS). 43 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index DTTL has prepared this report according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version G3). GRI has released version G3.1 of these guidelines, and DTTL is evaluating its reporting for alignment with GRI’s updated guidelines in the future. GRI has checked our application of the G3 guidelines and confirmed that the report meets the requirements for Application Level B. The Application Level Check Statement from GRI can be accessed at http://www.deloitte.com/2011crreport. This index provides references to the parts of the report where readers can find information relating to Performance Indicators that DTTL has reported. GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Yes A letter from Barry Salzberg, DTTL CEO, page 5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Yes This report in brief, page 2; Leadership and governance, page 21; Diversity, page 28; Environmental sustainability, pages 30–31; Engaging and responding to stakeholders, page 33; Materiality analysis and matrix, page 34; Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 35–38 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization Yes About this report, page 1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Yes This report in brief, page 2; Vision and values, page 6; Organization structure, page 20 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Yes Organization structure, page 20 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Yes Global presence, page 56 2.5 Number/names of countries where the organization Yes Global presence, page 56 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Yes Organization structure, page 20; Back cover, page 57 2.7 Yes Markets served This report in brief, page 2; Vision and values, page 6; Global presence, page 56 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Yes Performance data, pages 39–42 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Yes This report in brief, page 2; Performance data, pages 39–42 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Yes Deloitte 2011 Annual Review, pages 30-34 (available at https://www.deloitte.com/assets/ Dcom-Global/Local%20Assets/Documents/Annual%20review/Deloitte_2011_Annual_ Review.pdf) 44 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Yes About this report, page 1 information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Yes Performance data, page 39 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Yes About this report, page 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Yes Contacts, page 57 contents 3.5 Process for defining report content Yes Engaging and responding to stakeholders, page 33; Materiality analysis and matrix, page 34; Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 35–38 3.6 Boundary of the report Yes This report covers the operations of DTTL and its network of member firms. 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Yes For some reporting areas/indicators, information is not available for every member firm and report for DTTL. Where this is the case, the limitation on the boundaries is specified in this table or in the “Performance data” section on pages 39–42. As discussed in the “Organization structure” section on page 20, the DTTL network is made up of member firms that practice under the standards and policies of DTTL. Because member firms are separate, independent, and locally managed, member firms vary in their collection and reporting of sustainability performance information. DTTL will continue to seek to increase its disclosures under the GRI’s reporting framework and will work over the next two or three years to prioritize data collection systems and member firm participation. During the past three years, DTTL has worked closely with member firms to increase the number of member firms reporting their sustainability performance and the number of indicators they report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Yes Scope and methods for performance measurements, page 43 leased facilities, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Yes Scope and methods for performance measurements, page 43 calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of Yes No restatements have been made. information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Yes No material changes. in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Yes Global Reporting Initiative content index, pages 44–52 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Yes Scope and methods for performance measurements, page 43 external assurance for the report 45 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Yes Leadership and governance, page 21; Environmental sustainability, page 30 committees under the highest governance body 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance Yes No. body is also an executive officer 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body Yes Zero. All members of the DTTL Board are part of the Deloitte network, but many are not that are independent and/or non-executive members DTTL executives; they are executives of their member firms. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Yes Leadership and governance, page 21; Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 35–38 provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Yes The compensation of the DTTL CEO is established by the DTTL Governance Committee of the the highest governance body, senior managers, and DTTL Board of Directors and approved by the DTTL Board. The compensation of the DTTL executives and the organization’s performance Executive is determined by the DTTL CEO and approved by the DTTL Governance Committee. Members of the DTTL Board do not receive fees by virtue of serving on the Board. Please note that DTTL is not a client-facing entity and therefore the “organization’s performance” may be difficult to measure by objective standards. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Yes The DTTL Board of Directors has adopted policies and guidance for DTTL and its member ensure conflicts of interest are avoided firms (as applicable) to identify and resolve potential conflicts of interest arising from the proposed acceptance of client engagements, proposed business or financial relationships with third parties, conflicts affecting more than one member firm, and conflicts relating to independence. See also Independence, page 24. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and Yes DTTL strongly encourages its member firms to comply with best corporate practices to expertise of the members of the highest governance identify its national leaders, a subset of which make up the DTTL Board of Directors. See also body on economic, environmental, and social topics Environmental sustainability, page 30. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Yes The DTTL Corporate Responsibility Policy became effective 31 March 2010 and applies to codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, all member firms. The defining principles contained in the policy include respect for human environmental, and social performance and the status dignity, inclusion and cultural diversity, promotion of the highest levels of ethical behavior, of their implementation advancement of education and culture, and advocating for sustainable use of natural resources and respect for the environment. The principles are aligned broadly with the UN Global Compact Principles. See also Vision and values, page 6. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Yes Environmental sustainability, page 30. The DTTL Corporate Responsibility Council met twice overseeing the organization’s identification and during FY2011. management of economic, environmental, and social performance 46 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Yes During FY2011, the CEO and Chairman Evaluation & Compensation Committee of the DTTL body’s own performance, particularly with respect to Board reviewed and approved the DTTL Chairman’s personal objectives and conducted a economic, environmental, and social performance yearly evaluation of his performance. An assessment of the effectiveness of the DTTL Board was led by the DTTL Chairman. The DTTL Vice Chairman took responsibility for obtaining input from all Board members who represented their member firm’s views as well as those of smaller DTTL member firms. A specific evaluation of the DTTL Board of Directors or the DTTL Chairman with regard to corporate responsibility issues was not completed during FY2011. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Yes The DTTL Corporate Responsibility Policy includes advocating for sustainable use of natural approach or principle is addressed by the organization resources, respect for the environment, and demonstration of environmentally sustainable operations. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Yes See http://www.deloitte.com/view/en_GX/global/about/global-initiatives/index.htm. social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Yes Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 36–37 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Yes Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 35–38 organization 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Yes Engaging and responding to stakeholders, page 33 with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Yes Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 35–38 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Yes Stakeholder engagement summary, pages 35–38 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 47 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Yes A letter from Barry Salzberg, DTTL CEO, page 5; Outlook on corporate responsibility, page 7; Regulatory and public policy engagement: Proactively contributing to instill confidence in the capital markets, page 14; Performance data, pages 39–42; Scope and methods for performance measurements, page 43 EC1 Core Direct economic value generated and distributed Partial Performance data: Member firm revenue, Community investment, pages 39 and 41. Components not reported on are considered business confidential. EC2 Core Financial implications and other risks and Partial Risks and opportunities posed to Deloitte by climate change that have potential financial opportunities for the organization's activities due to implications include physical risks to facilities in which Deloitte operates due to weather climate change events, regulatory risk, and reputational risk. Through Deloitte member firms’ Sustainability & Climate Change practices (as described on page 15), member firms also have opportunities related to serving their clients as they respond to climate change risks and opportunities. DTTL and its member firms have quantitatively estimated the financial implications of some of the opportunities but consider this information confidential. DTTL and its member firms have not quantitatively assessed the financial implications of the risks. For a detailed explanation of risks and opportunities, please refer to questions 5 and 6 in the DTTL Carbon Disclosure Project response available at https://www.cdproject.net/Sites/2011/28/4528/ Investor%20CDP%202011/Pages/DisclosureView.aspx. EC7 Core Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Yes Each member firm of DTTL has its own ownership structure and draws senior management management hired from the local community at (defined as partners, principals, and directors) from its internal organization, which typically significant locations of operation is predominantly individuals from that local community (defined as country). In addition, Deloitte encourages the assignment of individuals to temporary assignments outside their local community to enhance global operational understanding, employee development, and sharing of leading practices. During FY2011, 4,429 individuals were on international assignments. EC8 Core Development and impact of infrastructure Yes Performance data, page 39; Education and skills: Inspiring young minds to achieve great investments and services provided primarily for public futures, page 17. For the Deloitte21 Challenge, individual member firms were asked to benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono evaluate local community needs for underserved young people and development of skills engagement to prepare them for success in the workforce. As a result of this assessment, more than 20 member firms have been providing support for specific programs. EC9 Additional Understanding and describing significant indirect Yes Outlook on corporate responsibility, page 7; Education and skills: Inspiring young minds to economic impacts including the extent of impacts achieve great futures, pages 16–17 48 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Yes Environmental sustainability, page 30; Scope and methods for performance measurements, page 43 EN1 Core Materials used by weight or volume Yes 6,590 metric tonnes of paper EN2 Core Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Yes 7 percent of recycled input materials used based on estimate of recycled content in paper materials EN3 Core Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Yes 233 TJ of natural gas 304 TJ of gasoline 276 TJ of diesel fuel EN4 Core Indirect energy consumption by primary source Partial 1,524 TJ of electricity 110 TJ of district heating 41 TJ of district cooling EN16 Core Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Yes Environmental sustainability, page 31; Performance data, page 42 weight EN17 Core Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Yes Environmental sustainability, page 31; Performance data, page 42 weight Sources of other indirect greenhouse gas emissions included the following: • Air travel • Lodging • Ground transportation (rental car, employee reimbursed car travel, train, bus, subway, limousines, employee commuting for U.S.-India only) • Paper Emissions associated with paper are based on a lifecycle analysis. All other emission sources consider use period and do not currently include associated upstream and downstream emissions. EN18 Additional Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Yes Several member firms have goals and programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. reductions achieved Details of these programs can be found in question 3.3a of the DTTL Carbon Disclosure Project response found at https://www.cdproject.net/Sites/2011/28/4528/Investor%20 CDP%202011/Pages/DisclosureView.aspx. Australia, France, Netherlands, UK, and U.S. member firms are implementing energy-efficient design standards (e.g., LEED, BREAM). Emissions from building electricity usage decreased 5 percent from FY2010 to FY2011. 49 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Environmental EN20 Core NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Yes Deloitte does not have significant NOx, SOx, or other emissions given the nature of the and weight network’s operations. EN28 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number Yes DTTL incurred no such fines or sanctions during its 2011 fiscal year. of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN29 Additional Significant environmental impacts of transporting Yes Environmental sustainability, page 31; Performance data, page 42 products, other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and members of the workforce Labor practices and decent work Disclosure on Management Approach Yes This report in brief, page 2; Vision and values, page 6; Talent engagement and growth, page 26 LA1 Core Total workforce by employment type Partial Performance data: Member firm people, page 40. The majority of employment within Deloitte is full-time and indefinite; breakdown of employment type and type of contract is not available at a DTTL level. LA2 Core Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Partial Performance data: Member firm people, page 40; turnover by age group is not currently group, gender, and region. collected by DTTL. LA4 Core Percentage of employees covered by collective Yes DTTL has no employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Partial Some member firms have health and wellness programs in place to educate, train, and LA8 Core risk control programs in place to assist workforce assist employees and, frequently, their families. Program focus varies but includes health members, their families, or community members with issues most likely to impact service workers such as ergonomic workstation setup, stress serious diseases management, and travel security and safety. Physical security, page 29 LA10 Core Average hours of training per year per employee by Partial Talent engagement and growth, page 26. This information is not available at the DTTL level employee category broken down by employee category. LA11 Additional Programs for skills management and lifelong Yes Talent engagement and growth, page 26. Many member firms offer a variety of flexible learning that support the continued employability work arrangements including sabbaticals; for example, Deloitte U.S. has a formalized of employees and assist them in managing career sabbatical program for up to six months. Transition assistance is done in accordance endings. with applicable laws. Pre-retirement planning is also offered by many member firms; for example, U.S.-based personnel can use a secure online tool to plan financial goals for retirement. 50 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Labor practices and decent work LA12 Additional Percentage of employees receiving regular Yes Given the nature of our business, regular performance and career development reviews are performance and career development reviews core to Deloitte’s ongoing success. Within DTTL all permanent employees are covered by such a requirement, and all would typically have received reviews except for those on leave, terminated, or with minimal service hours during the fiscal year. LA13 Core Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Partial Leadership and governance, page 21; Diversity, page 28; Performance data: Member firm of employees per category according to gender, people, page 40. Given the global nature of Deloitte operations, it is not possible to define age group, minority group membership, and other “minority groups” on a worldwide scale. indicators of diversity Human rights Disclosure on Management Approach Yes This report in brief, page 2; Vision and values, page 6; Diversity, page 28; Physical security, page 29 HR5 Core Operations identified where the right to exercise Yes DTTL has no such operations. freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions to support these rights HR6 Core Operations identified as having significant risk for Yes DTTL has no such operations. incidents of child labor and measures to contribute to eliminate child labor HR7 Core Operations identified as having significant risk Yes DTTL has no such operations. for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor HR9 Additional Total number of incidents of violations involving Yes DTTL had no such incidents during its 2011 fiscal year. rights of indigenous people and actions taken 51 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Standards applied Global Reporting Initiative content index GRI performance indicator Inclusion Location or disclosure Society Disclosure on Management Approach Yes This report in brief, page 2; Vision and values, page 6; Regulatory and public policy engagement: Proactively contributing to instill confidence in the capital markets, page 14; Ethics, page 22; Quality and risk management, page 23; Independence, page 24 SO5 Core Public policy positions and participation in public Yes Regulatory and public policy engagement: Proactively contributing to instill confidence in policy development and lobbying the capital markets, page 14 SO7 Additional Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Yes DTTL faced no such actions during its 2011 fiscal year. behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number Yes DTTL incurred no such fines or sanctions during its 2011 fiscal year. of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach This report in brief, page 2; Vision and values, page 6; Quality and risk management, page 23; Independence, page 24; Data privacy and security, page 25 PR2 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Yes DTTL had no such incidents during its 2011 fiscal year. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycles, by type of outcomes PR4 Additional Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Yes DTTL had no such incidents during its 2011 fiscal year. regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR8 Additional Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Yes DTTL received no such complaints during its 2011 fiscal year. breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Core Monetary value of significant fines for nonYes DTTL incurred no such fines during its 2011 fiscal year. compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 52 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Communicating progress United Nations Global Compact content index This report serves as DTTL’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for 2010-2011. The table below contains information or references to material in the report that addresses the Global Compact principles. UN Global Compact principle Disclosure GRI indicator Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the LA4, LA8, LA13, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR9, support and respect the protection workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte not only works to address human SO5, PR2, PR8 of internationally proclaimed rights issues within its communities but also seeks to respond to the urgent human rights challenges human rights; and of our world in a manner commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. In Deloitte’s workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life balance. Deloitte has embedded Principle 2: make sure that they concern for human rights it its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in the HR5, HR6, HR7, HR9, SO5 are not complicit in human rights organization’s culture worldwide. In FY2011, DTTL adopted a comprehensive global privacy policy. abuses. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. Deloitte protects human rights in the community through contributions to poverty alleviation and increasing levels of education. Deloitte people also contribute to the public debate on issues related to human rights. See also the “Diversity” section of this report for a description of Deloitte’s approach to diversity and inclusion, and the “Performance data” section for measures of Deloitte’s workforce diversity. 53 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Communicating progress United Nations Global Compact content index UN Global Compact principle Disclosure GRI indicator Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and LA4, HR5, SO5 uphold the freedom of association Deloitte people, as well as interaction among Deloitte people, must be characterized by integrity, trust, and the effective recognition of the and mutual respect. Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles also include non-discrimination right to collective bargaining; and inclusion as integral parts of the way the network functions. While DTTL and its member firms are united by this vision of inclusion, DTTL respectfully recognizes that implementation of related programs Principle 4: the elimination of all will be shaped by member firms and their local and national cultures. Where appropriate, Deloitte also HR7, SO5 forms of forced and compulsory addresses non-discrimination and inclusion in the community. Member firm learning development labour; programs help people develop the skills necessary to work cross-culturally. Further details on the DTTL Global Ethics Program are in the “Ethics” section of this report. Principle 5: the effective abolition HR6, SO5 of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of EC7, LA2, LA13, SO5 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 54 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report w Communicating progress United Nations Global Compact content index UN Global Compact principle Disclosure GRI indicator Environment Principle 7: Businesses should Please see the “Environmental sustainability” section of this report for information on Deloitte’s EC2, EN18, SO5 support a precautionary approach initiatives to manage its environmental performance and the “Water stewardship” section for to environmental challenges; information on how Deloitte member firms are helping their clients adopt sustainable business practices. See also DTTL’s submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project at https://www.cdproject.net/ Sites/2011/28/4528/Investor%20CDP%202011/Pages/DisclosureView.aspx. Principle 8: undertake initiatives EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN16, EN17, EN18, to promote greater environmental EN20, EN28, EN29, SO5, PR4 responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the EN2, EN18, SO5 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruptiontion Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should In February 2011, DTTL adopted a global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, SO5 work against corruption in all its facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment. This policy forms, including extortion and was supported with guidance to member firms on conducting corruption risk assessment and thirdbribery. party due diligence. During FY2011, then DTTL Chairman John Connolly served on the board of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. DTTL Ethics professionals sit on the Global Compact’s working group on anti-corruption, and Deloitte has recently taken a lead role in a new sub-group that is developing a corruption risk assessment tool for business. Please see the “Ethics” section of this report for additional information on Deloitte’s commitment to combating corruption. 55 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Around the world Global presence The registered address of DTTL is: Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, EC4A 3TR, United Kingdom. As of the fiscal year ended 31 May 2011, Deloitte member firms operated in more than 150 countries in three principal regions: Americas, Asia Pacific, and EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa). Albania Cyprus Kenya Peru Algeria Czech Republic Korea Philippines Andorra Denmark Kuwait Poland Angola Dominican Republic Kyrgyzstan Portugal Argentina East Timor Latvia Qatar American Samoa Ecuador Lebanon Romania Armenia Egypt Lesotho Russian Federation Aruba El Salvador Lithuania San Marino Australia Equatorial Guinea Luxembourg São Tomé and Principe Austria Estonia Macao Saudi Arabia Azerbaijan Finland Macedonia Senegal Bahamas France Malawi Serbia Bahrain Gabon Malaysia Singapore Barbados Georgia Malta Slovakia Belgium Germany Marshall Islands Slovenia Belorussia Ghana Mauritania South Africa Benin Gibraltar Mauritius Spain Bermuda Greece Mexico Sweden Bolivia Greenland Micronesia, Federated States of Switzerland Bosnia and Herzegovina Guam Moldova Syria Botswana Guatemala Montenegro, Republic of Taiwan Brazil Honduras Morocco Tajikistan British Virgin Islands Hong Kong Mozambique Tanzania Brunei Darussalam Hungary Namibia Thailand Bulgaria Iceland Netherlands Trinidad and Tobago Cameroon India New Zealand Tunisia Canada Indonesia Nicaragua Turkey Cape Verde Iraq Nigeria Turkmenistan Cayman Islands Ireland Northern Ireland Turks and Caicos Channel Islands Isle of Man Northern Mariana Islands Uganda Chile Israel Norway Ukraine China, People’s Republic of Italy Oman United Arab Emirates Colombia Ivory Coast Pakistan United Kingdom Congo Brazzaville Jamaica Palau United States Costa Rica Japan Panama Uruguay Croatia Jordan Papua New Guinea Uzbekistan Curacao Kazakhstan Paraguay 56 | Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Contacts Deloitte 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report http://www.deloitte.com/2011crreport Corporate Responsibility at DTTL http://www.deloitte.com/corporateresponsibility Contact for questions or feedback about this report Nick Main Chief Sustainability Officer Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited globalcorporateresponsibility@deloitte.com Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/ about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte’s approximately 182,000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This publication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. For the convenience of the reader, a member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) in a particular country is identified in the body of this report by the word “Deloitte” coupled with a country name (e.g., Deloitte Greece), in lieu of using the actual legal name of the member firm of DTTL in that country. In many countries, services may be provided by the actual member firms but could also be provided in addition by—or solely by—subsidiaries or affiliates of the DTTL member firm in that country, which are often organized as separate legal entities. Each of these separate legal entities is liable for its own acts or omissions and not those of other separate legal entities. Specifically, with respect to the United States, Deloitte LLP is the member firm of DTTL and does not provide services. Services in the United States are provided by Deloitte LLP’s subsidiaries; Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Tax LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLP, and Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP. All of these U.S. entities are referred to in this publication as “Deloitte United States.” Additionally, for the purposes of this publication only, individuals are identified by their name and the nomenclature discussed above for referring to a DTTL member firm, whether that individual is a partner, principal, shareholder, member, director, or employee of that DTTL member firm or one or more of its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., Paige Flanagan, Deloitte Ireland). © 2011 Deloitte Global Services Limited
