Corporate Social Responsibility Report January 2012 Content Word from management 1 Solar at a glance 2 Our primary CSR stakeholders 3 Customers 5 Employees 7 Suppliers 9 Environment 11 Corporate governance 13 Our standards 15 Data summary table 16 FLemming H. Tomdrup Group CEO Michael H. Jeppesen Group CFO Word from management We take our responsibilities to people and the environment seriously Solar has a strong business interest in energy efficient solutions and see a growing potential within this area. With our solutions we help to create big savings both on energy and CO2 emissions. 2011 with its financial slowdown was a challenge to reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project – while others everyone, including Solar. Market conditions toughened, are little everyday actions which nevertheless are equally thereby increasing the need for us to continuously become important when defining Solar as a company. You can stronger, more efficient and focused. Does this mean that read much more about these activities in the report. we have slowed down our focus on our corporate social responsibility? Not at all! To Solar, the sense of social Solar takes its responsibilities with regard to people and the responsibility is a central element, also when times are environment seriously. We have signed up for the United tough. Nations’ Global Compact Programme and wish to send a clear message that we are committed to the programme. On many occasions, Solar has proven to be a company We see our involvement in the programme as an asset in where the employees truly understand the meaning of relation to customers and suppliers and a clear advantage being Stronger Together. Being a large company, we have when it comes to attracting and maintaining employees. a responsibility to the outside world also – and we have In addition, we wish to be seen as a company in which the power to make a difference, also in areas that are not both Danish and foreign investors can safely invest – also directly linked to us as a company. from an ethical standpoint. This Corporate Social Responsibility report marks a new This report is also our Communication on Progress (CoP), step for Solar. When reading the report, you will find an honouring our obligation to report to the UN Global introduction to the CSR activities that take place within Compact. Solar’s framework. Some of these activities are the result of large projects – like our Code of Conduct or our 1 Solar at a glance We will be our customers’ preferred business companion Solar should be known as the empathic company and the challenger within our industry. We will be our customers’ preferred business companion, their expert in logistics and their guarantee for safety of delivery. The Solar Group is an international technical meet demands for energy efficient solutions. wholesaler within electrical, heating, plumbing and ventilation components. Through the Solar’s e-business concept is a tool for subsidiary Aurora Group A/S, Solar also sells optimising our customers’ workflow and for accessories for consumer electronics. making customer service more efficient. With the e-business concept we interact with our We deliver products and solutions to customers customers 24/7. E-business provides faster within residential and commercial buildings, lead times, less administration and increased industry, marine and offshore, utility and precision. And most importantly in this perinfrastructure, and to the public sector. spective, our e-business tools make it possible for our customers to order goods without The group has approximately 3,500 employees. placing any CO2 strain on the environment Solar has enterprises in Denmark, Norway, because it does not require additional driving. Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, We continuously work to increase our the Faroes, Belgium and Austria. Aurora is e-business share, thereby significantly reducing represented in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and the emission of C02. Finland. Global Compact Solar is a listed company. B shares are listed Solar is a member of the UN’s Global Compact, on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen and form part which comprises ten principles, including of the MidCap index and MidCap on NASDAQ human rights, working environment/ labour, the OMX Nordic. environment and anti-corruption. As a result of its membership, Solar is obliged to report on Stronger Together the activities in which we are involved within the We respect the fact that a good wholesaler must Global Compact. Beginning 2011, Solar reports deliver more than goods. At Solar, we learn on our CO2 consumption and compliance with from our customers. We watch them work, we ethical standards. listen to them and get to know their workflow. In many ways, we cross the conventional line Executive Management of cooperation – and by doing so, we develop The chairman of the Solar Group Supervisory logistics solutions that optimise our customers’ Board is associate professor, lic. scient. Jens workflow. We are “stronger together”. Borum. The Executive Board of the company is in the hands of Group CEO Flemming H. With our Blue Energy concept, we have full focus Tomdrup and Group CFO Michael H. Jeppesen. on energy efficient products and solutions. The Blue Energy concept enables our customers to 2 Our primary CSR stakeholders Customers, employees, suppliers and the environment are key stakeholders At Solar, we acknowledge the fact that we are Stronger Together – and that our success is dependent on an interaction between us, our customers, our employees and our suppliers, with due respect paid to the environment around us. For this report, we have defined our 4 primary goals and expand our business so that we can stakeholder groups, simply to illustrate how we continue to set new standards on the market interpret our corporate social responsibility in and for our customers in future. relation to these. At Solar we look for people who have the energy You can read more about the individual to move us forward with entrepreneurship, who stakeholder groups later in this report. set ambitious targets and deliver on promises. We offer challenging jobs, exciting career Customers opportunities and individual development. Solar has created its warehouse and distribution system taking only one thing into consideration: Suppliers our customers. The collaboration with our suppliers is a very important asset to Solar. We have decided to Solar’s customers want quick, secure, precise enter into partnerships with a small group of and flexible delivery of the articles they need. strategic, responsible suppliers who cover 80% So, we have organised our logistics system with of the purchasing volume in our markets. this in mind. We set the standards high for these suppliers That is why Solar’s customers can order articles – just like we do for ourselves. and get in touch with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. That is why we distribute at night. And Environment that is why we promise to deliver before 07:00 Being a socially responsible company, we am if you order before 6:00 pm the previous day cannot ignore the fact that some of our activities wherever it is geographically possible. And for can have a negative effect on our environment the same reason, 99.8% of our deliveries are this is true for practically any kind of business. flawless. Therefore, we constantly strive to find ‘greener’ ways to conduct our business. Employees At Solar we consider our employees our most important resource. They allow us to reach our 3 Our mission At Solar, we understand our customer’s needs and provide integrated solutions 4 Customers We help our customers to optimise their business processes At Solar, we understand our customers’ needs and provide integrated solutions. Energy optimisation is a growing business area and results are convincing when it comes to reductions within energy consumption and CO2 emissions. We think and act stronger together with our which are necessary to cash in on the savings, customers. puts high demands on the competences of everyone involved. Therefore, development Being an integrated workflow wholesaler is all of competences, both technically and about challenging the conventional concept commercially, will be a focus area in 2012. of a wholesaler. Solar’s close cooperation with our customers goes far beyond the traditional Successful project wholesaler-customer relationship, and the result One of the first successful projects in Solar CUSTOMERS is more efficient workflows. Consulting is the Danish school, Søndre Skole, in the city of Køge. We established Solar Consulting as a new business area with effect from 2011. Among The Danish subsidiary, Solar Danmark, is involved other things, this advisory function helps in this project together with the contractor YIT contractors to optimise their business processes and the Køge local authority. with the lean approach. Energy optimisation and general business development are also part of The project’s focus is energy optimisation of a the programme. number of technical installations at the school, i.e. heating and ventilation control in the class Seen from an energy perspective, Solar rooms. Consulting was established to increase focus on the significant business potential which lies within This will reduce energy consumption and energy optimisation of technical installations in students will experience a healthier indoor existing commercial buildings. climate which will ultimately improve the learning setting. In such technical installations, i.e. within lighting, heating and ventilation, you will typically find a All in all, these initiatives will reduce energy savings potential of 20-30% and a payback time consumption at the school by 38% and the for the investment of 3-6 years. Therefore, an annual CO2 emissions by more than 82 tonnes. investment in energy optimisation of technical solutions is much better than investments made Also financially, these energy initiatives are a solely in energy efficient windows and insulation good investment. The approximately one million (building envelopes) which typically offer Danish kroner put into the project will be paid payback times of 10 years or more. However, back in approximately four years. it is necessary to invest in both the technical installations and the building envelope to utilise When these energy initiatives are fully the full energy optimisation potential. implemented, the energy key figures of the school will be below the national average on The need for knowledge about energy both electricity and heat consumption. optimisation, including technical installations 5 Solar values Our values – what we stand for and what shape our culture SmartFun – Glow – Courage 6 Employees Solar focuses on ethics and staff development Our Code of Conduct leads the way for the employees across the group. And with our own Solar Business Academy, we prioritise staff development. Code of Conduct • Communicator: our leaders are in front Solar is known for our high ethical standards, • Developer: our leaders live in change and in 2010 we implemented a code of conduct • Driver: our leaders walk the distance across the group. Under the code, Solar is • Involver: our leaders are team builders committed to comply with current legislation and • Partner: our leaders meet you with respect regulations and to act in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible way in all our business We will measure the effect of this leadership activities. The code is accessible to all employees programme on the employees. in leaflets prepared in all languages used within the Solar Group. The ethical standards will be an The Solar Business Academy is not only about integral part of all new employees’ introduction leadership development. Over the years to programmes going forward. come, the academy will also provide a strategic lift of skills relating to project management, lean, Solar Business Academy talent development and a range of business With the establishment of Solar Business competencies. Academy, Solar has undertaken our largest ever investment in the training and development Solar Navigator of leaders. A total of 250 managers across Every 18 months Solar conducts an employee group functions and subsidiaries participate in survey, Solar Navigator. the Group Leadership Programme which is part of the academy. One of the results of the survey is the so-called value creation index which shows our ability to As a company, Solar imposes ever-increasing create value for customers. demands on our managers because good leadership motivates and develops employees, Another result is our leadership index which and because our business is dependent on demonstrates our ability to lead. >70 is good leadership. The aim is to develop our considered excellent. leaders’ skills so they are ready to drive the group’s current five-year strategy plan. They As part of the strategy “#1 in Technical will gain a common understanding of their local Wholesale”, Solar has launched a range of leadership roles as well as their co-responsibility strategic targets which must be met, and the for developing the business as a whole. latest results are in line with these targets: The Group Leadership Programme is based on Recent measurement Strategic targets 2010-2012 Strategic targets 2013-2015 lean principles and change management. And Value creation index 707 >680 >700 managers are trained in Solar’s five leadership Leadership index 70 >67 >70 skills: Work to sustain the high level continues. 7 Strategic partnerships with responsible suppliers We have taken an active stand on our cooperation with our partners 8 Suppliers We base our business on strategic partnerships with responsible suppliers As a condition for entering into strategic partnerships with suppliers, Solar requires that such suppliers observe the Global Compact principles. As a business, we primarily work with important decided to focus our efforts on collaboration with suppliers of branded products, several of a limited group of responsible strategic suppliers whom have signed up to the Global Compact (leading regional, European or worldwide themselves. branded suppliers), which cover approx 80% of our purchasing volume in all of our markets. Solar also has a clear supplier strategy that means that we can stand by the products from Each and every one of these suppliers are our strategic suppliers at any given time. required to observe the principles stated in the UN Global Compact. Taking this one step We have taken an active stand on our cofurther, we also demand that they require the operation with our partners, requiring that they same thing from their sub-suppliers. observe a number of principles within e.g. environment, work environment and social responsibility. To make this possible, we have 9 Environment We care about the environment and see potential in energy efficiency 10 Environment Solar cares about the environment and sees potential in energy efficiency We believe in energy efficient solutions and we have energy optimised our own facilities in Vejen and Brøndby in Denmark. Carbon Disclosure Project Renewable energy Solar has established a reporting system for the Solar sees considerable potential in energy company’s CO2 consumption. The system has efficiency both now and in the future. As an been rolled out in all the group’s subsidiaries example of this, we have recently seen increased and the first CO2 emission measurements sales of solar cells and heat pumps. have been completed. One of the first areas being measured is CO2 emissions generated Also, the interest in exploring energy efficient from the direct burning of fossil fuels, i.e. fuel solutions at our knowledge centre, Solar consumption relating to company cars, lorries, Explorium, is significant among contractors, etc. Another area measured is CO2 emissions architects, consulting engineers and builders. from purchased electricity. Also CO2 emissions in relation to goods distribution are measured. Solar Explorium, which is based on renewable All these measurements are reported to the energy sources, is categorised as an energy Carbon Disclosure Project. class 1 building and, therefore, complies with the new legal requirements that come into force Initiatives in 2015. Solar subsidiaries have obtained a number of ISO certifications within environmental and quality management. With the Carbon Disclosure Project, Solar is now firmly focused on the environment. Several initiatives have already been launched: • Solar has opened a green data centre in Vejen, Denmark. The centre consists of an energy-efficient server room of 245 m2. • The group has installed a so-called TelePresence system that offers the opportunity for video conferencing. This makes it both easier and cheaper to communicate between the group’s headquarters and the subsidiaries, and between the subsidiaries themselves. As the system cuts down on travel between countries, we can reduce travel costs as well as our CO2 emissions. 11 Corporate Governance As a listed company we wish for as much openness and transparency for all our stakeholders as possible 12 Corporate governance Solar aims at transparency As a listed company, Solar A/S wishes for as much openness and transparency for all our stakeholders as possible. Solar sees the recommendations of the comand development potential and to make this mittee on Corporate Governance in Denmark as information available to all stakeholders at the a valuable tool for ensuring sound management, same time. good transparency for shareholders and other stakeholders and for efficient risk manageSolar’s Supervisory Board see it as their ment. Solar, therefore, basically follows the responsibility to ensure a competent managerecommendations relevant to the company. ment, a clear-cut organisation, effective control and risk management tools and to lay down and Solar wishes to maintain an ongoing dialogue follow up on strategic targets with due regard with the company’s shareholders and other for financial opportunities and the company’s stakeholders and to provide as timely and management resources. detailed information about the company’s development as possible, balanced with the In our annual report and on our website necessary consideration for the company’s www.solar.eu, Solar lists the managerial duties, competitive situation. including board memberships, the Executive Board and individual board members have Solar regards shareholders, employees, cusundertaken. The annual report also contains tomers, suppliers, lenders and society in general information on the number of options held as important stakeholders. We believe that, in by members of the Executive Board and any the long-term, there are common interests changes hereto. Moreover, the annual report also between the company’s stakeholders. As a states whether any members of the Supervisory result, we wish to focus on these long-term Board and Executive Board own shares in the interests that influence the company’s ethics, company. Any changes in these shareholdings policies and information practices. are published on an ongoing basis. Solar wishes for as much openness and transOur website www.solar.eu includes more parency for all stakeholders as possible with information about corporate governance. due consideration for our competitiveness. The intention is to provide a timely, true and fair view of the company’s position, financial position 13 Our standards We have developed standards and policies for how we want to do business 14 Our standards We have developed standards and policies for how we want to do business Solar A/S employs about 3,500 people in ten countries, primarily in the Northern part of Europe. To act as one company, we need clear standards. Since legal requirements and work cultures differ from country to country, we have developed standards and policies for how we want to do business. UN Global Compact In 2010 Solar implemented a Code of Conduct Solar has been an active signatory to the UN across the group. Under the code, Solar is Global Compact since 2009. This means that committed to comply with current legislation and Solar has established a reporting system for regulations and to act in an ethical, sustainable activities covered by Global Compact’s 10 and socially responsible way in all its business principles, which encompass human rights, activities. The ethical standards shall be an working environment/labour, environment integral part of all new employees’ introduction and anti-corruption. By signing up for programmes. Global Compact, Solar meets the reporting requirements of the Danish authorities applicable Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as from 2009. The Carbon Disclosure Project was launched to accelerate solutions to climate change and water Solar wants to make it clear that we are commanagement by putting relevant information at mitted to the UN’s Global Compact Programme. the heart of business, policy and investment We see our involvement in the programme as an decisions. In 2010, Solar disclosed our greenasset in relation to customers and suppliers and house gas emissions, water management and a clear advantage in respect of attracting and climate change strategies for the first time in maintaining employees. In addition, there is the response to CDP’s information requests. need for and a desire to be seen as a company in which both Danish and foreign investors can safely invest – also from an ethical standpoint. 15 Data summary table Environment Unit 2010 Total emission of greenhouse gasses Tonnes CO2e* 22,055 ... of which company cars account for (Scope 1) Tonnes CO2e 3,529 Gasoline cars MWh 9,065 Diesel cars MWh 785 Ethanol cars MWh 62 … of which energy use accounts for (Scope 2) Tonnes CO2e 6,112 Electricity MWh 12,261 Heat (district heating, heating oil and gas) MWh 12,711 … of which transport of goods by lorries accounts for (Scope 3) Tonnes CO2e 12,414 Per full-time employee (Scope 1 & 2)*** Tonnes CO2e 3.35 Per € 1 million of revenue (Scope 1 & 2) Tonnes CO2e 7.14 * All data is a result of Solar’s first reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdproject.net. For a thorough look, see the Solar investor CDP 2011 report, which is publicly available online. ** The 2010 greenhouse gas emissions are presented in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This allows for comparisons between the impact of many different emitted gasses, as all emissions are converted via gas-specific impact potentials. For a complete overview of applied impact potentials, see the Solar investor CDP 2011 report. *** As the data calculated for scope 3 emissions are only part of the total scope 3 emissions (e.g air travel not included), these figures are presented on the basis of scope 1 & 2 only. Key figures Labour practices Total number of employees 2009 2010 2011 Total 3,175 2,955 3,585* Managers & White collars 80% 81% 84% Blue Collars 20% 19% 16% Age distribution 2009 2010 2011 Average age 43 42 42 Seniority 2009 2010 2011 < 2 years 18% 16% 15% 2-5 years 28% 31% 18% 5-10 years 19% 18% 39% > 10 years 35% 35% 28% Employee Satisfaction Survey 2009 2010 Value Creation Index 690 707 Leadership index 65 70 * Total number of employees 20.11.11 16 Solar A/S Haderslevvej 25 DK-6000 Kolding Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416 www.solar.eu
