Sustainability report 2011 Contents CEO’s statement CEO’s statement...................................................................................3 The clean and green factor has become a core reAbout the 2011 sustainability report.......................................................4 quirement. Customers now expect companies to take Customers and markets........................................................................5 responsibility, and they increasingly choose companies with higher moral standards and an ethical approach Governance and organisation...............................................................8 to business. Folksam has always endeavoured to take Operational organisation. ....................................................................11 genuine responsibility, and this is made easier by our Our staff. ............................................................................................. 12 mutual status, being customer-owned. Page 3 The impact of our operations.............................................................. 16 More than insurance........................................................................... 21 Our staff Folksam aims to be an attractive employer with Road-safety activity ............................................................................ 21 committed staff who create customer benefit. In Responsible ownership.......................................................................23 order to achieve this, Folksam works strategically KPA Pension .......................................................................................28 and purposefully in several areas, such as terms of employment, recruitment, skills development, Förenade Liv........................................................................................ 31 leadership, performance management, the workInternational cooperation....................................................................32 ing environment and health. Community engagement.....................................................................34 Page 12 Organisation........................................................................................35 The impact of our operations Appendix (Environmental data)...........................................................36 The environment is of key importance to Folksam. About the report and general We therefore make demands both on ourselves and facts about Folksam............................................................................38 our suppliers and make active efforts to minimise the impact of our operations on the climate. A significant Methods of collection and calculations. .............................................39 date in Folksam’s environmental efforts was 28 Assurance report ................................................................................ 41 November, when we became the first insurance company to be granted Good Environmental Choice approval, the toughest ecolabel in the world to achieve. Page 16 Responsible ownership We at Folksam firmly believe that companies that take responsibility for the environment and human rights are more profitable in the longer term. We therefore actively influence the companies in which we invest through our criteria of the environment, human rights and anti-corruption. We have also chosen to completely exclude certain companies, such as those that are involved in tobacco and illegal weapons. Page 23 Sustainability report 2011 2 (41) We take genuine responsibility Being clean and green in the area of the environment attached to entice customers and new employees. mention that our long-term work on sustainability has has gone from being a drawback to a competitive Folksam has existed for more than a hundred years, been reflected in the largest sustainability survey in advantage and to something that is viewed as a core and I have been its CEO for eight of those years. My job Sweden, Sustainable Brands. On 19 March 2012 our requirement. Customers now expect a company to is to both manage the company and take it forward, so subsidiary KPA Pension was named the country’s take responsibility. Folksam is one of the largest that we are constantly developing. Looking ahead, most sustainable company in the financial industry, insurers in Sweden. When we repair damage in settI therefore feel encouraged that Folksam has becoand Folksam Life came a creditable third. ling claims, we require our contractors to be green too, me the first company in the insurance and financial genuinely: from using material that consumes the least sector to have been awarded Sweden’s strictest We also take responsibility for our investments seriresources to material that does not contain any toxic ecolabel, Good Environmental Choice. We now have ously. Folksam and KPA Pension attended around substances. And, of course, we use materials made in tough requirements to meet, and just like this sus100 company annual general meetings last spring to Sweden as much as possible. tainability report our environmental activities will be make sure that our customers’ money is used in a audited externally. The Swedish Society for Nature way that does not solely benefit short-term activity. Folksam has actively pursued these issues througConservation is protective of its brand, just as we are We review bonus systems and gender equality on hout this process, and today we no longer need to of our brand. The ecolabel is a major step for the boards, and call on the companies to take long-term justify our environmental work, as we did when we sector, which must not be allowed to stagnate. Folksam responsibility. This favours Folksam, our customers started requiring paint manufacturers to make susis no exception. We can now further improve our proand society. Genuinely. tainable paints without toxic substances and manuspects of building good customer relations. facturers of building materials to specify what their products contained. Contractors had to answer a large Folksam has always endeavoured to take genuine number of questions from our purchasing department responsibility, and this is aided by our mutual status, about how they undertook their work. But being a the fact that we are customer-owned. This means large organisation was advantageous – with more that we have a close relationship with our customers than four million customers we were able to maintain and that all surpluses accrue to the customers. our demands but still negotiate good contracts. A During the autumn we investigated how we should contract with Folksam was good business if you pay a bonus to our customers in the general insurance worked on repairing vehicles or buildings. company, and the aim is to introduce this by the spring of 2013. For the first time there is now also a Today it goes without saying that non-toxic and highshift in values among customers, which is directly quality materials will be used. Along with the clean reflected in business transactions. This is revealed in and green factor, a new phenomenon has arisen in a report from the Centre for Banking and Insurance recent years that is commonly generally referred to at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. It as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Large is apparent that customers are increasingly choosing CEO of Folksam companies are expected to do something beneficial companies with higher moral standards and an ethical for the community in various ways. approach. We are quite clearly in tune with the times, in both being customer-owned and accepting our I am a little sceptical about the concept itself. It’s all responsibility. In addition, all our companies are too easy for this work to fall outside the company’s achieving healthy results, which puts Folksam in a business concept and become a label that can be good position to face the future. I am also proud to Sustainability report 2011 3 (41) About the 2011 sustainability report Folksam’s vision is a sustainable world in which people feel secure. The sustainability report for the year is aimed at providing a picture of what the company has accomplished to date in order to fulfil this vision. Folksam was the first Swedish insurance company to sign the Global Compact. This is Folksam’s ninth sustainability report, and is based as far as possible on the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for sustainability reports. It has also been reviewed externally this year by the auditing firm KPMG. Folksam’s carbon footprint is fully offset through the Vi Agro-Forestry Programme treeplanting project. The sustainability report for 2011 applies to the whole of Folksam, including its subsidiaries. It is not printed and is only available by download from folksam.se, kpa.se or forenadeliv.se. Folksam’s understanding is that the report meets the B+ GRI application level, and this has also been confirmed by the external auditors. The report also forms part of reporting under the UN’s Global Compact (Communication on Progress, CoP) and the UN Principles for Sustainable Investment. Sustainability report 2011 4 (41) Customers and markets Folksam is owned by its customers how satisfied they are, what leads to satisfaction and If our marketing is to highlight change, real changes Folksam is a mutual company. This means that the what causes annoyance and dissatisfaction. This is in Folksam have to lead to positive experiences that customers are also the owners. Folksam’s overarchcarried out internally in a similar way in order to build stronger approval in the long term. Approval ing goal is to have the most satisfied customers in effectively increase learning in Folksam and in Folkmeasures rational and emotional attractiveness the insurance and savings industry. The fundamental sam’s subsidiaries. among the public. purpose of Folksam being customer-owned (mutual) The customer initiatives and improvement activities Although the change management is a long-term is to provide services that the customers as owners developed on the basis of the surveys are followed process, it improved somewhat in 2011. A new comare pleased with and to create long-term profit. It is up in the same systematic and continuous way to munications strategy was developed with the message therefore important for Folksam to work in a longstrengthen implementation. The status of the imof making Folksam clearer, internally, for customers term and structured way to find as good a relationprovement activities and customer satisfaction are and partners. The aim was to close the gap between ship as possible for both parties. then reported annually to the companies’ manageemployees and customers. For example, almost all Folksam comes into contact with a large number of ments and to the boards. the employees in the Financial Department attended customers daily, covering the spectrum from private Folksam has to develop new offerings and improve customer meetings during the year. It is important to individuals and companies to large organisations in products that are relevant to and liked by its customclarify the offering for the customers, in particular Sweden. The same customer may also have several ers. Folksam therefore also involves its customers in savings, and all sales staff in the Private Business different roles. An individual may come into contact various phases of the development process. Area therefore attended annuity training. Everyone with Folksam through their car insurance, business inin the Private Business Area underwent training to surance, savings in an endowment insurance scheme, Folksam in a state of change appreciate the significance of the core values for house insurance, survivors’ protection plan through Folksam put great effort in 2011 into its repositioning, their work. their trade union or accident insurance their children which was developed in 2010 to better reflect its cusIn the area of claims, all staff were given language have through a sports association. How Folksam treats tomers’ wishes. A new graphic identity highlighted the training by e-learning, and an overview of all claim a customer in one role colours the customer’s experichange, and conduct exhibiting Folksam’s new core letters was started in order to give customers a good ence in all interaction with the company. values of being personal, engaged and responsible was feeling when the letters reach them. The website and Folksam thus has both a wide range of customers strengthened in 2011. As a result, Folksam is better easy-to-understand terms were able to be developed and a large number of customers. able to pledge and provide security today and in the on the basis of the customer insights we gained. The future for what the customers care about. Dealing process of applying for policies on the website is to Folksam makes systematic efforts to with Folksam should be felt by customers to be a be made more customer-friendly, and customers are act in the interests of its customers welcoming and straightforward experience. The now able to take out child insurance at folksam.se. Folksam has many ways of interacting with its cuschange was noted by consumers. By the third quarter, A new induction programme for new employees tomers, such as AGMs, committees and customer Folksam had succeeded in clarifying its three core was also devised, and social media were established meetings. Analysis and action groups work on develvalues for a year. In the third quarter, the proportion for and between employees and customers. oping conclusions and recommendations for all cusof people who think that Folksam takes responsibility In addition, KPA Pension improved its approval rating tomer segments based on facts and customer had increased by 12 percentage points during the in the market (from 7 % to 9 %). KPA Pension also ininsights, which are systematically gathered and previous four quarters. The proportion of those who creased the level of awareness of responsible influence established in the organisation. felt that they had a welcoming and trouble-free (from 50 % to 59 %) through ethical investments. That work is based on the surveys that Folksam experience and that Folksam is personal, engaged methodically and continuously undertakes into what and provides security had also risen by 8 percentage customers, companies, parties and partners think, points in the third quarter. Sustainability report 2011 5 (41) How do our customers rate us? 18 %). Folksam was nevertheless a prize-winner for Creating security for customers Folksam measures how satisfied the customers who effective marketing in the “100-watter” awards*. The principal task of the Customer Ombudsman is to have been in contact with Folksam are. This relates to Nor did the KPA Pension brand achieve its target for offer those customers who are not satisfied with everything from calls to customer service and advisapproval/preference. KPA Pension is a less known Folksam’s decisions an impartial review of their case. ers to the handling of claims. On average, nine out of brand and achieved 9 %, below its target of 10 %. In 2011, the Customer Ombudsman dealt with 1,107 ten customers were satisfied with case management cases, and 1,051 cases led to a substantive review, throughout Folksam, including KPA Pension. Action taken in 2011 to achieve 20 % of these leading to some form of change in the more satisfied customers customer’s favour. This fairly high rate of change Targets and results for customer satisfaction in 2011 Development and evaluation work was carried out shows that the Customer Ombudsman is independent to simplify dialogue with Folksam’s end-customers. and that the customers can have confidence in this Strategic target areas Target Result Tests were carried out to better ensure that the cusactivity. Around 10,000 customers consulted the 1. Satisfied customers 75 % 74 % tomers have relevant protection based on how the Customer Ombudsman during the year. This activity situation for the customer is changing. Work started is greatly appreciated by the customers, as they are 2. Satisfied customers, -2,2 % -1,8 % on making it possible on the customers’ log-in pages able to put questions to an independent body. sector comparison (My Pages) to see what insurance policies are lacking, 3.Attractiveness/approval 14,5 % 13,5 % to add to and take out policies and manage one’s Experience leads to improvements own insurance needs. in activities 1. With regard to how satisfied customers are in genAn important part of the work of the Customer Omeral, these scores also showed that customers who The work for parties and partners in Folksam develbudsman unit is to feed back experience from its activihad been in contact with Folksam were more satisoped in a more proactive direction. Improvement ties to Folksam. In 2011, the Customer Ombudsman fied than those who had not. The target is for 75 % efforts for employers were focused on creating more took part in Folksam’s internal work with reviews of of customers in general to be satisfied. The outcome customer meetings, improving complaints procedures terms, policy work and internal further training. of 74 % shows that the target was nearly reached. and enhancing information about offerings and yield. Phone response did not work well during parts of 2011. In other words, customers found it difficult to 2.The sector showed a decline for the first time in a Improvements were also made to the website and get through to Folksam. Many customers therefore long period in General Private, but Folksam instead electronic information, newsletters and target groupcontacted the Customer Ombudsman when they showed a positive trend. But specifically in car insuradapted communication for individual customers in needed help. Our principal task in these cases was to ance Folksam increased somewhat more than the the collectively agreed market. To create a sense of ensure that the customers came into contact with sector average, with 74.3 % satisfaction compared security for customers, measures were taken to the right person in Folksam. with 73.5 % in the sector. On the life insurance side, confirm the customers’ choices and hold information Folksam took the response problems seriously and satisfaction was 3 % down in the sector, and there meetings at workplaces. took action. The customer surveys show that overall was also a decline in Folksam, although to a smaller customer satisfaction declined during certain parts of degree. KPA Pension maintained its strong position The Customer Ombudsman the year, but had recovered by the end of the year. for occupational pensions with a satisfaction rating of Folksam is a customer-owned company, and it is 69.5 % – well above the sector average of 66 %. therefore a natural priority for the company to offer Complaints are a gift from customers its customers extra service and security through the The Customer Ombudsman continues to regard 3. Folksam improved its approval rating in the market. Customer Ombudsman. The Customer Ombudsman is complaints as a gift from customers. It is important Approval is based on also being visible, and Folksam completely impartial as its operations are independent that Folksam treats complaints in a positive way and struggled to be seen in the heavy media traffic that of Folksam’s Executive Management and are only anthat they are received constructively in order for our prevails in the sector. The Folksam brand conseswerable to the Folksam AGM. operations to improve. The Customer Ombudsman’s quently did not quite reach its target (the target for motto is that complaints are so important that they approval/attractiveness was 19 %, the outcome was should be regarded as a gift from customers. * The 100-watter is the advertising competition that rewards effective advertising campaigns. It is organised by the Association of Swedish Advertisers and the Swedish Association of Communication Agencies. Sustainability report 2011 6 (41) Active work solves problems at This project resulted in 700 families expressing a an early stage wish to be phoned and just over 50 % chose to buy Folksam handled around 710,000 claims in 2011. As some form of insurance or savings product. the company prioritises solving problems at an early Folksam is a co-owner of Rosengård Invest, which stage, only a few cases led to disputes. A total of 94 is continuing with the work there to invest in compacases were settled by the Swedish National Board for nies started and managed by people with a different Consumer Disputes in 2011. Only 4 % of the cases ethnic background. were changed in the customer’s favour. 152 cases In order to reach out to Arabic and Turkish-speaking went to court in 2011. Folksam won or reached a settleentrepreneurs with information, Folksam translated ment in the majority of the cases decided during the a brochure describing the security package for entreyear. This shows that the level of quality in Folksam preneurs into these languages during the year. case management is very high. Folksam and Statistics Sweden compiled the report “Low Pension Warning” in 2011. This report describes Diversity for increased customer benefit the size of future pensions for people born outside Folksam has been working actively on diversity for Sweden in the 1940s who came to the country in the many years. Folksam’s view is that a high degree of 1960s and 1970s, those born in the 1960s who came diversity leads to increased customer benefit as well to Sweden in 1980-1985 and those born in the 1970s as attractiveness as an employer. who came to the country in 1990-1995. The report Several activities were undertaken in 2011 to develop points to a great need to save for a pension and states Folksam’s work towards increased diversity. that work is the most important thing of all. The result In the spring, Folksam for the first time surveyed will be used to develop offerings and in information linguistic knowledge in all customer-oriented parts of campaigns targeted at foreign-born Swedes. the organisation. The survey showed that there are In 2011, Folksam began an initiative to make it several languages that we can add to the 18 languages easier for deaf people to communicate with us, both spoken by our multilingual customer service unit. On through the website and through customer service. the other hand, the telemarketing and claims operaIf the initiative goes to plan, tangible results will be tions need to recruit new staff who, in particular, achieved in 2012. have a knowledge of non-European languages, Folksam is a co-owner of Telge Tillväxt, which has the objective of halving employment among young people aged between 18 and 25 in Södertälje. In the second half of the year Telge Tillväxt ran a project on behalf of Folksam in which five young immigrants were employed to knock on doors in large parts of Södertälje. Their task was to visit these residents to provide them with some general damage-prevention information and to offer insurance information by being phoned by the multilingual customer service unit in their mother tongue. Sustainability report 2011 7 (41) Governance and organisation Folksam’s operations – our claims activity, our conIn order to discuss strategic and future issues in greFinancial Services Authority. Folksam also applies the sumption of goods and services, our business travel ater depth, the board held a two-day seminar during Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. and heating and water for our properties – have a direct the year. The illustration on page 11 shows the structure of impact on the world around us. Our indirect impact, The topics of the seminar were business intelligence, the overarching bodies in Folksam. As Folksam is road safety research, sports cooperation, consumer customer patterns, IT strategy and in-depth analysis customer-owned, there are no shareholders. The education, work to counter violence in society and and summing-up of corporate governance from a customers are instead represented by AGM attendees mine-clearing projects are described in the sections board perspective. at the annual general meeting. headed More than insurance and Responsible ownerThere are around 80 internal rules classified as ship. How we invest our capital is clearly also indirectly overarching in Folksam Life and Folksam General. The Internal rules and organisation for affected – see also Responsible ownership. rules are examined annually and revised if necessary. governance and control Around thirty have been adopted by the boards. Others The boards of Folksam Life and Folksam General How our boards operate are adopted by the parent companies’ AGMs or by each adopt strategic plans that convey the focus and Folksam consists of a life insurance and pension savings Group management. requirements the board concerned has for these group and a general insurance group. Folksam has companies. The focus and requirements described in two mutual parent companies, Folksam ömsesidig A vision that involves obligations the strategic plan cover: livförsäkring (Folksam Life) and Folksam ömsesidig All work that takes place at Folksam must be targeted • Operations sakförsäkring (Folksam General). Both Folksam Life and geared towards the vision that “people should feel • Organisational structure and Folksam General also operate through subsidiaries. secure in a sustainable world” and the overarching goal • Financial targets The boards of the parent companies are made up of of “having the most satisfied customers in the insurance • Corporate governance of subsidiaries customer representatives from the Swedish popular and savings industry”. • Internal governance and control movements (the cooperative movement, the trade This vision illustrates Folksam’s role as a customerunion movements, the sports movement and the seowned company – security is the core of all insurance We wish to exert influence responsibly nior citizens movement). and savings activity. Working for a sustainable world The strategic plan for Folksam General and Folksam Life The nominations committee makes proposals to creates security. Sustainability is also important for us also establishes areas that both boards wish Folksam to the annual general meetings on who should sit on with regard to our claims activity and our investments. aim towards and focus on: perceived customer benethe boards. This committee is to aim for the boards In addition to human suffering, an insecure, unsusfit, organic growth, better than competitors, being an to have a suitable composition with regard to skills, tainable world leads to high claims costs and high preattractive employer and responsible influence. age and gender. miums, which are not compatible with customer benefit. “Responsible influence” establishes that Folksam The boards of the parent companies held eight must differentiate its operations from that of compe(Folksam Life) and nine (Folksam General) board Corporate governance titors by taking active responsibility for the world meetings during the year. Ahead of each meeting the Good corporate governance is concerned with ensuring around us and our future, and by formulating offerings boards received a written report from the CEO on that a company is run as effectively as possible for with responsible influence in mind. The boards adopt major events in Folksam, but also in the industry in the owners. An overarching objective of Folksam’s targets for all focal areas every year. The strategic general. The board followed up the strategic goals in corporate governance – in addition to complying with plans must then govern Folksam’s operations planning accordance with Folksam’s strategic agenda. It also the company’s vision and ethical principles – is to at a more detailed level. The goals for responsible inreviewed the subsidiaries’ activities, financial and ensure a good yield for Folksam’s customers. fluence are concerned with our customers being aware business intelligence analysis and the internal audit Corporate governance in Folksam is based on legislaof and thinking that it is right that we work on road reports. In addition, the 2010 sustainability report tion, principally the Insurance Business Act and the safety research, the environment and corporate was approved. regulations and general guidelines of the Swedish governance and ethical investments. Sustainability report 2011 8 (41) Responsible influence sponsible for risk management activities, follow-up ceived has an impact on how the outside world views as a percentage Target Outcome work and compliance with rules. us. Our values have to permeate everything we do. Folksam has to follow the ethical rules and other Awareness of public 41 44 The second line of responsibility is made up of instructions that exist on how the work is to be perAttitude of public 65 67 governance and control functions that aim to ensure formed. The ethical rules are distributed to all emAttitude of customer 51 51 appropriate and effective management of risk. The ployees, and staff are encouraged to contact their governance and control functions support and follow superior or any of our legal specialists if they are Folksam has achieved all three targets for responsible up the first line of responsibility on the basis of frameunsure about anything. influence. With regard to attitude towards the comworks for internal governance and control, are responpanies doing a good job for customers, Folksam and sible for having an overall picture of the risk situation in Solvency 2 KPA Pension are equally placed, but KPA Pension is the company and report this to the board and the CEO. Solvency 2 is the collective name for the new solvency slightly stronger at reaching out to the public with rules for insurance companies currently being drawn regard to awareness and attitude. The third line of responsibility comprises Internal up in the EU. The directive is intended to strengthen Audit. Internal Audit reviews and evaluates the internal the relationship between the solvency requirements Risk management in Folksam governance and control, including risk management, and the risks to insurance companies. Companies Folksam is subject to a number of different risks that on behalf of the board. are to be governed in a more sound and appropriate can have an impact on the company’s financial position. way through increased risk control. A clear customer The ability to identify, prevent and manage these Bribery and money laundering perspective is also an aspect of this. Solvency 2 is part risks is becoming ever more important. Folksam’s All financial companies in the EU are obliged to prevent of a wider endeavour to create a common European risk management process is an important element in money laundering and the financing of terrorism. financial market. Folksam began adapting to the rules the overall management of risk. The risk management Folksam follows the sanctions that have been issued in 2010. This work was stepped up in 2011 and process provides support in weighing up risk-taking against persons suspected of criminal activities and focused mainly on coordinating the adaptation of and the possibility of achieving set targets and is also takes action to prevent bribery and corruption. processes and system support for governance and consequently an important aspect of the overall The work on preventing bribery and corruption is reporting of activity. It is otherwise mostly concerned management of risk. The risk management process associated with Folksam’s work on preventing money with strengthening the qualitative characteristics of the comprises identifying, valuing, managing, monitoring laundering, in which we investigate whether our cusorganisation and regulatory framework of companies. and reporting all material risks. tomers are persons in politically at-risk positions, that Solvency 2 is an important part of the modernisation Folksam’s systems for internal control are to be a is to say persons who hold high political office and who of Folksam and the rest of the industry, a development natural part of the various activities and an integral through their positions are at greater risk of being that is good for both the customers and Folksam. part of the governance of the organisation. In terms bribed or becoming involved in corruption. of the functions working to achieve this, some of the Examples of overarching sets of rules most important are the boards’ audit and remuneration Ethical rules – always a topical issue • Ethical rules committees, the internal audit and the lay auditors. Folksam’s ethical rules contain the ethical rules ap• Guidelines for external corporate governance To clarify governance and responsibility for risk plicable to all activities and how staff should act in • Actuarial guidelines management and risk control, operations are divided various situations. • Policy for internal governance and control into three lines of responsibility. Ethics is based on society’s set of values, and is • Handling of complaints relating to financial services concerned with good practice and sound judgement. • Competition issues – action programme The first line of responsibility is made up of units, Folksam’s values reflect an ethical approach. Safe• Instructions for the management organisation parent companies and subsidiaries and outsourced guarding human rights and rejecting all forms of disin Folksam business. These are responsible for directing operacrimination are two examples. • Environmental policy tions so that the targets established by the board are When staff represent Folksam externally, it is not sole• Safety policy met. They own and manage risks, i.e. they are rely their own business how they act. How they are per• Purchasing policy • Remuneration policy Sustainability report 2011 9 (41) Organisation Legal Group structure – simplified A large number of activities have been initiated to the internet. Around 2,000 people were covered by Folksam comprises the two parent companies Folksam develop and improve the efficiency of the organisation the reorganisation. Work on the new organisation is General and Folksam Life with their subsidiaries. Two and processes in order to achieve business and cost continuing in 2012. of the subsidiaries in the insurance operations in synergies. Work on coordinating joint functions to On 1 October 2011 a new purchasing organisation Folksam Life are part-owned. These are Folksam LO ensure that resources continue to be used efficiently was established as a department of Folksam to achieve Fondförsäkring, which is 51 % owned , and KPA Pension, continued in 2011. a more cohesive purchasing process and create a basis which is 60 % owned . Of the Group companies in for lower purchasing costs in both claims and operation. Folksam Life, Förenade Liv and the companies in KPA The IT, actuarial, communication and legal functions Pension are not included in the consolidated accounts. are now coordinated centrally for the whole of FolkThis is because these companies do not pay a dividend sam. In addition, large parts of the insurance adminand the entire surplus in these companies therefore istration were also coordinated in a joint function. As accrues to the policy-holders. part of this concentration of resources, the operation To achieve economies of scale to the benefit of the and maintenance of IT in workplaces was outsourced customers, collaboration takes place in the areas of to Logica. distribution, administration and asset management. KP and KPA Pension were also integrated during the Operational organisation year. The aim was to coordinate activity to create an The Folksam organisation is divided into three busieffective service for customers. ness areas: Private, Partner and Collectively Agreed Business, as well as subsidiaries. In addition, there A change project covering office workplaces was are seven central units. launched with the aim of allowing the work to be The Private business area is responsible for Folkorganised more efficiently and of bringing down the sam’s business in the private market for individual costs of premises; this will continue in 2012. insurance and pension savings. This responsibility relates to both life and general insurance under the The sales and claims customer organisation underwent Folksam brand and all activity related to sales and extensive change during the year, from a geographical customer service for private individuals. to a channel-guided organisation. Regional managers The Partner business area is responsible for Folkwere previously responsible for geographical areas, sam’s business with partner and organisational cuswhereas today we have channel managers who are tomers. It includes the group insurance business and responsible for the various distribution and claims business insurance. The business relates to both genchannels – regardless of where the contact with the eral insurance and to personal insurance and savings. customer takes place. The change was made to Collectively Agreed Business is responsible for achieve greater efficiency through shorter decision Folksam’s business with the parties to collective barpaths, and was based on the fact that 95 % of cusgaining agreements in the Swedish labour market. tomers are in contact with Folksam by phone or on This includes both insurance and pension savings, for example occupational group life insurance and sickness insurance, as well as services such as administrative service for employers. Sustainability report 2011 10 (41) Folksam’s operational organisation CEO and Group President Internal goverAsset nance and management control functions Collective Partner BA Private BA Strategic Bargaining governance Business BA Subsidiaries Business area Central unit Economic and CEO’s staff unit Communication IT HR Product Claims financial service Sustainability report 2011 11 (41) Our staff An attractive employer with committed staff Staff turnover increased in comparison with 2010. Folksam aims to be an attractive employer with comThis increase is principally due to ongoing change mitted staff who create customer benefit. In order to management, coordination between the companies achieve this, Folksam works strategically and purposeand retirements. fully, for example with terms of employment, recruitment, skills development, leadership, performance Leadership in change prepares management, the working environment and health. Folksam to face the future In 2011, Folksam continued with its efforts to fineFolksam has to have the skills and organisation to make tune both skills and organisation for the future and in us sharper than our competitors. Change in today’s line with the demands of customers and the world at world is part of everyday life, and Folksam is therefore large. Important enhancements were made, for exequipping its managers to lead the change process. Efample, to the communication channels and customer forts were made in 2011 to support managers in adaptcontact points. Work on developing skills and creating ing the organisation to develop new customer contact a more flexible organisation continued, among other points, in both the sales and claims operations. The supthings through new forms of cooperation and backup port was adapted on the basis of different situations, across organisational boundaries, as well as through particularly in recruitment. The managers received maexternal cooperation and outsourcing solutions. terial, for instance, in the form of responsibility profiles Another important goal that was achieved was that for different roles and skills-based interview guides, as the proportion of women in the senior management well as support in selecting staff. A new method for was improved from 33 % to 45 %. The total proportion change of behaviour in organisations was used to of women managers in the company increased strengthen the managers’ engagement and give them somewhat and is now over 45 %. As part of the endeavtools to implement changes in a sustainable manner. our to promote diversity and counteract prejudice, For example, during the year Folksam IT worked on work continued on implementing diversity dialogues an extensive change project with the aim of increasing in the working groups, for example by playing the purchaser satisfaction, reducing lead times and bringing prejudice game Identitus. In addition to this, Folkdown costs. The new method entails identifying forms sam adopts a diversity focus for example in recruitof behaviour that need to be changed in order to ment and manager development. achieve results, identifying conditions that need to be The rate of sick leave remained at the same level met to make these new forms of behaviour possible, as in 2010, 3.4 %. Work to reduce this rate is continmeasuring behaviour and/or outcomes and providing uing with various measures to promote health and continuous feedback. Workshops were held with all prevent ill-health. managers to firmly establish the goals, teach the apImportant milestones were achieved in the work on propriate way of working and discuss priority areas. a more systematic manager development offering, a The arrangement was adapted on the basis of the better and more flexible process for individual perneeds of each department and led to various action formance and development and attractive terms of plans. Examples of outcomes are increased dialogue employment, for instance through an insurance with customers, changed forms of behaviour in conpackage for all employees. nection with acceptance of requirements and better planning of manning and resources. Sustainability report 2011 12 (41) Folksam gears up for new requirements participation in case studies in various training procustomers by reflecting on each telephone call and The insurance industry faces new challenges, and grammes and offers of work placements and summer training in those parts that needed to be developed. this is place significant demands on companies. The jobs for students from selected programmes. By being receptive to opinions, seeing the customer’s EU Solvency 2 rules come into effect on 1 January Other forms of cooperation include involvement in entire needs and proposing the best solution, trust and 2013. The aim is to create a single market, improve schools’ management programmes and work expericustomer benefit were created. The goal is to introduce protection for policy-holders, increase competition ence placements for vocational college programmes in this way of working into more parts of Folksam. among European insurance companies and create insurance. Folksam additionally took part in fifteen caAnother result of the project was that the process for better regulation. Folksam has started gearing up to reer days in cooperation with some of the universities individual performance and development was updated. meet these requirements in various ways. An important that can best support skills supply in the longer term. The previous professional development interviews aspect is to ensure that management and other key Development of the new careers site folksam.se/ were perceived to be too controlled and theoretical, individuals have sufficient qualifications, knowledge jobba to strengthen communication with potential and the process was therefore made more flexible and and experience to be able to manage in a sound and employees continued during the year. It was used, for adapted to the needs of business operations. Managers responsible manner. example, in large recruitment campaigns in sales and and employees now jointly develop an individual goal IT, in part through presentation and pictures of existplan and a development plan, and review these on a Staff survey shows continued engagement ing employees. The careers site had an average of regular basis. The focus is on a coaching approach, A response rate of 92% was achieved in the annual 10,000 visitors a month during the year. clear requirements in the role and what activities the staff survey, Focus. The result showed continued Folksam intends to invest in its managers, support employee is to perform to attain his or her goals. good ratings for leadership and targetand resultstheir development and equip them to meet strategic based management – for example, the proportion challenges and changes. The offering in leader develBeneficial conditions create who have individual targets is 91 % and the index opment was strengthened during the year by develsecurity and motivation value for leadership rose from 74 % to 75 % positive. oping two new leadership programmes for senior Folksam is to be an attractive employee with known Internal collaboration is an area on which Folksam managers. Creating networks and understanding the and competitive offerings for present and future emhas worked hard, and this was reflected in improved overall situation are important steps towards the goal ployees. An insurance package for all employees scores in the survey. Areas in which there was a decline of having managers who create customer benefit by containing home insurance, accident insurance, sickincluded perception of stress and satisfaction at work. providing the basis for good performance. The proness and survivors’ insurance and medical insurance Ongoing changes and new working practices have grammes begin in February 2012. was therefore introduced in 2011. The offering also probably had an impact in these areas. The result was contains discounts on various types of general insuutilised in the form of dialogue, action plans and deFocus on internal drivers leads rance. The aim is to provide long-term security in velopment activities at all levels of the company. to engagement and development everyday life, for example through rapid access to Folksam has established routines for follow-up work, Folksam works systematically to provide its employadvice and medical care. To ensure that everyone for example individual coaching for managers, workees with what they need to perform well. A project to has the protection they need, the option of personal shops and support in group development. review what Folksam does to guide individual perforadvice in savings and insurance was offered during mance was carried out during the year. This led to the year. Long-term commitment to provision of skills two customer service groups trying out a new way of Folksam has a remuneration policy based on appliTo ensure the provision of skills in the long term, Folkworking that involves creating the conditions necessary cable regulations and the company’s fundamental sam continued working on strengthening its profile as to ensure the effectiveness of employees’ internal values. It covers all employees and is intended to an employer. The company promises a career that is drivers. Understanding the purpose of the job one promote effective risk management, foster a positive fulfilling and carries responsibility. Development of codoes and having an opportunity to influence and attitude to change and development and encourage operation on training with universities and vocational make use of one’s skills creates commitment and good work. In 2011, the policy was updated in line colleges continued in 2011. This cooperation includes motivation. The employees had to take responsibility with the new rules of the Swedish Financial Supervifor developing their behaviour in their dealings with sory Authority. Sustainability report 2011 13 (41) Health promotion to reduce Folksam staff in figures sickness absence Folksam’s employees should have a long-term susStaff 2011 2010 2009 2008 tainable working life, and the company has worked Number of staff 3400 3637 3863 3510 purposefully to reduce sickness absence for many women (%) 51 50 50 49 years. A pilot project was conducted during the year to men (%) 49 50 50 51 try out a telephone service that offers medical advice when an employee reports in sick. The project proved Average age (years) 45,2 45,5 45,3 44,8 a success, each sickness episode was reduced on avNumber of managers 334 360 347 311 erage by one day, and most employees had a positive women (%) 47 43 44 44 experience of the service. It has been introduced men (%) 53 57 56 56 throughout Folksam with effect from 1 January 2012. Staff turnover (%) 8,0 4,70 5,6 8,0 The aim is to give employees the support they require to maintain good health and spot signals of ill-health The number of managers is calculated in accordance with the definition “managers with responsooner so that they can work more preventively. The sibility for personnel and operations”. Staff turnover is defined as the lower of the number of aim is to further reduce the rate of sickness absence new employees or employees who have left during the year as a percentage of the number of employees in December. at Folksam. Donations through pay to the Swedish Cooperative Centre Folksam has been cooperating with the Swedish Cooperative Centre for several years. Find out more about this cooperation on page 33. Age distribution in 2011 in % Staff have the option of donating part of their pay to the organisation through deductions from salary. Commitment to this initiative is continuing to grow. 9,9 9,7 Staff donations to the Swedish Cooperative Centre totalled SEK 680,372 in 2011, a sum which is matched by Folksam. In December 2011, Folksam additionally made a Christmas donation of SEK 20,8 100,000. As in previous years, a Christmas sale of Fair Trade products was held in favour of the Swedish 28,3 Cooperative Centre. The total amount collected in 2011 was SEK 1,501,654. This means that Folksam under 30 and its employees have doubled their donations since 2007. 30 – 39 31,4 40 – 49 50 – 59 60+ Sustainability report 2011 14 (41) Age distribution (%) 2011 2010 2009 Total sick leave, 2011 (2010) in % under 30 9,7 8,5 9,1 Age Men Women Total 30-39 20,8 21,9 22,1 under 30 2,2 (1,8) 2,4 (3,8) 3,3 (2,9) 40-49 31,4 30,4 30,2 30-49 2,0 (2,1) 4,4 (4,2) 3,3 (3,2) 50-59 28,3 28,0 27,7 over 50 2,3 (2,5) 4,7 (4,9) 3,5 (3,6) over 60 9,9 11,2 11,0 Totalt 2,1 (2,2) 4,5 (4,5) 3,4 (3,4) Form of employment (%) 2011 2010 2009 Of which long-term sick leave, 2011 (2010) in % Employees on Age Men Women Total permanent contracts 97 97 98 under 30 0,0 (7,6) 30,0 (20,8) 20,3 (17,1) Employees on fixed-term contracts 3 3 2 30-49 25,0 (24,7) 40,0 (40,2) 35,9 (35,5) Full-time employees 91 91 92 over 50 37,3 (41,4) 44,9 (45,3) 42,3 (44,0) Part-time employees 9 9 8 Totalt 29,1 (32,0) 41,3 (41,4) 37,6 (38,4) Women – Gender distribution on boards and in management in % 2011 2010 2009 Board of Folksam Life 50 50 42 Board of Folksam General 58 58 58 Group management 45 33 33 Men Gender distribution on boards and in management in % 2011 2010 2009 Board of Folksam Life 50 50 58 Board of Folksam General 42 42 42 Group management 55 67 67 Sustainability report 2011 15 (41) The impact of our operations Folksam’s direct impact on • The leaves of the trees reduce the force of rain1. With our vehicle insurance, our customers are the environment and climate drops and prevent erosion. guaranteed that the repairs will be carried out in an The environment is a key issue for Folksam, both • The trees capture carbon dioxide environmentally friendly way with a high proportion within the company and in the world at large. The • Evaporation decreases, as does water consumption of re-used material. We also make strict environcompany’s size presents us with a great opportunity • Trees provide shade for crops and act as wind-breaks mental demands on all our suppliers, from building to exert influence. The demands we make on ourmaterials to separation of waste. selves and on our suppliers, for example with regard A Good Environmental Choice to repairs to the buildings and vehicles our customers – a significant event 2. Folksam General’s asset management adopts a have insured with us, can therefore make a great difFolksam’s vision that “people should feel secure in a responsible approach and takes account of our ference. Folksam’s strict environmental requirements sustainable world” is aimed in particular at us caring common capital. We do not invest in weapons, have contributed to a higher environmental standard for nature and the community. Those with the knowlalcohol, tobacco, coal-based power, nuclear power, at several large subcontractors. Those parts of the edge and opportunity to influence community develuranium and companies that infringe human rights. Folksam organisation with the greatest potential to opment for the better are therefore obliged to do so. In addition, we influence various industries by setting make a difference have been environmentally certified Folksam has done this ever since the company was specific requirements to be met in the sustainability under ISO 14001, the recognised international founded more than a hundred years ago. We thereefforts and reporting of the companies concerned. standard for environmental management systems. fore work preventively on road-safety research and Both our car and building insurance activities have environmental and sustainability issues. 3. Folksam offers a more environmentally friendly and environmental certification. We only use wind power of safe car as a replacement for a damaged car. The crispecified origin in our properties. Folksam intends to be A significant date in Folksam’s environmental efforts teria for safety are taken from our annual report at the forefront of efforts relating to the environment was 28 November, 2011, when we became the first “Säkert och Hållbart” (“Safe and Sustainable”), which and climate change in the industry. It is important that insurance company in the world to be granted Good is based on statistics on actual road-traffic accidents. we practise what we preach. Environmental Choice approval, the toughest ecolabel in the world to achieve. The Swedish Society for 4. We use renewable energy of specified origin, wind Folksam has been aware for about ten years that the Conservation of Nature issues Good Environmental power, for all our office and properties. issue of sustainable development is one of the most Choice approvals, and our vehicle and house insurance urgent issues to be addressed. We have also acted policies in Folksam General are covered by this eco5. Folksam makes environmentally friendly purchases by by making sustainability issues permeate our operalabel. It is proof that we take environmental issues buying in goods, such as paper, coffee and stationery tions. In particular, we were the first company in seriously and take responsibility for our on the basis of tough environmental requirements. Sweden to fully offset our CO2 emissions in 2006. own climate impact. Folksam’s total footprint for 2011 was measured as Folksam fulfils the Swedish Society for 3,975 tonnes of carbon dioxide, which is equivalent to Conservation of Nature’s 43 different What is a green insurance company? 23,850 trees. All carbon offsetting is done by planting criteria, the largest and most extensive An insurance company that takes responsibility for trees through the Vi Agroforestry Programme, which of which are: the environment by allowing environmental issues follows the Plan Vivo method. to play a part in day-to-day operations, from claims The trees that the Vi Agroforestry Programme plants 1. Re-use and environmentally friendly repairs in and purchasing to our customers’ investments. are fast-growing, provide shade and fertilise the soil. settling claims This means that trees and crops can be planted togeth2. Responsible investments er (agroforestry). In this way the trees contribute to 3. Sustainable and safe replacement vehicles environmental improvement. 4. Ecolabelled electricity 5. Environmentally friendly purchases Sustainability report 2011 16 (41) Folksam’s total footprint What does Folksam do to live up to its ecolabel? A growing carbon footprint means that a company • We help our contractors and customers to choose tries to measure more and more of its climate impact. sustainable materials in construction and vehicle And Folksam’s footprint is growing. The total footrepairs. print for 2011 was measured as 3,975 tonnes CO2e. • We set strict requirements in purchasing goods This is an increase of 122 tonnes from the previous and services, such as coffee, electronics, paper, year. This is principally due to the year’s carbon footcleaning materials, energy, transport and travel. print including three new items from the head office • We are switching to organic raw materials in our at Tullgården, namely coffee and paper consumption staff restaurant, which is one of the largest in and emissions from printed matter. Together they Sweden. amount to 143 tonnes CO2e (carbon dioxide equiva• We conduct research into safety and better environlents), which means that all six greenhouse gases, not mental performance for the Swedish vehicle fleet. just carbon dioxide, are included in the calculations of • We use renewable electricity of specified origin emissions. Folksam endeavours to carbon-offset for all our properties. more and more items every year. Other emissions • We plant trees to carbon-offset our emissions. are also slightly more than offset, for example for the climate impact of vehicles that do not fulfil Folksam’s environmental and safety requirements and for printed matter. What does this mean for Folksam’s customers? It means that the policy-holder can be sure that CO2e contains all six Folksam is genuinely green and that the insurance greenhouse gases choices that have been made have as little impact on the environment as possible. In addition, Emissions per activity and comparison Folksam helps the customer to make more active with previous year, tonnes of CO2e choices, showing how it is possible to save energy in the home and what building materials are most Activity 2011 2010 2009* environmentally friendly. The policy-holder is given Road travel 800 843 944 a more environmentally friendly* car if something happens to their own vehicle. Air travel 940 838 989 Rail travel 0,003 0,22 Not included Heating 2 075 2152 2226 * Folksam has had a vehicle policy containing environmental and Electricity safety requirements for customers’ replacement vehicles and for consumption 17 19,4 620 the vehicles the company owns since 1998. The requirements are adjusted every year. The environmental requirements are Printed matter 64 Not included Not included based on EU requirements for carbon dioxide emissions and the Paper 65 Not included Not included safety requirements are gradually adapted to improved standards in the automotive market. Coffee 14 Not included Not included Total 3 975 3 853 4 779 * In 2009 calculated only in tonnes of CO2. Sustainability report 2011 17 (41) Folksam’s total climate impact Car repairs Capital investment classified by activity Car repairs are among the activities at Folksam with The Board of Folksam General has issued an instruction Consumption of heat the greatest impact on the environment. To reduce for the company, in addition to investment criteria, as Consumption of heat represents the greatest climate the environmental impact in vehicle repairs, Folksam described under “Responsible ownership” on page impact from Folksam’s operations, totalling 2,075 re-uses genuine parts and repairs plastic parts and 23, to also implement the following exclusion criteria tonnes of CO2. It accounts for 52% of the total footprint windscreens and windows rather than using new refor investment as part of the Good Environmental and has been reduced by 77 tonnes. This is despite placement parts. This practice contributed to avoiding Choice ecolabelling: Folksam’s property stock having increased during the a waste mountain of 1,231,796 kg during the year. • Weapons year. The decrease is partly due to Folksam working Re-using and repairing instead of buying new does • Alcohol actively to improve efficiency and reduce heat consumpnot just represent a gain for the environment but is • Coal, nuclear power and uranium tion. The company switched from oil heating to district also a good deal for Folksam. By working this way Folkheating for certain properties. It is therefore of great sam saved SEK 118,131,315 in repairing damaged significance how we heat our properties, and we are cars in 2011. Re-use in connection with vehicle repairs Global Compact therefore working in the long term to replace fossil fuels. has resulted in a total saving of SEK 750 million in the Folksam has been a signatory to the UN Global At the same time, Folksam has an explicit strategy past eleven years, which we can instead spend on imCompact since 2002, and is the first Swedish to increase the proportion of properties in its investprovements for our customers. insurance company to be so. This is an international ments, and also increased our property stock by initiative based on ten international principles in 22,000 sq.m in 2011 in comparison with the previous year. The outdoor climate also has a climate impact, We avoided a waste four areas: as well as how energy-efficient the properties are. mountain of 1,232 tonnes • • Human rights Labour Folksam’s combined strategy is to continue with the Subcontractors • Environment work of improving the efficiency of and economising • Anti-corruption on energy use in our properties. This is done by conVehicle workshops 2011 2010 tinuously identifying, planning and implementing Number of partners 1 284 1 161 various energy efficiency projects. Number of environmental Emissions by activity in 2011 in percent requirements 44 44 Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 687 579 2 2 Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 54 % 50 % 24 Aviation Vehicle disassembly plants 2011 2010 Road travel Number of partners 11 15 Heat Number of environmental 20 requirements 60 60 Paper 52 Number of partners totally Printed matter fulfilling requirements 9 13 Rail travel 0 % Proportion of partners totally Electricity 0 % fulfilling requirements 82 % 87 % Coffee 0% Sustainability report 2011 18 (41) Purchasing to find measures that can make their energy use Folksam is a large purchaser with large volumes in 1. Does the supplier/product have environmental more efficient. both the operation of the company and its claims accertification such as ISO 14001, Good Environtivity. The way in which we work on purchasing issues mental Choice, the Nordic Swan, TCO, FSC*, (See Wind power 2012 – the next step therefore has a great impact on the suppliers we also ecolabels at http://www.konsumentverket.se/ Gnosjö Energi AB is a wind power company wholly choose to work with, and our vision of a sustainable miljo/markning) owned by Folksam. Gnosjö Energi consists of four society affects our requirements and our approach. turbines located in Kulltorp with a total output of 10 2. Does the supplier comply with the UN’s ILO MW, equivalent to the annual heating of around conventions regarding human rights, and does In 2010 the purchasing organisation was scrutinised, 1,000 detached houses. the supplier have documents concerning leading to a centralised and coherent purchasing In 2011, Folksam also became a partner in another responsibility and influence in its operations operation in which have gained greater power in the six wind farms with 47 wind turbines in central and (sustainability reporting). form of accumulated experience and control. By gathnorthern Sweden. These wind turbines are estimated to ering together the 20 purchasing services previously be capable of generating a total of 0.26 TWh of electrici* There are services/sectors/products where there are no labels dispersed around the organisation into group-wide ty annually to heat 13,000 electrically heated houses. as yet, and we can make exceptions in these cases. processes and routines, more time can be made In 2011, Folksam reviewed the possibility of supavailable for strategic activity. An example is our restaurant at the head office in plying its directly owned properties with own-producStockholm, which holds KRAV certification and where tion wind power. This work is continuing in 2012. Work began in 2011 on developing strategic and 80% of all the coffee served is organic and certified In November, a larger property was also converted long-term targets for our purchasing activity, which as Fair Trade. from electric and oil-fired boilers to district heating, provides a good basis for the sustainability requirewhich signifies a decrease in oil use of around 2,000 ments to be met by our suppliers to be revised and Property management litres per year. followed up systematically. Clear management of Folksam Fastigheter works actively on environmental In Folksam Fastigheter’s first completely new-build requirements, overseen from Group management and energy issues in administration, projects and acquiapartments, in Fruängen outside Stockholm, each down to actual purchasing, guarantees that we practise sitions. We engage the services of Newsec for managing apartment was equipped with individual metering of what we preach. Substantial work was done in 2011 around half our property stock. Newsec has ISO 14001 heating, electricity and cold and hot water with the towards a more precise and correct follow-up of the environmental certification. Folksam works towards aim of reducing energy use. key indicators that guide our purchases. By presenting classifying its buildings under the Miljöbyggnad (Envithe results of our work in well thought-through indicaronmental Building) and GreenBuilding systems. MiljöEnergy consumption tors, relating for example to the environment, we can byggnad means that properties are designed for SwedThe energy use comes from a large number of properfollow up our contribution to our corporate vision and ish conditions as a simple and cost-effective method of ties owned by Folksam, principally offices and residential the Group can make active choices in the direction of classifying buildings without compromising on quality. properties in Stockholm but also in other parts of Swelong-term goals. The system can be used for both new and existing buildden. From the legal point of view, Folksam consists of ings, regardless of size. Miljöbyggnad is administered by the following four legal entities which are included in Folksam attaches great importance to environmental the Swedish Green Building Council, and the indicators the consumption figures. performance and good working conditions in the prothat govern the classification are energy use, indoor enduction of the products and services we purchase. Our vironment (sound, light, radon, moisture etc.) and the principal aim is to prioritise suppliers and products that presence of particularly harmful substances. • Folksam Life/Life (wholly owned properties) are environmentally certified. GreenBuilding is based on reducing the property’s • Folksam Life/KP (formerly Gyllenforsen, of To allow an assessment to be made, we therefore reenergy use by 25 % or having energy use that is which Folksam owns 71 %). quire the company’s environmental work to be reported. 25 % lower than the requirements for new buildings. • Folksam General (wholly owned properties) No other requirements are stipulated. • KPA Pension (of which Folksam owns 60 %) In 2011, some further properties with high energy consumption underwent more detailed energy analysis Sustainability report 2011 19 (41) In comparison with 2010, consumption of building 1,784. The number of kilometres driven in car jourThe principal activity for 2011, apart from outsourcing electricity decreased by 6.7 kWh per sq.m, from 32 neys for Folksam, including KPA Pension, decreased workstations, was to replace all printers. The printer kWh per sq.m to 25.3 kWh. from 5,187,440 in 2010 to 4,876,800 in 2011. Folkreplacement work that was carried out affects our sam is able to influence what cars are driven by senior capability to achieve long-term sustainability, firstly Consumption of building executives and those who are obliged to drive as part of their work. These cars met Folksam’s strict requirebecause we switched to two-sided printing and secondly because the default setting is now black-andelectricity fell by 6.7 kWh ments for environmental and safety performance. white. In addition to this, unnecessary printouts per square metre in 2011 Climate impact broken down by mode were minimised by requiring staff to have their pass card with them to authorise printing. Electricity consumption of transport in per cent As a result of outsourcing workstations, we will gain All supplies of electricity to Folksam are wind poweraccess to more modern technology, which will mean generated electricity of specified origin. Calculated more energy-efficiency equipment. In connection with emissions from Folksam’s consumption of electricity the outsourcing of various operations, a purchaser totalled 17 tonnes of CO2 in 2011, which is 2.4 organisation is being set up in relation to the supplier tonnes less than in the previous year. concerned to ensure that agreements entered into are respected. Folksam should, however, also have internal rules We emit 2.4 tonnes 46 and work more systematically on environmental asless of CO2 54 pects of ordinary work processes in IT. The aspiration was to implement this work in 2011. However, other Official travel priorities, as described above, have taken preceOfficial travel accounts for 24% of our total footprint, dence. The next stage will therefore be efforts to clarand has increased in comparison with the previous ify the need for governing documentation on Green IT year. On the other hand, emissions from activities through clear guidelines in our ordinary work processother than air travel have decreased. Air es on how greener IT operations could be achieved. Folksam introduced a completely new sales and Road adviser agreement in March 2011, under which many Reduced quantity of printed matter in Folksam agents who previously operated under an agreement Rail 0 % Folksam succeeded in reducing the quantity of printed without mileage and travel reimbursement were now matter in 2011. The aspiration is for Folksam in the included, which may be a contributory factor in the inReduced paper consumption longer term to reduce the quantity of printed matter creased emissions from air travel. During the autumn Folksam has been working on IT from various much more, and customers are to be given an oppora major initiative was implemented for staff advice environmental perspectives for many years. The tunity to choose to receive insurance terms and invoic(see page 13 “Beneficial conditions create security company’s ambition is to be well to the fore in es digitally. A preliminary study on this was carried out and motivation”). This involved a group of advisers environmental awareness in the area of IT. in 2011. This work will continue in 2012 and 2013. travelling around the country to meet staff in order As a result, we have virtualised our server farm to run through savings and insurance – this too may and have consequently eliminated a large number of How we progress towards our vision have contributed to an increase in the number of servers in our computer centre, which among other Folksam’s direct impact on the outside world and as an flights during the year. things has reduced the energy requirement. employer is described in the sections “Our direct imWe will analyse our air travel in depth in 2012 in All workstations are also ecolabelled, including compact” on page 16 and “Our staff,” starting on page 12. order to create a better basis on which to reduce air puters, monitors, printers and mobile phones. This is As a customer-owned company, Folksam is concerned travel in future years. now based outside Folksam’s operations, and we act about what its customers are concerned about, and More people travelled by train in 2011 than in as a specifier. Folksam also has contracts that enable therefore also pursues sustainability issues at strategic 2010, but the increase was marginal, from 1,729 to us to dispose of old machines for recycling in an envilevel, for example through road safety research, inronmentally correct way through our new partners. vestment criteria and consumer information. Sustainability report 2011 20 (41) More than insurance Folksam Tests Road-safety work Folksam’s crash data have been used as a basis for Folksam examines and tests the products and materiEveryone benefits when roads are made safer the development of the crash test programmes used als we and our customers use in our everyday lives. Road traffic accidents entail heavy losses for public to evaluate the ability of cars to protect against whipThis means everything from cars and outdoor paints health and the economy, but above all for individuals. lash injuries, and for the development of protection to building boards and heat pumps. In Värmeguiden Folksam has more than 30 years of experience of against whiplash injuries by several manufacturers. (Heat Guide) Byggmiljöguiden (Building Environment research in the area of road safety, with the emphasis The in-depth studies examine data from black boxes, Guide) and Färgtestet (Paint Test) we provide a picon studies of accidents that have actually occurred. which register the impact forces in a collision, comture of the quality and environmental performance of The knowledge provided by Folksam road safety rebined with detailed information about injuries, the these products. We do so in order to safeguard the search is applied to save lives on the roads. Fewer course of events in the crash and the deformations environment and reduce the number of claims and road-traffic injuries also mean lower costs of claims suffered by the vehicle. The emphasis is on injuries costs both for ourselves and for our customers. and therefore lower premiums for motor insurance, that lead to death or incapacity. These are the only which benefits Folksam’s customers. studies of their kind in the world. Värmeguiden (Heat Guide) Between 1992 and 2011 Folksam installed around We have monitored damage to heat pumps for over ten Research contributes to fewer injuries 280,000 black boxes in four different makes of vehiyears. The reason for this is that heat pumps fail too A large part of Folksam’s research is focused on surcles in Sweden. In May 2008 the company launched a often and too early. This is also clearly apparent in veying the level of safety of different cars and their new black box that measures impact forces in several the claim results for 2011, which cover claims made protection systems. The results are used, among directions and with greater accuracy. By 2011 the new in 2010. Heat pumps are very often a costly investment other things, to inform and influence the public, box had been installed in around 40,000 vehicles. The for a home-owner – an installation that can provide a businesses and the public sector regarding the imfigures are based on the number of units ordered. detached house with both hot water and heating can portance of prioritising safety when buying vehicles. cost SEK 150,000-200,000. The buyer therefore ought The number of people killed on Swedish roads has Steady improvement in whiplash protection in cars to be able to anticipate having no problems over a fairly fallen sharply in recent years, to between 300 and Since 2003, Folksam has presented crash test results long period of time. This is not always the case, and 400 people annually. Preliminary figures for 2011 showing how well different models of car protect many installations fail even before they are five years old. indicate 314 fatalities, which is a small increase comagainst whiplash injuries in rear-end collisions. The We do not consider that the manufacturers take suffipared with 2010 (266 deaths), but still the lowest rate latest crash-test results were presented in 2010. But cient responsibility for quality. They “do not have time” of road-traffic fatalities in the world. A significant factor since 2005 Folksam has also analysed how well the to test new models sufficiently before they are placed on in the decrease that has occurred in recent years is whiplash protection provided by cars works in real collithe market. In addition to poor quality, serial faults are the favourable trend in vehicle safety. For other sions. Cars equipped with special protection against common. Claim costs have now reached such a level groups of road-users there has in general been a whiplash injuries have half as many injuries leading to that in five years claims totalling SEK 1 billion are lodged small increase in recent years. disability than cars without (launched over the same with insurance companies. Heat pumps are a good enviperiod of time, 1998-2010). The protection systems ronmental and energy choice, but they can only save In-depth studies of crashes lead to greater knowledge have also generally proved more effective for men energy if they work. Folksam is therefore continuing Folksam conducts in-depth studies of crashes to gain than for women. It is therefore important to continue to monitor development and help our customers to increased knowledge of how and why injuries occur to analyse the problems associated with whiplash inmake better choices. The result, with lists of differin road-traffic accidents. The results of the in-depth juries to obtain more effective protection, particularly ent makes, is published on the Folksam website so studies make it possible to analyse how injuries in for women. Folksam is consequently taking part in a that our customers can be helped in making more road traffic accidents could be avoided in the future. major international EU-funded project aimed at anasustainable choices. lysing this and developing a female crash dummy to be used in developing new forms of protection. Sustainability report 2011 21 (41) Importance of setting strict requirements for new cars The project covers a test group of 250 private motorUnder the old way of describing the consequences of Since 1997, Folksam has annually presented a “Safe ists. The drivers in the test group were offered disinjuries there were around 2,000 seriously injured car and Sustainable” policy that applies to the procurecounts of up to 30 per cent on their ordinary insurance passengers and 300 seriously injured cyclists per ment of its company and staff cars. It also covers repremium with SalusAnsvar if they drove safely. The year. Under the new way of evaluating the conseplacement cars for Folksam’s insurance customers idea is that it should pay to drive responsibly – the quences of road-traffic accidents there are just as which they are given if their own cars are damaged. greater the distance driven within applicable speed many injuries leading to loss of health on cycles as in In the 2011 list of cars, 14 % of all models met Folklimits, the higher the discount on the insurance precar accidents, 1,700 per year for each group. sam’s environmental and safety requirements. The mium. Driving is assessed using GPS technology fitted purpose of the policy is to influence new-vehicle sales in the test drivers’ cars. The test will continue until June Lower safety in tradespeople’s vehicles to reward the very best cars from the point of view of 2012 and Folksam is responsible for its evaluation. A study showing that vehicles that are often driven safety and the environment. In October 2011, a semiby tradespeople have a substantially lower level of nar was held for car buyers in municipalities, county How safe are cars in 2011? safety than other cars was presented in December councils and large companies, with the aim of informing In conjunction with one of the largest road-safety 2011. They largely lack the safety equipment that is them about the importance of setting strict requireconferences in Sweden, the Tylösand Seminar, which standard equipment in ordinary cars. In addition, they ments for safety and the environment in their prowas held in August 2011, Folksam presented a followare given lower priority in the crash tests of Euro curement of company and private cars. Experts from up of “How safe are cars?”, which showed the crash NCAP. None of the vehicles included in the study met the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish Sosafety of cars based on real-life accidents. The study the requirements set by Folksam for ordinary cars. ciety for Nature Conservation, the motoring section of points to impressive improvement in the crash safety An example from the study was that only 37 % of the newspaper Dagens Nyheter and Folksam spoke at of cars. If present-day cars are compared with models these vehicles had anti-skid protection as standard, the seminar. The seminar took an in-depth look at launched in the 1980s, the risk of being killed in a car compared with 98 % of cars. Folksam pointed out that what requirements should be set for new cars and has fallen by 90%. If everyone chose from among the this was a serious working environment problem. what development can be expected in the future in car safest models on the list, the number of injuries safety and the environmental performance of cars. leading to disability would be reduced by around 30 %. Poor crash safety in collisions with elk In order to encourage private car buyers to choose The Toyota Avensis 2003-2008 came top in the Every year, around 7,000 collisions with elk occur on cars that are the very best from the point of view of the study together with the Volvo S60/V70/S80 1998Swedish roads. In October 2011 Folksam presented environment and safety, Folksam in June presented a 2006, both around 32 % safer than the average. a study that showed that it is difficult for modern new insurance solution in which premiums are reduced cars to cope with a collision with an elk at a speed in by around 10 per cent on a number of vehicle models Substantial under-reporting for cycle accidents excess of 80 km/h without great risk of death or that fulfil strict requirements for safety and environFolksam presented data on cycle accidents with the serious injury. The study covered both the results of mental impact. This insurance solution is in line with aim of raising awareness that they account for a large real-life accidents and five collision tests, and also Folksam’s Safe and Sustainable policy. proportion of the road-traffic injuries that occur, and shows that the problems with accidents involving wildthe consequences of accidents involving cyclists life can be reduced by car manufacturers improving Can financial incentives persuade car drivers to therefore ought to be given higher priority in society. the roof structure and introducing automatic braking drive more safely and in a more eco-friendly way? Accidents involving cycles cause just as many persystems that can identify large wildlife. In the spring of 2011, Folksam, MHF, SalusAnsvar manent injuries as car accidents, but this has not and the Swedish Transport Administration initiated previously been visible in the statistics. National data a research project aimed at creating a safer traffic enhave previously been based on accidents reported to vironment. The project is to evaluate the possibility of the police, but since about a year ago they have been persuading drivers to alter their behaviour and drive based on data from hospital accident and emergency in a safer and more eco-friendly way, with the aid of departments. Accidents involving single individuals a financial incentive – lower premiums. and their consequences have consequently become visible to a greater extent. Sustainability report 2011 22 (41) Responsible ownership We at Folksam firmly believe that companies that UN principles guide Folksam take responsibility for the environment and human The UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) rights are more profitable in the longer term. Thereare a UN initiative launched in 2006 and aimed at infore, through our criteria – the environment, human troducing sustainability issues into the investment rights and anti-corruption – we influence the companies process for institutional investors and pension manawe invest in. On the other hand, there are companies gers. Folksam was the only Swedish investor to take we have deliberately chosen not to invest in, regardless part in drawing up the guidelines, which apply to the of how small their environmental impact is or how environment, social issues and corporate governance good a working environment they have. The exclusion (ESG issues). Folksam was also one of the first incriteria are tobacco and illegal weapons such as cluster vestors to endorse the principles. munitions, anti-personnel mines and nuclear weapons. In this year’s sustainability report we have chosen These criteria apply to all the companies in Folksam, for the third year in a row to report the year’s events with one exception. The subsidiary KPA Pension has based on these principles to clarify how Folksam fuldecided on even tougher exclusion criteria: it does fils its commitment as a signatory to PRI. not invest in the tobacco industry, the weapons industry, the alcohol industry or the commercial Principle 1 gambling industry. Folksam will incorporate ESG issues into investment In 2011, Folksam General became the first insuanalysis and decision-making processes. rance company to be granted the Good Environmental Choice ecolabel – see also page 16. This means Ethics influences all investments Folksam engages for Responsible Ownership that the previous exclusiSwedbank Robur as asset manager for large parts of on criteria have been expanded to include alcohol, all the assets under management and for the ethical weapons, tobacco, coal-fired power, uranium and screening of all investments. Folksam also engages companies that infringe human rights. independent consultancies for various analyst services. Folksam has around SEK 285 billion under manaThis analysis forms the basis for decisions on which comgement on behalf of just over four million customers. panies Folksam invests in and which companies Folksam This empowers us to exert influence and bring about chooses to conduct a more in-depth dialogue with. long-term change in society. All the assets Folksam Folksam votes both for and against share-related manages, regardless of whether they are funds, inreward schemes. We report when we vote against, surance portfolios or personal savings, are covered otherwise we vote in favour. by ethical investment criteria. During the year’s Swedish AGMs, Folksam made use Folksam’s work to persuade companies to take of its right to vote against four companies’ proposals social responsibility is very much a public affair, befor variable remuneration. In addition, a dialogue was cause we believe that knowledge contributes to poconducted with further companies who intended to sitive change. Folksam annually publishes reports introduce this type of scheme. The information on and indices in which we present information on the remuneration systems supplied to shareholders has companies’ performance in areas such as the envibeen substantially improved in recent years. ronment, human rights and gender equality. Sustainability report 2011 23 (41) It is now the exception rather than the rule for comPrinciple 2 Securitas panies not to include relevant information in their Folksam will be an active owner and incorporate ESG isFolksam was in contact with this company during the annual reports on share programmes, fixed and varisues into its corporate governance policy and practices. year because of the allegations levelled at the company able pay, and pensions to senior executives. This is concerning working conditions at a Securitas joint venlargely a result of the debate conducted by compaFolksam’s boards have established a corporate govture in India. Folksam learned of Securitas’ response to nies such as Folksam. A summary of the AGMs can ernance policy and ethical investment criteria for the the allegations of infringements of human rights by ebe found on the Folksam website. companies’ holdings. These activities are followed up mail and through phone calls and teleconferences and by an internal corporate governance committee. The is continuing to monitor the issue. Dialogue helps companies to see the business result is reported to the boards. potential in sustainability issues TeliaSonera and Ericsson Folksam’s efforts to influence companies on sustainFolksam in dialogue with listed companies These companies were linked to infringements of ability issues are focused firstly on reducing the risks following incidents human rights in connection with regimes that had associated with environmental breaches, contravenFolksam tries as far as possible to influence the bought equipment from the Swedish companies having tions of human rights and corruption, and on making companies we invest in, particularly those compaused it for phone-tapping, monitoring and tracking more people see the business potential of corporate nies that have problems in dealing with the environdown political dissidents. Contacts with the companies social responsibility. This is done in part through active ment or human rights. will continue over the coming year. corporate governance. In 2011, the operations of 2,632 companies were Some examples: Folksam in dialogue with foreign companies reviewed, focusing on their performance in relation to the environment and human rights. Folksam’s 20 BP Folksam votes at AGMs abroad largest holdings were contacted and meetings were Since BP’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, which started Folksam has also used its influence to vote at AGMs held during the year with six of these In addition to when the Deepwater Horizon oil platform exploded abroad since 2005. This takes place through electronic these, 52 Swedish companies were identified that and sank on 20 April 2010, Folksam has had an ongovoting. In 2011, Folksam voted at 57 company were at greatest risk of being involved in incidents ing dialogue with BP. In 2011, Folksam met representAGMs. To make correct use of its influence, it is imrelating to the environment and human rights. Seven atives of BP on several occasions and also took part in portant to ascertain what issues are of significance companies were selected, and meetings and teleconvideoconferences and teleconferences arranged by BP. with regard to Folksam’s corporate governance policy ferences were held to examine the companies’ risk Folksam also contacted several partners of BP, suppliand ethical principles. Folksam has therefore chosen situation. The review has resulted in several compaers and environmental organisations following the into limit the number of companies in which we vote to nies restructuring and improving their environmental cident in the Gulf of Mexico. those that have relevant proposals on which to comactivities or the way in which they work on human ment. These may relate to inappropriately designed rights following a dialogue with Folksam. Several Lundin Petroleum salary systems, contributions to political organisacompanies have previously found that a focus on susFolksam invests in Lundin Petroleum. The company tions or proposals from shareholders. For example, tainability issues had meant cost savings, for example was the focus of media attention in 2011 because of Folksam voted for a report on efforts to reduce the in the form of energy efficiency improvements. One the imprisoned Swedish journalists, the company’s risk of accidents in Marathon Oil, a plan to reduce the company experienced quality improvements in links to the province of Ogaden in Ethiopia and the number of animal experiments in General Electric production when demands were made with regard to preliminary investigation that was launched at the and against BP’s report on remuneration for the working conditions at subcontractors. International Public Prosecution Office in Stockholm. company’s executives. Contacts between Folksam and Lundin Petroleum therefore continued in 2011, principally by e-mail and phone calls but also by Folksam attending seminars and meeting non-profit advocacy groups to discuss the issues that had been raised. Sustainability report 2011 24 (41) In the 2011 AGM season Folksam was represented Leaders from the United Kingdom, Iceland, Lithuania, Principle 5 at one AGM outside Sweden, in this case Statoil in Finland, Latvia, Estonia, Sweden, Norway and Denmark Folksam will work together with other investors to Norway, where Folksam again supported a proposgathered for a two-day summit to discuss how best to promote use of the Principles. al from Greenpeace concerning an end to activities promote economic growth, enterprise and job creation. concerning the extraction of oil from oil shale. Folksam was part of the Swedish delegation. Nordic cooperation for corporate social responsibility Folksam was also able to follow the AGM of the oil Folksam has cooperated since 2008 with the insurcompany BP from London by video and phone link Debate on gender equality in the Swedish Parliament ance company Norska Liv, the life insurance company and voted remotely. with Liberal Women organisation KLP and the Finnish pensions company Ilmarinen, in Folksam took part in a debate in the Riksdag, the Nordic Engagement Cooperation (NEC). The purpose of Class actions Swedish Parliament, and round-table discussions toNEC is to coordinate corporate governance activities for In 2008, the Department of Responsible Ownergether with the women’s association of the governing the environment, human rights and anti-corruption. ship took over work on Folksam’s American class alliance in order to discuss professional, gender-equal, The focus is on companies where contraventions of actions. In 2011, Folksam received a total of nearly profitable companies/boards without quotas. international guidelines and conventions have been SEK 5 million. Enron and Royal Dutch Shell are examobserved. In 2011, NEC was in dialogue with ten difples of companies that have now had to agree to pay Principle 4 ferent companies, all of which are based outside the their shareholders compensation after having pubFolksam will promote acceptance and implementation Nordic region. lished incorrect and misleading financial information. of the Principles for Responsible Investment within the investment industry. Folksam takes part in international investor Principle 3 cooperation to check on working conditions in the Folksam will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG Folksam informs external funds chain of suppliers. issues by the entities in which it invests. Folksam distributes the funds of several different fund Folksam took part with 13 other investors from various management companies. It informs its customers which countries around the world in a joint project coordiSustainable value creation of the companies offered have signed up to the UN Prinnated through the secretariat for Principles for ReSince 2009, Folksam has been one of 14 Swedish ciples for Responsible Investment (PRI). Folksam’s sponsible Investments in London. The group of ininvestors to take part in the Sustainable Value Group management adopted a policy for externally vestors, which has total investment capital of 570 Creation project, with a view to putting pressure on managed funds in 2010. In the case of all funds, the billion dollars, contacted 55 listed companies around Swedish listed companies to achieve sustainable fund management companies engaged by Folksam the world due to their lack of a code of conduct for development and create long-term value. For the must be encouraged to sign up to the Principles for subcontractors or an internal policy for the human second year in a row, in the autumn of 2011, the Responsible Investment. Folksam will continuously rights of employees. Sustainable Value Creation project conducted a inform external companies about the exclusions that The letters were then regularly followed up by telequestionnaire-based survey among the 100 compahave been made on the basis of Folksam’s ethical conferences with representatives of the group of innies with the highest market value on the Stockholm investment criteria and ask for information on how vestors where the issue of human rights in the supply Stock Exchange. The aim was to ensure that the the company acts on the basis of this information. An chain was addressed. The issue of companies not just companies have adequate frameworks to control additional requirement in the case of ethical funds is taking responsibility for their own employees but for and follow up sustainability issues. The results that they meet the conditions laid down by the “ENF” what happens at the next stage in the chain is a matter were presented in a report in January 2012. (the Ethical Board for the Marketing of Funds). Ethical that is becoming increasingly important to follow in a funds must have a well-defined selection process and globalised world. Folksam takes part in the debate clearly presented ethical criteria. The work on this The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David began in 2011, when meetings with the fund manCameron, arranged a British-Nordic-Baltic Summit at agement companies were booked for 2012. Folksam 10 Downing Street in London on 20 January 2011. reports which external fund management companies have signed up to the PRI in its fund brochure and on its website. Sustainability report 2011 25 (41) Folksam takes part in international investor Principle 6 Analysis of corporate social responsibility cooperation for gender equality Folksam will report on its activities and progress The Folksam Index of Corporate Social Responsibility The nine investors who joined forces in a new gender towards implementing the Principles for Responsible was presented for the fifth time in 2011. Atrium equality initiative in 2010 continued their work in Investment. Ljungberg was ranked highest for its work on human 2011. The group of investors, which includes Folksam, rights and SKF came top for its environmental work has identified gender equality as a strategic issue A cat among the pigeons – a blog on for the fifth report in a row. Atrium Ljungberg and and has asked for more information about gender corporate governance SKF gained the highest combined ranking for human equality efforts in 65 selected listed companies. These Folksam’s Department for Responsible Ownership rights and the environment. As on previous occasions, companies are based in those countries in which the has run the blog A Cat Among the Pigeons the materials industry came top for both the environinvestors are domiciled, in other words Sweden, the (www.agarstyrning.folksamblogg.se) since 2009. ment and human rights in a comparison of different United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Brazil This blog continued in 2011 and was also suppleindustries. The software industry came bottom on and Italy. mented by a twitter account, @etikkatten, where the environment and the power supply industry Folksam has held meetings with nine of the ten the latest updates are regularly published. came last on human rights. Swedish companies included in the initiative. This has It is clear that when the requirements for market resulted in one company having introduced a gender Sharing information value, spread of ownership and turnover are inequality policy and another having updated its policy. Both internal and external presentations on how we creased, the companies’ work on human rights and the All the investors in the group have signed up to the work on Responsible Ownership were made in 2011. environment is better. Large Cap companies scored UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and We also organised a full-day training programme on better than Mid and Small Cap companies. cooperation takes place under the PRI Clearinghouse. how ethical investments are made and companies are The Folksam Index of Corporate Social Responsibility influenced in practice for two international advocacy is the first survey to analyse the publicly reported work Global Network Initiative groups and were also interviewed by students and reof Swedish listed companies on the environment and In 2011, Folksam was accepted as a member of the searches for academic research papers and theses. human rights. The goal is to inspire more companies to Global Network Initiative (GNI), an international take greater responsibility and become more actively organisation whose purpose is to work to safeguard Shopping guide helps consumers to exert influence engaged on the environment and human rights. human rights in IT and telecoms. GNI was founded by In 2011, Folksam published the fourth edition of its the IT companies Google, Microsoft and Yahoo after Shopping Guide, which ranks Swedish listed compathey had been heavily criticised for their operations nies’ focus on consumer market work with environin China. Folksam’s aim in becoming a member of mental and human rights issues. As a shareholder in GNI, as an investor in IT and telecom companies, is these companies, Folksam requires them to improve to be able to draw the attention of these companies on both these fronts. The Guide now provides further to what impact they have on freedom of expression opportunities for individual customers to make a difand internet privacy and what responsibility they ference and shop responsibly. In the Shopping Guide should take. Another aspect of this work was a conconsumers can also put questions to the listed comference organised by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, panies, which Folksam subsequently forwards. The in which Folksam contributed by providing contacts. replies from the companies are then published toThe CEO of Folksam was one of the speakers. Also gether with the Shopping Guide. represented were Folksam’s Department for Responsible Ownership, as well as the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, telecom companies, investors and various advocacy groups. Sustainability report 2011 26 (41) Folksam Corporate Social Folksam’s work on Corporate Governance Responsibility Index 2011 Number of listed companies reviewed 245 Folksam’s work on Corporate Governance 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Average score for human rights (out of a possible total of seven stars) 2,18 Number of companies with which Average score for the environment Folksam has engaged in active dialogue 57 77 45 38 41 7 14 13 (out of a possible total of seven stars) 2,08 Number of Swedish AGMs attended Highest ranked on Atrium by Folksam 421 39 35 28 21 18 15 15 human rights Ljungberg Nominations committees of which Highest ranked on environment SKF Folksam is a member 3 3 4 2 1 1 Includes an extraordinary general meeting. Swedbank Folksam owns just over nine per cent of the shares in Swedbank. Its objective as a shareholder is for Swedbank to be an independent Swedish bank built on the values that have contributed to building the economic values that exist today in Swedbank and Swedish savings banks, namely healthy everyday economics for private individuals and companies, along with local endorsement. Folksam’s view is that these values should continue to be reflected in the bank’s operations. Eleven savings bank foundations own just over two per cent and independent savings banks own around nine per cent. A joint declaration on ownership issues has been drawn up between these shareholders, which together hold more than 20 per cent of the shares in Swedbank. Sustainability report 2011 27 (41) KPA Pension – pension CSR strategy • KPA Pension is to be the leading pensions company funds for a better future in secure pensions and ethical investments. • The strategic focus of KPA Pension is to fulfil the KPA Pension operates with concern wishes of the owners, social partners and customers for people and environment for secure and sustainable pensions. Since 1998, KPA Pension has been working for a • Sustainable development has to pervade both the sustainable future by taking active responsibility for internal work of KPA Pension and the products and people and the environment. Corporate social services offered. This is to generate business benresponsibility does not just involve managing all the efit and customer benefit, as well as a sustainable capital in accordance with ethical investment criteria. future for people and the environment: This also makes demands on the company, and KPA Our view is that ethical investments bring a Pension obviously has to set a good example and more stable and better return as well-managed practise what it preaches. Work towards secure and companies are more secure and, in the long ethical pension investments for employees in the term, more profitable. municipal and county council sectors therefore has KPA Pension’s ethical position strengthens the to permeate the whole company. brand and attracts more customers in our target group, which results in increased profitability Concern for people and the environment is a key and competitiveness. element in our business concept and is firmly endorsed • KPA is to be heard and seen in the public debate on throughout the organisation. We make conscious secure pensions and ethical investments. efforts to minimise our own environmental impact, • KPA Pension’s work on sustainability has to be create a good working environment for all employees transparent – we have to practise what we preach. and support various forms of social engagement. Investments Strategy for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) The combined pension capital in the world has great In 2011, we revised the corporate social responsibility power, power to change the future and power to influstrategy for KPA Pension to ensure that the strategy ence global sustainable development. It is therefore is in line with development in the area and with our important how the pension funds are invested. KPA Pencustomers’ requirements. Our customers were intersion has actively chosen to manage its pension funds acviewed in depth on how they view ethics and ethical cording to clearly defined ethical investment criteria. KPA investments. These interviews showed that the cusPension applies the principles of influence and exclusion. tomers link transparency, clarity and objectivity to the concept of ethics. Ethical investments were interRules that influence behaviour preted as responsible – the money being invested in a In these areas KPA Pension aims to influence compagood and correct way with respect for people and the nies so that they take responsibility for people and environment. In other words, ethical investments are the environment: money that safeguards the future. On the basis of this work we clarified the CSR strategy of KPA Pension. Human rights Customers’ funds are invested in companies in which human rights are respected. By conducting a dialogue with the companies, we influence them to take greater responsibility for issues that affect human rights. Sustainability report 2011 28 (41) Environment Importance of change through influence Pension as an investor might have on these issues. KPA Pension invests its customers’ pension funds in One of the most important aspects of our work is acKPA Pension’s CEO Lars-Åke Vikberg and representacompanies that make active efforts to reduce their tively influencing the companies in which KPA Pension tives of the KPA Pension and Folksam Department of negative impact on the environment. We take an invests. We conduct dialogue with companies so they Responsible Ownership took part. active role in developing greener energy by only incontinuously improve their work and become better at The overarching question put by KPA Pension was vesting in selected energy companies that work on taking responsibility, in particular for human rights how the companies safeguard human rights within the development of sustainable energy. and the environment and counteracting corruption. the company. More specifically, the questions concerned We conduct this work on influence in cooperation with how the companies deal with working conditions and Corruption Folksam, and it is reported on pages 23–28. terms of employment, freedom of association, gender KPA Pension will influence the companies we invest equality, diversity etc. and how they handle these in by preventing corruption in its business relations. Dialogue as a way of exerting influence issues at their subcontractors and other contacts. Corruption is a great problem in many countries, as A practical example of our work on influencing Most of the companies replied that they have internal competition is eliminated, growth is inhibited and social companies to take responsibility for people and the guidelines addressing, for example, the rights of development is curbed. environment is the dialogue we conducted during the employees, in the form of freedom of association, year with a number of companies on human rights. terms of employment and a whistle-blowing function. Rules on exclusion Human rights are one of the influencing criteria in In some cases the obligations of the employee, toIn these areas, KPA Pension does not invest at all in: KPA Pension’s work on ethical investments. In 2011, wards the company and the outside world, are also KPA Pension contacted 35 companies worldwide in addressed, such as codes of conduct on bribery, Weapons which we are shareholders. All of the companies we sexual harassment, equal treatment and so on. KPA Pension does not invest in activities that harm selected had been ranked lower for their management The conclusion from the teleconferences is that hupeople and the environment. One such area is weapof risks of human rights violations than other compaman rights are an issue that is of growing significance ons. We have defined weapons as products with the nies in their sector. The ranking was performed by in an increasingly globalised business operation. At purpose of killing, maiming or destroying that are the ethical consultants Global Ethical Services (GES), the same time, it is an issue with many dimensions. sold to military users. which on behalf of KPA Pension examined all the Work on ensuring that human rights are not infringed public information available on policies and guidein the companies in which KPA Pension invests will Tobacco lines, targets and key indicators. continue. The review conducted in 2011 shows that KPA Pension does not invest in companies that produce We contacted the selected companies by letter, in there are wide differences, in particular regarding tobacco products. By production of tobacco we mean which we described how KPA Pension works on ethical how companies report on their work, but also in what ownership of tobacco plantations and production of investments and stated that the work to promote challenges companies in different parts of the world cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco human rights is a priority area. We also presented face in their day-to-day business operations. and other tobacco products. the scores the company had obtained and invited the company to take part in a teleconference to discuss Alcohol how their work had been conducted and what, if anyKPA Pension does not invest in companies that prothing, they had done beyond what they had reported, duce alcoholic beverages, that is to say beverages and gave them feedback and advice on how they with an alcohol content of more than 2.25 percent could proceed. by volume. Twenty companies replied to our letter and a total of thirteen teleconferences took place. The companies Gambling that took part in the teleconferences came from variKPA Pension does not invest in companies involved in ous sectors, operated in various regions and countries commercial gambling. We understand commercial and faced varying challenges. All of the companies gambling to mean casinos and gambling clubs. were keen to hear what questions and doubts KPA Sustainability report 2011 29 (41) Investment in properties with good comfort Customers greatly appreciate that KPA Pension has and a good environment chosen to exclude weapon manufacturing from its KPA Pension also has investments in properties, and investments. In the customer surveys we conduct, further properties were purchased in 2011, mainly the weapon criterion is highlighted as the most imcare homes and residential properties around Sweden. portant exclusion Support for the UN’s humanitarian As the pension assets under management increase, efforts against weapons are a natural consequence there is a need to spread the risk in investments. In of KPA Pension’s investment strategy. this area too it is important to show concern for people and the environment. In 2011, KPA Pension also chose to support the Swedish UNA campaign “Girl”, which is aimed at Comfort and the environment are a great challenge strengthening the rights and opportunities of girls, in KPA Pension properties. Energy efficiency imamong other things by opposing child marriage. We provements, environmentally correct materials and a also donated money to the UN charity to counteract good indoor environment are necessary features of the deprivation in the Horn of Africa in the wake of modern properties. KPA Pension is to be a good longthe famine disaster. term owner of care homes and residential properties, where both the residents and other tenants can feel secure and satisfied. KPA Pension and Folksam are continuing to support research on age-related depression Continued cooperation with UNA Sweden In ten years’ time one in five people living in Sweden During the year, KPA Pension continued its cooperawill be between the ages of 65 and 74. Around a tion with UNA Sweden in the battle against land tenth of these, or 80 000 people, are expected to mines, particularly in areas at risk in Cambodia. For have problems with depression. KPA Pension and the past four years we have been working jointly in Folksam are therefore funding a multi-year research the Association’s Adopt-A-Minefield campaign, which project on age-related depression at Karolinska supports mine clearing and rehabilitation of mine Institutet. The aim of this research is to be able to victims. According to UNA Sweden, it costs around 3 improve the quality of life of younger pensioners. dollars to produce a mine, but 300-1000 dollars to clear one. Mine clearance is dangerous and expensive work that takes time, but it is also work that it is crucial to positive development. In 2011, we “adopted” another minefield in order to contribute to another piece of land (23,735 sq.m) becoming free of mines and becoming capable of use by the local population to grow rice and vegetables for their survival. The minefield is in the area of Banteay Mean Chey province, on the border with Thailand, close to the village of Ta Maing. As a consequence of the devastation caused by the Khmer Rouge in the 1970s, Cambodia is one of the countries in the world most affected by anti-personnel mines. Sustainability report 2011 30 (41) Förenade Liv Publications Since 2007, Förenade Liv has issued the publication Bryt, with various themed issues that shed light on Social engagement for victims of crime violence in society, its consequences and solutions. The Förenade Liv continued to make active efforts to reaim is to improve knowledge about, and consequently duce violence in society in 2011. Violence leads to reduce, violence in society. Bryt has been highly apprepersonal suffering, problems for society and increased ciated among Swedish teachers and students for its costs for insurance policyholders. The aim of this content and its potential for use as educational material. initiative is to raise awareness, reduce risks and The first issue in 2007 was concerned with domestic create security for customers in the society we live violence. The second issue in 2008 focused on youth in. In response to wishes expressed by our customviolence in Sweden. In 2009, the third issue was pubers, Förenade Liv in 2011 implemented the following lished on the theme of victims of crime, and illustrated actions, among others: how Sweden contravenes human rights in its jurisdic• Refined communication efforts to make our antition. In 2011, teachers ordered copies of the publicaviolence work clearer to our customers tions for use in school instruction. • Seminars to provide customers and staff with further training in anti-violence issues Lectures and seminars • Continued to develop work with cooperating partners To create customer benefit and increase the level of knowledge and involvement among staff and cusInsurance services for victims of violence tomers, Förenade Liv continuously holds seminars Förenade Liv has had a crisis insurance scheme since and lectures on anti-violence. Seminars were held 2005, which also applies in the case of domestic vioin cooperation with Foundation Safer Sweden in lence and without a requirement for reporting to the Almedalen in 2011. During the year employees and police. In line with increased information and knowlcontract partners of Förenade Liv attended a highly edge on crisis insurance, demand for counselling has appreciated lecture on the effects of violence with also increased. This shows that Förenade Liv should Ann Hellströmer, ombudsman for victims of crime, continue to develop anti-violence services and more and Magnus Lindgren, Secretary General of the clearly show its commitment to counteracting violence Safer Sweden Foundation. through education and information. Förenade Liv’s goal is to raise the level of knowledge Partners in cooperation of our social commitment within Förenade Liv in 2012. 2011 was the third year as a cooperating partner of The objective is for all staff and a larger proportion of the Safer Sweden Foundation, a politically and relicustomers to have a good understanding of our social giously unaligned NGO. The purpose of the foundation engagement and work on anti-violence issues. is to improve the situation of victims of crime, without a profit motive. The overall aim is to reduce crime and improve security in Sweden by ensuring that the victims of crime receive relevant help, support and protection. Förenade Liv is one of around ten partners in cooperation. Sustainability report 2011 31 (41) International cooperation The following economic, environmental and Allnations insurance legislation and how it is applied that make socialdeclarations, principles or other initiatives Folksam is also a member of Allnations, the purpose it important to act to support the position of Swedish are supported by Folksam of which is to support the development of mutual and mutual insurance companies in general and Folksam • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights cooperative insurance companies around the world. in particular. • UN Convention on the Rights of the Child With a comprehensive investment policy in place and • The fundamental ILO conventions on labour under the oversight of an experienced panel of investWork in the regulatory and legislative area is being rights ment experts, Allnations provides a unique opportuniexpanded to also cover occupational pensions. This • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ty for larger mutual and cooperative companies to exwork was begun in 2011, and AMICE is currently de• Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions tend a helping hand to their smaller counterparts. veloping a structure for active lobbying of the Euro• Ottawa Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention pean Commission and EIOPA. • UN Global Compact (UN framework for The support for Allnations is intended to support the sustainable and socially responsible enterprise) recipients in developing into stronger organisations in • UN PRI (UN Principles for Responsible the future, to be able to provide greater benefits for The primary aim of AMICE (Association of Mutual Investment) their policyholders and to ensure a reasonable return Insurers and Insurance Cooperatives in Europe) • UNEP FI (United Nations Environment P for Allnations shareholders. is to act as a united voice for the mutual and rogramme Finance Initiative) Folksam is represented on the Board and until the cooperative insurance industry in Europe and • UNEP Statement of Environmental end of the year is also represented on the Allnations ensure that its members’ interests are respected, Commitment by the Insurance Industry investment panel. in order to ensure equal competitive terms for all insurance companies in Europe, regardless of legal form. ICMIF ALLNATIONS is a limited company founded by Folksam is a member of ICMIF (International Coopersix members of ICMIF in 1966. The goal of ative and Mutual Insurance Federation) and is repreAllnations is to support development in member EAPSPI sented on its board and various committees. The CEO companies experiencing financial difficulty, assist KPA Pension is actively involved in EAPSPI (European of Folksam, Anders Sundström, was elected deputy in forming new mutual and/or cooperative i Association of Public Sector Pension Institutions), chairman of the ICMIF board during the year. nsurance companies through investments, and which is a European cooperative organisation beOur membership of ICMIF gives us an opportunity ensure that the owners obtain a reasonable tween pension institutions with responsibility for to follow global trends in the insurance market and a return on invested capital. public-sector pensions. large contact network extending to 70 countries and 221 member organisations. Other international relations AMICE Folksam works in a focused way on sustainability isThrough our membership of AMICE we worked intensues, and we contributed by presenting “Bring CSR ICMIF was started as long ago as 1922, and sively during the year on Solvency 2, perhaps the largto life for mutual investors” at a seminar in Madrid. represents the world’s mutual and cooperative est ever reform of the European insurance market. insurance companies. Today it has 221 members Folksam played an active role in the various working We contributed to ICMIF’s second edition of a report, spread around 70 countries and combined groups in AMICE and in so doing had a major influ“Measuring and Reporting Sustainability,” which adcapital of around USD 1.5 trillion. ence. This was of particularly great significance as dresses sustainability initiatives among members by there are some special features in current Swedish pointing to the value generated by measuring and reporting sustainability. Sustainability report 2011 32 (41) Folksam is committed to a sustainable world in many International visits and thermal properties of batteries that need to be ways, for example by assisting with exchanges of exDuring the year we received several international considered in a rescue situation. This is of significance perience and expert assistance to the microinsurance visits with guests/organisations that were interested both to the passengers in the car and to emergency project CIC Group in Kenya during the year. Folksam in our work and our endeavours to help bring about a services personnel. The grant for the study was and CIC Kenya have a long and good relationship sustainable world. We received visitors from Denmark, made to a research team at Umeå University. which goes back to the time when CIC was formed Singapore, Japan and several African countries. Another research project grant went to support a over thirty years ago (under the name CIS). We have post-doctorate position at Chalmers concerned with had many exchanges of experience during this time Folksam’s involvement in the vehicle safety. This study involves developing a child and have built up a friendship between our companies. Swedish Cooperative Centre dummy model that better illustrates the risk of injuries In 2011, we hosted a trainee actuary who was with Folksam is a member of the Swedish Cooperative to children in vehicle collisions. The present-day data us for two weeks to see how we work. The purpose of Centre, a non-profit aid organisation whose work is are based on child crash dummies that are not parthe visit was to point out which actuarial methods and based on the fundamental principle of “help for selfticularly human-like. The new model is to be capable techniques are suitable for use in creating a better and help”. We support positive change through financial of simulating human activity in order to primarily more secure platform for CIC in the actuarial area. support, advice and cooperation. But we are not the evaluate children’s interaction with seat belts and Follow-up then took place on site in Nairobi, when ones who change the lives of poor men and women. child car seats when a collision occurs. we also looked at how we can assist with our experiThey do this work themselves through study circles, ence in devising a successful and effective customer microfinance projects, cooperatives and so on. service and telemarketing department. Our long-term goal is to continue to be involved in the work of the Swedish Cooperative Centre in order Bima ya Jamii to support sustainable development. We believe in The microinsurance project Bima ya Jamii, which help for self-help, whereby poor people are supportmeans “insurance for the family” was concluded dured in taking responsibility themselves for improving ing the year. The project was intended to take place their lives and their futures. over a two to three-year period and began in 2008. Bima ya Jamii was an innovative microinsurance Folksam´s Research Foundation product that was aimed at low-income earners and The purpose of the foundation is to promote prevenvulnerable families in Kenya. The project was one of tion of accidents and disease, rehabilitation and ten applicants to receive grants in 2008 from ILO and health-promoting scientific research through its own the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation with the primary activity or through financial grants. It is primarily aim of reducing vulnerability and risk for low-income intended to make research grants in the areas of earners who do not have access to insurance. Road Safety, Health and the Environment. One of the parties to the project decided to add anTwelve applications for research grants were reother component to the product, which would entail ceived in 2011. Six grants were made, including the a substantial rise in price. It was decided to conclude development of training programmes relating to how the project in accordance with the original timetable emergency services personnel should proceed in resof two years and to clarify a future strategy for the cue situations when electric and hybrid vehicles have product. Armed with that experience, CIC has decollided. The batteries of electric cars may have a vised a microinsurance product of its own which it is voltage of 350–400 Volts, and there may be chemical now able to launch. Sustainability report 2011 33 (41) Community engagement Prizes, awards and sponsorship Folksam sponsor of “3rd Nobel Laureate ceived an award from Sustainable Brands for his top Symposium on Global Sustainability” ranking. At the same time, Folksam Life was named Folksam wins Malmö diversity prize Folksam’s ambitions in the area made it a natural the country’s third most sustainable brand in the fiAt the 2011 Trade and Industry Day in Malmö, the sponsor for the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on nancial industry. City of Malmö Trade and Industry Prize for Diversity Global Sustainability arranged, by the Royal Swedish for 2010 was awarded to Folksam’s Diversity Manager Academy of Sciences and the Stockholm Resilience The Gothenburg Award Mikael Petersson. The jury’s citation reads: Centre, among others. The theme of the symposium The Gothenburg Award for Sustainable Development “When circumstances change and new needs require can be briefly described as follows: is an international prize to highlight sustainable denew solutions, either new companies emerge or es“Climate change, reduced biodiversity, degraded velopment initiatives. The prize was awarded for the tablished players modernise. The 2010 award winecosystems, poverty and a constantly increasing first time in the autumn of 2000, under the name of ners may have been around for a long time, but they population are factors that all contribute to reducing the Gothenburg International Environment Prize. have the characteristics an award winner must have: the resilience of our planet, which could have disasFolksam is one of the sponsors of this international will, perseverance and the courage to find new ways trous consequences for humanity. prize, and the theme for 2011 was Sustainable of working.” Each of these problems has been highlighted by Food Supply. the international community, but almost always sepThe 2011 Gothenburg Award, worth SEK 1 million, Union of Russian Associations in Sweden arately and not taking account of the interaction was shared between the former Secretary-General honours Folksam between them.” of the UN Kofi Annan, who has played a leading role The Union of Russian Associations in Sweden awarded The symposium, which was thus interdisciplinary, in Africa’s green revolution, and the Tigray project, Folksam, in the person of Customer Service South was attended by more 40 of the world’s leading represented by Sue Edwards, which from the start sales manager Fredrik Olsson, a prize in recognition thinkers and experts in the environment and sustainwas a local initiative focused on small farmers in of our cooperation with the union. The union thanked able development. Around 20 former Nobel Prize northern Ethiopia for sustainable agriculture. us for our support and work towards increased intewinners, climate researchers and top politicians from gration in its operations. The union also emphasised around the world came together for the symposium. Folksam sponsors “The Toughest Job in the World” that: “The initiative promotes cooperation, contributes A final document, “The Stockholm Memorandum”, In 2011 Folksam decided to become a sponsor of the to meetings and contact between people of differing was presented and can be read at “Toughest Job in the World” campaign, in which the ethnic background and engages more citizens in bewww.stockholm-resilience.org Swedish Cooperative Centre highlights the situation coming active and participating in community issues. for the hundreds of millions of women who are smallThe initiative has resulted in greater knowledge of inKPA Pension honoured by Sustainable Brands holders in developing countries – they are the world’s surance and its significance in Swedish society.” KPA Pension was named Sweden’s most sustainable poorest people, with the toughest job in the world. brand in the financial industry for 2012. This followed The “50-watter” prize for Folksam’s advertising the largest sustainability survey of brands in Sweden, Folksam’s advertising campaign “For everything you Sustainable Brands. KPA Pension rose from fourth care about” gained an honourable “50-watter” in the place in 2011 to first in its sector when 22 companies “100-watter” advertising competition in which adverwere assessed by a representative selection of just tising is assessed on the basis of the effect it achieves, over 8,000 people across the country. On 19 March not creativity as for example in “Guldägget” awards. the CEO of KPA Pension, Lars-Åke Vikberg, also reSustainability report 2011 34 (41) Organisation Legal Group structure sell and market insurance under their own trade naGroup companies in Folksam Liv Folksam comprises the two parent companies Folkmes. Tre Kronor today collaborates with Swedbank and – not consolidated because the surplus accrues sam General and Folksam Life with subsidiaries. The 38 independent savings banks and in so doing reaches to the policyholders fact that these two parent companies are mutual a broad market with general insurance products. Förenade Liv Gruppförsäkring offers group life insumeans that everyone who has an insurance policy rance for life, sickness, accident, medical and child with the companies is also an owner. Two of the subThe Folksam and pregnancy insurance for public sector employees General Group sidiaries in the insurance operations in Folksam Life through the employers and organisations that repreare part-owned. These are Folksam LO Fondförsäkring, sent them. The company’s promise to its customers which is 51 % owned, and KPA Pension, which is Svenska KonsumentAktia 51% Tre Kronor is “concern”. försäkringar AB Skadeförsäkring Försäkring AB 60 % owned. Of the Group companies in Folksam KPA Pension is a brand and joint name for KPA Life, Förenade Liv and the companies in KPA Pension Pensionsförsäkring, KPA Livförsäkring and KPA Penare not included in the consolidated accounts. This is sionsservice. KPA Pension is the leading pension because the companies do not pay a dividend, and all The Folksam Life Group company in the municipal sector and manages occusurplus accrues to the policyholders. Folksam Life is customer-owned and undertakes life pational pensions for employees of municipalities, To achieve economies of scale, collaboration takes insurance activity. The company offers occupational county councils and municipal and cooperative compaplace in the areas of distribution, administration and pensions and pension investments to private individunies. KPA Pensionsservice offers an employer service in asset management. als, directly or through cooperation, but also group the management of municipality pension obligations, life insurance and other types of risk insurance. administration of the employees’ individual pension The Folksam General Group Folksam Fondförsäkring undertakes unit-linked insuchoices and expert consultant services, occupational Folksam General is customer-owned and undertarance business related to securities funds. Customers group life insurance and professional pension advice. kes general insurance activity principally focused on can choose among a large number of selected funds, KPA Pension offers private individuals investments in the Swedish household market. The company offers for example ethical funds, funds with low charges private pension insurance and unit-linked insurance. a full range of insurance policies to households and and award-winning top-performing funds. KPA Pension is owned 60 per cent by the Folksam private individuals based on motor and household Folksam LO Pension is a brand and comprises the Group and 40 per cent by the Swedish Association of insurance supplemented by commercial insurance in companies Folksam LO Fondförsäkring and Folksam LO Local Authorities and Regions (SALAR). selected areas. Fond. Folksam LO Pension is focused on collectively Svenska Konsumentförsäkringar’s operations cover agreed occupational pensions and principally covers individual and group general insurance for private inadministration and management of pension allocadividuals and for small and medium-sized enterprises. tions made under the pensions agreement between The policies are brokered by SalusAnsvar for their the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO (the customer groups. Swedish Trade Union Confederation). The company is Folksam has acquired Aktia Skadeförsäkring and owned 51% by Folksam Life and 49 % by LO. assumed ownership on 29 February 2012. Aktia undertakes claims activity and principally operates in The Folksam Life Group the coastal area of Finland. Tre Kronor undertakes general insurance activity in Sweden, and its business concept is to offer general Folksam Förenade Liv 60% KPA Pension Folksam 51% Fondförsäkring AB Gruppförsäkring AB LO Pension insurance to companies and organisations wishing to Sustainability report 2011 35 (41) Appendix (Environmental data) Travel Coffee Coffee (Tullgården) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Air Number of flights 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total quantity 8 742 11 082 Proportion organic 7 000 2 770 Stockholm–Gothenburg 643 490 620 626 563 Proportion non-organic 1 742 8 312 Stockholm–Sundsvall 299 272 195 338 257 Stockholm–Malmö Stockholm–Växjö 721 69 557 53 607 66 756 67 660 59 Energy and water Stockholm–Jönköping 49 21 16 23 20 Energy use 2011 Total 2011 Total * 1 781 1 393 1 504 1 810 1 559 Folksam KPA Pension Folksam Liv/KP (71 %) (60 %) * The “Total” item only comprises reported routes. Heat consumption (MWh) 19 204 18 462 2 602 40 268 Rail Electricity consumption Number of rail journeys 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (MWh)* 19 333 4 851 71 24 255 Stockholm–Gothenburg 1 008 927 1 256 1 137 1 333 Total energy use (MWh) 64 523 Stockholm–Sundsvall 591 583 679 774 799 * Electricity consumption for Folksam consists of both building electricity and office electricity. Only building electricity is included for Folksam Life/KP and KPA Pension. Stockholm–Malmö 78 84 87 204 246 Stockholm–Växjö 52 69 96 126 106 Energy use 2010 Total 2010 Stockholm–Jönköping 55 66 206 210 147 Folksam KPA Pension Totalt* 1 784 1 729 2 324 2 451 2 631 Folksam Liv/KP (71 %) (60 %) * The “Total” item only comprises reported rail routes. The figures include journeys to and Heat consumption (MWh) 23 524 * 21 906 2 187 47 617 from nearby locations. Electricity consumption (MWh)* 20 577 5 081 ** 206 25 864 Car Total energy use (MWh) 73 481 Car journeys in Folksam 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 * Incorrect figure last year, should be 21,906 and not 21 096, total consumption is therefore Distance in km (x 10) 73,485 MWh. Only building electricity is included for Folksam Life/KP and KPA Pension. driven on official business 487 680 518 744 574 697 567 428 565 838 ** Incorrect figure last year, electricity consumption from KPA Pension properties should be 206 MWh Of which driven with cars meeting Folksam’s Water consumption 2011 Total 2011 Total 2010 environmental and safety Folksam Folksam Liv/KP requirements 158 940 184 179 185 355 214 306 216 717 Water consumption m3 173 996 172 040 346 036 341 486 Total carbon dioxide emissions from car travel in tonnes 800 843 944 916 Folksam’s total climate impact in 2011 Increase/decrease in Air ElecPrinted carbon dioxide emissions travel Road Rail tricity Heat Paper matter Coffee Total due to more/fewer km Tonnes driven, in tonnes -43 -101 28 2 12 CO2e 940 800 0,003 17 2 075 65 64 14 3 975 Sustainability report 2011 36 (41) Subcontractors Vehicle workshops 2011 2010 2009 Number of partners 1 284 1 161 1 204 Number of environmental requirements 44 44 64 Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 687 579 480 Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 54 % 50 % 40 % Vehicle disassembly plants 2011 2010 2009 Number of partners 11 15 15 Number of environmental requirements 60 60 60 Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 9 13 13 Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 82 % 87 % 87 % Building contractors 2011 2010 2009 Number of partners 186 153 149 Number of environmental requirements 30 30 30 Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 124 95 77 Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 67 % 62 % 52 % Washing and clean-up companies 2011 2010 2009 Number of partners 59 47 42 Number of environmental requirements, washing 25 25 25 Number of environmental requirements, clean-up 20 20 20 Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 49 38 33 Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 83 % 80 % 79 % Sustainability report 2011 37 (41) About the report and general facts about Folksam Frequency of the report Folksam Folksam Life, Group 31.12.2011 The Folksam Sustainability Report is published once Postal address: SE-106 60 Stockholm Financial value generated a year. The most recent report was published on 25 Visitors address: Bohusgatan 14 Revenues* 15 971 March 2011 at folksam.se. Tel: +46 (0)771-960 960 Financial value distributed Fax: +46 (0)8-641 03 50 Changes since the previous year’s report E-mail kundservice@folksam.se Operating expenses** –24 172 The greatest change is that on 28 November Salaries and remuneration –539 Folksam became the first insurance company in the Payments to capital providers world to be granted Good Environmental Choice Payments to central government –972 approval, the toughest ecolabel in the world. Community investments Text Financial value retained -9 712 Folksam Environmental Analysis Folksam General, Group 31.12.2011 Design Financial value generated C2/Hangar Revenues* 11 486 Financial value distributed Photography Operating expenses** –8 002 Kate Gabor sidan 3 Salaries and remuneration –1 735 Andreas Lind sidorna 7, 17 Lars Nyman sidan 8 Payments to capital providers Imagesource sidan 23 Payments to central government –12 Folio sidan 31 Community investments Financial value retained 1 737 Fonts Verdana, Helvetica Folksam KPA Pension 31.12.2011 For further information about the report Financial value generated Contact Birgitta Hammarström, project manager, Revenues* 10 656 by phone on +46 (0)771-960 960 or by e-mail: Financial value distributed birgitta.hammarstrom@folksam.se, see also GRI Operating expenses** –18 744 register at folksam.se Salaries and remuneration –52 Payments to capital providers Payments to central government –279 Community investments Financial value retained -8 419 * This item also covers unrealised gains and losses. ** This item also covers changes in the value of investment assets and actuarial provisions. Sustainability report 2011 38 (41) Methods of collection and calculations in 2011 This document presents methods of collection and calEmployee turnover culations that form the basis for the tables and texts Same as number of staff (see above) Calculated as contained in the Folksam Sustainability Report 2011. the lower of the number of externally recruited new employees or staff leaving during the year as a perSocial perspective (pages 12–15) centage of the number of employees in December. The PA payroll system, extracted via Cognos HR. Subsidiaries The tables of personnel key indicators include all Age distribution subsidiaries, both wholly and partially owned. LimitaHeading Definition /Covers Source tions: Staff paid by the hour and on the basis of fees All age ranges are not included in the tables of key staff indicators. Same as number of staff (see above). Staff Form of employment of staff Heading Definition /Covers Source Heading Definition /Covers Source All forms of employment Number of staff Same as number of staff (see above). women men Sickness absence Includes all staff on permanent contracts and in their Heading Definition /Covers Source probationary period, as well as staff on fixed-term Sickness absence contracts. Excludes staff paid by the hour and on the Reported sickness absence in relation to budgeted basis of fees. time. Proportion calculated on same population as The payroll system PA, extracted via Cognos HR, number of staff (see above). Calculated over full December. calendar year. The PA payroll system. Average age Same as number of staff (see above). Number of managers women men Same as number of staff (see above). Sustainability report 2011 39 (41) Ecological perspective (pages 16–20) • Folksam Life/Life (wholly owned properties) consumption figures. Folksam owns a 71 % interest • Folksam Life/KP (formerly Gyllenforsen, of which in Gyllenforsen. The carbon dioxide emissions are Folksam’s total carbon dioxide emissions for Folksam owns 71 %). equivalent to Folksam’s share, that is to say 71 % of carbon offsetting in 2011 • Folksam General (wholly owned properties) the total carbon dioxide emissions of Gyllenforsen. Folksam’s sustainability report states consumption of • KPA Pension (60 % owned by Folksam) KPA Pension is 60 % owned by Folksam. The reported water and energy from Folksam’s own operations and There is also the Folksam subsidiary Förenade Liv, carbon dioxide emissions correspond to Folksam’s the properties it manages. The report also presents which rents two office premises. Energy use for these share, that is to say 60 % of the total emissions of the number of journeys on official business made by is provided with effect from 2011 by Scandem. KPA properties. air, rail and road on a number of selected routes. In Road vehicles addition, an indication is given of how many of FolkAir travel The figures for Folksam’s road vehicle emissions are sam’s partners, with regard to vehicle workshops, The business travel of Gyllenforsen, Förenade Liv based on statistics from our financial system/mileage vehicle disassembly plants, building contractors and and KPA Pension is fully included in these figures. allowance. The business travel of Gyllenforsen, Förewashing and clean-up companies, fulfil Folksam’s Folksam’s carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in nade Liv and KPA Pension is fully included. (Vehicle environmental requirements. 2011 are based on statistics from our travel agency, A) km driven using vehicles approved by Folksam Where possible, emissions are calculated in CO2e, Ticket. The emissions figures from the travel agency (i.e. fuel-efficient petrol and diesel vehicles, ethanol carbon dioxide equivalents, which means that all six have been multiplied by a factor of two, taking account vehicles, gas-powered vehicles and hybrids). greenhouse gases and not just carbon dioxide and of water vapour formed by aviation (based on distance (Vehicle B) km driven using other vehicles: taken into account in the calculations of emissions. and altitude, which is in line with standard practice • We assume that Folksam-approved vehicles (VehiThis ensures that Folksam carbon-offsets the whole of among practitioners of climate calculations). cle A) emit 129 grams/km*. This is a solidly based its climate impact and not just carbon dioxide emisestimate of the average emissions of this group of sions. For the same reason, the principle is to calculate Rail travel vehicles; see more about the vehicle group above. conservatively and take account of the occasions when Folksam’s carbon dioxide emissions from rail travel • We assume that (Vehicle B) emits 181 grams/ material has been scant, for example for the climate are based on statistics from the rail company SJ. km** (according to the figures from the Swedish impact of other vehicles and printed matter. Environmental Protection Agency). A new feature in the 2011 Sustainability Report is Heating of premises also calculating the climate impact of coffee consumpThe data on carbon dioxide emissions from properties Calculation of emissions from vehicles: tion, consumption of paper and printed matter at our in 2011 are based on heat consumption statistics in (Vehicle A) km x 129 grams = (CO2 Vehicle A) Tullgården head office. These emissions have been MWh from our property managers and the conversion (Vehicle B) km x 181 grams = (CO2 Vehicle B) calculated with the calculation tool Our Impacts. factor for the property concerned from the heating/ Total: CO2 Vehicle A + CO2 Vehicle B = Tot. Vehicle CO2 energy supplier. Folksam owns 71 % of Gyllenforsen. * Based on average carbon dioxide emissions from FolksamEnergy and water consumption The carbon dioxide emissions correspond to Folksam’s approved vehicles. The energy use comes from a large number of proshare, that is to say 71 % of the total carbon dioxide ** Based on average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars perties that Folksam either owns and in which it has emissions of Gyllenforsen. KPA Pension is 60% owned in Sweden 2006–2008, Swedish Environmental Protection Agency Report 5946. operations, that it only owns or premises that Folksam by Folksam. The reported carbon dioxide emissions rents for its operations. The Folksam-owned properare equivalent to Folksam’s share, that is to say 60% ties are managed by Newsec and use Scandem as of the total emissions of KPA properties. electricity supplier. The form of ownership and whether activity is underElectricity consumption in properties taken in the premises or not affect what is to be included The carbon dioxide emissions from electricity conin Folksam’s total energy use. Folksam consists of sumption in Folksam-owned properties in 2011 are the following four legal entities, which are included in low, as Folksam uses wind-power electricity of specithe consumption figures. fied origin. Consumption in 2001 is based on actual Sustainability report 2011 40 (41) Auditor’s report on review of the Folksam Sustainability Report 2011 To the readers of the (GRI), and the accounting and calculation principles Conclusion Folksam Sustainability Report 2011 developed for the purpose and disclosed by the comBased on our review procedures, nothing has come pany. We consider these criteria suitable for the to our attention that causes us to believe that the Introduction preparations of the Sustainability Report. Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, We have been engaged by the Boards of Directors have been prepared in accordance with the above and Executive Management of Folksam to conduct a Our review, based on an assessment of materiality stated criteria. review of the contents of the Folksam Sustainability and risk, among other things included the following: Report 2011 and the associated GRI Register on the • Updating our knowledge and understanding of Stockholm, 29 March 2012 Folksam website (www.folksam.se). The Board of Folksam’s organisation and operation. KPMG AB Directors and the Executive Management are respon• Assessing the suitability and application of the critesible for ongoing sustainability activity and for preparing ria in relation to internal and external stakeholders’ and presenting the sustainability report in accordance need for information. Thomas Thiel Åse Bäckström with applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express • Interviews with responsible officers in order to assess Authorised Public Specialist member a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on whether the qualitative and quantitative information Accountant of FAR our review. in the sustainability report is complete, correct and sufficient. Orientation and scope of the review • Examining internal and external documents in order We have conducted our review in accordance with to assess whether the reported information is comRevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports, issued plete, correct and sufficient. by FAR. A review consists in making enquiries, pri• Assessment of procedures for the compiling and marily among persons responsible for preparing the reporting of sustainability information and data. sustainability report, and in performing analytical • Review on a random sample basis of the underlying and other review procedures. A review is substantially documentation on which the information and data less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance in the sustainability report were based. with International Standards on Auditing and generally • Evaluation of the model used to calculate Folksam’s accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procecarbon offsetting. dures performed consequently do not enable us to • Review of the qualitative information and statements obtain an assurance that would make us aware of all in the sustainability report. significant matters that might be identified in an audit. • Reconciling financial information with Folksam’s Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. Annual Report for 2011. Our assurance does not cover the assumptions • Assessment of Folksam’s stated level of application made or whether it is possible for Folksam to obtain of the GRI Guidelines. future-oriented information (such as targets, expec• Consideration of the overall impression of the tations and aspirations). Sustainability Report and its format, including The criteria on which our review is based consist of consideration of the mutual consistency of the applicable parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guideinformation with the criteria applied. lines, G3, issued by the Global Reporting Initiative Translation from the Swedish original Sustainability report 2011 41 (41)
