adaptability... Annual Report 2011 2012 Vision To achieve excellence in all our activities, establish high growth businesses in Sri Lanka and across new frontiers, and become a globally competitive market leader in the region. 2 Group Financial Highlights 6 Chairman’s Message 10 Managing Director’s Review 16 Board of Directors 20 Board of Management 26 Our Network 28 Management Discussion and Analysis 62 Financial Review 74 Corporate Governance 86 Risk Management 95 Human Resources 102 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 107 Remuneration Committee Report 108 Nominations Committee Report 109 Audit Committee Report 110 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 111 Independent Auditors’ Report 112 Financial Statements 154 Consolidated Income Statement In USD 155 Consolidated Balance Sheet In USD The dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) is famous for its strikingly adaptable 158 Sustainability Strategy biology. Growing in a remarkable variety 175 GRI Index of environments, the dandelion holds 182 Investor Information strong resurrective power and reproduces prodigiously. Fast, strong and persistent, this 187 Ten Year Summary plant uses its understated power to grow and 190 Economic Review expand wherever it is found. Today, Aitken Spence is proud to claim many 192 Group Companies of these fine characteristics for ourselves. 199 Glossary of Terms As one of Sri Lanka’s biggest, most dynamic 200 Notice of Meeting conglomerates, we are ready to adapt to whatever the future holds, while growing 201 Form of Proxy every sector with confidence, intelligence and IBC Corporate Information imagination. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 1 adaptability... Adaptability is the greatest strength of any diversified group. Every sector has its unique challenges and opportunities. Only the most dynamic and professional can adapt, transform and continue to grow. Aitken Spence is one of Sri Lanka’s premier blue chips. To remain at the top, the Group stands steadfast upon its fundamentals. Through every initiative strategically adopted, we remain as adaptable as ever ready to change direction as required, ready to grow and ready to maintain our strong presence and leading role in the business world of Sri Lanka. “Only the most dynamic and professional can adapt, transform and continue to grow.” 2 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Group Financial Highlights For the year 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs '000 Rs '000 Performance Group revenue with associates 33,910,658 27,949,395 Group revenue 30,670,417 25,143,811 Profit from operations 5,604,383 3,956,516 Profit before taxation 5,463,457 3,815,555 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the company 3,709,162 2,535,956 Earnings per share (Rs.) 9.14 6.25 As at 31st March Total equity 31,248,053 26,645,874 Total assets 51,730,845 40,144,825 Net assets per share (Rs.) 62.93 53.00 Current ratio 1.33 1.43 Dividend Dividend per share (Rs.) 1.40 1.00 Key Indicators Market capitalisation on 31st March (Rs. billion) 45.76 65.89 Return on equity (ROE) % 15.76 12.55 Debt/Equity 0.18 0.16 Ò We have made great strides in areas of our competencies, expanding our global Revenue for the year ended 31st March Profit before Taxation for the year ended 31st March network, whilst creating Rs. Mn 35,000 Rs. Mn 6,000 meaningful changes in 30,000 5,000 our communities. In doing 25,000 4,000 so, we have consistently 20,000 15,000 3,000 delivered exceptional 10,000 2,000 shareholder returns year 5,000 1,000 after year É Ó 0 08 09 10 11 12 0 08 09 10 11 12 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 3 Rs. 33.9 bn Revenue (including associates) Rs. 5.6 bn Profit from operations Rs. 3.7 bn Profit attributable to equity holders 15.8% Return on equity Earnings Per Share Net Assets Per Share Dividend Per Share for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March for the year ended 31st March Rs. Rs. Rs. 10 80 1.50 70 8 1.20 60 6 50 0.90 40 4 30 0.60 20 2 0.30 10 0 0 0.00 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Operational Information Chairman’s Message 6 Managing Director’s Review 10 Board of Directors 16 Board of Management 20 Management Discussion and Analysis Our Network 26 Tourism Sector 28 Tourism Sector Senior Management Team 38 Cargo Logistics Sector 40 Cargo Logistics Sector Senior Management Team 47 Strategic Investments Sector 48 Strategic Investments Sector Senior Management Team 55 Services Sector 56 Services Sector Senior Management Team 61 Financial Review 62 Corporate Governance 74 Risk Management 86 Human Resources 95 flexible... 6 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Chairman’s Message “Aitken Spence has thrived and continued to grow by taking the right decisions at the right time, swiftly adapting ourselves to strategic opportunities and ground realities...” Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 7 It is with pleasure that I present the Annual Report and The Sri Lankan economy performed well in this environment, growing Accounts of Aitken Spence PLC., for the year ended 8.3% to better the high of 8% recorded in 2010. Upbeat sentiment 31st March 2012. enabled the economy to be somewhat insulated for the better part of the year. The country’s infrastructure development must be highlighted, As a diversified conglomerate with a strong presence as physical conditions conducive to international business continues in many sectors of the economy, your Company to improve at a rapid pace. The investments in infrastructure over the adaptability... encountered a unique set of opportunities as well as next few years will no doubt bring extraordinary opportunities for Sri challenges this year. Aitken Spence has thrived and Lanka. continued to grow by taking the right decisions at the right time, swiftly adapting ourselves to strategic Considerable volatility was witnessed in the economy in late 2011 opportunities and ground realities. In doing so, we and early 2012 as a widening trade deficit, dwindling reserves and have stood steadfast in our beliefs, while being rapidly expanding credit led to a slew of policy changes, including the inspired by our heritage and supported by our strong depreciation of the rupee, higher interest rates and lending restrictions. fundamentals. As a net foreign exchange earner, your Company stands to benefit from a weaker rupee; however, the high interest rates and tight The results presented in this report speak for liquidity are of concern to our plans in the pipeline. It is hoped that the themselves and are the best evidence that the release of USD 427 million tranche of the IMF’s standby facility would business decisions we have made over the past year stabilize the present volatile conditions. have been profitable, strategic and prudent. Corporate Performance Economic Environment Aitken Spence PLC., posted a consolidated profit after tax of Rs. 4.7 The global economy grew by 3.8% in 2011, marginally billion for the year, a growth of 37.4% over the previous year. The net better than the IMF’s early estimates of 3.3%. profit attributable to the shareholders stood at Rs. 3.7 billion which is Emerging and developing economies continued to the highest ever for the Group. Taking the growth in profits into lead, recording 6.2% growth compared to the consideration, the Board has proposed a dividend of Rs. 1.40 per advanced economies which recorded a growth of share which is an increase of 40% over the previous year. 1.6%. Businesses worldwide faced mounting external pressures during 2011, as the European economies In order to reap the advantages of the expected tourism boom in Sri spiralled into a sovereign debt crisis, the US continued Lanka, the hotel sector refurbished several properties to strengthen its to be beleaguered by low consumer demand and high portfolios of resorts to serve its clientele. Over the next two years, we unemployment and the Middle East remained gripped would see our iconic portfolio growing further with the construction by the Arab Spring social revolutions. Asian giants and completion of our resorts in Negombo, Kalutara and Ahungalla. China and India recorded 9.2% and 7.4% growth respectively but the spillover effects of global In Maldives, our Adaaran chain of resorts performed exceedingly well, conditions have begun slowing down the Asian reaping the benefits of consistent investments made over the years to economic bloc. 8 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Chairman’s Message build a strong and competitive offering for the thriving Maldivian Corporate Governance” issued jointly by the Securities tourism industry. Several operational strategies unrolled during the and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the year resulted in remarkable results, in spite of the introduction of new Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. corporate and goods and services taxes. We believe the Maldives will continue to offer tremendous potential to Aitken Spence, who is one Being a responsible conglomerate, your Company’s of the top five resort operators in the Maldives. commitment to a sustainable future and green business is far reaching. During the year, the Group’s Your Company remains the foremost provider of end-to-end logistics sustainability agenda was accelerated in several solutions in Sri Lanka and has the potential to become a key player in sectors, including power, hotels, printing and freight the regional supply chain. The maritime segment has had much forwarding. The entire Group also made significant success in South Africa with its port efficiency enhancement advances towards a paperless environment. programme and would continue to seek new opportunities. As a first step in this direction, we invested in Colombo International Nautical Future Outlook and Engineering College (CINEC) the largest private sector maritime As mentioned by me last year, meaningful publicand higher education campus in Sri Lanka. We are certain that this private partnership is vital for Sri Lanka to reach its full investment combined with our experience would create many new economic potential and become a business hub. The avenues of growth. private sector led by the large corporates, demonstrated utmost positivity and belief in Sri Lanka even during During the last financial year Colombo International Container the war, and now with business conditions having Terminals Ltd., signed and finalized the Build Operate Transfer (BOT) undergone a post-war metamorphosis, it is imperative agreement for the construction and operation of the Colombo South that the government facilitates a level playing field to Container Terminal at the port of Colombo with the Government of empower and encourage the private sector to achieve Sri Lanka, and the project is now under way. After careful financial its ambitions. evaluation, the decision was made to sell our 30% stake in Colombo International Container Terminals Ltd., to our consortium partner The region offers many examples of how enabling China Merchant Holdings (International) Company Limited; the sale environments have thrust their private sectors to the realised a capital gain of Rs. 655 million. The decision was made in forefront of international business: the many worldthe best interest of shareholders, considering substantial estimated leading Indian entrepreneurs are a case in point. Our cost overruns in the project. We are indeed proud of having been the Asian neighbours such as Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam initial promoters of this success story which is expected to bring great and Myanmar– all recovering from their own protracted benefits to the country. internal conflicts – are reaping the benefits of measures taken to promote private sector participation and The power generation segment made a successful entry into encourage investment. Bangladesh during the year, an example of the Group’s capacity to extend its expertise in the region. We are now in the process of Sri Lanka is yet to garner the level of investment finalising the Power Purchase Agreements with the Government of momentum anticipated two years ago; while some Bangladesh and expect to commence construction shortly. international brand names have already commenced investing in Sri Lanka there are further opportunities to As one of the foremost and oldest established corporates in Sri Lanka, exploit the market. There is a fundamental need for a Aitken Spence considers it vital to have in place appropriate systems coherent and enduring policy framework that fosters of governance and risk management in order to secure the investments business. The creation of such homogenous policies of our shareholders and minimise negative impact on stakeholders. will support the entire nation to seize the remarkable We have now unrolled a robust disaster recovery system to minimize opportunity created by His Excellency Mahinda the potential impact of risks to operations. Our corporate governance Rajapakse’s defeat of terrorism. structure is in compliance with “The Code of Best Practice on Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 9 In this context, I must commend the one-stop shop The country’s reliance on fossil fuels is also of concern; spiralling world now operated by Sri Lanka Tourism for those interested oil prices have necessitated local price increases which have had a in entering the industry. The facilitation body is a much cascading effect on other sectors of the economy. The high energy needed single point of contact and has clearly eased and transportation costs have an immense impact on business, as the processing and coordination complexities faced by climbing production costs cannot constantly be passed on to the investors. We sincerely hope that the unit will be consumer. It is important that the country forges towards alternative strengthened further in the coming year, as many of sustainable sources of energy in order to diminish our overdependence the world’s most powerful leisure brands have shown on petroleum. genuine interest in entering the local market. Embracing the big names by wooing them with Despite these concerns, I reiterate that the potential Sri Lanka offers suitable land and other incentives is vital for a small to serious investors remains undiminished; it is a market on the cusp country such as Sri Lanka, considering the benefits of of a new future, with expanding economic opportunities that shared destination marketing. complement the Asian economic thrust. Sri Lanka will continue to be the focus of the Aitken Spence Group’s expansion plans; we will The continuous slump experienced by the traditional continue to invest prudently in growth areas of the economy and play power bases of Europe and America offers Sri Lankan our part in leading the country’s corporate sector. businesses an opportunity to push their boundaries and explore beyond our shores. The time has come Acknowledgments for Sri Lankan business to think big and firmly place I wish to thank my fellow Board Directors, for their prudent judgment our country on the international business landscape. and the ready support they have extended over the year. In its efforts to help the country reach its full potential, The Board of Management, sector management teams and staff has the corporate sector must contribute to the equitable steered the strategy and operations of the company with a clear vision development of the North and East. Much effort has and sense of purpose. To them, I say thank you for a job well done in been made to encompass the newly liberated areas in their relentless pursuit of extraordinary achievements. to the mainstream economy, but much more remains to be done. This is natural, given that the region must My heartfelt gratitude to each and every member of the Aitken Spence recoup thirty years of missed opportunities. The team, whose dynamism and professionalism have become the infrastructure development in the North and East must hallmarks of the company. go hand in hand with efforts to create suitable opportunities and thereby empower the citizens of the To you, our investors, I express my sincere appreciation for the former battlefront. confidence you have placed in the Company, and assure you of the management’s foremost commitment to always work in your best I note with much concern a growing shortage of interest. suitably skilled and qualified human resources; over the past few years the entire corporate sector has faced continuous challenges in finding the right people for the right jobs, especially at entry levels. This trend D.H.S. Jayawardena has become a critical issue for the hospitality industry Chairman and is set to exacerbate with the rapid expansion planned for the trade. There must be a cohesive and 25th May 2012 urgent effort to understand and address the shortcomings of the current labour force, thereby making youth more employable. 10 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Managing Director’s Review “Consolidated profit before tax increased by 43.2% to Rs. 5.5 billion which is the highest ever recorded to date. Profit after tax was Rs. 4.7 billion and net profit attributable to shareholders was Rs. 3.7 billion...” Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 11 adaptability... For Aitken Spence 2011/12 was a year of mixed low interest rates, steady inflation, price stability and stable foreign fortunes, and I am proud to report that your company, exchange rates. This was in sharp contrast to global conditions, which with its inherently positive vision and resilient spirit, were affected by a sovereign debt crisis in Europe, a decline in the embraced the many opportunities and overcame the world’s largest economy – the US and citizen-led political upheavals many challenges which tested its capabilities during in the Middle East. the year. This year we present our first integrated Annual Report, which I sincerely hope gives you, our The infrastructure development in the country during the year was stakeholders, a more holistic view of the strategies, indeed welcomed – particular mention must be made of the country’s operations, governance and sustainability of the first expressway connecting Colombo with Galle, which has a positive Group. impact on several of our key sectors. We are very happy to note the development that has taken place in the North and East since the end Aitken Spence has been in operation for over one and of the war three years ago and the Government’s efforts to establish a half centuries, growing its footprint in Sri Lanka, Asia an additional sea port and airport in Hambantota, are indeed and Africa. The hallmarks of our success and encouraging. sustainability have been our ability to harness the right business opportunities; our capacity and agility to The fourth quarter of 2011/12 witnessed some economic volatility reposition, realign and reinvent ourselves to capitalise following the free float of the rupee in February 2012, restrictions on on market realities; and the business acumen and lending, rising interest rates, higher inflation and eroding investor instincts of our team of well-honed professionals sentiment. We are concerned regarding restricted credit growth, which whose bold decisions have paved the way for the will have an impact on the investments in the pipeline. It is hoped that stable and solid results we showcase here. The the pressures on the local economy will be somewhat eased by the Group’s long history from shipping and insurance release of USD 427 million from the IMF’s standby facility, agents to a highly diversified conglomerate is proof of in April 2012. this adaptability. Aitken Spence believes that Sri Lanka offers much potential to grow its core businesses while offering exciting new avenues in yet unexplored Performance areas. Overseas, we will pursue a strategy of consolidation while Group Revenue increased to Rs. 30.7 billion which is seeking opportunities which enable us to capitalise on our proven a 22.0% growth over the previous year while expertise. consolidated profit before tax increased by 43.2% to Rs. 5.5 billion which is the highest ever recorded to Tourism date. Profit after tax was Rs. 4.7 billion and net profit The Tourism Industry in Sri Lanka is set to welcome one million attributable to shareholders was Rs. 3.7 billion which is tourists in 2012, harnessing the post-war boom which saw 855,975 an increase of 46.3% over the previous financial year. tourist arrivals during 2011. It is heartening to note that over 200 new Operating conditions in Sri Lanka were conducive for hotel projects are in the pipeline, which will add approximately 14,000 the better part of the year, offering an environment of 12 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Managing Director’s Review rooms to the country’s inventory over the next few years. Several well having to face a new challenge in the form of goods known international hotel chains have firmed up plans to enter Sri and services tax and corporate taxation for the first Lanka while many others have shown interest in the nascent market time during the year. It is reassuring that the political with projects commencing during the current year to construct Sri uncertainty in Malè has not had an adverse effect on Lanka’s first Sheraton, Shangri La and other international hotel chains. tourism, the mainstay of the country’s economy. Our The addition of a new airport and the growing number of budget resorts in the Maldives strategically adapted themselves airlines which have added Sri Lanka as a destination augurs well for to market realities there by changing their operating the entire industry, and indeed for Aitken Spence., which is one of the models, which has brought immediate results. largest tourism players in Sri Lanka. The Group’s managed hotels in India have yet to The Group’s Sri Lankan hotels performed well, although the partial generate the anticipated volumes and the segment closure of some of our hotels for renovation and refurbishment, must strive to operate at a larger inventory. The Group’s negated this performance to some extent, resulting in the contribution properties in Oman enjoyed a better year, gradually to profits being on par with the previous year. Heritance Kandalama is recovering from the effects of the Arab Spring. constructing a state-of-the-art conference hall which is expected to be operational in mid 2012. Further investments are being carried out at Our destination management segment recorded its The Sands in Kalutara, and Browns Beach Hotel in Negombo to best year and continues to grow. The segment’s efforts position these properties as “niche properties” to benefit from the to strategically seek and promote itself in new markets tourism boom. The newly acquired Hilltop Hotel in Kandy has proved have borne fruit, enabling it to achieve a healthy mix of a success and enjoyed good occupancy throughout the year. I am also tourists from the traditionally strong European sector happy to note the creditable performance of Heritance Ayurveda as well as from new generating markets such as India, Maha Gedara, which opened during the year as the foremost Ayurveda Middle East and Eastern Europe. I wish to extend my resort in Sri Lanka. In Trincomalee, we have applied for planning appreciation to our valued joint venture partner TUI, permission to construct a luxury resort on the beautiful stretch of the world’s largest tourism player for their contribution Nilaveli beach owned by Aitken Spence. It is planned to develop the to this success and hope that TUI would take an even area further in collaboration with an international operator by building greater interest in Sri Lanka with more investments a golf course and a luxurious resort on the adjoining property. during the coming year. The Adaaran resorts returned a stellar performance, reflecting a good As a representative of over 200 leading global tour year for the Maldivian tourism industry, despite the industry players operators, Aitken Spence Travels notes that in the long term it is in the best interest of the industry, to allow market forces to determine the pricing of room rates. Sector Revenue for the year ended 31st March We are aware that major tour operators continue to view the regulation of rates negatively, and have also Rs. Mn 35,000 reacted unfavourably to the many ad-hoc increases in 30,000 entry fees to tourist sites during the year, which could 25,000 be an impediment to the planned growth of the industry. 20,000 15,000 The Singapore Airlines GSA continues to face intense 10,000 competition especially from low cost airlines, and 5,000 Middle Eastern carriers. Globally, the price-driven 0 industry has forced legacy carriers to change their 08 09 10 11 12 business models to stay competitive and we welcome Tourism Sector Strategic Investments Sector Cargo Logistics Sector Services Sector Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 13 a recent decision by Singapore Airlines to offer diversifying into areas such as palm oil, rubber and hydropower held competitive fares on several popular sectors from it in good stead. Colombo. The garments segment performed extremely creditably, successfully Strategic Investments overcoming the downside of the EU’s withdrawn GSP+ concessions through stronger partnerships with customers and a commitment to The power segment did extremely well to return a quality and delivery. I must make special mention of the combined positive performance despite the closure of its 100 efforts of the staff of this segment in achieving this turnaround. MW plant in Embilipitiya for four months of the year due to a technical failure and the plant is now fully Logistics operational after the defective components were replaced. We have applied for an extension of the The Company’s involvement in the Colombo South Terminals Ltd., Power Purchase Agreement on the Matara plant and came to an end during the year, with the sale of our 30% stake in the are currently in discussion with the Ceylon Electricity joint venture company to our consortium partner China Merchant Board. During the year, the segment successfully Holdings (International) Company Limited. The decision to exit the entered the Bangladesh market through its project was necessitated by cost escalations as well as unfavourable engagement in two independent power purchase changes to financing terms due to global economic conditions, contracts, which will allow us to build on our local exacerbated by the inordinate delays between the submission of the competencies in overseas markets. With ample bid and the final agreement. Having carefully considered the financial appetite to expand, we will continue to seek viability of the project in the best interests of the Company and the opportunities overseas. We are excited about several shareholders, Aitken Spence finalised the sale which realised a capital renewable energy projects which are set to come on gain of Rs. 655 million to the Group. board in 2012/13; these include the Branford hydro The maritime segment posted extraordinary growth despite a tough power plant, the wind power project in Ambewela as year for the entire global supply chain. The sector’s port efficiency well as a waste-to-energy project for the conversion of enhancement operations in the African continent have gained ground municipal waste in Colombo. Renewable energy is the as Aitken Spence has now built a strong reputation through proven future of energy and I urge that the private sector be expertise in the region. During the year the segment increased its encouraged to participate in such projects, to enable stake in Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College the country to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels. (CINEC), Sri Lanka’s largest private sector maritime and higher The printing segment ended the year on a positive education campus. CINEC is the only maritime university in the region note, having made several new investments including that offers specialised instruction and modern laboratory and simulator acquisition of a six-colour printing machine that facilities specifically geared to the maritime sector. As Sri Lanka’s increased efficiency. The new investments contributed foremost logistics solutions provider, the Group can derive many in increasing market share particularly in niche synergies from its association with CINEC by creating a cadre of skilled products. The printing operation has now moved to its maritime specialists in support of the government’s vision of new state-of-the-art facility in Mawaramandiya. transforming Sri Lanka in to a maritime hub. The plantation sector faced yet another wage hike The logistics segment recorded a gradual rise in profits, with its during the year, but retained its profitability as a result container freight station operations performing remarkably well to of several measures undertaken over the year to right offset pressures from high fuel and wage costs and heightened size its operations. The pressure on tea and other competition. The acquisition of Logilink (Pvt) Ltd., during the last commodity prices in the world market have had a financial year has borne fruit, with the specialised container freight sharp impact on the segment; although its strategy of station enjoying heavy demand from its customers. Further 14 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Managing Director’s Review investments were made during the year to build capacity and increase The Lloyds insurance agency grew steadily, undertaking efficiencies across the various activities of the segment, while its specialised surveys for the first time and continuing its processes are being automated with a view to increasing productivity. fruitful partnership with the World Food Programme’s projects in the Maldives and Sri Lanka. The freight forwarding segment faced numerous external constraints during the year as the global industry experienced turmoil. Hence its Aitken Spence has identified information technology performance in this environment is noteworthy. During the year Qatar as a growth area and as such, consolidated operations Airways appointed us as the general sales agent for cargo operations of the new technology subsidiary by buying out our in Sri Lanka. joint venture partner Calsoft Group of India. The company now known as Aitken Spence Technologies For over thirty years, Aitken Spence has represented TNT Express in Sri is an Oracle Gold Level Partner of the Oracle Partner Lanka and we look forward to new opportunities following the merger Network and a member of the IBM PartnerWorld of TNT (Worldwide) and the international freight forwarder UPS in the progam. The company was recently appointed as an coming year. Oracle University Approved Education Reseller Partner as well as an authorized training centre, offering Services professional training courses towards prestigious MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., the largest principal agent for Oracle University certifications. Western Union in Sri Lanka witnessed increased inward remittances and posted strong growth. The Group is bullish on the potential for The financial shared services centre established two Western Union in Sri Lanka and has made several strategic inroads in years ago has realised the anticipated advantages and key markets which will be reflected in the results of the coming year. the Group has made a smooth transition to centralised back office operations. The overseas subsidiaries of The operations and maintenance segment has proven its capability to the Group have gradually been brought into the manage the reliability and increase the efficiency of power plants. The shared services fold over the year. The automated and only ISO certified power sector O&M operator in the country is ready streamlined structure has generated a higher quality of to offer these services to external clientele, both in Sri Lanka and management information and has granted subsidiaryoverseas. level management more time to focus on the strategic expansion of businesses. The OTIS elevator agency continues to benefit from the growth in the construction industry and has spread its footprint across the island. We are aware that the success of our Group is mainly due to the experience, knowledge and commitment of Sector Profit before Taxation our employees. Training and development is not an for the year ended 31st March option but a necessity for the successful growth of the Rs. Mn Company. Therefore it is viewed as a capital investment 6,000 where the results would bear fruit over a period of 5,000 time. The Group is extensively training employees on 4,000 technical, operational and managerial aspects in an endeavor to enhance the performance of the Group. 3,000 2,000 The IT infrastructure of the Group was modernised 1,000 during the year with the investment in a virtual server while a robust disaster recovery plan is now in place. 0 08 09 10 11 12 The Group continues its shift towards a paperless Tourism Sector Strategic Investments Sector environment and saw the implementation of an Cargo Logistics Sector Services Sector Oracle document management project during the Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 15 year, which will be rolled out across the Group in the manner; thus this report marks our first foray into integrated reporting. coming year. This project will enable us to take a We have reported operational and sustainability parameters in parallel, further step towards the paperless office concept and trust that you, our stakeholders, will find the information contained which is one of our sustainability initiatives. herein more enlightening and constructive. Sustainability Appreciations The Group’s sustainability strategy has taken shape Over 5,000 men and women now make up the Aitken Spence family from a clear assessment of the impacts we have on and each of them is a testament to the qualities espoused by the our key stakeholders as well as the overarching trends Group: proficiency, fortitude, positivism and resilience. Aitken Spence of our industry groups, and our goal is to create value has always positioned itself as a knowledge bank, driven by the through every action we practice. The main interests expertise of the highly skilled professionals within its fold. In this and goals of our sustainability agenda are context, I wish to emphasize to our employees that their contribution environmental protection though the preservation of is always valued and respected and thank them wholeheartedly for ecosystems, cleaner and efficient energy, resource their efforts. efficiency; national development through community upliftment; personal and professional development of My appreciations to the Chairman and Board of Directors who have employees; excellence in product and service delivery been a great source of strength and guidance during the year, and to and strong governance practices. the Board of Management for the unstinted support and vision to take Aitken Spence forward in an increasingly competitive world. The Group is also committed to contributing to the larger good by sharing our learnings with our local and Sri Lanka is on the threshold of a future full of promise and Aitken global networks and participating in policy dialogues. Spence is ready to embrace the future by doing what we do best: We continue our commitment and support for the boldly seeking new opportunities; adapting and reinventing ourselves United Nations Global Compact and also support the with agility; championing sustainable business and creating real and Caring for Climate Initiative and Women’s lasting value for our stakeholders. Empowerment Principles, and we consistently work towards internalising these principles into our business model. The Group prides itself on its commitment to quality, J.M.S. Brito environment and safety management practices, as Deputy Chairman and Managing Director evidenced by our subsidiaries/processes being certified by the International Organisation for 25th May 2012 Standardisation (ISO). In fact, during the year Heritance Ahungalla became the first resort in the world to be awarded ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management Systems, while Aitken Spence Cargo became the first major freight forwarder in Sri Lanka to receive ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management Systems certification. The Group’s assimilation of principles of sustainability into its strategy and operations naturally requires us to approach our reporting in a more holistic and inclusive 16 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Mr. J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando Ò We act in the best interest of our shareholders. Our decisions are based on four keystones; integrity, growth, sustainability and stability. Your company is in safe hands...Ó Mr. G.M. Perera Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 17 Dr. P. Dissanayake Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe adaptability... Mr. C.H. Gomez Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya Mr. V.M. Fernando Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 18 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena He has been recently appointed as Honorary President Mr. Harry Jayawardena is one of Sri Lanka’s most successful businessmen of CIM, Sri Lanka region and Chairman of United and heads many successful enterprises in very diverse fields of activity. Nations Global Compact Network, Ceylon. He is the Founder Director and current Chairman/Managing Director of the Stassen Group of Companies – a diversified group in exports and Mr. G.M. Perera import trade, and Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC. He is also the Chairman Mr. Gehan M. Perera heads the travel segment in the of the Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC., and Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd. Group. He served on the board of the Sri Lanka Tourism He is a former Director of Hatton National Bank, the largest listed bank Promotion Bureau and in the committee of the Ceylon in Sri Lanka. Mr. Jayawardena was the former Chairman of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. He is a Past President and an Petroleum Corporation and Sri Lankan Airlines. Honorary Member of the Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO). He was a member of Mr. Jayawardena is presently the Honorary Consul for Denmark and on the Tourism Cluster facilitated by USAID. He is a Fellow 9th February 2010, was knighted by Her Majesty the Queen of Denmark of the Australian Institute of Management. with the prestigious honour of “Knight Cross of Dannebrog”. Dr. P. Dissanayake Mr. Jayawardena was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., on Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake is the Chairman/CEO of 1st April 2000 and has been Chairman of the Company since 25th Aitken Spence Maritime, Logistics & Cargo and Director April 2003. Aitken Spence PLC., is a former Chairman/CEO of Sri Lanka Ports Authority and also a former Chairman of Mr. J.M.S. Brito state owned Jaya Container Terminals Ltd., and Mr. Rajan Brito has a LLB (University of London) and MBA (London City Sri Lanka Port Management Consultancy Services Ltd. Business School) degrees and is a Fellow of both Institutes of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and England and Wales. Together with this Dr. Dissanayake who has served on the UN/UNCTAD multi-disciplined knowledge, he also brings with him a wealth of 25 Panel as an expert on Ports & Shipping is a Past years of international experience working with a number of international Chairman of the Central Advisory Council of Sri Lanka organizations. Presently Mr. Brito is the Deputy Chairman and Managing Transport Board and Past Co-Chairman of the Transport Director of Aitken Spence PLC, the Chairman of DFCC Bank, DFCC Cluster of the National Council for Economic Vardhana Bank and The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. He is a Development which is under the Presidential Secretariat. former Chairman of Sri Lankan Airlines, and a former Director of Sri He is a member of the Faculty Industry Consultative Lanka Insurance Corporation. Board – Dept. of Transport & Logistics Management of the University of Moratuwa and Chairman of Ceylon Mr. Brito was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in April Chamber of Commerce -Steering Committee on Ports, 2000; Managing Director in January 2002; and Deputy Chairman and Shipping, Aviation and Logistics and Director of CINEC Managing Director in April 2003. Maritime and Management Campus. Dr. R.M. Fernando Dr. Dissanayake a University of Oxford Business Alumni Dr. Rohan Fernando who heads Plantations and Business Development is a Graduate of Harvard Business School Executive at Aitken Spence PLC., holds a PhD and a MBA from the University of Education Programme on “Global Economy”. Colombo and is also a Chartered Marketer and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, (CIM) UK. He is also a Past Chairman of the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers and Past Chairman of the Chartered He has extensive experience in the plantation industry both in the Institute of Logistics and Transport (Sri Lanka branch). public and private sectors and played a key role in the plantations He is a recipient of the Best Shipping Personality award privatisation programme. conferred by the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers; Contribution to society Award by PIMA of the University He plays an important role in the re-branding strategy of Aitken Spence of Sri Jayewardenapura and Services Rendered to the and also leads the CSR and Sustainability Initiatives of the Group. He Shipping Industry by Ceylon Association of Ships’ was awarded the Brand Leadership Award at the Asia Brand Congress Agents. 2008, held in Mumbai in September 2008. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 19 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe first Asian MP to serve in the British Government as PPS in the Scottish Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe started his career in 1954 on Office and first Asian born MP to be elected to the European Parliament. an Aitken Spence managed plantation. He has therefore He is a Hon. Ambassador without portfolio for Sri Lanka; the first Asian had an unbroken association of over 58 years with the to be appointed as Her Majesty’s Deputy Lord Lieutenant for Greater Company. After over a decade as a professional planter London, representing The Queen on official occasions since 1985; he moved to the Company’s head office in 1965 to awarded the honour “Viswa Kirthi Sri Lanka Abhimani“ by the Buddhist take over the Estate Agency Department. In the early Clergy for his Services to Sri Lanka and given the Knighthood with Merit 70’s, he also took charge of the Insurance division, of the Sacred Constantinian Military Order of St. George for his global including the Lloyd’s Agency and the Singapore Airlines work on poverty eradication. Agency. When the Insurance industry was liberalized in the late 80’s, he played an active role in the formation Mr. V. M. Fernando of Union Assurance Ltd., and served a stint as its Mr. Manilal Fernando who is an Attorney-at-Law started his practice in Chairman. his home town in Kalutara in 1972 and was the Secretary of the Bar Association, Kalutara for many years. Mr. Wickremasinghe was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in 1972 and was Chairman from He is the current Chairman of Holcim (Lanka) Ltd., and its subsidiary 1996 to 1997. He has therefore been a Director of the Companies. He is also Chairman and or Director of other public listed Company continuously for a period of over 40 years. and private companies. He is also a Director of Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd., He has a wide and varied experience in many business and a Trustee of Joseph Frazer Memorial Hospital. sectors. Mr. Wickremasinghe has the distinction of being Currently Mr. Fernando is a Member of the FIFA and AFC Executive responsible for the concept and construction of the Committee and AFC Asian Cup 2015 Organising Committee. He is the Group’s unique theme hotel The Heritance Tea Factory. Chairman of Futsal Committee-FIFA, Aid 27-AFC and Stadium and Security Committee of FIFA. In addition he is also the Deputy Chairman Mr. C.H. Gomez of the Players Status Committee of FIFA. He has since 1990 been a Vice Mr. Charles Gomez is an Investment Banker with over President of the National Olympic Committee of Sri Lanka. 20 years of experience in the finance industry. He has worked for several major financial institutions, and Mr. R.N. Asirwatham brings to the Company a wealth of experience in regard Mr. Rajan Asirwatham was the Senior Partner and Country Head of to international financial markets. Mr. Gomez also serves KPMG from 2001 to 2008. Further, he was the Chairman of the on Boards of foreign investment companies. Mr. Gomez Steering Committee for the Sustainable Tourism Project funded by the was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., on World Bank for the Ministry of Tourism and was also a member of the 14th May 2002. Presidential Commission on Taxation, appointed by His Excellency the President of Sri Lanka. As at present, Mr. Asirwatham, a fellow member Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, is the Chairman Mr. Niranjan Deva Aditya, an aeronautical engineer, of the Financial Services Stability Committee of the Central Bank of Sri scientist and economist, is a Conservative Member of Lanka. He is also a member of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce the European Parliament elected from the SE England. Advisory Council and a member of the council of the University of He is the Vice President of the Development Committee; Colombo. He also serves on the Boards of Vallibel One Limited, Ceylon ECR Co-ordinator and Conservative Spokesman for Tea Services PLC, Browns Beach Hotels PLC, Royal Ceramics PLC, Dial Overseas’ Development and Co-operation. He was the Tex Industries (Pvt) Limited, Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Limited, CIC Holdings Co Leader of the Parliament Delegation to the UN PLC, Rajawella Holdings (Pvt) Limited, Mercantile Merchant Bank and World Summit and General Assembly 2006, Chairman Yaal Hotels (Pvt) Limited. Working Group A of Development Committee overseeing Asia, Central Asia and Far East; Co Co-ordinator Assembly of 79 Parliaments of the EUACP 2004 and the President EU India Chamber of Commerce from 2005. He was the first Asian to be elected as a Conservative Member of British Parliament, 20 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Board of Management Mr. J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando Mr. G.M. Perera Dr. P. Dissanayake Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Mr. K.R.T. Peiris Ms. N. Sivapragasam Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 21 Mr. D.V.H. de Mel Mr. S.M. Hapugoda Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage Mr. D.S. Mendis Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka 22 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Board of Management Mr. J.M.S. Brito Task Force which was set up by the Council of the Institute See Board of Directors profile. to provide clarification and interpretation on the application of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and is the Dr. R.M. Fernando Chairperson of the CFO forum. See Board of Directors profile. Ms. Sivapragasam currently serves on the Sri Lanka Mr. G.M. Perera Accounting & Auditing Standards Monitoring Board which See Board of Directors profile. has been set up by an Act of Parliament and is a member Dr. P. Dissanayake of the Board of Governance of The Chartered Institute of See Board of Directors profile. Management Accountants – Sri Lanka Division. She is a council member of the Board of the Sri Lanka Institute of Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Directors and is also a Member of the Taxation SubMr. Ranjan Casie Chetty is the Company Secretary of Aitken Spence Committee and Financial & Regulatory Reporting Steering PLC., and a Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Committee of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Holdings PLC., and various other companies in the Aitken Spence Group. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri She completed her Articles at Ernst & Young Colombo Lanka, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has over 25 years of post qualifying experience in the of UK and a Fellow of the Certified Management Accountants of Sri industry. Lanka. He is also a Member of the Chartered Management Institute of UK and has been awarded the Joint Diploma in Management Mr. D.V.H. de Mel Mr. Devan de Mel is the Managing Director of the Power Accounting Services. He has over 40 years post qualifying experience. Generation Sector of the Group, prior to which he headed During this period he has held very senior and responsible positions in the Group Corporate Planning Unit. He is also on the extremely respectable private sector organisations. He has been actively Management Committees of the Group Plantation and involved in numerous committees of Professional Institutes and Printing sectors. He has a Bachelor’s Degree in Mechanical Chambers of Commerce. He served as a Member of the Advisory Engineering from the Imperial College of Science & Commission constituted under the Companies Act No. 17 of 1982. He Technology, and a Master’s Degree in Business was a former Chairman of the Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters Association. Administration from the London Business School, Mr. K.R.T. Peiris University of London. Mr. Rohantha Peiris heads Freight Forwarding, Express and Airline division and he brings into the industry a depth of knowledge and Mr. S.M. Hapugoda Mr. S. Malin Hapugoda heads the Hotel Sector of the valuable expertise. He is responsible for operations in Bangladesh, Group. He is a professional hotelier counting many years India, Pakistan and Maldives. He was also a Director of the American of managerial experience at senior level within several Chamber of Commerce for two consecutive years and presently hotel companies and is an Honorary Member (Past represents the Company at all American Chamber of Commerce President) of the Tourist Hotels’ Association of Sri Lanka activities. He held the position of Chairman of the Sri Lanka Freight and a Member of the Tourism Cluster of the National Forwarders Association for 3 years and now helps them in an advisory Council for Economic Development (NCED). He is a capacity. He is also a Director of SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management, UK. He Member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport – International is a graduate of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism & Hotel and is also affiliated with most of the industry bodies. Management (SLITHM) and is a fellow and founder Ms N. Sivapragasam President of the Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam who is the Chief Financial Officer of the Association. He holds a diploma in hospitality, restaurant Group is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and institutional administration from the Rayerson Institute and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of of Technology, Toronto, Canada. UK. She is a member of the Statutory Accounting Standards and the Statutory Auditing Standards Committees and serves on the Committees Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne Ms. Nimmi Guneratne is the Managing Director of both of the Tax and Financial Reporting Faculties of the Institute of Chartered Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd., and Aitken Spence Accountants of Sri Lanka. She is also a member of the Urgent Issues Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 23 Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. She is also the General Leadership Award at the Asia Pacific Congress (APHRM) 2007/08. He Manager of the Lloyd’s Agency in Colombo and the was recognized under the global HR excellence category, for the Maldives, and also the Chief Legal Officer of the Aitken contribution made to HR for the economic development of the country. Spence Group. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute of UK, and a Chartered Insurance Practitioner and Mr. D.S. Mendis holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Law and is also an AttorneyMr. Dinesh Mendis who heads the Financial Solutions segment is at-Law. She is a visiting lecturer and examiner in Insurance additionally responsible for Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. He is Law at the Sri Lanka Law College, and is also a lecturer also involved in new business initiatives of the Group. He holds a and examiner of the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. She is Bachelor of Science Degree (Magna Cum Laude) in Business the Past President of the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. Administration specialising in Marketing and Economics from Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania, USA. During his final year he was Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama chosen as the Outstanding Student in both Marketing and Economics Mr. Susith Jayawickrama an associate member of the of the University. He also obtained a Master’s Degree in Business Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK, is the Administration from The University of Texas, USA. He worked in the Deputy Managing Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Logistics sector of the Group for 11 years from 1994 to 2005, the last Managements (Pvt) Ltd., the company managing all the five of which was as a Subsidiary Director. During this period he also Group Hotels and serves on the Boards of the hotel served two years in the Executive Committee of the Sri Lanka Freight companies in the Group. He has extensive experience at Forwarders Association and a Director of SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. He senior management positions in the Group’s hotel sector also has international experience working in the retail industry in USA. for almost two decades and has considerable exposure in the tourism industry in Sri Lanka and overseas. He is also a Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka member of the Tourist Hotels Association of Sri Lanka Mr. Vipula Gunatilleka currently serves as the Group Chief Corporate (THASL) Executive Committee and the Treasurer of THASL. Officer/Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd., overlooking the BPO, information technology, risk management, audit and compliance Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage activities of Aitken Spence. Mr. Rohan Pandithakorralage is the Director/Chief Human He counts over 20 years experience holding senior accounting positions Resources Officer of Aitken Spence Group Ltd. At present in some of the blue chip companies in Sri Lanka, Singapore and he is a member of the Board of Governors of National Australia. He started his accounting career at KPMG in Colombo and Institute of Labour Studies (NILS), National Labour then worked at Hayleys Group in Sri Lanka for few years before joining Advisory Council (NLAC) and the Council of the Employers Electronic Data Systems Group in Singapore where he worked as the Federation of Ceylon (EFC). Finance Director. He also worked for the GE Group in Australia as a He is a Business graduate of Victoria University of Australia Controller for the ANZ region. with an Executive training at NUS Business School in Prior to joining Aitken Spence, he worked as the Group Chief Financial Singapore and has received extensive management Officer of Dialog Axiata PLC. Vipula was a key member of the senior training at Nippon Keidanren International Cooperation management team responsible for re-structuring the Dialog Group and Center (NICC) in Japan. implementing many key strategic initiatives to turnaround the Dialog He is a past president of the International Public Group. He was also the Chief Financial Officer/Acting CEO of the Management Association for Human Resources (IPMAnational carrier Sri Lankan Airlines and played a pivotal role during the HR) Sri Lanka Chapter and Executive Committee Member management transition of the National Carrier from Emirates to the of the IPMA-HR Asia Network. He is a founder committee Government of Sri Lanka in 2008. member and a past president of the Association of He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Human Resource Professionals in Sri Lanka (HRP). He Lanka (FCA), Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management was the Chairman of the Executive Committee of HRM Accountants of UK (FCMA) and Fellow Member of the Certified Public Awards 2010. Accountant of Australia (FCPA), holds a MBA from the University of He was a visiting lecturer at the University of Colombo Colombo and a GE Trained Six Sigma. He currently serves as a member and University of Ruhuna. He won the Prestigious HR of the CIMA Sri Lanka Governance Board. 24 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Diversity is our strength TOURISM CARGO LOGISTICS • Freight Forwarding • Hotels • Courier Services • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Integrated Logistics • Airline GSA • Maritime Transport + 65% + 41% The Tourism sector of Aitken Spence achieved a Cargo Logistics sector of the Group recorded its record Rs. 2.6 billion profit from operations. This best performance to date achieving a profit from was a 65.3% improvement in performance in operations of Rs. 846.8 million, which was a comparison to the previous year 40.7% growth over the previous year Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 25 expanding... STRATEGIC SERVICES INVESTMENTS • Inward Money Transfer • Power Generation • Operation & Maintenance of Power • Printing & Packaging Plants • Garment Manufacture • Elevator Agency • Plantations • Insurance • Property Management + 18% + 24% The Strategic Investments sector recorded a net The services sector recorded a net profit from profit from operations of Rs. 1.1 billion, a 17.7% operations of Rs. 977.6 million a 23.5% year on year increase. improvement in performance over the previous year. 26 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Our Network ASIA India Bangladesh Oman ● Dhaka ● Chittagong Chennai Puducherry Kochi Coimbatore Trivandrum Andaman Sri Lanka Islands AFRICA Maldives Mozambique ● South Africa ● Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 27 Jaﬀna Vavuniya Trincomalee Mihintale Dambulla Kurunegala Kandy Negombo Katunayake Welisara Pudaluoya Mabole Biyagama Pussellawa Colombo Nuwara Eliya Malabe Ratmalana Seethawaka Bandarawela Kalutara Horana Matugama Beruwala Talgaswela Embilipitiya Ahungalla Elpitiya Wanduraba Galle Koggala Matara Tourism Strategic Investment Cargo Logistics Services 28 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information World tourist arrivals recorded a high of 980 million in “The Tourism sector of Aitken 2011, a growth of 4.4%. The World Tourism Spence achieved a record Rs. 2.6 Organisation predicts that this growth will continue in 2012, although at a slower pace. International tourist billion profit from operations. arrivals are thus set to reach the milestone one billion mark during 2012. Brazil and China dominated the This was a 65.3% improvement in outbound markets during 2011, while higher performance in comparison to the disposable incomes in the Asian region saw more of its citizens travelling, compared with traditional previous year...” European markets such as Germany and United Kingdom which witnessed slow growth due to the continuing economic crisis. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 29 TOURISM The rising affluence of the growing Asian middle class, Revenue Profit from Operations The % of Sector particularly in China and India together with the for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Profit before Tax in comparison to Group PBT proliferation of budget airlines bodes well for the for the year ended 31st March Group’s operations in Sri Lanka, Maldives, India and Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 12,000 3,000 Oman. Wooing the Chinese traveller with a tourism 10,000 2,500 product that caters to their requirement is likely to 8,000 2,000 prove lucrative, as the National Tourism Administration 6,000 1,500 of China expects 77 million Chinese tourists to 48% undertake outbound travel in 2012, compared to 65 4,000 1,000 million in 2011. 2,000 500 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 30 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information The post war turnaround witnessed by the tourism industry in Sri Lanka continued its growth momentum during the year, with industry earnings reaching an all-time high of USD 830 million, from a record 855,975 tourists arriving in the country. Emerging markets such as India and the Middle East provided a healthy balance with traditional European markets. It is important however for the Sri Lankan tourism industry to sustain European “Heritance Tea Factory performed interest due to its greater capacity to generate revenues through exceptionally well during the year ... longer stays. Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera opened its doors during the year as an authentic ayurveda resort and has been While the growth in arrivals is clearly reflected in the 2 star and well accepted by the market...” 3 star categories, the hotels and resorts in the upper segments have been unable to record similar growth. This is mainly attributed to the continuing perception of Sri Lanka as an ‘affordable destination’, a reputation created during the war years. The need of the hour for tourism in Sri Lanka is a concerted positioning and promotion effort that facilitates greater visibility in generating markets, thereby enabling Sri Lanka to attract the rates it deserves. The ideal tourism proposition for Sri Lanka is a balanced portfolio of which around 50% should consist of high-end products generating higher per capita spend. The Tourism sector of Aitken Spence achieved a record Rs. 2.6 billion profit from operations. This was a 65.3% improvement in performance in comparison to the previous year. The highest contributor towards this growth was the Group’s resort properties in the Maldives. The Tourism sector contributed nearly 50% of the Group’s profit from operations in the financial year 2011/12. The Sri Lankan hotels recorded operating profits on par with 2010/11, due solely to closures of several key properties. Heritance Tea Factory performed exceptionally well during the year, while Heritance Ahungalla also returned a satisfactory performance; although it is believed that the Ahungalla property is yet to reap its full potential. Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera opened its doors during the year as an authentic ayurveda resort and has been well accepted by the market. The Dambulla wing of Heritance Kandalama was closed for six months for construction of a conference hall and refurbishment of guest rooms. The conference hall is expected to be completed by July 2012. The Sands by Aitken Spence, the Kalutara resort acquired in 2010, opened in May 2012 following an extensive Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 31 TOURISM refurbishment. A further 90 rooms will be added to The Maldivian tourism industry has enjoyed positive growth, the property by end 2013. In a first for Sri Lanka, The continuing an upward trend over the past decade. The growth Sands will operate as an all inclusive hotel with dine recorded last year was despite a degree of political uncertainty around concept, offering three dining options to which saw a change of regime during the latter part of the year. guests. The newly acquired Hilltop Hotel in Kandy will The geography of the archipelago enables the scattered resort also commence a partial refurbishment in mid 2012. islands to be well ensconced away from the capital Malè, thus insulating tourists from local political developments to a great Several major developments will also come to fruition extent. over the next few years. Work will commence shortly at Browns Beach Hotel to construct a brand new The Maldivian tourism industry surpassed the government’s resort. Master plans have been drawn up for a targeted 800,000 tourists to record 931,333 tourist arrivals for proposed development, including a 180-200 roomed the calendar year 2011, with Chinese tourists being the largest Heritance hotel, at the Group’s prime beachfront market (21.3%) arriving in the Maldives followed by traditional property in Trincomalee. Initial discussions have European markets such as United Kingdom (11.2%), Germany commenced with high-end leisure brands to develop (9.7%) and Italy (8.9%). The industry now consists of 105 an integrated leisure project including a golf course resorts, which enjoyed an average occupancy of around 80% and exclusive villas, which will fully and efficiently during the year. utilize the extensive land base. The proposed joint venture project with the Six Senses Group in 2011/12 In this backdrop the Group’s Maldivian resorts performed fell behind schedule due to ownership changes in the exceptionally well, virtually doubling the previous year’s Six Senses Group. performance. The results followed a strategic revision of our operations in the Maldives, taking into account present market realities and trends. The Group’s six resorts compete in different 32 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information market segments, but are collectively positioned in the 4 star and 5 star categories, which has seen a heavy demand in a market studded with up market resorts. In order to capitalize on the opportunities in this segment, the resorts were converted into ‘all inclusive’ offerings, and operations were streamlined accordingly. The strategic move has proven to be immensely successful. “the Group’s Maldivian resorts performed exceptionally well, virtually doubling the previous year’s During the year, lease extensions were granted for all four performance. The results followed a islands, entitling the Group to lease the properties for further strategic revision of our operations in the Maldives, taking into account periods of upto 25 years. Continuous refurbishments and present market realities and trends...” upgrades are being carried out to maintain the resorts at the desired standards and plans are in place to expand the Huduranfushi resort by constructing an additional 32 water bungalows as well as a restaurant and lounge over water. The sector’s Indian operations continue on a management model and a further quantum of rooms is being sought in order to improve the viability of operations. The Group is focusing on Southern India as its preferred market. The hotels in the Oman segment turned around, recording satisfactory growth. Oman benefits from its political stability relative to its Arab neighbours, and thus attracts a large number of European and Indian tourists as well as regional business travellers. The internet has brought about a sea of change in the industry – placing the freedom of researching their holidays and booking their own travel at the fingertips of tourists. In fact, the World Travel Monitor shows that nearly half of all bookings are now made online while travel agents only enjoy a third of bookings. Recognising the potential of the web channel, Aitken Spence was quick to strengthen its web presence and online marketing a few years ago, a move that has paid rich dividends. The Group’s website has become a very effective channel in generating bookings and the continuous growth of web sales reflects the greater confidence in Sri Lanka as a destination, as more and more guests are willing to book on-line directly. The tourism industry in Sri Lanka continues to be plagued by a lack of trained staff, and this problem is set to exacerbate with the planned expansion of the room inventory by nearly 14,000 rooms in the short to medium term. Action must be taken to ensure better quality tourism studies in universities while Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 33 TOURISM training programmes must be better geared to deliver of the United Nations Global Compact and the Millennium professional expectations. There is a dire need to Development Goals and adopt Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 produce suitable trained tour guides, who often serve Framework for Sustainability Reporting. The sustainability as the face of a country to a tourist. objectives of hotels involve enriching the lives of employees by creating a safe and stimulating working environment; managing During the year, the lobbying for sustainable tourism in the carbon footprint by implementing environmental best the country gathered speed. It must be emphasised practices and reaching out to the communities with a view to that the future is in sustainable tourism, especially for improving their prospects through livelihood and social small markets such as Sri Lanka where a conflict in development. direction can erode the entire tourism offering. The tourism industry must shift to a more sustainable The plethora of awards won by the various properties stands business model by making itself greener and more testimony to this commitment; the Heritance Tea Factory was the socially responsible. Aitken Spence hotels are proud to only hotel to win a PATA Grand Award in the Heritage and Culture have been at the forefront of promoting sustainable category, for successfully transforming an abandoned tea factory tourism, long before it became an industry buzzword. into an eco-friendly, world-class hotel while incorporating the culture of the locality into its operations. Heritance Kandalama Sustainability is a core belief of Aitken Spence hotels, had the distinction of being highlighted by the United Nations and indeed one of its competitive advantages. All World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) in 2011 in its compendium hotels across the Group ensure that an integrated of case studies on best practices in ecotourism. Heritance sustainability policy is implemented in every Ahungalla became the first hotel in Sri Lanka to receive ISO conceivable operational process, across all functions 50001:2011 certification for its Energy Management System and levels. They adopt best practices in environmental while the Group’s hotels swept the boards at the National Energy and social governance in alignment with the principles Efficiency Awards 2011, winning Gold (Heritance Kandalama), 34 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information Silver (Heritance Tea Factory) and Bronze (Heritance Ahungalla) in the Large Scale Hotel Sector category. Aitken Spence hotels have pioneered the concept of environmental conservation in the Aitken Spence Group as well “Aitken Spence hotels have pioneered as the Sri Lankan tourism industry. Environmental Management the concept of environmental Systems (EMS) were introduced to the Group through examples conservation in the Aitken Spence from the iconic internationally awarded Heritance Kandalama Group as well as the Sri Lankan Tourism Industry. Environmental hotel. All Heritance properties and The Sands Kalutara are ISO Management Systems (EMS) were 14001 certified; they practice the 7R principle to isolate and introduced to the Group through examples from the iconic internationally manage waste resources with the ultimate objective of releasing awarded Heritance Kandalama hotel...” zero waste. All water discharged from the hotels is treated and reused in gardening, and in cisterns at staff washrooms thereby reducing the use of freshwater. At Heritance Tea Factory, only organic fertilizer is used on the tea plantation and the vegetable garden while the rainwater harvesting system at the Heritance Tea Factory has a capacity of 100,000 litres. The Group’s energy conservation policy focuses on reducing dependence on fossil fuels by employing renewable energy sources. Both Heritance Tea Factory and Heritance Kandalama have biomass gasifiers on their premises, which help reduce 750 tonnes of carbon emissions per year by using Gliricidia wood instead of fossil fuel. The gasifiers are also a boon to local communities, who earn over USD 110,000 per year by cultivating Gliricidia. Overall, the Group’s hotels have reduced their dependence on diesel by 300,000 litres. In addition, Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera employs solar-powered hot water systems, which preheat the water before it enters heat exchangers, thereby reducing energy consumption. The hotel will be saving 1,417 liters of furnace oil consumed by the boiler annually, thus mitigating its carbon footprint by 4.6 tonnes. The very first Aitken Spence property in Sri Lanka, Neptune Hotel, reopened during the year as Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedera. Leveraging on innovative renewable energy strategies, it became the first Sri Lankan hotel to enter into a net metering agreement using solar photovoltaic as the renewable energy source. The electricity saved through this system each year is 4,639 kWh, equivalent to about 3.4 tonnes of carbon emissions offset. The hotel also has a biogas plant which uses kitchen garbage as the primary source for the production of biogas which is utilized in the herbal preparation unit of the ayurveda resort. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 35 TOURISM The sector has begun calculating the carbon footprint In this context, it is important to leverage growing markets such at Heritance Kandalama, with the assistance of external as China and India by offering the products and pricing demanded resource persons. The engineering team of the sector by those markets. is also carrying out an in-house measurement of fuel usage and carbon emissions at all other hotels using The improved air access into Sri Lanka is welcomed; low cost existing mechanisms. carriers in particular, must be encouraged as they have proven to have a huge impact on driving volumes in most destinations. In Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., once again order to reap the benefits of improved access, it is vital that became the only hotel company to be listed among normal market forces are allowed to operate in the determination the top 10 companies in the STING Corporate of pricing. Accountability Index of 2012, up one place from last year. Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd., The industry requires a more meaningful and credible analysis of has also maintained their Gold classification in the arrival statistics. Genuine tourist arrivals are clouded by high Index. numbers of transit travellers, those visiting friends and relatives, business and trader traffic. Although there is an increase in leisure The destination management segment of the Group arrivals, the tour operator arrivals and the upper end of the market enjoyed its best year on record, strengthening its seem to be declining. It is also of vital importance to market the leadership position with a substantial growth year on destination effectively. The absence of this may result in the loss year. of confidence of traditional tour operators and in addition the country would be unable to attract the upper end of the market. Arrivals from European markets have shown a decline during the year, especially in the charter segment, The destination management market has seen rapid and which is expected to dwindle over the next few years. sometimes unexpected changes in the recent past – for example, 36 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information the introduction of a visa system still poses an impediment compared to competitor markets while some price increases at tourist sites cannot be substantiated in comparison to the offerings of competing destinations. These policy changes have compelled the segment to be agile in its adaptability to meet “Aitken Spence Travels became part of the challenges. Further the segment is actively developing Worldcome, a TUI-led initiative that capabilities on several product platforms including cruise brings together leading destination management companies (DMC) from handling, meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibtions 22 countries to leverage on their (MICE) tourism and adventure tourism. strengths to reap common benefits. The alliance, with common service standards, thus became the largest During the year, Aitken Spence Travels became part of DMC network worldwide...” Worldcome, a TUI-led initiative that brings together leading destination management companies (DMC) from 22 countries to leverage on their strengths to reap common benefits. The alliance, with common service standards, thus became the largest DMC network worldwide. Aitken Spence has made a significant contribution to the launch of Worldcome which was recognized at Internationale Tourismus – Borse, Berlin (ITB) fair in March 2012. The segment’s carbon footprint consists mainly of its significant usage of fuel in the transport division and being mindful of this, several strategic initiatives have been taken to optimize fuel usage efficiency such as combining transfers and maintaining vehicle running charts. These measures have contributed to the reduction of the annual consumption by about 50,000 liters of fuel. The segment is also promoting eco-friendly tours which encourage clients to get to know the biodiversity and ecosystems of the country and participate in environmental conservation efforts. Marking World Environment Day, the segment in partnership with its joint venture partner TUI also carried out capacity building programmes for staff members and chauffeur guides on the forest diversity of Sri Lanka. Mindful of the need to pass on the benefits of tourism to local communities, Aitken Spence Travels works with local suppliers wherever possible. In fact, 100% of safari vehicles, 50% of transportation and 30% of tour guides are sourced from local communities. Home stays and temple stays have been introduced to give tourists a flavor of a true Sri Lankan culture while providing a livelihood to local families. This programme which had the patronage of the French market was extended to the Benelux nations as well as South America. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 37 TOURISM Aitken Spence Travels continued with community airfare and as well as on the fuel surcharges from January 2012. development initiatives in associations with its Towards the end of 2011/12, prices were reduced by 30 – 35% principals – this year, the Arep Incentive, France on several popular sectors, a move that has already seen supported the construction of class rooms at Anula impressive demand. Wijerama Children’s Home, Balapitiya at a cost of over Rs 2 million. This project is entirely facilitated by Aitken With fuel prices at high levels, the current industry downturn is Spence Travels and once completed, the classroom likely to continue over the next two years, posing significant will accommodate 50 girls for training in various skills challenges to the General Sales Agency operation. including computer literacy and sewing. Meanwhile in March 2012, the International Air Transport The ISO 9001 certified company gives priority to Association (IATA) suspended Kingfisher Airlines from the Billing service quality and has made further investments Settlement Plan (BSP) due to the continued financial crisis faced during the year to strengthen its customer feedback by the airline. As a result of this, the continuation of the segment’s and complaint management system. General Sales Agency (GSA) operations of the Airline became unviable and lead to the termination of the GSA agreement with Singapore Airlines’ (SIA) operations in Sri Lanka came effect from 31st March 2012. under pressure during the year amid heightened price competition in a global scenario of weakening travel and cargo spend. SIA Sri Lanka made several changes to its pricing and commission policy during the year, in response to the market conditions and began to pay commissions on 38 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Senior Management Team Mr. A.A.H.M.M. Ali Mr. D.J. de Crusz Mr. C.L.B. Ekanayake Mr. S.T.B. Ellepola Mr. G.P.J. Goonewardene Mr. J.T.P. Gunawardana Mr. M.H. Jayah Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera Mr. T.D.U.D. Peiris Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 39 TOURISM * Names in alphabetical order. Mr. D.D. Perera Mr. P.L. Perera Mr. R.S. Rajaratne Mr. N. Ratwatte Mr. H.P.N. Rodrigo Mr. B.H.R. Sariffodeen Mr. D.D.A. Soza Mr. R. Subramaniam Mr. D.L. Warawita Mr. M.P. Wijesekera 40 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information The global economic slowdown was reflected in the “The Cargo Logistics sector performance of the cargo handling, ports and civil of the Group recorded its best aviation sub sector of the Sri Lankan economy, which recorded a decelerated growth of 7.2% compared performance to date achieving a with 16.8% in 2010. 4.3 million Twenty Foot Equivalent Units (TEUs) were handled at the Port of Colombo profit from operations of Rs. 846.8 during the calendar year 2011 – a growth of just 3.0% million, which was a 40.7% growth year on year. Transshipment volumes accounted for 75% of the total throughput volume. During the year over the previous year...” the transshipment volumes recorded only a growth of 0.3% while the domestic TEU volumes grew by 12.3%. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 41 CARGO LOGISTICS External trade of the country expanded with imports Revenue Profit from Operations The % of Sector increasing by 50.7% in 2011, compared to the 31.8% for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Profit before Tax in comparison to Group PBT increase in 2010. Exports witnessed a growth of for the year ended 31st March 22.4% in 2011 against the 21.8% increase in 2010. A Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 5,000 1,000 sharp rise in imports of motor vehicles by 93.6% contributed to a 47.5% growth in consumer goods 4,000 800 imports while the infrastructure boom in the country 3,000 600 led to a 55.4% increase in imports of investment 16% 2,000 400 goods. Imports of intermediate goods such as 1,000 200 petroleum, fertilizer and raw material recorded an increase of 52.4%. The country’s main export 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 continued to be garments, which performed well to 42 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information overcome the withdrawal of GSP+ concessions and recorded a 24.9% growth in earnings and a 13.5% increase in volumes. Industrial exports grew by 31.1% during the year while agricultural exports increased by 9.7%. However the reduced world market demand for tea and other agricultural produce led to a 2.5% drop in agricultural export volumes. In this backdrop the Cargo Logistics sector of the Group “During the year, Aitken Spence became the largest shareholder of recorded its best performance to date achieving a profit from Colombo International Nautical and operations of Rs. 846.8 million, which was a 40.7% growth Engineering College (CINEC), the largest private sector maritime higher over the previous year. This profitability was generated from a education campus in Sri Lanka...” revenue that grew by 13.9% over the previous year to Rs. 4.7 billion. The maritime segment enjoyed a growth in profitability of over 80% during the year, recording the highest pre-tax profitability in the company’s history. The segment’s performance was commendable given the immense competitive pressure faced by the global maritime industry. The containerised shipping industry saw an increase in capacity of 7.9% in 2011 due to new vessels constructed coming on stream during the year. By comparison the container traffic on the Asia-Europe sea lane experienced a drop of 3.4% in west-bound volumes and a drop of 1.3% in east-bound volumes. Freight rates from Asia to Europe experienced a 59.7% decline and a 66.9% decline was witnessed in the rates from Asia to the Mediterranean during the calendar year 2011. To further aggravate the situation, the increase in oil prices in the world market drastically affected the operating costs of shipping lines, resulting in all the major carriers posting huge losses in 2011. The main thrust of the segment’s growth was from the port efficiency enhancement operations in the African continent. Aitken Spence is consistently conscious of the opportunities that would develop for organisations with proven expertise, such as Aitken Spence, to become involved in port efficiency enhancement projects in new markets. It is thus pursuing a long-term directional shift from being service-related to becoming an investment-driven operation. During the year, Aitken Spence became the largest shareholder of Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (CINEC), the largest private sector maritime and higher education campus in Sri Lanka. The Group envisages to harness its expertise in management disciplines to extend CINEC Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 43 CARGO LOGISTICS educational programmes to other industries. The Today, four large alliances control approximately 83% of global investment is in line with the maritime segment’s capacity posing huge challenges to port operators, importers and sustainability focus, which lies in youth empowerment exporters, who must brace themselves for the fallout with through capacity building in related industries. appropriate strategies. Ultra-large container carriers are gradually coming on stream, increasing capacity on the one hand but on The Group re-evaluated its involvement in the the other, creating pressure on freight rates. Larger vessels will call construction and development of the South Container at fewer ports and the onus is on the Port of Colombo to make Terminal at the Port of Colombo in the light of its services attractive by achieving world class standards of unfeasible projected construction cost escalations. The operational efficiency. 30% stake held by Aitken Spence was sold to its consortium partner China Merchants Holdings The segment’s port efficiency enhancement and terminal (International) Company Limited, in the best interests management services company, Port Management Container of the shareholders of Aitken Spence, while making a Services Ltd., was one of the three shortlisted finalists for the noteworthy capital gain. Investment in People award at the inaugural Containerisation International Awards held in London last year. The Containerisation The near term outlook for the maritime industry is International Awards was the first global ceremony held to somewhat bleak as the sovereign debt crisis in Europe acknowledge and recognize the leaders, achievers and innovators does not show any sign of abatement, with many in the container shipping industry, who have over the past year nations taking measures to curb imports and impose made an outstanding contribution by being innovative, proactive austerity measures to reduce spending. Worldwide, and pioneering. there is also a trend of rationalisation among major operators who have formed alliances to achieve The logistics segment of the Group which handles the land based consolidation and higher resource utilisation levels. logistics continued its good performance, marking the sixth year 44 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information of continuous growth and quadrupling earnings during that period. The largest player offering a full spectrum of logistics services, the segment continued to invest in capacity building at its depot operation, container freight station (CFS), warehousing, mobile storage, transportation, container repairs and specialised cargo movement divisions. “The container freight station The container freight station operations made an exceptional operations made an exceptional contribution during the year marking contribution during the year. 2011/12 marked the first full year the first full year of commercial of commercial operations since the investment into Logilink operations since the investment into Logilink (Pvt) Ltd., the specialised CFS (Pvt) Ltd., the specialised CFS for garments. The facility has for garments...” functioned at full capacity during the year and further expansion is planned to cater to increasing demand. The warehousing division reaped the benefits of innovation, performing extremely well, while seeking avenues for expansion. During ensuing year, the division plans to invest in a major IT drive, with a view to automating all sectors within the division and thereby gaining efficiencies and competitive advantage. The segment enhanced its container handling capacity with a Rs. 120 million investment in three new container handlers, leading to greater efficiency and a reduced load on existing machinery. Taking note of the massive increase in vehicle imports, selected container storage space was converted to automobile storage to meet the increasing demand for storage of vehicles. The yard hard surfacing work in Mabole is nearing completion despite several setbacks due to bad weather and space constraints; enabling the facility to become by far the best and largest container depot facility in the country. The special operations division was involved in two major projects during the year, as the logistics partner to transport over dimensional cargo. The infrastructure development taking place in Sri Lanka offers many opportunities for the division. The transport division operates the largest fleet of container trucks as well as the largest private sector fleet for bulk liquid transportation in the country. The dry weather conditions necessitated greater energy generation, and therefore the bulk fuel transportation operation functioned at full capacity during the year. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 45 CARGO LOGISTICS The division welcomes the decision by the authorities it is promising to note that the export of perishables gradually to allow heavy vehicles on the Southern expressway picked up in Sri Lanka thereby bridging the gap to a certain which will enable the division to benefit from reduced degree. travel time between Galle and Colombo from three hours to one hour, leading to better fuel efficiency, low Consequently ocean freight division recorded a significant growth maintenance and most importantly, reduced driver during the year, benefiting from the overflow of customers opting fatigue. The division is also addressing efficiency out of air freight and from newly adopted marketing strategies enhancement by installing GPS trackers on all vehicles which focus on local sales rather than network sales overseas. As for better monitoring. more and more exporters shift to ocean freight as a cheaper mode, the division stands ready to strengthen its presence during The logistics segment is planning to expand into total the coming year. supply chain management in the forthcoming year, using its resources and its network of principals to offer The brokerage division performed well, with the hallmarks of a total logistics solution to large customers. The future safety and reliability of operations, attracting and retaining key of the sector lies in this direction and the expertise customers in the areas of apparel, tyres and project cargo. The acquired by the division backed by the stability of the division foresees several challenges during the coming year, Group allows the segment to explore this avenue. including fluctuations in fuel prices and exchange rates which cause dramatic cost escalations and drops in import volumes. A The fuel price fluctuation is of grave concern for the further concern is the slowdown in European demand for segment. As such, the segment is exploring alternatives garments and hence the impact on exports especially as several which can better utilise existing resources. The supply emerging markets such as Africa and Vietnam are posing potential of skilled labour is another area of concern, as blue competition to markets such as Sri Lanka. collar jobs are becoming less attractive to youth. Reliant as it is on trained and professional drivers, the Domestic supply chain management operations, mainly in segment emphasizes the need for structured training support of rehabilitation and resettlement activities in the North for heavy vehicle drivers in order to improve road and East have slowed down and the division is seeking alternative safety. opportunities. The domestic express operations meanwhile have shown a continuous growth. The logistics segment has embarked on the initiative of putting in place a sustainable environmental The international express division which represents TNT Express management system and is in the process of drafting in Sri Lanka witnessed volume growth despite Europe being its a suitable manual. The division will be championing main market. The increase in volumes however has not been the cause of Occupational Health and Safety in this reflected in contribution due to unfavourable movements in endeavour. cross exchange rates and additional security surcharges. The division has earmarked potential growth markets and has The freight forwarding segment experienced the ripple strengthened marketing efforts in relevant countries. effects of tough global conditions, as the slowdown in the European and the US economies continued The division functions as cargo General Sales Agent (GSA) for throughout 2011. Worldwide air freight cargo three airlines – Qatar Airways, Kingfisher Airlines and Laudair. movements experienced a nearly 40% decline with Qatar Airways which appointed the division as Cargo GSA in customers switching the mode of transport to sea. The October 2011, is the only airline operating freighters out of Sri segment is a freight partner to high end retail stores in Lanka and fared exceptionally well during the six months of Europe, many of whom scaled down operations operation. The high service levels enabled Qatar Airways to enjoy during the year, and opted for fewer movements, a high 80-90% yield on most flights, with perishable cargo, which are mostly restricted to ocean freight. However accounting for the bulk of the volumes. The Bangladesh subsidiary 46 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information was also appointed cargo agent for United Airlines, which merged with Continental Airlines during the year to become one of the largest airlines in the world. This segment has vast potential if a turnaround of the US economy is witnessed. “The freight forwarding segment has chosen to champion Green Freight The segment’s reputation and credibility as a strong operator in Forwarding as its sustainability focus. Malè since 2004 led to its selection over several other bidders Having completed implementing its as the GSA for Sri Lankan Airlines cargo in the Maldives. Environment Management System, the sector had the distinction of becoming Sri Lankan Airlines operates 32 flights per week from Malè, the one of the first companies in the second highest frequency after Colombo. The segment’s proven international freight forwarding industry in Sri Lanka to obtain ISO 14001 strengths in Malè enable it to now offer its experience and certification...” expertise in a wider spectrum of freight services to the country. The global express market is witnessing the merger of two giants following the acquisition of TNT Express by UPS. As the local partner for TNT for over three decades, Aitken Spence views this merger as a positive development and is optimistic about the future of the business. The sustainability of freight forwarding businesses in Sri Lanka lies heavily with the private sector; as such, policymakers are urged to encourage growth by relaxing red tape and regulations to improve the ease of doing business in Sri Lanka. While strengthening its position in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Maldives, Aitken Spence is actively seeking overseas expansion in India and Pakistan. The segment will also make efforts to develop and capitalise on intra Asian business opportunities. The freight forwarding segment has chosen to champion Green Freight Forwarding as its sustainability focus. Having completed implementing its Environment Management System, the sector had the distinction of becoming one of the first companies in the international freight forwarding industry in Sri Lanka to obtain ISO 14001 certification. The segment has maintained an ISO certified quality management system for over fifteen years and is currently ISO 9001: 2008 certified. The segment has provided support to community service projects in line with Millennium Development Goal no. 2 which is “Achieve Universal Primary Education” while its principal TNT continues to be a donor and logistics partner for ‘Walk the World’, a global initiative to raise funds for the UN World Food Programme’s school feeding project. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 47 CARGO LOGISTICS Senior Management Team * Names in alphabetical order. Mr. K.R. Aluwihare Mr. A.M.M. Amir Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony Mr. J.E. Brohier Mr. I.S. Cuttilan Mr. D.R.C. Hindurangala Mr. A. Jayasekera Mr. F.P. Paiva Mr. N.D.F. Perera 48 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information The Strategic Investments sector recorded a net “The Strategic Investments revenue of Rs. 14.0 billion for the financial year sector recorded a net profit from 2011/12 compared to Rs. 10.7 billion achieved in the previous year. Its net profit from operations stood at operations of Rs. 1.1 billion, a 17.7% Rs. 1.1 billion, a 17.7% year on year increase. The sector accounted for 20.2% of the Group’s profit from year on year increase. The sector operations. accounted for 20.2% of the Group’s The power segment continued to achieve a positive profit from operations...” performance during the year, whilst moving forward with its initiatives for the generation of renewable energy in Sri Lanka and taking its first steps to venture Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 49 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS overseas to set up and operate power generation Revenue Profit from Operations The % of Sector plants in the region. These positive results were for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Profit before Tax in comparison to Group PBT achieved despite the significant impact of a 4-month for the year ended 31st March closure of the segment’s main power plant in Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 20,000 2,000 Embilipitiya from April to August 2011 due to a technical failure which was subsequently corrected by 15,000 1,500 the equipment supplier. The term of the Power 10,000 1,000 Purchase Agreement of the Matara power plant ended 18% in March 2012 and negotiations for an extension are 5,000 500 underway. 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 50 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information Aitken Spence was successful in the entry to the power generation industry in Bangladesh during the year. It was able to secure two thermal power projects through a competitive bidding process. The segment has currently been awarded the Letters of Intent for these two power plants which have a total capacity of 200MW and is expecting to finalise the remaining “the Group’s Embilipitiya plant is documentation by mid 2012/2013. In view of the limited situated on a 44 acre property of which 34 acres have been converted into a opportunities in Sri Lanka for the power segment, Bangladesh sustainable model garden project that offers much scope for expansion. includes nearly 15,000 plants, medicinal herbs, rare endemic species, agricultural projects, animal husbandry The segment continues to focus on developing power and an apiary...” generation plants through the use of renewable sources of energy. During the year it constructed a 2.5 MW mini hydro power plant at Matale and is also developing a 3MW wind power plant at Ambewela. The segment is awaiting approval for a 10MW waste-to-energy project which will use municipal solid waste collected by the Colombo Municipal Council. There are substantial, proven benefits of renewable energy and it is critical that this sector be opened to private sector participation, in order to reduce the country’s dependence on fossil fuel imports. The power generation companies of Aitken Spence are among the first power generation companies in Sri Lanka to have certified Environmental (ISO 14001), Quality (ISO 9001) and Occupational Health & Safety (OHSAS 18001) management systems for all its power plants. The segment is in the process of implementing an integrated management system combining these three management systems for the central head office and hopes to obtain certification for them within the next year. All power plants continuously strive to improve their generation systems to increase efficiency. Periodic monitoring is done by independent authorities to confirm compliance of emission, noise and effluent levels within the permitted limits. The power segment has been innovative in its approach to resolving environmental concerns. During the year, the Horana power plant introduced a mechanism to clean used food wrappers using easily available utensils so that the polythene sheets could be recycled. At Embilipitiya, a campaign was launched to make its premises “Polythene Free”. While the power plants in Horana and Matara are within industrial zones, the Embilipitiya plant is situated on a 44 acre property of which 34 acres have been converted into a sustainable model garden project that includes nearly 15,000 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 51 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS plants, medicinal herbs, rare endemic species, export markets. Sri Lanka has lately witnessed a proliferation of agricultural projects, animal husbandry and an apiary. small players pushing the printing industry towards saturation. All three power plants have taken necessary steps to However the size, technology and capacity of the Group’s printing mitigate any significant direct and indirect impacts on operation enables it to successfully differentiate itself as a faster, the environment due to their operations. While higher quality printing partner with the ability to meet time targets maintaining the criteria set forth by the Central of the customer, which are increasingly moving towards Environmental Authority, Aitken Spence Power just-in-time production processes. During the year, the segment performs above and beyond compliance to protect undertook further automation of several processes, with a view to the environment. reducing lead time while also introducing high value added printing effects and finishes to niche markets. The segment is The sustainable development efforts of Aitken Spence also seeking overseas expansion for its packaging and book Power also focuses on “Youth Empowerment”, with printing solutions, and is initially targeting the Australian, South projects carried out to facilitate the independence and African and Middle Eastern markets. self-sufficiency of youth in nearby communities. In Matara, Aitken Spence Power has assisted in the Operations have begun at the newly constructed state-of-the-art improvement of facilities in schools while in factory complex in Mawaramandiya. A fully streamlined production Embilipitiya, local youth are being trained in the English process will be in place by the first quarter of 2012/13. The language. facility is in the process of obtaining the LEED Gold certification by the United States Green Building Council and it will be the first The printing segment enjoyed a satisfactory year, environmentally friendly green printing facility in Sri Lanka for its regaining market share in the packaging industry and sustainable design which encompasses natural lighting, rainwater enhancing capacities to position itself as a preferred harvesting, waste water treatment and an energy efficient air print partner for high quality products for local and conditioning system. It has also calculated the carbon foot print of 52 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information the new facility and are working towards reaching carbon neutral status. The new premises have been designed to maximize the use of resources, especially paper and board through a streamlined production process that delivers greater efficiency and less wastage. “Operations have begun at the newly constructed state-of-the-art factory complex in Mawaramandiya. A fully The segment’s Environmental Management System will be streamlined production process will be in revised and re-implemented at Mawaramandiya, following place by the first quarter of 2012/13. The facility is in the process of obtaining the which it will seek ISO 14001 certification. Attention to employee LEED Gold certification by the United health and safety is addressed through a trained health and States Green Building Council, and it will be the first environmentally friendly green safety committee which oversees all activities and carries out printing facility in Sri Lanka...” hazard spotting exercises. Aitken Spence Printing implemented a quality management system and obtained ISO 9001: 2008 certification during the year. Furthermore the company won 3 Distinction awards and 4 Merit awards at the Sri Lanka Print Exhibition Collate & Awards organised by the Sri Lanka Association of Printers and several awards at the Lanka Star awards conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Packaging. The Group’s garment manufacturing segment posted a substantial improvement in performance this year, resulting from a strategic focus on operational and production efficiency, waste management, human resource management and stronger relationships with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The segment achieved a record year on year growth, a significant achievement given that capacity was not expanded. Going forward the rising cost of oil, electricity and other utilities pose a burden on production costs. This has necessitated structured and scientific solutions, which have already been implemented to reduce the adverse impact on production costs. The segment endorses the ‘Garments without Guilt’ pledge of the Sri Lankan apparel industry and upholds the policies on antidiscrimination and provides equal opportunities irrespective of gender, age, ethnicity and religion. It also has strong policies with respect to human rights of employees. In addition to this the segment also utilises an environmental management policy and an occupational health and safety policy to guide its operational activities. Regularly, the segment conducts training programmes and integrated internal audits of environmental impacts, security procedures, health & safety and metal free policy requirements. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 53 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS Several measures have been implemented to increase The plantations industry had a difficult 2011/12, with the effects energy efficiency at the production facilities. An of yet another unsubstantiated wage increase, one of the highest evaporative cooling system has been introduced at the on record. Since privatisation in 1992, the plantation industry has factory to improve working conditions. Skylights experienced significant increases in wages that has unfortunately installed recently at the factory have reduced the use not been matched with an increase in production. Macroeconomic of lights within the factory premises thereby dropping conditions, especially the tensions in the Middle East and the the energy consumption by an estimated 460 GJ downturn in Europe, have had downward pressure on commodity (129,000 kWh) per annum. This is almost 100 metric prices, exacerbating the issues faced by the local tea plantation tonnes of carbon emissions reduced. The segment community. ensures the segregation and proper disposal of waste material as well as waste water treatment. However, Elpitiya Plantations has been able to cushion the losses arising from tea with substantial profits from its diversification into Compliance with quality management systems and rubber, palm oil and hydro power. The company has continued maintaining quality and standards are important to the to diversify its asset base, moving into high growth areas less continuity of any business. The segment deals with vulnerable to commodity issues and is confident that these responsible vendors who require the manufacturer of measures will bear fruit soon. In a bid to optimize productivity, the their garments to adhere to responsible manufacturing, plantation conducted accelerated training and development, and a commitment that the segment endorses. In an effort increased the efficiency of its resource allocation by right-sizing to transparently disseminate its own practices to operations. The company has engaged the trade unions in ways customers, Aitken Spence Garments uploads all of improving productivity and it is hoped these discussions will information, policies and procedures relating to its provide a breakthrough in achieving higher levels of productivity activities on to a customer chain website where it is which will benefit both parties. freely available for evaluation. 54 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information At an industry level, the company has recognised that the tea has invested in a 560 kW mini hydro power project on industry is at a critical juncture and has submitted several Sheen estate. The annual generation from the project mitigating measures to the relevant authorities, calling for a nearly matches the power consumption of the cohesive and concerted effort by all stakeholders to ensure the plantation; proof that responsible corporate citizens future sustainability of the industry. Given the importance of the can meet energy needs through renewable sources. industry and the resources at stake, it is imperative that a The carbon emission reduced from the mini hydro comprehensive and pragmatic plan is put in motion. It is also power plant at Sheen estate is 1,170 tonnes. The unfortunate that expansion plans have been constrained by the plantation has identified a further four sites for similar curtailment of credit and the lack of long term funding to mini hydro projects, ranging in capacity from 200 kW plantation companies. Steps must be taken to improve this to 900 kW. mismatch by providing long term loans for agricultural investments, which by nature involves long term returns. The plantation segment engages with the community by extending healthcare and welfare, infrastructure Elpitiya Plantations and the plantation sector in general provide development, education and skills development, great opportunities for the development of land for commercial crèche and child development facilities, among the forestry as well as to meet the rising needs of food security. workforce. Established mechanisms to communicate Diversification into these areas calls for a mindset change that with the community include the Estate Worker Housing embraces the concept of sustainability. This also requires new Cooperative Society, Crèche Development Committee, skills to be developed and built among employees to take Mid-Day Meal Project, Road Rehabilitation Project and advantage of the new economic opportunities. Welfare Societies. Having identified the critical needs, the segment has undertaken development work on The segment has unrolled strategic sustainability programmes field rest rooms, water schemes, play grounds, places with key stakeholders across its 15 plantations, which cover of worship and roads. 8,851 hectares. During the year, a new secondary level waste water treatment unit was constructed at Deviturai Estate, Elpitiya Plantations operate about 45 crèche facilities encompassing anaerobic and aerobic tanks and a clarifier tank, at the estates, where the highest standards of to reduce the impact of waste water generated from the healthcare and welfare are maintained. The plantation’s manufacture of rubber. crèches have been uplifted to Child Development Centres (CDCs) with qualified and trained child Five of the factories have certified ISO 22000/HACCP: 2005 development officers overseeing operations. The CDC food safety systems, with the others also in the process of of Gulugahakanda estate received recognition as the obtaining certification. Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Ltd., “Best Child Development Centre” by the Plantation which manufactures furniture for export, received the Forestry Human Development Trust while at regional level, the Stewardship Certificate (FSC) accreditation from the Control Trust recognised the General Manager of Talgaswella Union of Certifications of Netherlands. Its entire wood Estate as the Best Manager for his “Outstanding requirement for production and for heating is sourced from Achievements in Improving the Quality of Life of managed forests. The plantation also boasts of a forestry Workers and Worker Families on the Estate”. management programme which preserves the eco system of the plantations, and enhances their environmental value. Already, over 700 hectares of forest have been planted. Through various energy efficiency and conservation efforts the plantation segment has saved approximately 1,000 GJ during the course of the year. Contributing towards increasing cleaner energy sources in the national energy portfolio, the segment Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 55 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS Senior Management Team * Names in alphabetical order. Mr. C.R.F. de Costa Mr. J.S.A. Fernando Mr. A.L.W. Goonewardena Mr. P. Karunathilake Ms. R.I.D. Katipearachchi Mr. M.S. Mohideen Mr. R.T.B. Navaratne Mr. V.S. Premawardhana Mr. S.B.C. Wijedasa 56 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information The Services sector of the Aitken Spence Group recorded “The Services sector’s net profit a net revenue of Rs. 1.7 billion during the financial year from operations stood at Rs. 977.6 2011/12, achieving a 13.3% growth over the previous year. The Sector’s net profit from operations stood at Rs. million up from Rs. 791.6 million 977.6 million up from Rs. 791.6 million recorded last year. recorded last year...” MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd, (MMBL) a joint venture company of the Group, which is the largest principal agent for Western Union in Sri Lanka recorded a healthy growth during the year mirroring the growth in inward remittances received by the country which amounted to USD 5.15 billion. The revenue expansion in the country Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 57 SERVICES was from the Western, North Western and Eastern Revenue Profit from Operations The % of Sector provinces. Among the currently active corridors for for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Profit before Tax in comparison to Group PBT inward remittances are the Middle East and Western for the year ended 31st March Europe markets. There exists far greater potential for Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 2,000 Western Union in Sri Lanka and in a bid to garner new markets MMBL has begun strategically promoting the Sri 1,500 Lanka corridor in remittance generating markets such as South Korea, South East Asia and Canada to expand its 1,000 18% reach. The strategies and investments rolled out during 500 the year are expected to translate into positive results during the coming year. 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 58 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information The segment’s sub agent network stood at over 2,000 as at year end, following a critical evaluation and ratinalisation of the network with a view to reducing dormancy levels. Locations of MMBL agents did the company proud at “WU & You Sri Lanka 2011”, a programme organised by Western Union to honour the best performing “Locations of MMBL agents did the locations within their Sri Lanka network. MMBL locations made up company proud at “WU & You Sri Lanka 67 of the 91 locations recognised including 4 of the top 5 locations 2011”, a programme organised by Western Union to honour the best in Sri Lanka. performing locations within their Sri Lanka network. MMBL locations made The company’s key focus in sustainable development is to build up 67 of the 91 locations recognised including 4 of the top 5 locations in Sri awareness and capacity within local communities on minimising Lanka...” risk by transferring their money through legal channels. The programme known as “Remittance Literacy and Business Clinics” is facilitated by MMBL resource personnel in partnership with Sarvodaya SEEDS (Sarvodaya Economic Enterprises Development Services). In conforming to the Group’s sustainable development programme, MMBL completed its environmental management system manuals during 2011/12. The segment has targeted to increase the number of transactions per bundle in order to reduce paper usage. Within one year, it has achieved a 17.8% reduction in its paper requirement, and has now set a reduction target of 80% – 90%. MMBL also conducted programmes to disseminate its sustainability efforts to their business development officers throughout the country. The operations and maintenance (O&M) service at the power plants recorded an extremely busy year particularly at Embilipitiya where but for the unstinting and committed labours of our staff and engineers the plant shut down which occurred as a result of a technical failure would have been longer. The segment has proven its ability to manage major repairs with in-house resources and as such, is seeking opportunities to offer its expertise outside the Group with the competitive advantage of being the only such entity to possess ISO 9001, ISO 18001 and ISO 14001 certification. Strengthening its human resource capabilities, extensive external training was undertaken during the year to improve the specialist skills required by the industry. The elevator agency segment of the Group continues to benefit from the construction boom in Sri Lanka, which has brought with it growing opportunities for new installations. During the year, the segment secured several contracts for prestigious new projects in Colombo, and also extended its presence throughout Sri Lanka, the benefits of which will reflect in enhanced maintenance revenues in Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 59 SERVICES the future. The segment is confident about its future The insurance segment, which began specialised surveys last year, had prospects in the light of the rapid growth of mega a successful year securing the survey of the largest shipping/cargo construction projects in the country, including hospitals, operation in the Port of Hambantota todate. The segment also carried hotels, malls, and apartment complexes. Gearing itself out a large number of hull and machinery surveys at the ports of Galle to capitalise on these opportunities, the segment has and Colombo and also on vessels captured and released by Somalian taken steps with the support of its principal OTIS, to pirates. enhance the skill base of its staff. The segment continues its engagement with the World Food The safety of passengers and employees and the Programme (WFP) as superintendents for its projects in Sri Lanka and provision of a high quality service are critical factors for the Maldives. The projects include emergency food aid to internally Elevators, which maintains regular contact with clients in displaced persons, provision of nutritional supplements for pregnant order to ensure that the segment is kept aware of women and children and meals for school children. In the dispersal of feedback. An in-house safety engineer leads a trained its duties, the segment often works beyond their contractual obligations safety team while weekly programmes are conducted to in order to get aid to those in need faster. As a long-term partner of the upgrade and assure safety skills of employees. WFP, Aitken Spence resource personnel also assist the UN agency in its logistics development workshops at Vavuniya and Colombo. As part of the segment’s commitment to the environment, waste is segregated and recycled or Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., (ASPDL) and disposed in an environmentally friendly manner. The Vauxhall Property Developments Ltd., (VPDL), own and operate the segment also promotes to the Sri Lankan market, energy Group’s office complexes “Aitken Spence Towers”. The two business efficient elevators with variable voltage, variable units abide by the integrated sustainability policy and work towards frequency regenerative type drive systems that consume implementing the essential action points of the policy, with a focus on 40% less energy compared to a conventional elevator. energy efficiency, water conservation, waste resource management and occupational health and safety. 60 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Management Discussion and Analysis Sector information Aitken Spence Tower II, the corporate head office of the Group, has partner and an authorised training centre for Oracle a state-of-the-art building management system with several university; a move into education which addresses the technological features that enable energy saving. The system, high demand for Oracle certified personnel. The company implemented and managed by the property segment is continuously had the distinction of being recognised as ‘Oracle Partner improved through the introduction of new features. Most recently, of the Year 2011 for Fusion Middleware’, becoming one of faucets in the staff lunch room were replaced with those fitted with just 5 winners; a creditable recognition in its very first year motion sensors to reduce water consumption while naturally cool of operations. clay pots replaced energy-consuming water dispensers. The Group’s financial shared services centre (FSSC) The occupational health & safety representative of the property continued to introduce process improvements across the segment has been given specialised training in first aid and hazard unit and championed the journey towards a paperless spotting, as the activities at these premises can potentially impact environment through further automation and the the neighbouring communities and the Beira lake which runs implementation of host-to-host online banking solutions. adjacent to the property. Constant monitoring takes place in order to In one of the key initiatives of the Group’s shift to a mitigate any negative impacts. The technical, maintenance, paperless environment, the Oracle document management administrative and externally sourced janitorial staff have also project was completed during the year. To date, over undergone refresher training in occupational health and safety as twenty applications have been automated Group-wide, well as the environmental management system. leading to tangible efficiency improvements. Nearly all financial processes of the Group companies including the The energy saved during the year at Aitken Spence Towers was Maldivian resorts are now managed centrally through the 788.12 GJ. Total carbon emission was calculated at 2,185.5 tonnes FSSC. During 2012/13, the FSSC will expand operations to of carbon dioxide and the carbon emissions reduced through encompass the power segment’s presence in Bangladesh collective efforts at the Aitken Spence Towers is 156.52 tonnes of and the cargo segment’s operations in the Maldives. carbon dioxide which suggests that the energy consumption per sq ft of the rentable area has reduced by 7.16%. Water consumption in The audit and risk management unit focused on operational the building has reduced by 6,384 m3. The office complex also has risk, with greater attention to system audits and process a rain water harvesting tank with a capacity of 121.67 m3 and the based audits. The most critical applications have now been harvested water is used in the cisterns in all the washrooms. stationed at a fully functional disaster recovery site, to enable the Group to function at near-normal pace during a Marking the Group’s recognition of information technology as a disaster situation. Group IT has begun the process of growth industry, the Group acquired the stake owned by Calsoft benchmarking its processes against international standards Group of India in Calspence Technologies, a joint venture company and will seek ISO 27001:9000 certification in 2012/13. making it a wholly owned subsidiary, and rebranded it ‘Aitken Spence Technologies’. While the entity’s first year of commercial operations Having identified the “Dissemination of Knowledge” met the expectations for operational growth, 2012/13 will see the among neighbourhood communities as a key sustainability company exploring avenues of expansion both organically and focus area, programmes that address leadership, etiquette, through acquisition, and is expected to be a year of accelerated personal hygiene, interview skills and career guidance have growth. been planned by the Company’s corporate services for youth within a 5km radius of the Aitken Spence corporate Aitken Spence Technologies is an Oracle Gold Level partner and a head office. Trial programmes are set to be held at the Girl member of the IBM PartnerNetwork, and operates three core lines Guides and Boy Scouts headquarters in the beginning of of businesses: Enterprise Content Management (ECM), Enterprise 2012/13. Resource Planning (ERP), both based on core-Oracle applications and technologies, and application development based on open source/Java technologies. The Company is an approved reseller Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 61 SERVICES Senior Management Team * Names in alphabetical order. Mr. J.V.A. Corera Mr. J.A.R.L. de Saram Mr. G.P.B.N. Gunarathne Mr. A.E.A. Perera Mr. R.G. Salgado Mr. A.N. Seneviratne Ms. W.A.D.L. Silva Mr. K.A.K. Wanniarachchi 62 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Financial Review Revenue Profit before Taxation Net Profit Attributable for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 35,000 6,000 4,000 30,000 3,500 5,000 25,000 3,000 4,000 2,500 20,000 3,000 2,000 15,000 1,500 2,000 10,000 1,000 5,000 1,000 500 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Profitability the south container terminal in the Port of Colombo. A total capital gain of Rs. 655 million was recorded during the Group Performance: financial year, through this disposal. The financial year 2011/12 was a year of consolidation and growth for the corporate sector in Sri Lanka. Despite the Sector Revenue and Profitability continuing turmoil in global markets Sri Lanka achieved a Tourism Sector commendable economic growth on the back of record tourist arrivals and post conflict infrastructure projects undertaken by Sri Lanka had the best year ever for tourism in 2011 with the Government. The Aitken Spence Group was able to reap 855,975 arrivals. This was a 30.8% growth over the previous rich dividends from investments made in key growth sectors, year with revenues of USD 830 million, an increase of 44.2%. reflecting its strategic foresight, meticulous planning and India remained the number one market for Sri Lanka project execution capabilities. generating 171,374 visitors while the United Kingdom and Germany were the main western markets with 106,082 and The Group achieved an outstanding growth in profitability 55,882 arrivals respectively. During the first quarter of the during the period. The consolidated net profit was Rs. 4.7 calendar year 2012 the number of arrivals increased by 21.1% billion of which Rs. 3.7 billion was attributable to the equity to 260,525 visitors. As a result visitor arrivals to Sri Lanka holders. The net profit was a 37.4 % increase over the previous during the financial year 2011/12 was 901,376, a 27.1% financial year while the profits attributable to shareholders increase over the previous financial year. increased by 46.3%. The Group achieved a net revenue growth of 22.0% to reach Rs. 30.7 billion during the financial During the financial year 2011/12 the Tourism sector of the year 2011/12. The main driving factors behind the results Group reported a 13.0 % growth in revenue to Rs. 11.3 billion achieved by the Group were the stellar performance of the whilst recording a 65.3% increase in profit from operations to Tourism and Cargo Logistics Sectors. Rs. 2.6 billion. The performance of the Tourism sector highlights the leading role played by the Aitken Spence Group The Group’s overseas operations, especially the Maldivian in marketing Sri Lanka as a sought after destination in South resorts, performed strongly during the year contributing Asia. The sector profitability was boosted by increased significantly to the profit before tax. The Group also made a occupancies and room rates as the Group moved gradually strategic decision during the year to dispose the 30% stake it towards the higher end of the tourism market by catering owned in the joint venture company incorporated to develop Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 63 more to the Free Independent Traveller (FIT) category as cost of production which was the direct result of the wage against the tour operator segment. increase that was implemented in the recent past. Cargo Logistics Sector Services Sector The Cargo Logistics sector reported a 13.9% growth in The Services sector, which comprises of the Group’s service revenue to Rs. 4.7 billion while profit from operations based operations, reported revenues of Rs. 1.7 billion during increased by 40.7% to Rs. 846.8 million during the financial the year under review, which is an increase of 13.3% over the year 2011/12. The growth in the sector was primarily driven previous financial year. by a combination of higher cargo volumes handled and a greater contribution from overseas operations. The sector The profit from operations of the sector increased by 23.5% increased its investment in the tertiary maritime education during the financial year 2011/12 to Rs. 977.6 million. sphere during the financial year and the Group is confident All segments of the sector, namely, elevator agency, money that this investment would provide a further impetus to the transfer, insurance agency and operations and maintenance of growth of the sector in the future. power plants performed creditably during the financial year 2011/12 contributing to the growth. Strategic Investments Sector The Strategic Investments sector reported a 30.3% increase in Group Operating Costs & EBIT revenue and a 17.7% growth in profit from operations during The Group profit from operations or earnings before interest the financial year under review. The revenue and the profit and tax (EBIT) recorded a significant increase of 41.6% during from operations reported by the sector were Rs. 14.0 billion the year to Rs. 5.6 billion. Apart from the substantial increase and Rs. 1.1 billion respectively. The dry weather which in net revenue, an increase in other operating income and the prevailed in the country for the most part of the year required decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses, an increased generation of thermal power thereby making a contributed to the higher EBIT. The Group’s operating profit positive impact to the sector results, inspite of the closure of margin increased from 15.7% in the previous financial year to the Embilipitiya power plant during the first quarter of the 18.3% during the financial year 2011/12. The Group’s total financial year. operating costs amounted to Rs. 25.3 billion for the year, The garment segment continued its turnaround and reported being 83.8% of the net revenue of the Group. This is in significantly higher results. Initiatives taken in process comparison to Rs. 21.0 billion recorded as Group operating improvements which resulted in improved quality of the costs in the previous financial year, which amounted to 85.1% product and timely delivery to the customers coupled with of net revenue. The increase in operating costs was primarily investments made in order to reduce energy costs contributed due to the 48.4 % increase in raw materials and consumables significantly to the divisions improved performance. used, and the 7.4 % increase in other direct operating expenses. The cost of raw materials and consumables used in The printing segment reported improved performance during the production of revenue amounting to 39.0% of the total the financial year under consideration. The new state-of-theoperating costs has increased from the previous financial year art printing facility for the segment has commenced partial mainly due to the increase in thermal power generation during operations and is expected to be fully commissioned by end the period under consideration and the increase in the price of the first quarter of financial year 2012/13. The new facility of heavy furnace oil. Other direct operating expenses amounts will enable the segment to position itself at a higher level in to 24.0 % of the total operating costs for the financial year the value chain thereby increasing the profitability. 2011/12 in comparison with 26.9% in the previous financial year. The results of the plantations segment were impacted by negative trends in world market prices for tea and increased 64 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Financial Review Taxation in trade and other payables. The quick asset ratio of the Group The Group was affected by significant changes in the tax was 1.20 times at the end of the financial year 2011/12. systems of both local and foreign jurisdictions for the financial year 2011/12. The Group’s provision for taxation for the Assets Turnover financial year 2011/12 was Rs. 752.9 million which was a The asset turnover ratio of the Group was 0.67 times for the considerable increase of 94.4% over the previous year’s tax financial year under review and was a marginal increase from provision of Rs. 387.3 million. The increase in income tax was the previous financial year. 40.7% of the Group’s total assets mainly due to the introduction of Business Profit Tax in the are invested in the Strategic Investments sector, while 41.0%, Republic of Maldives from July 2011, which had hitherto been 10.1% and 8.2% are invested in Tourism, Cargo Logistics and a tax free regime. Companies incorporated in the Maldives Services sectors respectively. were subject to a corporate tax of 15% and Sri Lankan companies operating in Maldives were subject to a withholding Capital Expenditure tax of 10% on remittances of fees and other charges. The Group invested a total of Rs. 5.6 billion on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and Dividend tax for the financial year under review was Rs. 95.6 leasehold properties during the financial year which is a 171 million which is a 30.9% decrease from the previous financial % growth over the previous year. The additions to property year. The decrease in the dividend tax was a result of the plant and equipment during the year was Rs. 4.2 billion which reduction in dividends declared from the power segment is a increase of 108.4% over the previous year. The tourism during the financial year. The deferred tax charge for the sector attracted a significant investment in property, plant and financial year was Rs. 98.1 million, against a reversal of Rs. equipment with Rs. 1.4 billion invested in the refurbishment 87.1 million in the previous financial year. The deferred tax of hotels at Heritance Kandalama and The Sands at Kalutara. charge for the current financial year resulted from accelerated Further Rs. 1.0 billion was invested to extend the leasehold depreciation allowances, substantial utilization of tax losses rights of the four Maldivian islands for a further period of 25 and recognition of off-shore taxes. Due to the above years. The Cargo Logistics sector accounted for Rs. 283 million mentioned reasons Group’s effective tax rate for the financial invested primarily in heavy equipment, while the Strategic year was 13.8%, an increase from 10.2% over previous year. Investments sector invested Rs. 2.3 billion in the power segment and for the construction of the new printing facility at Net Assets per Share Mawaramandiya. The net assets per share of the Group was Rs. 62.93 at the end of the financial year 2011/12. This was an 18.7% increase The total value of the property, plant and equipment held by over the net assets per share of Rs. 53.00 at the end of the the Group was Rs. 27.9 billion while the total non-current previous financial year. The Price to Book Value (PBV) of the assets amounted to Rs. 33.1 billion at the end of the financial share decreased to 1.79 at the end of the financial year from year. 3.06 at the end of the previous financial year mainly due to the decrease in the market price of shares as a result of a Return on Equity downturn in the stock market. The Group recorded a return on equity of 15.8% for the financial year under review compared to 12.6% reported in Liquidity the previous year. The net profit margin improved to 12.1% The working capital of the Group increased to Rs. 4.5 billion at from 10.1% in the previous year. the end of the financial year under review from Rs. 3.7 billion at the end of the previous financial year. The current ratio at Enhanced profitability of the key industry sectors and the the end of the period was 1.33 times in comparison to 1.43 benefits received through productivity improvement initiatives times in the previous financial year, mainly due to the increase throughout the Group were the significant contributors to the increase in profitability. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 65 EBIT & EBIT Margin Analysis of Operating Expenses Interest Cost & Interest Cover for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 2012 for the year ended 31st March Rs. Mn % 16% Rs. Mn Times 6,000 20 1,200 50 39% 5,000 1,000 15 40 24% 4,000 800 30 3,000 10 600 7% 14% 20 2,000 400 5 1,000 10 Raw Materials and Consumables used 200 Employee Benefits Expense 0 0 Depreciation, Amortisation & Impairment of Goodwill 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 Other Operating Expenses Direct 08 09 10 11 12 Other Operating Expenses Indirect EBIT Interest Cost EBIT Margin Interest Cover Treasury Operations drawn and utilised with short-notice to fund investments and working capital requirements. Management of Group Funds The Group treasury closely monitors and manages the liquidity The 12 month weighted average treasury bill yield opened the of the Group in order to ensure optimal utilisation of monetary year at 7.30% and hit a low of 7.25% from which it rose resources. The treasury facilitates internal matching of almost continuously to reach 11.32% by the end of the borrowings and lendings of Group companies, thereby financial year, amidst reserve tightening and interest rate hikes minimizing the exposure of individual companies to external by the Central Bank as it attempted to resolve balance of sources of borrowing and market shocks, whilst reaping payment concerns. Inflation was at a rather benign level of economies of scale due to the pooling effect. The bulk of the 5.4% in March 2012, compared to 8.6% in March 2011. Group’s inter-bank fund transfers are also routed via the Group During the year the treasury was able to significantly reduce treasury. the duration of its fixed income securities portfolio by timely and pro-active sales of Government securities crystallising The treasury negotiates for rates on the pooled funds of the significant gains. Group and is usually able to obtain favourable rates due to its bargaining strength . Surpluses are invested at optimum rates, The market liquidity declined from Rs. 106 billion at the with top-tier counterparties in terms of credit worthiness and beginning of the financial year 2011/12, bottoming out at a taking pertinent factors such as risk and liquidity into negative Rs. 10.6 billion and recovered to reach a level of Rs. consideration. Deficits are funded by deploying low cost 19.5 billion at the end of the financial year. The Central Bank’s funding options available to the Group. The treasury is able to stock of Government securities was at Rs. 214 billion at the make use of arbitrage opportunities available in the market, end of financial year 2011/12, compared with Rs. 2 billion at based on appropriate yield curve positioning combined with the beginning of the financial year. The treasury was vigilant of vigilant and relentless monitoring of money markets. those adverse developments and ensured sufficient liquidity was maintained throughout the period for the smooth Negative impacts of floating rate loans were minimised to a functioning of all operations of the Group. large extent by exploring opportunities for natural hedging through short term investments. Aitken Spence PLC., Cash and cash equivalents reduced by 47.2% to Rs. 1.7 possessed clean borrowing facilities in excess of Rs. 4 billion billion, from Rs. 3.2 billion in the previous financial year. Net at the end of the financial year 2011/12 which could be finance expenses declined to Rs. 204.9 million, from Rs. 66 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Financial Review Net Working Capital & Current Ratio Net Assets Per Share Assets & Funding as at 31st March & Price to Book Ratio as at 31st March as at 31st March Rs. Mn Times Rs. Times Rs. Bn 5,000 2.0 80 3.5 120 4,000 70 3.0 100 1.5 60 3,000 2.5 80 50 1.0 40 2.0 60 2,000 30 1.5 40 0.5 1,000 20 1.0 20 10 0 0.0 08 09 10 11 12 0 0.5 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Net Working Capital Net Assets Per Share Fixed Assets Long Term Funding Current Ratio Price to Book Ratio Current Assets & Others Short Term Funding 236.3 million in 2010/11 mainly as a result of reduced uncertainties of market movements to a large extent. The financial expenses. market in general showed a lack of foreign currency liquidity due to extreme volatilities and as a result a widening of bidForeign Exchange Management offer spreads was witnessed. The treasury was successful in Import driven credit growth exerted pressure on the rupee as hedging most foreign currency inflows and outflows of the well as on local interest rates during the year, although the Group by matching transactions and thereby minimising Central Bank continued defending the rupee as well as interest effective spreads. rates, for most part of the period, to ensure sustained post-war Envisaged foreign inflows to the country via foreign direct economic growth. However, the rapid credit growth continued investments, expatriate remittances, sovereign bond issues, to erode market liquidity and was threatening to lead to a private sector borrowings and other debt instruments against balance of payment crisis. The rupee was perceived as highly outflows for imports and foreign debt repayments along with overvalued considering the widening trade deficit, increased the trade deficit are likely to be the deciding factors of the demand for imports and significant depreciations in most medium to long term direction of the exchange rate. The regional currencies, necessitating urgent action in terms of extent of credit expansion in the public and the private sectors, devaluing or floating the currency whilst tightening the the effectiveness in managing the fiscal deficit and the monetary policy which the Central Bank carried out towards direction and flexibility of the monetary policy are likely to the latter part of the financial year. These sudden and largely determine the level and the direction of interest rates during unexpected policy decisions pushed the US Dollar to an all the coming financial year. External factors such as credit time high of around Rs. 131.60 from a low of Rs. 109.50 concerns that continue to torment the euro-zone, tensions in during the year. The Group treasury acted swiftly to minimise the Middle East, the continuing global economic slump and negative impacts of these surprise moves and also to make developments in BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) use of opportunities presented in the market due to hitherto economies are likely to have a direct impact on Sri Lanka’s unseen volatilities. economy keeping markets jittery and volatile into the Group companies were provided with regular and timely foreseeable future. The treasury will continue to be vigilant of updates and views on market movements which facilitated these factors to ensure potential opportunities are made use sound monitoring of exposures and helped reduce of whilst the negative impacts are minimised. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 67 EPS & EPS Growth Dividend Per Share & Dividend Yield Price Earnings Ratio for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Rs. % Rs. % Times 10 50 1.50 3.5 30 3.0 8 40 1.20 25 2.5 20 6 30 0.90 2.0 15 4 20 1.5 0.60 10 1.0 2 10 0.30 0.5 5 0 0 0.00 0.0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 EPS Dividend Per Share EPS Growth (%) Dividend Yield Shareholder Returns share. The market price to earnings ratio was 15.8 times at the end of the financial year and the Company’s multiple was at a Earnings per Share 22% discount to the market multiple. The Group reported an earnings per share of Rs. 9.14 for the financial year under review which was a significant 46.2% Dividend per Share growth relative to the previous financial year, The Board is recommending a first and final dividend payment of Rs. 1.40 per share for the financial year which is a 40% Market Price per Share and Market Capitalisation increase from the previous year’s dividend payment and is a The market price of the Company’s share was Rs. 112.70 at payout of 15.3%. the end of the financial year 2011/12 compared to Rs. 162.30 at the end of the previous financial year. The decline in the Total Shareholder Returns share price was primarily a reflection of the depressed stock The total shareholder returns was a negative 29.7% for the market conditions which prevailed during the latter half of the financial year 2011/12 compared to 78.3%% in the previous financial year. The lowest price at which the share traded year. The total shareholder return has declined in the financial during the year under review was Rs. 100.00 whilst the year under review due to the decrease in the market price of highest traded price was Rs. 169.50. The total value of the shares. The Group’s potential for long term shareholder value shares traded on the Colombo Stock Exchange during the year creation is amply demonstrated by its three year and five year amounted to Rs. 12.1 billion. The market capitalisation of compounded total shareholder returns of 76.6% and 35.8% Aitken Spence PLC., was Rs. 45.8 billion at the end of the respectively. financial year which was 2.27% of the total market capitalisation of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Price Earnings Ratio The price earnings ratio of the Company at the end of the financial year 2011/12 was 12.3 times compared to 25.9 times at the end of the previous financial year. The decline in price to earnings ratio is a result of both the decline in the market price of the share and the increase in earnings per 68 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Financial Review New Accounting Standards Issued but not Audit Committee. All companies in the Group have also Effective as at Balance Sheet Date completed the required modifications to their operational and accounting systems to facilitate the above changes The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka together with the Statutory Accounting Standards Committee made a In order to ensure that all levels of operational staff are made decision to converge all Sri Lanka Accounting Standards with aware of the complexities in application of these standards to the International Financial Reporting Standards in order to their day to day activities many training workshops were maintain the uniformity and high quality of financial reporting conducted for all levels of staff including those in nonfinancial in Sri Lanka. The Institute of Chartered Accountants having functions. authority under The Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standard Act No 15 of 1995 to adopt and publish accounting All levels of staff in the finance function including those in the standards, issued and enacted a new volume of Sri Lanka financial shared services centre were given extensive training Accounting Standards, which are applicable for accounting on the applicability of the new standards in order to ensure periods beginning on or after 01st January 2012. smooth transition to the SLFRSs. These new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards comprise of A detailed listing of the new accounting standards applicable Accounting Standards prefixed both SLFRS (corresponding to to the Group are given in Accounting Policy 5 in the notes to IFRS) and LKAS (corresponding to IAS) and are commonly the Financial Statements on page 125 of the Annual Report. referred to by the term SLFRSs. The Council of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has also adopted the An impact study of the applicable standards was carried out by Interpretation guidelines issued by the International Financial the Group and the financial impact each of the relevant Reporting Interpretation committee (guidelines referred to as standards would have on the financial statements for the year IFRICs) and Standing Interpretation Committee (guidelines ended 31st March 2012, was quantified. referred to as SICs). The following table provides a summary of the standards that The Group would be preparing its first SLFRS compliant would have a material impact on the Group financial financial statements for the year ending 31st March 2013. statements . The quantified impact of these changes on the Comparative financial information that would be presented financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2012, with the first SLFRS financial statements would be re-stated to when reporting as comparative figures during the financial comply with the relevant SLFRSs. year 2012/13, have been made on a best effort basis Due to the complexity of the new standards and their application to the Group companies an external consulting firm who had much experience in similar implementations was appointed to assist the Group in the implementation of the new SLFRSs. The Group Finance Division together with the external consultants completed an extensive assessment of the impact of applying the SLFRSs, LKASs, IFRICs & SICs to the Group companies and identified the gaps in the current accounting practices applied by the Group. The implementation team after many in-depth discussions with the top management and the subsidiary companies reviewed and finalised the relevant changes necessary for the correction of the identified gaps. Upon finalization the Group Finance Division obtained the requisite approvals from the Group Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 69 Accounting Standard and the requirement Applicable Changes Assessment of approximate Financial Impact for 2011/2012 SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards This standard requires the Group to apply the same Comparative financial accounting policies in the opening SLFRS Statement of information that would be Financial Position and through all the periods presented in presented with the first SLFRS the first SLFRS financial statements. These accounting financial statements would be policies would comply with each SLFRS that would be restated to comply with the effective as at 31st March 2013. relevant SLFRSs SLFRS 1 also permits companies to elect to measure an The Group opted to use this Based on the initial item of Property Plant and Equipment (PPE) and exemption and measured all assessment, the impact of the Investment Property at its fair value and use this fair value items of Investment Property, recognition of the deemed cost as the deemed cost as at 1st April 2011, the date of and fully depreciated revenue on the above asset categories transition to SLFRSs generating Property Plant & would be an increase of Equipment., at fair value Rs. 1,544 million in the opening retained earnings LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements LKAS 1 requires a complete set of financial statements to As required by LKAS 1 the No financial impact include the following: Group will be presenting its A Statement of Financial Position as at the end of financial position and the the period financial performance through A single Statement of Comprehensive Income for the new statements the period A Statement of Other Comprehensive Income for the period A Statement of Changes in Equity for the period A Statement of Cash Flows for the period Notes comprising of the summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) a) Component capitalisation: The Group identified all hotel Reduction in the opening LKAS 16 requires an entity to allocate the amount buildings into readily retained earnings of Rs. 58 initially recognized as cost in respect of an item of PPE identifiable components in million and a reduction in to its significant parts and depreciate each of these parts order to depreciate each of profits during 2011/2012 of separately these parts separately. Rs. 11 million b) Assets acquired on deferred payment terms: For items of PPE that was The impact to the Group’s This standard also requires the Group to measure an acquired on deferred payment retained earnings and PPE due item of PPE at its cash price equivalent at the terms beyond the normal to the separation of the interest recognition date. credit period the difference component of such assets between the cash price purchased on deferred terms is equivalent and the total a reduction of Rs. 42 million payment was recognized as interest over the period of credit. 70 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Financial Review Accounting Standard and the requirement Applicable Changes Assessment of approximate Financial Impact for 2011/2012 c) Intangible assets: The Group identified software The Group has identified The standard requires the Group to identify intangible costs currently capitalized software to the value of Rs. 72 type components of assets which are not integral to the together with computers and million that would have to be larger asset under Intangible Assets and not under servers which are not an included under Intangible Property Plant and Equipment. integral part of the equipment; Assets instead of under PPE and recognised such as Intangible Assets. SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement a) Under the above standards the Group is required to As required by these standards Fair valuing these assets at measure all financial assets at fair value subsequent to the Group would be classifying each balance sheet date would the initial measurement on the following bases all derivatives as FVPL assets , result in an increase of Rs. 19.1 Fair value through Profit & Loss (FVPL) assets to all share investments as AFS million in opening retained be measured at fair value with changes in fair value assets and investments in earnings, an increase of Rs. recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive treasury bills and bonds as 55.1 million in the opening fair Income for the period either FVPL or AFS assets value reserve in the OCI, a Available for sale Financial Assets (AFS) to be depending on whether the decrease of Rs.55.6million to measured at fair value with changes in fair value portfolio is being held for the current year profit and a recognised in the Statement of Other trading or until maturity. decrease in the fair value Comprehensive Income for the period reserves in the OCI of Rs. 62.4 million for the year 2011/12. Held to Maturity (HTM) to be measured at amortised cost Loans and Receivables (L&R) to be measured at amortised cost The above standards also require the Group to recognize the financial liabilities initially at fair value and measure these liabilities at each reporting date as follows Fair value through Profit & Loss (FVPL) – liabilities to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period Other liabilities at amortised cost. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 71 Accounting Standard and the requirement Applicable Changes Assessment of approximate Financial Impact for 2011/2012 b) Impairment of Debtors At end of each reporting period This assessment resulted in an the Group is required to assess increase of Rs 32.5million in whether there is any objective the opening retained earnings evidence that a financial asset and a decrease of Rs. 1.3 or a group of assets measured million in the profit for the year at amortised cost is impaired. 2011/12. Consequently the Group measured its trade debtors outstanding as at 31st March 2011 and 31st March 2012 collectively for impairment and the results were tested against the bad debt provision recognised for the two periods as per the current accounting policy. IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease & LKAS 17 Leases The Group assessed the applicability of the IFRIC 4 The arrangement between the This change in accounting Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease, Ceylon Electricity Board policy resulted in a decrease in and IFRIC 12 – Service Concession Arrangements, on all (Lessee) and Ace Power the Group’s opening retained power companies owned by the Group and concluded Embilipitiya (Lessor) was earnings of Rs 1,171 million, a that the power plant in Embilipitiya which is operated by identified as a finance lease decrease in the current year’s one of the Group companies falls under the guidelines arrangement under LKAS-17 profit of Rs.111.7 million, a given in IFRIC 4. Leases. Ace Power Embilipitiya decrease in PPE of Rs. 4,224 being the Lessor would thus million and an increases in non de-recognize the asset and current assets and other recognise a lease rental debtors Rs. 2,748 million and receivable in the opening Rs. 232.5 million respectively. financial statements. The impact to the minority interest due to this reclassification is a decrease of Rs. 451 million 72 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Foreign Currency Generation Foreign Currency Generation 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Tourism sector 11,432,943 10,906,775 9,367,237 7,605,646 7,659,662 Cargo Logistics sector 1,144,128 1,103,979 859,174 610,843 417,294 Strategic Investments sector 1,034,942 1,014,282 1,434,024 1,180,318 1,410,083 Services sector 191,925 195,965 182,944 226,097 195,842 TOTAL 13,803,938 13,221,001 11,843,379 9,622,904 9,682,881 Over the years the Aitken Spence Group has remained a net Foreign Currency Generation for the year ended 31st March foreign exchange earner and has continued to contribute significantly through its direct and indirect activities towards Rs. Mn 15,000 the foreign currency inflows into the country. Financial year 2011/12 saw an inflow equivalent to Rs. 13.8 billion in to Sri 12,000 Lanka through the direct and indirect operations of the Group. 9,000 This was a 4.4% increase over the previous year. 6,000 The highest contribution towards the foreign exchange generation was the Tourism sector, accounting for 82.8% of 3,000 the total generation, which was a 4.8% growth in foreign 0 exchange generation over the last financial year. The Cargo 08 09 10 11 12 Logistics sector accounted for 8.3% of the total generation Tourism sector Cargo Logistics sector Strategic Investments sector Services sector with the highest contribution in the sector coming from the Group’s maritime segment. The Group’s activities in the segments of plantations and garments were the main contributors towards the Strategic Investment sector’s foreign exchange generation, whilst the highest contribution of the Services sector was attributable to the operations of the Group’s inwards remittances segment. The Sri Lankan rupee stood at Rs. 110.40 at the beginning of the financial year 2011/12 and remained strong vis-à-vis the US Dollar during greater part of the first six months of the year. However during the third quarter the rupee was devalued in the Government budget to Rs. 113.90. The exchange rate reached Rs. 128.20 to the US Dollar at the end of the financial year subsequent to the floatation of the currency in the fourth quarter of the financial year. The Euro remained volatile during the financial year under review fluctuating between a range of Rs. 143.75 and 174.00 due to the continuing instability in the euro zone. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 73 Statement of Value Added 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Total revenue 30,670,417 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 27,515,960 Purchase of goods & services (20,001,504) (15,947,674) (15,700,541) (21,862,281) (20,514,679) 10,668,913 9,196,137 8,468,429 7,445,537 7,001,281 Other operating & interest income 1,187,302 749,168 438,666 810,188 517,569 Share of associate companies profit 63,993 95,304 19,102 (9,239) 132,452 Total value added by the Group 11,920,208 10,040,609 8,926,197 8,246,486 7,651,302 Distributed as follows To governments in countries we operate 10% 1,231,419 8% 802,155 8% 739,885 8% 635,783 7% 557,188 (income tax & revenue tax) To employees 30% 3,580,485 30% 3,055,354 29% 2,624,483 27% 2,216,935 27% 2,077,107 (salaries & other costs) To lenders of capital interest on loan 14% 1,621,693 15% 1,552,704 20% 1,829,540 25% 2,062,444 26% 2,019,058 capital & minority interest) To shareholders (dividends) 5% 568,394 4% 405,996 3% 270,664 3% 257,131 2% 189,465 Retained for reinvestments & future 41% 4,918,217 43% 4,224,400 40% 3,461,625 37% 3,074,193 38% 2,808,484 growth (depreciation & retained profits) 100% 11,920,208 100% 10,040,609 100% 8,926,197 100% 8,246,486 100% 7,651,302 As a responsible corporate citizen, Aitken Spence has always 2011/12Distribution of been conscious of the requirement to positively impact the Wealth Created society and the economy of Sri Lanka by the creation of wealth 10% through its activities. The Group over the years has consistently 41% being enhancing its wealth creation year on year. This statement provides the total wealth or value the Group 30% has created through its activities during the year and how such wealth was distributed amongst its stakeholders. The Group 5% 14% generated a total value addition of Rs. 11.9 billon during the financial year under review, which was an 18.7% increase To government authorities To employees over the value added by the Group in the previous financial To lenders of capital To shareholders year. As in the previous year 30% of the value created was Retained for reinvestments & future growth distributed to the employees of the Group whilst 14% was dispensed to the lenders of capital. 10% of the total value addition was paid out to government authorities in the form of taxes. This was a 53.5% increase over the previous year, with the main reason for this significant increase being the introduction of new corporate and goods and services taxes in the Maldives. The shareholders of the Company were allotted 5% of the total value added while 41% was retained by Group for future expansion of operations and working capital requirements. 74 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Corporate Governance Trust is built by doing the right thing the right way. Aitken Spence. The Company strives to enhance long term Spence takes pride in its long history of doing precisely this. It shareholder value whilst perpetuating the highest standards of has paved the way for sound corporate governance principles integrity, accountability, transparency and business ethics. and practices by which the Company seeks to ensure that it is run according to the intentions of the shareholders and Actions are sustained and harnessed to drive a culture of stakeholders alike. continuous improvement in sustainability and eco efficiency whilst upholding the high standards of corporate governance. The commitment to doing what is right is at the foundation of Such principles and practices adopted by the Company are effective governance realized through the leadership and elaborated on this report. These principles and practices draw collaboration of each individual across the Group and its upon the jointly issued guidelines by the Institute of Chartered subsidiaries. Conducting robust integration of plans and Accountants of Sri Lanka, the Securities and Exchange actions that continuously challenge the status quo, ensuring Commission of Sri Lanka, the Listing Rules of the Colombo the high standards of decision making – simultaneously Stock Exchange and other Codes of Professional Institutes and dynamic, adaptable and flexible in the uncertain micro and the Chamber of Commerce. macroeconomic business environment, is endemic at Aitken Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules 1. Company A. Directors A.1 / 7.10.1 (a), 7.10.2 (a) and 7.10.3 (c-d) The Board The Board comprises of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman & Managing Director, and eight other Directors, five of whom are Non-Executive Directors. The Board considers the long-term interest of all stakeholders of the Group in their continuous efforts to ensure good governance and the effective functioning of the Company. The names and profiles of each of the Directors are on pages 18 to 19 of this Annual Report. None of the Directors are related to each other which enable each of the Directors to express their views independently and objectively. Board meetings A.1.1 Complied Board Meetings were held seven times during the financial year and were presided over by the Chairman. The Board meetings are scheduled in advance enabling the Directors to plan their commitments facilitating attendance at the meetings. Any instances of non attendance at the meetings were due to personal commitments or illness. Attendances at these meeting are indicated in the table on page 85. The Directors are provided with the agenda and Board papers in advance giving them adequate time to review the Board papers and call for any additional information and clarification. They are able to formulate independent views which enable active and effective participation by each Board member. Minutes of the Board Meetings are accurately recorded and circulated to the Directors for confirmation of same at the next meeting. When decisions are taken via circular resolutions, all relevant information is sent together with the circular resolution to enable the Directors to clearly comprehend the purpose for which a resolution is being circulated, prior to obtaining their consent. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 75 Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules Responsibilities A.1.2 Complied The Board is responsible for the formulation and execution of sound of the Board business strategies of the Group: Ensuring that the Managing Director, Board of Management and the senior management teams demonstrate the right balance of independence, knowledge, skills, background and experience to implement strategies and bring about fresh perspectives. Ensuring that those delegated with the authority to manage the operations of the Company adhere to the policies and procedures of the Group whilst ensuring effective senior management succession strategy. Ensuring that the Company’s values and standards are aligned with the adoption and compliance with appropriate and applicable statutes, accounting and financial regulations, environmental and ethical standards. Recommending the appointment or removal of the external auditors subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Appointing members to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, who possess the experience and expertise to add value to the committees to which they are appointed. Self-evaluation of the Board is conducted on its own performance and that of its committees. Reviewing and approving the operational and financial budgets and monitoring the performance of the individual Strategic Business Units of the Group whilst seeking complete information to form views, critique management and take strategic decisions. Introducing the appropriate and effective systems to secure integrity of information; internal controls and risk management systems to encompass all aspects of the businesses. Evaluating the new businesses and investment proposals in depth prior to commitment, restructuring and re-engineering existing businesses of the Group where necessary. Compliance A.1.3 Complied The Board of Directors, both individually and collectively, recognise the with laws and importance of its responsibility towards all its stakeholder groups. As such, access to they strive to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries comply with the independent applicable laws and regulations of the country, regulatory authorities, professional professional institutes and trade associations and best practices on advice environmental, health, safety and ethical standards. The Board further ensures that all stakeholders’ interests are considered in corporate decisions. As and when required, the Directors and the Board are able to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in discharging its duties. Company A.1.4 Complied All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Secretary. The Company Secretary is present at all Board meetings and ensures that Board procedures are followed and regularly reviewed. He is primarily responsible to ensure compliance with applicable rules and regulations and acts as the interface between the management and regulatory authorities for governance matters. He further ensures delivery of relevant information and documentation to the respective Directors and that appropriate facilities are available for the proper conduct of meetings and effective decision making. 76 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Corporate Governance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules Independent A.1.5 Complied All Directors add value and give an independent opinion on issues of judgment of the strategy, financial and operational performance, key appointments, Directors standards of business conduct and all other matters which are considered by the Board. Dedicating A.1.6 Complied The Chairman and the Board of Directors allocate adequate time for the adequate time fulfillment of their responsibilities as Directors of the Company. In addition and effort to attending Board meetings, individual Directors are members of various subcommittees of the Board and attend meetings after due preparation prior to such meetings. They dedicate sufficient time before such meetings to review respective documentation relating to the meeting, and call for additional information for any further clarification in addition to familiarisation of micro and macroeconomic issues, legal risk and political changes in the global business environment. Training for new A.1.7 Complied The Board recognises the need for continuous training and development. and existing In addition to the one-on-one meetings with the management of each Directors subsidiary, visits to sites/factories/hotels and meetings with key investors, suppliers, customers, service providers and other key stakeholders, new Directors are given an initial formal orientation and subsequent periodic training with respect to the areas below. • Company Structure and Strategy: including Group structure; history, vision , mission, goals, employees, succession plans, Board procedures including ethics and corporate governance practices, Board Committees, Board minutes, Board effectiveness reviews, action plans and financial matters. • Company’s functions at operational levels: of all business areas, key relationships with all stakeholders including suppliers and customers, major contracts, Group Risk Profile and its approach to risk. • Industry and competitive environment: not limited to customer trends, consumer and regulatory environment including governance and all relevant consumer and industry bodies, CSR environment and sustainability. • Sentiment and reputation: including brand positioning and media profile marketing campaigns, brand values, analyst and investor opinion, review of investor surveys, key stakeholder relationships including employees customers suppliers service providers, opinion leaders and an overview of the remuneration policy. • Periodic presentations are made at the Board and Committee Meetings on business and performance updates of the Company, global business environment, business strategy and risks appetite. • Board members are also provided with the necessary documents, reports and internal policies to enable them to familiarise with the Company’s procedures and practices. • Periodic updates and training programmes for Board members are also conducted on relevant statutory changes and landmark judicial pronouncements encompassing important laws. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 77 Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules A.2. Chairman and Chief Executive Office There is clear distinction of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Managing Director. The functions performed by the Chairman and the Managing Director are distinct and separate, which ensure the balance of power and authority within the organisation, so that no person has unfettered powers of decision making and implementation. The Chairman controls and preserves order at Board meetings and provides the Board with strategic direction and guidance. The Ma naging Director is responsible for the performance of the day to day operation of the Company with the support of the Executive Directors, Board of Management and the senior management team. The Managing Director also acts as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Clear division of A.2.1 Complied As mentioned above the Company has segregated the duties between the responsibilities Chairman and Managing Director. of the Chairman and the CEO A.3 Chairman’s Role The Chairman of the Company is one of the most successful and proficient business leaders in the country. He is responsible for preserving order and good corporate governance of the Group whilst facilitating the effective discharge of Board functions and business strategies. Role of A.3.1 Complied The Chairman ensures that the Board effectively performs its functions, Chairman adheres to procedures and the relevant statues whilst being in complete control of the affairs of the Company. He also ensures that its obligations to the various stakeholders and regulatory bodies are met. He encourages effective participation by both executive and non-executive Directors on matters taken up for consideration, and those issues under consideration are reviewed, prior to taking decisions. The Chairman ensures that all Directors are adequately briefed on matters arising at Board Meetings and that they effectively contribute with their respective capabilities for the best benefit of the Company. The Chairman ensures that shareholders are given adequate opportunity to make the observations, express their views and seek clarifications at meetings of shareholders. A.4 Financial Acumen Financial A.4 Complied The Managing Director is a fellow member of the Institute of Chartered acumen Accountants of England & Wales and holds a Degree in Law and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration. The Board includes two chartered accountants and an investment banker. These Directors with their academic and/or entrepreneurial financial skills, business acumen and wide practical wisdom contribute substantial value, knowledge and independent judgment to decision making on matters concerning finance and investment. A.5 Board Balance Presence of A.5.1 Complied As evident in the table on page 85 the board is optimally balanced with five Non-Executive out of the ten Directors on the Board, (50% of the board strength), being 7.10.1 (a), Directors Non-Executive Directors, which is above the requirement of the code. The 7.10.2(a) and Board members are from diversified backgrounds having rich and versatile 7.10.3 (a) experience and leadership expertise in their respective fields. In the Company, the Chairman and the Managing Director is not the same person. 78 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Corporate Governance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules Independence A.5.2 & 5.3 5.5 Complied As indicated in the Table on page 85, the Board compromises of five of NonNon-Executive Directors namely, Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe, Mr. C.H. Gomez, 7.10.2 (a-b) and Executive Mr. N.J. Deva Aditya, Mr. V.M. Fernando and Mr. R.N. Asirwatham. Mr. N.J. Directors 7.10.3 (a-b) Deva Aditya, although a Director of the Company and a Director of Institutions that hold over 15% of the shares of the Company, is however determined as an Independent Director after taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances including the fact that he resides overseas. Furthermore, the Institutions in which he is a Director do not directly or indirectly get involved in the day to day management of either the Company or its subsidiaries and as such are independent of management and free of business relationship. Mr. V.M. Fernando and Mr. R.N. Asirwatham were appointed to the Board as Independent Directors. Mr. C. H. Gomez is a Non-executive Independent Director. The Board having considered the circumstances and the criterion on independence in relation to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe; construed Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe to be independent as he refrains from any involvement in the day to day management of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Annual A.5.4 Complied Each Non-Executive Director submits a signed declaration annually with Declaration of regards to his independence/non independence against the specific criteria. 7.10.2 (b) Non-Executive Directors Requirement to A.5.6 and A.5.7 Not This is not relevant to the Company as the Chairman and the Managing appoint a applicable Director roles are segregated. ‘Senior Non-Executive Director ‘ Chairman A.5.8 Complied The Chairman meets with only the Independent non-Executive Directors as conducting and when necessary. meetings with the NonExecutive Directors Recording of A.5.9 Complied Any concerns raised by the Directors which cannot be resolved concerns in the unanimously are recorded in the Board minutes, if applicable. Board minutes A.6 Supply of Information Obligation of the A.6.1 Complied The Group has a state-of-the-art management information system to Management to process and monitor the performance of the Group. Appropriate and timely provide information is made available to the Board members who make further appropriate and inquiries where necessary. timely information Adequate time A.6.2 Complied The Board minutes, agenda and papers are circulated giving adequate time for circulation of for individual Directors to study and formulate independent views and respective Board perspectives enabling the active and effective participation of each Board documents member. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 79 Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules A.7 Appointments to the Board Nomination A.7.1 and 7.2 Complied The Nomination Committee consists of three Independent Non-Executive Committee and Directors in addition to the Chairman and the Managing Director of the the assessment Company. of composition The names of the members of the Committee are listed on page 105 and of the Board on the inner back cover of the Annual Report. The function of the Nomination Committee is to recommend to the Board of Directors, the suitability of appointments and re-appointments of Directors to the Company and to its Subsidiaries, and to regularly review the structure, size, composition and the competencies of the Board and its members in addition to making recommendations to the Board in a formal and transparent manner. Disclosure to A.7.3 Complied Upon the appointment of a new Director to the Board, the Company Shareholders informs the Colombo Stock Exchange with a brief resume of the such Director containing the nature of his/her expertise in relevant functional areas, other directorships held, memberships on Board Committees and the nature of the appointment. A.8 Re Election Reelection of A.8.1 and 8.2 Complied The Directors are elected by the shareholders of the Company in terms of Directors the Articles of Association and submit themselves for re-election at regular including intervals. The Articles of Association of the Company empower the Board of Chairman Directors to either fill a casual vacancy in the directorate or to appoint additional Directors. Directors so appointed hold office until the next annual general meeting at which they are eligible for reelection. The Company’s Articles of Association provide for one third of the Directors for the time being, or if their number is not a multiple of three the number nearest to one third (but not exceeding one third) to retire from office by rotation other than the offices of the Chairman and the Managing Director, who are not subject to retirement by rotation. The retiring Directors are selected on the basis of those who have been longest in office since their last election. In the event more than one Director is appointed on the same date the retiring Director is determined either by agreement or by lot. A retiring Director is eligible for re-election. In order to ensure that the Board comprises of members who add value to the Group, the Board evaluates the contribution made by each retiring Director before recommending such a Director for re-election. A.9 Appraisal of Board performance Appraisals of A.9.1 , A.9.2 and Complied The performance of the Board and the subcommittees are reviewed and the board and A.9.3 evaluated annually based on a self-appraisal basis on the performance of its the sub key responsibilities as outlined in section A 1.2. committee 80 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Corporate Governance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules A.10 Disclosure of information in respect of Directors: Directors A.10.1 Complied The names of the Directors of the Board, their background leadership disclosures expertise, skills and their profiles are disclosed on pages 18 to 19 of this 7.10.3 (c-d) report. Directors’ interest in contracts is disclosed on pages 150 to 152 of this annual report. The number of board meetings attended by the Directors is given on page 85 of this report. Names of the Chairman and the members of the Board Committees are provided on the inner back cover of the annual report. A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive Setting of the A.11.1 and A.11.2 Complied The Board in consultation with the Managing Director reviews and approves annual targets the operational and financial budgets/targets in line with the short, medium and the and long-term objectives of the company that should be met by the appraisal of the Managing Director during the year. The evaluation of performance is CEO conducted by the Board on a regular basis as well as bi-annually and annually with assessment of whether failure to meet such set targets was reasonable in the given circumstances. B Directors Remuneration B.1/ 7.10.5 Remuneration Procedure Establishment B.1.1 ,B.1.2 and Complied The Remuneration Committee comprises of three Non-Executive Directors of a B.1.3 one of whom acts as the Chairman of the Committee. No Director is remuneration involved in determining his or her own remuneration. The Company 7.10.5 (a) and committee and endeavors to attract, retain, develop and motivate the qualified experts and its composition 7.10.5 (b) skilled leaders along with the high performance workforce needed to achieve its strategic and operational objectives. The policies and nondiscriminatory practices inclusive of gender, age, ethnicity and/or religion; ensure internal equality and fairness among employees is maintained amidst a suitable work environment and working conditions. Determination B.1.4 Compiled The Board remunerates the Non-Executive Directors as per the Articles of of the Association of the Company. The fees and reimbursable expenses are paid remuneration of taking into consideration the basis of contribution/services performed at the the NonBoard and Committee Meetings and the Company’s year-end financial Executive performance. Directors Consultation B.1.5 Complied The Remuneration Committee consults the Chairman and the Managing with the Director regarding the remuneration proposal including revision in salary (as Chairman and and when necessary) to Executive Directors and the senior management. the CEO This is done taking into consideration the cost of living, inflation rates and industry norms in addition to the each Individual’s and Company’s performance. No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 81 Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules B.2 Level and Make up of Remuneration Level and B.2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 Complied The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating the makeup of the performance of the Managing Director, Executive Directors and the remuneration of individual and collective performance of the Directors and the Senior Directors and Management. The Committee structures remuneration packages to attract, comparison of retain, develop and motivate Directors, the senior management and remuneration executives in accordance with the caliber and skill levels required to with other maintain the high standards of the company. Companies The remuneration packages are based on cost of living, inflation rates, comparative industry norms and correspond to the contribution of the individual to the performance of the Group and the respective subsidiary to which such individual is attached. Performance B.2.4 Complied The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of the Executive based Directors and senior management and a portion of the remuneration is in remuneration the form of performance bonus based on the achievement of both individual and corporate goals and targets. Executive share B.2.5 Not The Company as at date has no share options made available to the options applicable Directors, Executives or employees of the Company. Designing the B.2.6 Complied The procedure followed in deciding of remuneration of employees is set remuneration. out in the Remuneration Committee report which is given on page 107. Early B.2.7 and B.2.8 Compiled Is determined by the Articles of Association of the Company. Termination of Directors Remuneration B.2.9 Complied Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee and/or a reimbursement for their of nonparticipation in Board and Committee meetings as set out under B.1.4. executive Directors B.3 / 7.10.5 (C) DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION Disclosure of B.3.1 Complied The names of the members of the Remuneration Committee are indicated remuneration on page 104 and listed on the inner back cover. The report of the Committee is given on page 107 of this Annual Report. Please refer note 8 to the financial statements for the details of remuneration paid to the Directors and key management personnel. C. Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Use of Proxy C.1.1 Complied It is ensured that all proxy votes are counted and the quantum of proxies lodged on each resolution is conveyed to the Chairman. Separate C.1.2 Complied Separate resolutions are proposed at an Annual General Meeting on each resolution for substantially separate issue. substantially separate issues Chairman of C.1.3 Complied At the Annual General Meeting the respective Chairmen of the Board Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are present to provide committee to any clarification to shareholders as and when necessary. be present 82 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Corporate Governance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules Adequate notice C.1.4 and C.1.5 Complied The notice and the agenda for the annual general meeting together with of Annual the Annual Report of the Company containing the relevant documents are General sent to the shareholders giving 15 working day’s notice prior to the date of Meeting and the Annual General Meeting. summary of Procedure C.2 Major Transaction Disclosures of C.2.1 Complied There were no major transactions during the financial year which materially Major altered the Company’s net asset base or the Group’s net asset base. transactions D. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT D.1 Financial Reporting Board D.1.1 Complied The Board of Directors confirm that the quarterly reports, annual financial responsibility to statements as well as the management discussion and analysis of the present the Company and its subsidiaries that are incorporated in this Annual Report financial have been prepared and presented in a reliable manner on balanced and statements comprehensive assessment of the financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries. All financial statements are in accordance with the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Company has duly complied with all the requirements prescribed by the regulatory authorities including the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Registrar of Companies. The consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of the Company were audited by Messrs. KPMG, Chartered Accountants. Annual report of D.1.2 Complied The Directors have made the required declarations on pages 102 to 106 of the Directors this Annual Report. Statement by D.1.3 Complied The Directors responsibility statement is on page 110 of the Annual Report. the Directors The Independant Auditors’ Report on the financial statements for the year and the ended 31st March 2012 is presented on page 111 of this Annual Report. Auditors Management D.1.4 Complied The management discussion and analysis is presented as the operational discussion and review of the Company and its subsidiaries on pages 28 to 61 of this analysis Annual Report. Declaration by D.1.5 Complied The relevant declaration is presented in the Annual Report of the Directors the Board as to on page 104 of this Annual Report. whether the business is a going concern. Requirement for D.1.6 Not This is not applicable but should the situation arise an Extraordinary General an Extraordinary applicable Meeting would be called upon and the shareholders would be notified. General Meeting in a situation of serious loss of capital Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 83 Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules D.2 Internal Control Directors to D.2.1 Complied The Board is responsible for formulating and implementing appropriate and review internal sound systems of internal control and risk management for the Group and Controls for reviewing its effectiveness and integrity on a continuous basis. The internal audit division assists the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee in carrying out the above task. Any internal control system has its inherent limitations. The Board is aware of the inherent limitations in that the systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks and hence appropriate steps are taken to minimise such situations of material misstatements or loss. Requirement to D.2.2 Not The Group has an internal audit division to assist in the maintenance of a review the need applicable sound system of internal control for purposes of protecting stakeholder for an Internal investment and assets. Audit function D.3 /7.10.6 Audit Committee Composition of D.3.1 and D.3.2/ Complied As per table on page 85, the Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the the Audit Board of Directors of Aitken Spence PLC. The Committee comprises of four 7.10.6 (a) and Committee and Independent Non-Executive Directors one of whom is a member of the the Duties 7.10.6 (b) Institute of Chartered Accountants and is the Chairman of the Committee. The Audit Committee advises the management on the areas where systems, processes, measures for controlling and monitoring revenue assurance and internal audit can be improved. The duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are in accordance with the Code of best practice on Audit Committees issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued jointly by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. The annual audit plan is reviewed and approved by the Committee. The audit observations submitted to the Audit Committee are closely monitored together with remedial actions by circulating the minutes of the Committee meetings. The Audit Committee also reviews the reports on the routine and special assignments by the Internal and external auditors. Terms of D.3.3 Complied The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its duty in ensuring Reference for that the Group’s internal controls, risk management procedures and Audit conduct of business are in accordance with the best practices appropriate Committee to the Company and to the Group’s Strategic Business Units. The Audit Committee evaluates the performance of the independent external auditors and makes its recommendation to the Board of Directors on their re-appointment or removal which is subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Disclosures of D.3.4 Complied The names of the members of the Audit Committee are indicated on page names of the 104. 7.10.6(c) members of the The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audits, its Audit effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Internal Audit Committee function. The report of the Audit Committee is on page 109 of this Annual Report. 84 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Corporate Governance Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The Comapany is committed to carry out all business activities to the highest standards of integrity, ethical values and professionalism whilst following the laws of the country as per the stakeholder expectations. Disclosure on a D.4.1 Complied The Company has developed and institutionalised a strong set of corporate presence of values and a written code of conduct that is circulated to Directors and all code of employees. The Board ensures that Directors and employees strictly comply business with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at all levels in performance conduct and of their official duties, communications, role modeling and in any ethics circumstances so as not to tarnish the Company’s image in any manner. The violation of the code of ethics is an offence which is subject to disciplinary action. Affirmation of D.4.2 Complied As per the Chairman’s message on page 8 of this Annual Report, The the code of Company affirm the adherence to good business conduct and ethics. conduct and ethics D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures Disclosures of D.5.1 Complied The Company aims to achieve greater year-on-year growth and value Corporate creation, improve stakeholder satisfaction and relationships in all its Governance business activities whilst adhering to highest standards of corporate governance as is evident in this report from pages 74 to 85. 2. Shareholders E. Institutional Investors Shareholder E.1.1 Complied The Company recognises the importance of two-way communication and voting as such conducts regular discussions with Institutional Investors based on mutual understanding of objectives. Existing and prospective investors are given a balanced report that enables them to make well-informed decisions in their dealings with the Company. All shareholders are welcomed at the AGM and encouraged to make comments or observations, seek any clarifications and are requested to cast their vote on applicable issues. F. Other Investors F.1 Investing and divesting decision Investing and F.1 Complied The Company has no restriction with regards to investors carrying out divesting adequate analysis and obtaining independent advice regarding their decision investment in the company and encourages any shareholder to do so. F.2 Shareholder Voting Individual F.2 Complied All shareholders seeking appropriate information are welcome to contact shareholders the Company directly throughout the year. voting They are encouraged to be present, actively participate and vote at General meetings. The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to seek and obtain clarifications and information on the performance in addition to meet with any Director in person, after the meeting. The comprehensive annual report will enable both existing and potential stakeholders to make well-informed decisions in their dealings with the Company. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 85 Board and the Committee Attendance Attendance at Board Meetings Remuneration Committee Direct/Indirect Interest in Nomination Committee Audit Committee Name of Director May 31, 2011 Jun 29, 2011 Aug 5, 2011 Oct 7, 2011 Nov 14, 2011 Jan 3, 2012 Feb 10, 2012 Shareholding Total Chairman ü ü ü ü ü ü ü 7 û Indirect Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Deputy Chairman/ Managing Director ü ü ü ü ü ü ü 7 û Direct Mr. J.M.S. Brito Executive/Non-Independent Directors ü ü ü ü ü ü ü 7 Dr. R.M. Fernando Mr. G.M. Perera ü ü ü ü ü ü 6 Dr. M.P. Dissanayake ü ü ü ü ü ü 6 Non-Executive/Independent Directors ü ü ü ü 4 û Direct/ Chairman Chairman Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Indirect Mr. C.H. Gomez ü 1 û Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya ü ü ü ü 4 û Mr. V.M. Fernando ü ü ü ü ü 5 û û Mr. R.N. Asirwatham ü ü ü ü ü ü 6 û û Direct Chairman 86 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Risk Management 1. Introduction to Risk Management and domestic markets this becomes even more important. Failure to adopt such measures could result in financial losses, Risk can be defined as the probable occurrence of an lost opportunities and in extreme cases even corporate failure. undesirable event that could hinder the achievement of the Group’s objectives. The event could be caused by external or In the past, the single key recognised risk was credit risk. internal forces. However today, the financial world faces a variety of new risks. Many of the risks faced by the Group are in the form of Risk Management, is the process of analysing exposure to uncertainties or emerging risks which may be difficult to risks by identifying vulnerabilities and their probability of quantify or control. Thus effective risk management is critical outcome in order to determine how to best handle such in achieving the Group’s strategic objectives in a highly exposure. It also looks at implementing various policies, competitive and uncertain environment. procedures and practices that work to identify, analyse, evaluate and monitor risks, followed by applications and Aitken Spence has a comprehensive system of controls in solutions to minimise the probability of occurrence and/ or place to manage risks. The Group conducts regular reviews of the impact of the identified risks. Transferring risks to outside the major risks which may affect its business and financial parties, mitigating the negative effect of risk and avoiding risk performance. These risks are identified, evaluated and altogether are considered as risk management strategies mitigated through a combination of a ‘top-down’ (driven by across the Group. the Board) and ‘bottom-up’ (originating from the operational divisions) approaches. This has been made possible because The Aitken Spence Group is involved in a diverse range of the Group has clearly identified the role of the Board of business activities, spanning several industries, market Directors and their responsibilities in managing all risks segments and geographical locations. Whilst this diversification affecting the Group. In each area, the Board is supported by provides a hedge against the positive correlation of business the Board of Management, the Audit Committee and Managers and environmental risks, it also exposes the Group to a wider with key functional responsibilities range of risks and opportunities. These risks have been broadly categorised as follows, Risk Management is also a key element of the Aitken Spence a) Strategic Risks system of Corporate Governance. It attempts to create a b) Financial Risks suitable balance between an entrepreneurial attitude and the c) Operational Risks level of risk associated with business opportunities. The Group maintains high awareness of business risks and has internal 2. Importance of Risk Management control procedures which give assurance to stake holders of the existence of a process that regularly reviews the risks faced The Group recognises the importance of adopting a proactive by individual sectors of the Group and implements measures approach when dealing with risk. With globalisation and to minimise the effects of identified risks. technology bringing about astonishing changes in international Strategic Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks • Competitive Risk • Interest Rate Risk • Employee Risk • Economic Risk • Foreign Exchange Risk • Legal Risk • Reputation Risk • Credit Risk • Operations Risk • Marketing Risk • Liquidity Risk • Fraud Risk • Environmental Risk • Investment Risk • Technology Risk • Regulatory Risk Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 87 3. Risk Management Structure Board of Directors Approves the risk governance structure and high level risk parameters for individual SBU's & the Group. Reviews reports from the Audit Committee on risk related matters. Management Board Audit Committee Designing, operating and monitoring risk management and conrol Reviews adequecy of the risk management framework. processes at SBU & Group level. Receives and reviews risk management reports submitted Ensuring that strategies adopted by SBU's are in line with the risk by the risk management unit. parameters of the Group and addresses stake holder concerns including the negation of possible adverse actions of stakeholders. Receives and reviews reports from internal and external auditors. Risk Owners and Group Treasury Internal Audit Department Managers Monitoring movements in The internal audit department maintains strict independence in all Evaluating the status of the foreign exchange and the work it performs from the management of individiual SBU's. risks and effectiveness of risk interest rates with the The department has 3 specialised sub units covering key areas of mitigation. objective of timely hedging the risk management process. Day to day oversight of risks activities such as forwards and risk mitigation actions. and swaps that could eliminate or minimise Improving risk mitigation financial losses. Finance and Risk Management Information Security strategies where possible. Operational Audit Responsible for sectorwise Responsible for reviewing the Conducts audits to ensure financial, strategic and adequacy of controls of both compliance with the laid operational risk assessments existing and new information down internal control on a micro as well as macro systems, IT infarstructure and framework and reviews its level. information assets. adequacy. 4. Risk Management Process at Aitken Spence The Aitken Spence Group has established and adheres to a continually updates a risk register which identifies possible comprehensive risk management framework at both SBU and internal and external risks together with appropriate risk Group level to ensure the achievement of its corporate management strategies formulated to mitigate these risks. objectives, within a well-managed risk profile. In formulating this framework the Board of Directors and Senior Management The level of risk associated with an event is estimated based have identified and taken into consideration the Group’s key on the impact of that event on the Group and its probability of business objectives, goals and strategies. occurrence. Depending on the nature of the risk, action taken will range from strategies of acceptance, mitigation and The Group’s consistent application of its risk management avoidance or transfer of the risk. A cost benefit analysis is framework has allowed for the successful identification, carried out for identified events, to ascertain the most suitable assessment and prioritisation of risks. Risks are identified and method of risk management to be used. assessed, by analysing in detail the inherent risks faced by the industry in which the respective sectors operate in, its trickledown effect on the SBU within the sector concerned and the adequacy of processes in place within these sectors, to mitigate these risks. Risk assessments will determine which risk factors have a greater impact on the business concerned and the likelihood of such risks materialising. It includes establishing the Group’s risk appetite and formulating risk management practices that are appropriate to this appetite, and the Group’s business activities. The Group maintains and 88 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Risk Management 5. Risk Profile of the Group The categories of risks faced by the Group and their significance with regard to the threat they pose to its activities are shown below. High • Reputation Risk • Regulatory Risk • Foreign Exchange Risk Medium • Liquidity Risk • Credit Risk • Interest Rate Risk • Investment Risk • Operations Risk • Competitive Risk Impact of Risk • Environmental Risk • Employee Risk • Economic Risk • Fraud Risk • Legal Risk • Technology Risk Low • Marketing Risk Low Medium High Probability of Risk Interest Rate Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy The probability of • Constant monitoring and forecasting of market interest rates is carried out to ensure income losses arising appropriate steps are taken to maximise the return on financial investments and to owing to a change in minimise the cost of borrowings. Negotiations with banks and financiers are often timed domestic or foreign to take place to obtain the best possible interest rate for Groups’ borrowings and interest rates. investments, by the treasury department. • In addition the Group also adopts the following strategies to minimise the effects of interest rate risks: The impact of interest rate movements on the Group’s short-term borrowings is minimised by obtaining facilities on favourable terms from commercial banks. The Group aggressively negotiates with competing banks to obtain favourable terms for short term borrowings. HIGH RISK The adverse impact of movements in interest rates on long term borrowings are mitigated by interest rate swaps where applicable. The Group, through the efficient management of Rupee cash flows ensures that it earns an interest yield, which is on average, higher than the market yield on short term investments. The process includes netting of subsidiary cash flows and negotiation of preferential rates by the central treasury. Exposure to foreign currency liabilities linked to floating rate indices such as LIBOR are mitigated by the use of financial instruments such as Interest Rate Swaps and other financial derivatives. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 89 Foreign Exchange Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy The adverse impact of • Exchange rate forecasts are constantly monitored to ensure that timely and appropriate foreign exchange rate hedging activities are taken to mitigate FOREX risks. fluctuations on the Group’s cash flows, • Group treasury provides advice to SBU’s within the Group on strategies to minimise costs assets and liabilities, and maximise revenue in Sri Lankan Rupees, when dealing with foreign currency. business activities such • The effect of the exposure to foreign currency liabilities are minimised or avoided by as purchasing of capital matching these liabilities against foreign currency denominated assets. goods, raw materials, services and the • Risks associated with future repayments of foreign currency liabilities are mitigated by resultant conversion to ensuring such outflows are matched by foreign currency inflows. Rupees. HIGH RISK • Adverse movements in exchange rates on import and export transactions are mitigated by forward booking of currencies and by matching of foreign currency inflows and outflows. Competitive Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy The probability of loss • To maintain the company’s brand image, Group Business Development Division monitors from a decline in a and helps subsidiaries to maintain graphic and visual standards of the brand and has firm’s competitiveness commenced initiatives to assess specific aspects of behavioural values that contribute due to both qualitative towards delivering the brand promise. and quantitative factors. • The integrated sustainability policy and its integral implementation framework is focused on ensuring the long-term competitiveness of the company. • The Group continuously looks at diversifying its investment portfolio and adding value to its existing portfolio by methods such as, investing in R&D, process improvements and obtaining ISO certifications. This helps the Group obtain efficiencies and economies of scale which enable it to stay abreast of its competition. • Competitor activity and performance is monitored to ensure that the Groups competitiveness is maintained. Credit Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy Credit risk is the • Quarterly analysis of the Group’s debtors. The analysis includes a comprehensive analysis income loss arising of debtors by each sector and company and concentration by client. due to the probability of default by the • Legal debtors are identified and kept track of. company’s debtors. Economic Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy MEDIUM RISK The risk of the • The risk unit of the Group constructs a report on domestic economic performance and possibility of an forecasts on a quarterly basis whilst reporting on key domestic indicators on a monthly economic downturn basis. negatively impacting the Group’s • The unit also carries out industry studies that include recent developments on a regular investments and basis. business operations. • The impact of significant international economic events on the Sri Lankan economy and its industries are also analysed. Economic risk is closely related to political risk • The Group continues to diversify its business activities outside of Sri Lanka so as to reduce as government its dependence on local operations and the Sri Lankan economy. decisions can impact • The Group also constantly seeks profitable investment opportunities within its risk profile the economy as a that would result in reducing its dependence on its core markets. The Group periodically whole. reviews the performance of foreign countries it plans to diversify into and those that it already operates in. • The Group maintains strong relationships with relevant stakeholders, lobby groups and trade unions. 90 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Risk Management Employee Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy Risks arising from the • Recruitment of high calibre staff, effective induction to the Group’s corporate culture, inability to attract, training and development with structured career development plans, fostering a reward motivate and retain and recognition culture are the norm in all business units of the Group. skilled and experienced staff. • The Group while recognising the importance of employee retention has implemented a system of internal transfers, job rotations and innovative reward systems. • Succession planning for all departments and business units is being formulated; the respective staff are being trained and groomed. A vibrant Management Training Programme (MTP) is maintained for this purpose. • The Group has an open door policy where any employee can speak to the Chief Human Resource officer of the Group, Senior Management or the employee’s supervisors / managers regarding their concerns. • The Group also organises various employee engagement activities, so as to enhance employee motivation. Emphasis is also given to maintaining a good working environment. • The Group takes all precautionary steps necessary to ensure that sensitive information vital for the performance of operations are not disclosed outside of the Group. • In keeping with the first two principles of the United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights, the Group is in the process of increasing awareness among key internal stakeholders. Capacity building sessions exceeding 300 man hours for the Group’s security personnel and the sustainability committee members have been conducted. In addition a GAP analysis was conducted during the year, of the Group’s policies, practices MEDIUM RISK and procedures to implement a human rights protection framework. Legal Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy The potential for losses A dedicated centralised in-house legal division that assists and advises Group SBU’s on legal arising from the matters. uncertainty of legal actions/or possible • The use of external professional counsel when required. losses arising from the • The conducting of periodic reviews and audits by the Internal Audit division in misinterpretation of collaboration with the Legal division to ensure that all business units conform to legal, prevailing laws, regulatory and statutory requirements. regulations and contracts. • The Group recognises and accepts its responsibilities as a public quoted company, a taxpayer and an employer. Therefore all statutory and legal requirements are met in all The risk could also transactions. arise due to legal or regulatory incapacity despite having adequate documentation which may result in the un-enforceability of contracts with counterparties. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 91 Operations Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy These are the direct or A structured and uniform set of internal controls has been implemented and is being adhered indirect losses resulting to throughout the Group. from insufficient or failed internal • Periodic and impromptu checks are carried out by the Group’s Internal Audit division to processes, people and ensure compliance and the effectiveness of these controls. systems, or from external events. • The Group’s wide use of the Oracle EBS Applications software ensures adherence with the required internal controls through automation. • Business continuity plans are formulated for all sectors of the Group to ensure smooth operations even at a time of disaster. As a part of this process, all natural and man-made disasters that can have an adverse impact on each of the sectors are being identified and preventive and mitigation strategies are based on the potential loss and probabilities of occurrences. • The Groups disaster recovery (DR) plan was strengthened during the year with the implementation of the disaster recovery site. • Strong centralised support of Technology, Financial and Human Resources covering all SBU’s of the Group. • Group has established formal policies and procedures for business conduct and procurement. • The Group’s integrated sustainability policy is supported by an implementation framework, categorised into tiers for implementation. These tiers look at action points considered MEDIUM RISK essential, expected and exemplary for the successful and sustainable operation of the Company. Tier I action points are classified as essential and aim at bringing all subsidiaries into one platform in all focus areas such as occupational health & safety, talent management, supply chain management etc. 92 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Risk Management Technological Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy This is any risk related • A multi-tier safeguard mechanism is in place to meet the threat of malicious software and to information its adverse effects. The mechanism provides real time detection and elimination of technology and is a malicious software. relatively new term due to an increasing • Link failure events are treated as likely and a dual service provider link infrastructure is in awareness that place to counter this risk. The company together with its telecom service providers information security is pioneered the introduction of real-time load balanced multiple link usage via MPLS one facet of a networks in Sri Lanka. The Group utilises a well-managed capacity adequate network to multitude of risks that ensure the smooth functioning of its operations. The latest networking equipment are relevant to IT and supporting quality of service (QoS) features are in place. This has inducted the concept of the real-world “service commitment” in technology services in the Group. processes it supports. • System failure events are treated as occasional; rapid response agreements and backup procedures are in place to counter these risks. In addition, automated monitoring of Potential risks would system failures and alerting systems to minimise down time are in place. include, • Systems hardware capacity is monitored to ensure availability of sufficient computational a. Malicious software resources. As a rule of thumb – a consistent 70% resource usage is considered the alarm and its impact on for capacity enhancement. Systems at acquisition stage are subject to stringent evaluation, performance, especially in terms of suitability, conformity to futuristic trends and continuity of systems. information loss The Group maintains a keen eye to spot emerging technology, its maturity and suitability and unauthorised to strengthen business processes of the Group. access. • A comprehensive review of IT security was undertaken by the Group with external b. Loss of business consultants. opportunity due to MEDIUM RISK out-dated systems • The Group’s IT policy is being updated to reflect changes in the Technological and non-adaptation environment. of new technology. • A technological road map is being developed to identify future technological changes c. The loss of which may need to be adapted to the Group’s advantage. business due to inadequate preparation for failures of systems, links and improper capacity planning. d. Breaches in systems security leading to unauthorised access, intentional or otherwise, by both internal and external users. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 93 Investment Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy Risk of a poor • Stringent evaluation of risks associated with each new investment through the utilisation performing investment of in-house expertise and external resources as and when required. All new investments and uncertainties should satisfy the minimum expected return of the Group and be within its risk appetite. attached while making Envisaged bottlenecks of a project are identified at the project planning stage, whereby an investment that it elimination or mitigatory measures are then undertaken before venturing to a more may not yield the detailed evaluation stage and the subsequent execution stage. expected returns. This could result in a • Investment agreements are carefully drafted to ensure that risks to the Group are deterioration of mitigated or minimised. When investing in new projects, preference is given to the shareholder value due formation of strategic alliances with reputed partners for the creation of synergies. The to the loss incurred Group balances the risk return trade off. Certain risks are accepted in the light of the and the decline in future growth and profitability potential of the investment. investor confidence. • The Group ensures its investments strictly consider and address potential adverse ethical, social and environmental factors. Reputation Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy This is risk to the In order to maintain its reputation and preserve the confidence of its various stakeholders, the Group’s reputation that Group has in place an effective compliance system. This includes, is likely to destroy shareholder value and • A business communication unit, with representation from all strategic business units of investor confidence the Group. This ensures up to date accurate communication with all stakeholders. and have negative • All media communications are channelled through the Group’s Business Development effects on Group Unit, which ensure consistency in communications. earnings and corporate • The maintenance of the highest ethical behaviour and standards at all times in all LOW RISK image. business activities. The Group has its own code of ethics and regularly conducts workshops on ethical behaviour for its staff. • All employees’ undergo training and awareness at Group learning programmes, about company procedures on anti-corruption and ethical behaviour which are mentioned in employee contract letters. • Aitken Spence also believes in reliability, trust and the quality of service in all interactions with customers. Each subsidiary has its own set of customers, end-consumers, intermediaries and internal customers. All subsidiaries have a process of obtaining feedback from customers to gauge their satisfaction levels and to generate continuous improvement. • The Group actively involves itself in community development and places importance on being a socially responsible corporate citizen. Building a sustainable business is an integral part of the Group’s long term strategy to enhance shareholder value and investor confidence. • Strict adherence to statutory requirements and environmental regulations to the extent of even enhancing the environment in some instances. 94 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Risk Management Environmental Risk Definition Mitigation Strategy The potential risks as a • The Group has in place many Environmental Management Systems(EMS’s), aligned to result of the Group’s the ISO 14001:2004 standard, which attempt to scientifically mitigate if not eliminate the operations as well as adverse environmental impacts of the Group’s activities. risks posed by global ecological changes • The Group is presently equipped with 43 EMS’s of which 12 are already ISO 14001 certified. These EMS’s include programmes to manage activities, primarily in the areas of LOW RISK caused through human activity. energy management, renewable energy investment, waste resource management, water management and protection of bio diversity and natural ecosystems. • Twenty seven sustainability committee members across the Group were trained as Internal EMS Auditors to monitor and maintain these systems. • The Group’s operations are not located within close proximity to national reserves or protected areas. The Group also ensures that areas of high bio diversity are protected and preserved. • The Group shares its experiences and best practices and enables the sharing of knowledge and skills among industry leaders by entering into partnerships such as the United Nations Global Compact. This is a proactive step the Group has taken to contribute towards environmental trusteeship both nationally and internationally. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 95 Human Resources Aitken Spence has built a solid reputation as an employer of choice – an achievement built on years of strategic efforts to attract, develop and retain key talent. The Group’s competitive advantage in human resource management lies in its ability to “The Group’s competitive advantage in identify the changing needs of business and the modern human resource management lies in its employee and its adroitness in adopting suitable solutions to ability to identify the changing needs of achieve a win-win solution for both the Company and the business and the modern employee, and its adroitness in adopting suitable employee. solutions to achieve a win-win solution for both the Company and the This emphasis on creating a knowledge culture filled with employee....” opportunities for learning and development has made Aitken Spence a breeding ground for talent, which is of long-term benefit to the nation as a whole. It holds the Group in good stead in an era when Sri Lanka is emerging into a new phase of economic activity, leaving the corporate sector facing an unprecedented shortage of suitable staff. This is already especially evident in the Tourism sector, which is in dire need of skilled staff to service the burgeoning tourist numbers and the growing room inventory. Another concern faced by companies is the growing number of qualified professionals seeking employment and migrating overseas. Corporate Sri Lanka must also adapt to the needs of the ‘new age worker’: a new generation of youth whose appetite for risks and new experiences is matched by their desire to explore the world of work on their own terms. The Aitken Spence Group has witnessed the average age of employees dropping steadily; already, over 25% of its executive staff is aged 25 years or below. The corporate trainee intake for the year consisted of ten young talented candidates who faced a rigorous selection process. The Sector-wise Employee Analysis Age Group-wise Employee Analysis 7% 7% 24% 23% 51% 17% 25 years and below 26 30 years Tourism 31 35 years Cargo Logistics 13% 36 40 years 19% Strategic Investments 41 50 years Services 22% 51 years and above 17% 96 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Human Resources Aitken Spence corporate trainee programme lays more emphasis on real life situations than on qualifications. The Group has proactively undertaken a rotation campaign at grassroot level, to provide exposure to multiple environments “In an effort to enhance the motivation of new recruits an evening forum was and challenges. Employees in the office assistant and clerical introduced where they could meet and categories have been identified for rotation among the SBUs, interact with the Board of and the scheme is now in progress. Management. The new recruits are encouraged to openly share their views and opinions with the Board of In an effort to enhance the motivation of new recruits an Management, setting up an open evening forum was introduced where they could meet and channel of communication at the very outset...” interact with the Board of Management. The new recruits are encouraged to openly share their views and opinions with the Board of Management, setting up an open channel of communication at the very outset. The project initiated to create a central database of job descriptions (JDs) continued throughout the year. Group HR is carrying out analysis of various executive positions within the Group. The Aitken Spence Group has maintained an online performance management system for all executive staff since 2008. The system is a living tool, with improvements made continuously; most of them, based on the feedback of employees themselves. This year, the system was improved by revising rating scales and weightages allocated for various staff categories. There was greater emphasis during the year on proactively listening to employees through formal and informal means and all subsidiaries have been covered in this respect. The common issues identified during this process have been addressed. One on one discussions were held with a cross section of staff ranging from Managing Directors to minor staff, allowing Length of Service Functional Analysis 4% 1% 7% 6% 8% 6% 74% 1% 65% 10% 5 years and below 6 to 10 years HR & Administration 18% 11 to 15 years Finance 16 to 20 years IT 21 to 30 years Sales & Marketing 31 years and above Operations Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 97 employees to voice their opinions, comments and make suggestions about the current HR related practices in the Group. The initiative facilitates bottom-to-top communication and serves as a strategic tool that can facilitate employee-centric HR “The annual 5S competition which has now been titled the ‘Group 6S decisions, especially in the areas of culture, benefits, job design Competition’, saw the participation of and communication. 48 subsidiaries. ‘Shed’ a new concept in improving productivity standards was Employee Satisfaction (ESAT) surveys were conducted for introduced during the year, as an extension to the Japanese 5S concept several subsidiaries with a view to strategically identify areas of which the Group has practiced for concern from the employees’ viewpoint. The survey results nearly a decade...” assist the management in the early identification of critical areas that can impact job satisfaction. The annual 5S competition which has now been titled the ‘Group 6S Competition’, saw the participation of 48 subsidiaries. ‘Shed’ a new concept in improving productivity standards was introduced during the year, as an extension to the Japanese 5S concept which the Group has practiced for nearly a decade. ‘Shed’ signifies the importance of shedding undesired excess in terms of 8 types of waste. The shift from ‘5S’ to ‘6S’ marks a transition from fundamental housekeeping to “lean management”. The Group’s learning and development activities during the year focused on managerial development, with numerous programmes designed to develop managerial capability, emotional intelligence, decision making and leadership. This included a programme on the use of a state-of-the-art decision making tool, for top management on the complex decisions demanded by challenging environments.The Group is focusing on creativity, as a core competency in building a competitive advantage and tools are being developed to enable people to apply their creativity to solving problems. During the year, Types of Training Employees Trained Category-wise 9% 23% 25% 30% 5% Organisational Development Managerial Development Manager Individual Development 61% Executive 47% Non Executive Technical 98 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Human Resources employees from across the Group participated in technical, managerial and soft skills development programmes. International training and cross exposure programmes have also been increased to facilitate global trends. In a bid to improve leadership and communications skills, “The Group now lays claims to a Aitken Spence formed a Toastmasters Club, with the involvement state-of-the-art corporate auditorium capable of accommodating 100 of a diverse group of employees. The club serves as a useful participants. This facility has improved tool for employee engagement and empowerment, as it is the quality of delivery, ambience and managed outside of the formal structure of the organisation. logistical arrangements for training programmes...” The Group now lays claims to a state-of-the-art corporate auditorium capable of accommodating 100 participants. This facility has improved the quality of delivery, ambience and logistical arrangements for training programmes. Aitken Spence became a lead sponsor of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) for the year 2011. Extending partnership to professional bodies such as the ICASL allows the Company to contribute towards the creation of future professional talent, which is critical for the business sector given the migration of human resources away from Sri Lanka. The visibility of the Group was significantly enhanced last year through participation in job fairs, career guidance programmes and University linkages across the island, especially in communities around where we operate. An important link in the Group’s engagement with its employees are the two internal newsletters, the Ace (in English) and the Athwela (in Sinhala). These help keep employees informed of all key events that take place in the Group. Furthermore, regular email announcements are sent out, keeping employees informed of Group news as it happens. The internal Group blog Category-wise Employee Analysis Employment Types 5% 38% 25% 62% Manager 70% Executive Permanent Non Executive Contract Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 99 known as ‘Knowledge Centre’ serves as a recreational activity for employees, enabling them to engage in discussions and access all notices circulated. The Sports Club organised several events during the year to promote interaction among employees across all segments and “A fully functional HR management ages, thereby enhancing team spirit and loyalty. The events system is now in place for the Group’s included a Vesak lantern competition, Sport-O-Rama, mercantile Maldivian operations, where the strategies proven in Sri Lanka have sports events and the inter-company bowling tournament to been implemented with the necessary name a few. The Sports Club also facilitates several fitness changes to suit its environment...” programmes such as aerobics, social dancing and swimming. A fully functional HR management system is now in place for the Group’s Maldivian operations, where the strategies proven in Sri Lanka have been implemented with the necessary changes to suit the environment. Furthermore, the Group’s pioneering training efforts in the Maldives have received recognition from the Government of the Maldives, which has requested Aitken Spence to train its tourism ministry officials. As Aitken Spence moves boldly towards the future, we do so with the clear understanding that one of the strongest sources of our competitive advantage lies in our human resources. Being a service based company, the skills, expertise, and attitudes of our team determine the depth of the results we achieve. The value we place in developing a world class team capable of embracing opportunities and overcoming any challenge is demonstrated in the sustainable strategies we have outlined in this report. We will strive to remain responsive and responsible in developing and retaining our talent. Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors 102 Remuneration Committee Report 107 Nominations Committee Report 108 Audit Committee Report 109 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 110 Independent Auditors’ Report 111 Financial Statements Income Statements 112 Balance Sheets 113 Statement of Changes in Equity Group 114 Statement of Changes in Equity Company 115 Cash Flow Statements 116 Notes to the Financial Statements 118 Consolidated Income Statement In USD 154 Consolidated Balance Sheet In USD 155 102 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Annual Report of the Board of Directors The details set out herein provide the pertinent information Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., acquired the balance required by the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the Colombo 69.6% shares of MPS Hotels Ltd., for Rs. 272 million and Stock Exchange Listing Rules and the best accounting practices. invested Rs. 82 million to increase its stake in Brown Beach The Board of Directors of Aitken Spence PLC., has pleasure in Hotels PLC. presenting the Annual Report together with the audited financial Aitken Spence PLC., divested its 30% stake in Colombo statements for the year ended 31st March 2012 which were International Container Terminals Ltd to China Merchant approved by the Board of Directors on 25th of May 2012. Holdings (International) Company Ltd. The capital gain on this 1. Principal Activities transaction was Rs. 655 million. Aitken Spence PLC., is the holding company that directly or 3. Synopsis of the Income Statement of the indirectly owns investments in companies which form the Company and the Group Aitken Spence Group. In addition to the above, the Company provides management and related services to the Group 3.1. Group Revenue & Profits Companies. During the year there were no significant changes Revenue generated by the Company during the year amounted in the principal activities of the Company and the Group. to Rs. 448 million. (2011 – Rs.377 million). The Group revenue was Rs. 30,670 million (2011 Rs.25,144 million) which is a The activities of the Group are categorised into four main growth of 22% compared to the previous year. An analysis of sectors namely Tourism, Cargo Logistics, Strategic Investments Group revenue based on business and geographical segments and Services. Companies within each sector and their principal is disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements on page 127. activities are described on pages 192 to 198 of the Annual Report. The financial statements of the Company and the The profit after tax of the Group was Rs. 4,711 million (2011 Group which include the income statements, balance sheets, Rs. 3,428 million) The Group’s profit attributable to the equity cash flow statements, statements of changes in equity and shareholders of the parent company for the year was Rs. 3,709 notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31st March million (2011 Rs. 2,536 million) which was a 46% increase 2012 are given on pages 112 to 153. over the previous year. The segmental profits are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements on page 127. 2. Review of Operations A review of performance, future plans of the Company and the 3.2. Donations Group Companies are described in greater detail in the During the year, donations amounting to Rs.325,000 /were Chairman’s Message on pages 6 to 9, Managing Director’s made by the Company, while the donations made by the Review on pages 10 to 15, Management Discussion and Group during the year amounted to Rs.5,779,534/-. Analysis on pages 28 to 61, and the Financial Review on pages 62 to 73 in the Annual Report. These reports together with the 3.3 Taxation financial statements reflect the state of affairs of the Company A detailed statement of the income tax rates applicable to the and the Group. individual companies in the Group and a reconciliation of the accounting profits with the taxable profits are given in note 12 2.1 Investments to the financial statements. The Group invested Rs. 1,052 million in equity shares of new and existing ventures. Of this amount Rs. 285 million was It is the policy of the Group to provide for deferred taxation on invested by Aitken Spence PLC., in the equity of Branford all known timing differences on the liability method. The Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd., Western Power Company Ltd., Ace deferred tax balances of the Group are given in notes 22 and Alliance Power Ltd, Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence 30 to the financial statements. Printing and Packaging (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., and Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. 3.4 Dividends The Directors recommend a dividend payment of Rs.1.40 per Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd., invested share which is a dividend growth of 40 % over the previous Rs. 413 million for the acquisition of additional shares of year. The dividend paid in respect of the previous year was Colombo International Nautical Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd. Rs.1.00 per share. The total dividend for the current year will be Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 103 distributed from exempt dividends received by the Company applicable interest on these debentures was duly paid on 25th and will be exempt from tax in the hands of the shareholders. October 2011. In accordance with the terms of issue 30% of The Directors are confident that the Company would meet the the face value (Rs 30/-) of these debentures was redeemed solvency test requirement under Section 56 (2) of the on 25th October 2011. With this redemption the Company has Companies Act No 7 of 2007 immediately after the payment redeemed 60% of the face value (Rs.60/-) of these debentures of the final dividend distribution. with the balance outstanding being Rs 120 million. 4. Synopsis of the Balance Sheet of the (ii) Floating rate debentures Company and the Group 6,600,000 floating rate unsecured redeemable debentures of Rs. 100/each were issued in tranches of 4,100,000 and 4.1 Stated Capital and Reserves 2,500,000 on 25th October 2006 and 24th November 2006 As at 31st March 2012 the Company had issued 405,996,045 respectively with interest payable semi annually at an interest ordinary shares and the stated capital of the Company was Rs. rate of six months gross treasury bill rate+ 1.25% p.a. The 2,135 million. The total Group reserves as at 31st March 2012 applicable interest on these debentures was duly paid on 25th were Rs. 23,413 million (2011-Rs. 19,381 million). This April 2011 and 25th October 2011. In accordance with the consisted of capital reserves of Rs. 5,486 million (2011Rs.5,186 terms of the issue, 30% of the face value (Rs 30/-) of these million) and revenue reserves of Rs. 17,927 million (2011debentures was redeemed on 25th October 2011. With this Rs.14,195 million). The movement in these reserves is shown in redemption the Company has redeemed 60% of the face the Statement of Changes in Equity Group on page 114. value (Rs.60/-) of these debentures with the balance outstanding being Rs 264 million. 4.2 Debentures Unsecured Redeemable Debentures outstanding as at 4.3. Property, Plant & Equipment 31 st March 2012 The carrying value of property plant & equipment for the The value of unsecured redeemable debentures outstanding Company and the Group as at 31 st March 2012 amounted to as at 31st March 2012 is Rs 384 million. The debentures carry Rs. 208 million and Rs. 27,893 million respectively. a credit rating of AA (lka) from Fitch Rating Lanka Ltd. The details of the debentures are given below: The total expenditure on the acquisition of property, plant & equipment during the year in respect of new assets by the (i) Fixed rate debentures Company and the Group amounted to Rs. 47 million and 3,000,000 fixed rate unsecured redeemable debentures of Rs. Rs. 4,196 million respectively. 100/each were issued on 25th October 2006 with interest payable annually at an interest rate of 13.75% p.a. The For the year ended 31 March Group 2012 Group 2011 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 The net profit of the Group after providing for all expenses, all known liabilities and 5,463,457 3,815,555 depreciation on property, plant and equipment Provision for taxation including deferred tax (752,900) (387,335) Net profit after tax 4,710,557 3,428,220 Profit attributable to minority shareholders (1,001,395) (892,264) Profit attributable to equity shareholders 3,709,162 2,535,956 Income directly recognised in the equity statement 728,291 356,425 Balance brought forward from the previous year 21,516,187 18,894,470 Amount available for appropriation 25,953,640 21,786,851 Interim dividend paid 2010/11 (2009/10) (94,732) Final Dividend for 2010/2011 (2009/10) (405,996) (175,932) Balance carried forward 25,547,644 21,516,187 104 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 4.4 Investment Property 7. Going Concern The carrying value of land and building classified as investment The Board of Directors is satisfied that the Company and the property of the Company and the Group as at 31st March Group have adequate resources to continue its operations 2012 amounted to Rs. 672 million and Rs. 102 million without any disruption in the foreseeable future. The Group’s respectively. financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. 4.5 Market Value of Freehold Properties 8. Information on the Board of Directors and The freehold land owned by companies in the Group was the Board Sub Committees revalued by professionally qualified independent valuers during 8.1 Board of Directors the financial year 2008/2009, with the exception of those owned by Ahungalla Resorts Ltd., which was revalued in The Board of Directors of the Company as at 31st March 2012 2010/2011, Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., and PR comprised of, Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd., which were revalued during this D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman financial year. J.M.S. Brito -Deputy Chairman and Managing Director The Group records building at cost and revalues its freehold R.M. Fernando land once in every five years. Land and buildings purchased G.M. Perera during the last five years are recorded in the financial statement M.P. Dissanayake at cost. Details of the revaluation, written down value and the G.C. Wickremasinghe carrying amount at cost are given in note 15.3 to the financial C.H. Gomez N.J. de S Deva Aditya statements. V.M. Fernando R.N. Asirwatham 4.6 Contingent Liabilities The details of contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 36 to All Directors of the Company held office during the entire year. the financial statements on page 150. The profiles of the Directors are given on pages 18 to 19 of the Annual Report. 5. Post Balance Sheet Events Mr. A.L. Gooneratne was appointed as an Alternate Director to No event of material significance that require adjustments to Mr. N.J. de S Deva Aditya on the 8th of May 2012. the financial statements has arisen other than that disclosed in note 41 to the financial statements on page 153. 8.2 Board Sub Committees 6. Accounting Policies The following Directors of the Board serve as members of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the The financial statements of the Group were prepared based on Nomination Committee. applicable Sri Lankan Accounting Standards. There were no changes to the accounting policies adopted by the Company or Audit Committee the Group during the financial year. The accounting policies R.N. Asirwatham (Chairman) adopted by the Company and the Group are disclosed in the G.C. Wickremasinghe financial statements on pages 118 to 126. C.H. Gomez N.J. de S. Deva Aditya With Sri Lanka converging to International Financial Reporting Standards the Group’s Financial Statements would be prepared Remuneration Committee based on the new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards with effect G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) V.M. Fernando from1st April 2012. R.N. Asirwatham The Group has assessed and quantified the potential impact of the changes, on the basis that these standards were applicable for 2011/2012, the details of which are given on pages 68 to 71. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 105 Nomination Committee 9. Human Resources G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) Our HR strategies and practices have translated into the D.H.S. Jayawardena creation of a dynamic and competent human resource team J.M.S. Brito with sound succession planning and a remarkably low attrition V.M. Fernando R.N. Asirwatham rate. Our employment strategies are reviewed periodically by the relevant committees and the Board of Directors. The Human Resource Report is set out on pages 95 to 99 of the 8.3 Recommendation for re-election Annual Report. Mr. C.H. Gomez and Mr. G.M. Perera retire by rotation in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company and 10. Governance being eligible for re-election are recommended by the Board for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The Group has not engaged in any activity, which contravenes the laws of the country. The Group rigidly adheres to the Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe attained the age of 70 years on 15th regulations of Professional Institutes, Industrial Associations, August 2003 and in accordance with Section 210(2) of the Chambers of Commerce and Regulatory Bodies. The company Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, he vacates office at the complies with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange forthcoming Annual General Meeting. A notice of a resolution and the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued has been received from a shareholder that the age limit of 70 jointly by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka years referred to in Section 210(1) of the said Companies Act and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. The shall not apply to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has attained Group has applied very high standards to protect and nurture the age of 78 and that he be re-elected as a Director at the the environment in which it operates and ensures strict Annual General Meeting. adherence to all environment laws and practices. 8.4 Directors’ Shareholding and their Interests The Company has no restrictions with regard to shareholders The Directors shareholdings and their interest is provided in the carrying out analysis or obtaining independent advice regarding Investor section on page 184 of the Annual Report. their investment in the Company and has made all endeavours to ensure the equitable treatment of shareholders. The 8.5 Interest Register Company’s corporate governance practices are set out on pages 74 to 85 of the Annual Report. An Interest Register is maintained by the Company as per the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. 11. Risk Management 8.6 Directors Remuneration The Directors have established and adhere to a comprehensive The Directors remuneration and fees in respect of the Company risk management framework at both Strategic Business Units and the Group for the financial year ended 31st March 2012 and Group levels to ensure the achievements of their corporate are disclosed on page 128 of the financial statements. objectives. The categories of risks faced by the Group are identified, the significance they pose are evaluated and 8.7 Related party transactions mitigating strategies are adopted by the Group. The Board of Related party transactions of the Group are disclosed on pages Directors reviews the risk management process through the 150 to 152 of the Annual Report. These interests have been Audit Committee. The risk management report of the Group is duly declared by the Directors. on pages 86 to 94 of this report. 8.8 Subsidiary Board of Directors 12. Internal Controls The names of Directors of the subsidiary and joint venture The Board of Directors ensures that the Group has an effective companies who held office as at 31st March 2012 and internal control system which ensures that the assets of the Directors who ceased to hold office during the accounting Company and the Group are safeguarded and appropriate period are reflected on pages 192 to 198 of the Annual Report. systems are in place to minimise and detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. The system ensures that the Group adopts 106 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Annual Report of the Board of Directors procedures which result in financial and operational authority to the Board to decide on their remuneration will be effectiveness and efficiency. proposed at the Annual General Meeting. The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility on pages 110 and The fees payable to the Company auditors Messrs KPMG is the Audit Committee Report set out on page 109 of the Annual Rs. 750,000/-. Report provide further information in respect of the above. In addition to the above Rs. 285,868/was payable by the 13. Statutory Payments Company for permitted audit related and non audit related services including tax advisory services. The Directors to the best of their knowledge and belief are satisfied that all statutory financial obligations due to the Messrs KPMG who are the auditors of the Company are also Government and to the employees have been either duly paid the auditors of certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate or adequately provided for in the financial statements. A companies of the Group. The list of the subsidiaries, joint confirmation of same is included in the Statement of Directors’ ventures and associate companies audited by them are Responsibility on page 110 of this Annual Report. included on pages 192 to 198 of the Annual Report. 14. Corporate Sustainability The amount payable by the Group to Messrs KPMG as audit The Board of Directors guides and supports the Group’s fees is Rs. 8,890,225/while a further Rs. 3,976,961/was sustainability strategy. It welcomes the implementation of the payable for permitted audit related and non audit related structured and dynamic integrated sustainability framework. services including tax advisory services. In addition to the above Awards and recognition received during the year are a testament Rs. 6,038,890/is payable to other auditors for carrying out to our commitment as we continue to benchmark our practices audits in the subsidiaries and joint ventures where the audits against global standards and best practices in a myriad of were not carried out by Messrs KPMG. The amount payable to aspects that affect or potentially affect delivery of long-term such other auditors for permitted audit related and non audit growth. More details of the Group’s sustainability efforts are related services including tax advisory services was included in the Management Review and discussion section of Rs. 4,937,254/-. As far as the Directors are aware the auditors this report and at www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. neither have any other relationship with the Company nor any of its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies that 15. Shareholder Information would have an impact on their independence. There were 4,606 shareholders as at 31st March 2012. The distribution schedule of the number of shareholders and their share holdings is detailed in pages 182 to 184 of the report. D.H.S. Jayawardena The names of the twenty largest shareholders, together with Chairman their shareholdings as at 31st March 2012 are given on page 185 of the report. The percentage of the shares held by the public as at 31st March 2012 was 40.26 %. Information relating to earnings per share and the net assets J.M.S. Brito per share for the Company and the Group, the dividend per Deputy Chairman & Managing Director share and market price per share is given in pages 183 to 186 of the Annual Report. 16. Auditors R.E.V. Casie Chetty The independent auditors’ report on the financial statements is Company Secretary given on page 111 of the Annual Report. The retiring auditors Messrs KPMG have stated their willingness to continue in office 25th May 2012 and a resolution to re-appoint them as auditors and grant Colombo Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 107 Remuneration Committee Report The Remuneration Committee consists of three Non-Executive Independent Directors one of whom functions as the Chairman of the committee. This committee is independent of management and totally free from any business, personal or other relationship that could interfere with its decisions. The Remuneration Committee formally met once during the year under review. The Chairman and the Managing Director of Aitken Spence PLC attended the meeting by invitation. The Group policy on remuneration packages is to attract and retain the best professional, skilled and managerial talent to the Group and also to motivate and encourage them to perform at the optimum level. The Group has a structured and professional methodology to evaluate the performance of employees. The policies ensure that internal equity and fairness among employees are maintained, suitable work environment and working conditions are provided. Further, no discrimination is practised on account of gender, age, ethnicity or religion. The Remuneration Committee having considered the performance of the employees of various companies of the Group, approved promotions and the revision of individual remuneration packages. These packages were based on the cost of living, inflation and comparative industry norms. The remuneration packages further considered the performance of the Group and the contribution of the individual to the Group and the respective Strategic Business Unit to which such individual is attached. No Director is involved in deciding his/ her own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee’s decisions were based on the above mentioned policies and practices and therefore ensured sound and measured judgments in order to retain the best talent in the Group. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Remuneration Committee Colombo 4th April 2012 108 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Nominations Committee Report The Nomination Committee consist of three independent Non-Executive Directors one of whom acts as the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman of Aitken Spence PLC., and the Deputy Chairman and Managing Director of the Company. The members of the Committee individually and jointly possess a large reservoir of knowledge, experience and entrepreneurial skills which enables them to perform their responsibilities and duties effectively. The Committee formally met once during the year under review. The primary function of the Committee is to evaluate the performance of the existing Directors, the current composition of the present and future requirements of Boards of Directors of Group Companies, the suitability of new appointments and the re-appointments of existing Directors to such Boards. Accordingly, the Committee reviewed and recommended changes considered necessary to the Board of Directors, on the composition of Boards of Group Companies. The Nomination Committee further evaluated the suitability of promotions of employees to higher levels of management and made recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee’s decisions were fair, free from any bias and were not influenced by personal or business relationships. This enabled the Committee to make sound and measured judgments in order to attract the best talent to the Group and also retain the services of the current employees by giving them fair and equal opportunities. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Nomination Committee Colombo 13th March 2012 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 109 Audit Committee Report Committee Composition by the Committee, which thereafter recommended suitable action to be instituted by the management. The Audit Committee comprises of four Independent Non Executive Directors, one of whom acts as the Chairman. External Audit Meetings and Attendance The Audit Committee met the External Auditors Messrs KPMG, on the progress and conduct of the statutory audit, discussed The Managing Director, The Chief Corporate Officer, The Chief audit related issues with them, and considered the observations Financial Officer, The Company Secretary and the Chief and views brought to their attention. The Audit Committee Internal Auditor attended the meetings by invitation, but not as also negotiated with the external auditors the quantum of their members. fees and out of pocket expenses. The Audit Committee formally met seven times during the The Audit Committee having evaluated the performance of year ended 31st March 2012. the external auditors decided to recommend to the Board of Whenever the Audit Committee considered it necessary, the Aitken Spence PLC, the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG, as Functional Heads of the Strategic Business Units, whose audit auditors of the Company for the current year, subject to the reports were being reviewed and discussed, were also invited approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual to attend these meetings. General Meeting. Functions of the Committee The annual and quarterly financial statements which were prepared in strict compliance with the Companies Act No 7 of R.N. Asirwatham 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and regulations of Chairman relevant Institutes and Organisations were reviewed and Audit Committee subsequently discussed with the Board prior to their release. Colombo The Audit Committee regularly monitors and reviews the 4th April 2012 implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards and its impact on the Group’s Financial Statements. The Audit Committee uses its extensive experience, knowledge and specialised expertise to assist the Board of Directors to perform their duty of ensuring that the Company’s internal controls and conduct of business are in accordance with best practices. The Audit Committee approved the plan of activities, of the Group Internal Audit Department which was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Group. The Audit Committee monitors and guides the Group Internal Audit Department which performs audits according to the plan of activities which covers financial and operational audits, risk assessments and IT security reviews. The reports of the Group Internal Audit Department have been reviewed and discussed 110 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 requires the Directors of the The Directors have provided the Auditors with every Company to be responsible for the preparation and opportunity to carry out any reviews and tests that they presentation of the financial statements and other statutory consider appropriate and necessary for the performance of reports. These documents need to be prepared in accordance their responsibilities. with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No The Board of Directors confirm that the financial statements of 15 of 1995 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock the Company and the Group give a true and fair view of the Exchange. Company and Group as at the Balance Sheet date and the profit of the Company and the Group for the financial year The Directors confirm that the financial statements and other ended 31 st March 2012. The Directors confirm to the best of statutory reports of the Company and its subsidiaries for the their knowledge and belief that all payments due to employees, year ended 31st March 2012 incorporated in this report have regulatory and statutory authorities due and payable by the been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act No.7 of Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures have been either 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No duly paid or adequately provided for in the financial statements. 15 of 1995 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. In the preparation of the financial statements, the By Order of the Board, Directors have selected the appropriate accounting policies and have applied them consistently. Material departures if any from accounting policies have been disclosed and explained in the financial statements. R.E.V. Casie Chetty The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in Company Secretary preparing the financial statements. The Directors having considered the Group’s business plans, and a review of its Colombo current and future operations, are of the view that the 25th May 2012 Company has adequate resources to continue in operation. The Directors accept the responsibility of ensuring that the companies within the Group maintain adequate and accurate records which reflect the true financial position of each such company and hence the Group. The Directors have taken appropriate and reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group. The Directors have instituted appropriate systems of internal controls in order to minimise and detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 111 Independent Auditors’ Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting SHAREHOLDERS OF AITKEN SPENCE PLC policies used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement Report on the Financial Statements presentation. We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Aitken Spence PLC, (the “Company”) and the consolidated We have obtained all the information and explanations which financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (the to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for “Group”) as at 31st March, 2012, which comprise the balance the purposes of our audit. We therefore believe that our audit sheet as at that date, and the income statement, statement of provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and Opinion other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 112 to 153 of In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, the Company maintained proper accounting records for the year this Annual Report. ended March 31, 2012 and the financial statements give a Management’s Responsibility for the true and fair view of the Company’s state of affairs as at March Financial Statements 31, 2012 and its profit and cash flows for the year ended in Management is responsible for the preparation and fair accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. presentation of these financial statements in accordance with In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. This responsibility includes: true and fair view of the state of affairs as at March 31, 2012 designing, implementing and maintaining internal control and its profit and cash flows for the year then ended, in relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, of the statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Company and its subsidiaries dealt with thereby, so far as due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate concerns the members of the Company. accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion These financial statements also comply with the requirements Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial of Section 153(2) to 153(7) of the Companies Act No. 07 of statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 2007. accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence Colombo supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial 25th May 2012 112 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Income Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 6 30,670,417 25,143,811 448,428 377,485 Revenue tax (478,519) (414,820) (8,516) (10,141) Net revenue 30,191,898 24,728,991 439,912 367,344 Other operating income 7 698,246 254,205 1,837,391 1,825,023 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (5,875) 20,402 Raw materials and consumables used (9,856,597) (6,641,636) Employee benefits expense (3,580,485) (3,055,354) (275,385) (221,813) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill 8 (1,777,449) (2,094,440) (51,396) (44,047) Other operating expenses direct 9 (6,076,253) (5,659,838) Other operating expenses indirect (3,989,102) (3,595,814) (234,669) (256,600) Profit from operations 6 5,604,383 3,956,516 1,715,853 1,669,907 Finance income 489,056 494,963 423,819 348,846 Finance expenses 10 (693,975) (731,228) (361,300) (361,591) Net finance expense (204,919) (236,265) 62,519 (12,745) Share of associate companies profit (net of tax) 11 63,993 95,304 Profit before tax 6&8 5,463,457 3,815,555 1,778,372 1,657,162 Income tax expense 12 (752,900) (387,335) (12,479) Profit for the year 4,710,557 3,428,220 1,765,893 1,657,162 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 3,709,162 2,535,956 1,765,893 1,657,162 Minority interest 1,001,395 892,264 Profit for the year 4,710,557 3,428,220 1,765,893 1,657,162 Earnings per Share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 13 9.14 6.25 4.35 4.08 Dividends per Share (Rs.) 14 1.40 1.00 1.40 1.00 The notes on pages 118 through 153 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 113 Balance Sheets Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant & equipment 15 27,893,497 23,925,653 207,963 209,129 Leasehold properties 16 2,549,265 1,359,483 Intangible assets 17 528,857 134,026 Investment property 18 102,156 102,799 672,488 675,888 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted 19 4,888,877 4,599,972 Investments in subsidiaries quoted 19 2,458,287 2,458,287 Investments in associates 20 1,470,157 1,335,002 165,000 165,000 Long-term investments 21 383,495 473,945 167,873 167,873 Deferred tax assets 22 210,468 138,314 33,137,895 27,469,222 8,560,488 8,276,149 Current Assets Inventories 23 1,788,467 1,607,724 1,651 1,755 Trade and other receivables 24 8,953,827 4,148,373 629,107 274,359 Amounts due from subsidiaries & joint ventures 2,723,674 2,003,004 Amounts due from associates 6,100 23,326 3,983 8,143 Current investments 25 241,542 261,436 436 436 Deposits and prepayments 755,758 547,022 60,176 23,205 Current tax receivable 158,172 122,298 140,483 109,659 Short-term deposits 5,892,079 5,047,926 3,275,132 2,700,285 Cash at bank and in hand 647,880 736,009 19,042 20,554 18,443,825 12,494,114 6,853,684 5,141,400 Assets classified as held for sale 26 149,125 181,489 57,237 70,837 Total Assets 27 51,730,845 40,144,825 15,471,409 13,488,386 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Stated capital 28 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 28 12,557,127 11,071,652 6,494,816 5,737,726 Retained earnings 10,855,377 8,309,395 1,670,127 1,067,320 25,547,644 21,516,187 10,300,083 8,940,186 Minority interest 5,700,409 5,129,687 Total Equity 31,248,053 26,645,874 10,300,083 8,940,186 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 29 5,742,548 4,143,648 2,100,000 844,000 Deferred tax liabilities 30 444,582 267,078 Employee benefits 31 387,984 335,637 56,394 46,936 6,575,114 4,746,363 2,156,394 890,936 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 32 6,604,061 3,942,187 235,264 334,209 Interest-bearing liabilities repayable within one year 29 2,135,469 1,718,328 544,000 568,000 Amounts due to subsidiaries & joint ventures 1,967,010 1,940,706 Amounts due to associates 14,088 482 726 45 Current tax payable 286,567 179,647 Short-term bank borrowings 4,867,493 2,911,944 267,932 814,304 13,907,678 8,752,588 3,014,932 3,657,264 Total Equity and Liabilities 51,730,845 40,144,825 15,471,409 13,488,386 The above balance sheet is to be read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements on page 118 to 153. I certify that the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2012 are in compliance with the requirements of Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Chief Financial Officer The Board of Directors is responsible for preparation and presentation of these financial statements. For and on behalf of the Board: D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Chairman Deputy Chairman and Managing Director 25th May 2012 Colombo, Sri Lanka 114 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Statement of Changes in Equity Group For the year ended 31st March 2012 --------------------------Attributable to equity holders of the company ------------------------Total Minority Total Stated Revaluation Other General Exchange Retained interest equity capital reserve capital reserves fluctuation earnings reserves reserve Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 31st March 2010 2,135,140 4,623,582 127,521 4,185,177 380,919 7,442,131 18,894,470 4,566,388 23,460,858 Currency translation differences (66,000) (66,000) (41,968) (107,968) Share of net assets of associate companies 2,566 2,566 (1,208) 1,358 Surplus on revaluation 434,938 434,938 149,656 584,594 Issue of shares by subsidiaries 637,286 637,286 Direct cost on share issue (14,610) (14,610) (5,027) (19,637) Effect of acquisitions, disposals and change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries (469) (469) (557) (1,026) Net income recognised directly in equity 434,938 (66,000) (12,513) 356,425 738,182 1,094,607 Profit for the year 2,535,956 2,535,956 892,264 3,428,220 Total recognised income and expenses for the year 434,938 (66,000) 2,523,443 2,892,381 1,630,446 4,522,827 Transfer to general reserve 1,385,515 (1,385,515) Dividends for 2009/2010 (Note 14) (270,664) (270,664) (270,664) Dividends paid by subsidiary companies to minority shareholders (1,067,147) (1,067,147) Balance as at 31st March 2011 2,135,140 5,058,520 127,521 5,570,692 314,919 8,309,395 21,516,187 5,129,687 26,645,874 Currency translation differences 428,752 428,752 226,899 655,651 Share of net assets of associate companies 27,820 (3,472) 24,348 7,817 32,165 Surplus on revaluation 271,813 271,813 93,855 365,668 Effect of acquisitions, disposals and change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries 3,378 3,378 (15,701) (12,323) Net income recognised directly in equity 299,633 428,752 (94) 728,291 312,870 1,041,161 Profit for the year 3,709,162 3,709,162 1,001,395 4,710,557 Total recognised income and expenses for the year 299,633 428,752 3,709,068 4,437,453 1,314,265 5,751,718 Transfer to general reserve 757,090 (757,090) Dividends for 2010/2011 (Note 14) (405,996) (405,996) (405,996) Dividends paid by subsidiary companies to minority shareholders (743,543) (743,543) Balance as at 31st March 2012 2,135,140 5,358,153 127,521 6,327,782 743,671 10,855,377 25,547,644 5,700,409 31,248,053 The notes on pages 118 through 153 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 115 Statement of Changes in Equity Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 Stated Revaluation General Retained Total capital reserve reserves earnings Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 31st March 2010 2,135,140 193,746 4,158,465 1,066,337 7,553,688 Profit for the year 1,657,162 1,657,162 Total recognised income and expenses for the year 1,657,162 1,657,162 Transfer to general reserve 1,385,515 (1,385,515) Dividends for 2009/2010 (Note 14) (270,664) (270,664) Balance as at 31st March 2011 2,135,140 193,746 5,543,980 1,067,320 8,940,186 Profit for the year 1,765,893 1,765,893 Total recognised income and expenses for the year 1,765,893 1,765,893 Transfer to general reserve 757,090 (757,090) Dividends for 2010/2011 (Note 14) (405,996) (405,996) Balance as at 31st March 2012 2,135,140 193,746 6,301,070 1,670,127 10,300,083 The notes on pages 118 through 153 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 116 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Cash Flow Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash flows from operating activities Net profit before taxation 5,463,457 3,815,555 1,778,372 1,657,162 Adjustments for Depreciation & amortisation 1,751,315 2,070,436 51,396 44,047 Impairment of goodwill 26,134 24,004 Interest expense 620,298 660,440 356,338 355,705 Gain on disposal of property plant & equipment (61,671) (41,925) (8,173) (10,070) Loss on disposal of investment property 23,711 Gain on disposal of investments (591,793) (10,691) (591,793) (180,564) Gain on retirement of assets held for sale (343) (12,781) Interest income (489,056) (494,963) (423,819) (348,846) Surplus on acquisition of companies (7,784) (30,127) Share of associate companies’ profit after tax (63,993) (95,304) Provision / (write-back) of bad and doubtful debts 8,782 (3,894) (14,611) 987 Movement in assets held for sale (19,826) Provision for fall in value of investments 19,894 (995) 4,488 Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) (4,536) (137,068) (61,554) 13 Provision for retirement benefit obligations 88,476 80,020 13,404 9,163 1,295,723 2,000,107 (691,593) (101,366) Operating profit before working capital changes 6,759,180 5,815,662 1,086,779 1,555,796 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (4,797,010) 1,301,776 (1,056,647) 320,984 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (180,743) (214,138) 104 36 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 2,674,404 (251,976) (73,036) 669,096 (Increase)/decrease in deposits & prepayments (208,736) (56,644) (36,971) 10,870 (2,512,085) 779,018 (1,166,550) 1,000,986 Cash generated from operations 4,247,095 6,594,680 (79,771) 2,556,782 Interest paid (620,298) (660,440) (356,338) (355,705) Income tax paid (585,821) (406,612) (43,302) (28,388) Retirement benefit obligations paid (43,837) (39,863) (3,946) (3,901) (1,249,956) (1,106,915) (403,586) (387,994) Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities 2,997,139 5,487,765 (483,357) 2,168,788 Cash flows from investing activities Investments made during the year (176,097) (1,030,107) (365,366) (2,028,726) Acquisition of subsidiaries & joint ventures (Note A) (727,910) (224,132) Effect of changes in percentage holding in subsidiaries (41,875) (8,814) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (4,195,609) (2,012,935) (47,388) (150,163) Purchase of investment property (109) (56,612) (109) (14,941) Purchase of leasehold rights (1,022,800) (5,547) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 144,987 115,896 8,840 11,062 Proceeds from disposal of investments 671,754 289,440 671,754 351,586 Proceeds on retirement of assets held for sale 32,708 22,880 Dividends and dividend taxes paid by subsidiary companies to outside shareholders (743,543) (1,067,147) Dividends received from associate companies 34,066 Net cash generated from / (used in) investing activities (6,058,494) (3,965,892) 290,611 (1,831,182) (carried forward to next page) The notes on pages 118 through 153 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 117 Cash Flow Statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (brought forward from previous page) Cash flows from financing activities Interest received from deposits 489,056 494,963 423,819 348,846 Proceeds from interest-bearing liabilities 3,246,944 1,244,137 1,800,000 300,000 Repayment of interest-bearing liabilities (1,763,371) (1,891,150) (568,000) (508,000) Issue of shares by subsidiaries 637,286 Direct cost on share issue by a subsidiary company (19,637) Dividends paid (404,920) (269,941) (404,920) (269,941) Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities 1,567,709 195,658 1,250,899 (129,095) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,493,646) 1,717,531 1,058,153 208,511 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,166,112 1,448,581 1,968,089 1,759,578 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note B) 1,672,466 3,166,112 3,026,242 1,968,089 A. Acquisition of subsidiaries & joint ventures During the year the Group acquired control of M.P.S. Hotels Ltd., Western Power Company Ltd., and the balance control of Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. The Group also purchased a further 30% stake in Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd., which is now accounted as a joint venture. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of these acquisitions are as follows; Rs.’000 Property, plant & equipment (513,616) Inventories (3,450) Trade and other receivables (45,392) Deposits and prepayments (1,221) Interest bearing liabilities 2,408 Deferred taxation 7,921 Current taxation 3,822 Employee benefits 7,596 Trade and other payables 89,668 Cash and cash equivalents (28,349) Investments made prior to acquisition of controlling /joint controlling shares 132,112 Net assets acquired (348,501) Goodwill on acquisition of companies (415,542) Surplus on acquisition of companies 7,784 Purchase consideration paid on acquisition (756,259) Cash and cash equivalents acquired 28,349 Net cash outflow on acquisition of companies (727,910) B Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash at bank and in hand 647,880 736,009 19,042 20,554 Short term deposits 5,892,079 5,047,926 3,275,132 2,700,285 Short-term bank borrowings (4,867,493) (2,911,944) (267,932) (814,304) Cash and cash equivalents as previously reported 1,672,466 2,871,991 3,026,242 1,906,535 Effect of exchange rate changes 294,121 61,554 Cash and cash equivalents as restated 1,672,466 3,166,112 3,026,242 1,968,089 The notes on pages 118 through 153 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. 118 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Reporting Entitiy management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and Aitken Spence PLC., (the “Company”) is a company reported amounts of assets and liabilities and income incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka and listed on the and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions Colombo Stock Exchange. The company’s registered are based on historical experience and various other office and the principal place of business is located at factors that are believed to be reasonable under the “Aitken Spence Tower II”, 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo circumstances, the results of which form the basis of 02. making the judgement about carrying values of assets The principal activities of the Company and the other and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other entities consolidated with it are disclosed in pages 192 sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. to 198 of this report. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Aitken Spence PLC does not have an identifiable parent. on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is 2 Basis of Preparation revised if the revision affects only that financial year, or the period of the revision and future periods if the 2.1 Statement of compliance revision affects both current and future financial years. The financial statements of Aitken Spence PLC., and those consolidated with such comprise the balance 2.5 Going concern sheet, income statement, cash flow statement, statement The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s of changes in equity and notes to the financial statements. ability to continue as a going concern in the foreseeable These financial statements have been prepared in future, and they do not intend either to liquidate or to accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards cease operations. issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, the requirements of the Companies Act. No. 3 Significant Accounting Policies 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Accounting Policies set out below have been applied Standards Act No. 15 of 1995. consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated 2.2 Approval of financial statements by Directors financial statements. The financial statements for the year ended 31st March The accounting policies have been applied consistently 2012 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors by the entities in the Group. on the 25th of May 2012. 3.1 Basis of consolidation 2.3 Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements (referred to as the The financial statements have been prepared on the “Group”) comprise the financial statements of the historical cost basis, except for certain investments and Company and its subsidiaries and the Group’s interest in items of property, plant & equipment which are measured associate companies and jointly controlled entities. at fair value; and defined benefit plans which are The subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates measured at the present value of the defined benefit consolidated are disclosed in notes 19 and 20 to the obligations as explained in notes 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4.1 to financial statements. the financial statements. 3.1.1 Subsidiaries Functional currency Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan Control exists when the Company has the power, directly rupees, which is the Company’s functional currency. All or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies financial information presented in rupees has been of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities. rounded to the nearest thousand. Control also exists when the company controls the composition of the board of directors or equivalent body, 2.4 Use of estimates and judgements holds more than half of the issued shares of the entity, The preparation of financial statements in conformity or controls more than half of the voting rights of the with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards requires Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 119 entity, or where control is provided by virtue of contractual Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable arrangements. assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Entities that are subsidiaries of another entity which is a Goodwill is initially recognised at cost. Such goodwill is subsidiary of the company are also treated as subsidiaries identified into cash generating units and is annually of the company. tested for impairment as described in note 3.3.9 to the financial statements. After initial recognition goodwill is The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is presented as an intangible asset. 3.1.2 Minority interest The proportion of the profit or loss after taxation If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the applicable to outside shareholders of subsidiary identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities companies is reflected under “Minority interest” in the exceed the cost of the acquisition of the entity, the consolidated income statement. surplus is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. The interest of the outside shareholders in the net assets employed of those companies are reflected under the 3.1.6 Reporting date heading “Minority interest” in the balance sheet. All the Group’s subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associate companies have a common financial year 3.1.3 Associates other than, Business Travels LLC., which is a joint venture Associates are those entities in which the Group has company whose financial year ends on 31st December. significant influence, but does not have control, over the The difference between the reporting date of the above financial and operating policies. Significant influence is subsidiaries and that of the parent does not exceed three presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% months. 50% of the voting rights of another entity. 3.1.7 Intra-group transactions Investments in associates are recognised initially at cost. Pricing policies of all intra-group sales are identical to The results of the associate companies are accounted for those adopted for normal trading transactions, which are in the consolidated financial statements using the equity at market prices. method, where the Group’s share of profits and losses is incorporated in the consolidated income statement, and 3.1.7.1 Transactions eliminated on consolidation the related investments are carried forward in the Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised consolidated balance sheet at values adjusted to reflect gains and losses or income and expenses arising from the Group’s share of retained assets. Dividends declared intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the by the associates are recognised against the equity value consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains of the Group’s investment. arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the 3.1.4 Jointly controlled operations investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same Entities in which the Group has joint control over the way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there financial and operating policies are termed joint ventures. is no evidence of impairment. The Group’s interests in such jointly controlled entities are accounted for on a proportionate consolidation basis. 3.2 Transactions in foreign exchange The Group’s share of the assets and liabilities of such entities are included in the consolidated balance sheet 3.2.1 All foreign exchange transactions in individual companies and the Group’s share of their profits and losses are are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the included in the consolidated income statement in time the transaction was effected. All monetary assets accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 31 and liabilities in foreign currency at year end are Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures. translated at the rate prevailing on the reporting date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are carried in 3.1.5 Goodwill terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Nonacquisition of a subsidiary or a joint venture over the monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 120 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to every five years which is measured at its fair value at the reporting currency using the exchange rate that was date of revaluation less any subsequent impairment prevailing on the date the fair value was determined. The losses. On revaluation of land any increase in the resulting gains or losses on translations are dealt with in revaluation amount is credited to the revaluation reserve the income statement, except in the case of cash flow in shareholder’s equity unless it offsets a previous hedges, which are accounted as stated below. decrease in value of the same asset that was recognised in the income statement. A decrease in value is 3.2.2 In respect of transactions which meet the conditions for recognised in the income statement where it exceeds special hedge accounting in relation to cash flow hedges, the increase previously recognised in the revaluation the portion of the exchange gain or loss on the hedge reserve. Upon disposal, any related revaluation reserve is instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is transferred from the revaluation reserve to retained recognised directly in equity through the statement of earnings and is not taken into account in arriving at the changes in equity and the ineffective portion is gain or loss on disposal. The details of revaluation of land recognised in the income statement. are disclosed in note 15.3.1 to the financial statements. 3.2.3 Subsidiaries incorporated outside Sri Lanka are treated as Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of foreign entities. Assets and liabilities both monetary and the related equipment is capitalised as part of that non-monetary of foreign entities are translated at the equipment. rate of exchange prevailing on the reporting date. Income, expenses and cash flows of such foreign entities When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment are translated at exchange rates approximating to the have different useful lives, they are accounted for as actual rate at the time of the transaction. For practical separate items (major components) of property, plant purposes this is presumed to be the average rate during and equipment. each month. Exchange differences arising on translating the financial statements of foreign entities are recognised 3.3.1.2 Subsequent cost directly under equity in the consolidated financial The Group recognises in the carrying amount of property, statements. plant and equipment the cost of replacing a part of an item, when it is probable that the future economic Goodwill arising on the acquisition of foreign entities is benefits embodied in the item will flow to the Group and reported using the exchange rate that prevailed at the the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The date of acquisition in accordance with Sri Lanka carrying amount of the parts that are replaced is Accounting Standard No.21 – Effects of Changes in derecognised from the cost of the asset. Foreign Exchange Rates. The Group also recognises the costs of major planned 3.3 Assets and bases of their valuation overhauls to the power generation plants in the carrying amount of the plant as a replacement when the above 3.3.1 Property, plant & equipment recognition criteria are satisfied. 3.3.1.1 Recognition and measurement Property, plant and equipment other than land, are 3.3.1.3 Depreciation measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its accumulated impairment losses. residual value. Significant components of individual assets are assessed and if a component has a useful life The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment that is different from the remainder of that asset, that comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable component is depreciated separately. costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use. The cost of self-constructed assets includes Depreciation of property, plant and equipment of the the cost of materials, direct labour and any other costs Group is recognised in the income statement on a directly attributable to bringing the asset to the working consistent basis, over the period appropriate to the condition for its intended use. This also includes cost of estimated useful lives of each part of the asset. dismantling and removing the items and restoring them Depreciation is not provided on land and assets under in the site on which they are located. construction. All items of property, plant and equipment are recognised Generally assets are depreciated on a straight-line initially at cost. The Group revalues land at least once in method over the following periods. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 121 Leased Assets Over the periods expected to be derived from the lease. Cost of leasehold of the lease property is tested for impairment annually. Buildings 20 50 years 3.3.3 Investments Plant & Machinery 10 20 years 3.3.3.1 Unquoted investments are treated as long-term Equipment 04 05 years investments and measured at cost in the financial Power Generation Plants 10 20 years statements. Investments in preference shares are treated Motor Vehicles 04 10 years as long-term investments and measured at cost in the Furniture & Fittings 10 years financial statements. Computer Equipment 3-5 years Crockery, Cutlery & Glassware 3-5 years 3.3.3.2 Investments in subsidiary companies and jointly Speed Boats & Supply crafts 5 years controlled entities are measured at cost less provision for Soft Furnishing 5-10 years fall in value of investments and treated as non-current investments in the parent company’s financial The buildings of some of the Group’s resorts in the statements. Maldives that are not depreciated as above, are depreciated on an annuity method over the period of 3.3.3.3 Investments in associate companies are treated as longthe leases. term assets and measured as explained in paragraph 3.1.3 above in the consolidated financial statements. In The cost of replacement of components of assets the parent company’s financial statements, the recognised in the carrying amount of property, plant and investments are measured at cost. equipment is depreciated over the balance useful life of the asset. 3.3.3.4 All other quoted investments are treated as current investments and measured at the lower of cost and The cost of major planned overhauls capitalised are market value on a portfolio basis, with any resultant gains depreciated over the period until the next planned or losses recognised in the income statement. maintenance. Power generation plants are depreciated from the date 3.3.4 Investment properties of first commercial operation of the plant. Investments in land and buildings that are held to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but 3.3.2 Leases not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the 3.3.2.1 Finance leases production or supply of goods and services or for Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially administrative purposes are treated as investment all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as properties and measured at cost less aggregate leased assets under property, plant and equipment and depreciation in the balance sheet. However, if there is are stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair impairment in value, other than of a temporary nature, value and the present value of minimum lease payments. the carrying amount is reduced to recognise the decline. Leased assets are depreciated over the remaining lease Certain items of land and building that had been revalued period or the useful life of the asset whichever is shorter. to fair value prior to 1st April 2005, the date of transition 3.3.2.2 Operating leases to the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard No 40 Investment Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially Property, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, all the risks and rewards of ownership over the assets are being the revalued amount at the date of last revaluation. classified as operating leases. Lease payments under 3.3.4.1 Depreciation operating leases are recognised as an expense in the No depreciation is provided on land treated as investment income statement on a straight-line basis over the term property. of the lease or any other basis more representative of the time pattern of the benefits derived from the lease. Depreciation of other investment property of the Group is provided for on a consistent basis, over the period 3.3.2.3 Leasehold property appropriate to the estimated useful lives of the assets on The initial cost of acquiring leasehold property is treated a straight-line method. as an operating lease and is amortised over the period of the lease in accordance with the pattern of benefits 122 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements Leased Assets Over the periods of the lease or losses on re-measurement are recognised in the Buildings Over 20 50 years income statement. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. 3.3.4.2 In the consolidated financial statements, properties which are occupied by companies within the Group for 3.3.9 Impairment the production or supply of goods and services or for The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed administrative purposes is treated as property, plant and at each reporting date to determine whether there is any equipment while these properties are treated as indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the investment property in the financial statements of the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated. company owning the asset. The recoverable amount of goodwill is estimated at each 3.3.5 Inventories reporting date, or as and when an indication of Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net impairment is identified. realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. The recoverable amount. A cash-generating unit is the cost of inventories is based on a weighted average cost. smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash The cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the flows that largely are independent from other assets. inventories and bringing them to their existing location Impairment losses are recognised in the income and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories, statement. cost includes an appropriate share of factory overheads based on normal operating capacity. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cashgenerating units on acquisition of subsidiaries are 3.3.6 Receivables allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any Receivables are measured at the amounts estimated to goodwill allocated to the unit and then to reduce the be realised. Provision has been made in the financial carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group statements for bad and doubtful debts. of units) on a pro rata basis. 3.3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 3.3.9.1 Calculation of recoverable amount Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash in hand, The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating demand deposits with banks, short-term liquid money unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less market investments, bank overdrafts and short-term costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated borrowings repayable on demand. These are included as future cash flows are discounted to their present value components of cash and cash equivalents for purpose of using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market cash flow disclosures. assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit. 3.3.8 Assets held for sale Assets that are expected to be recovered primarily 3.3.9.2 Reversal of impairment through a disposal rather than through continuing use An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. are classified as held for sale. Immediately before In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised classification as held for sale, these assets are rein prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer policies. Thereafter the assets are measured at the lower exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. change in the estimates used to determine the Any impairment loss on the above assets is first allocated recoverable amount. to goodwill and then to the remaining assets and An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax amount that would have been determined, net of assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had which are continued to be measured in accordance with been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are the Group’s accounting policies. Impairment losses on recognised in the income statement. initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 123 3.4 Liabilities and provisions 3.4.1.3 Short-term employee benefits Liabilities classified as current liabilities on the balance Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured sheet are those which fall due for payment on demand on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the of the creditor or within one year of the reporting date. related service is provided. A liability is recognised for the Non-current liabilities are those balances that become amount expected to be paid under short-term cash repayable after one year from the reporting date. bonus if the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service All known liabilities have been accounted for in preparing rendered by the employee and the obligation can be the financial statements. measured reliably. 3.4.1 Employee benefits 3.4.2 Provisions 3.4.1.1 Defined benefit plan retiring gratuity A provision is recognised in the balance sheet, if as a A defined benefit plan is a post employment benefit plan result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or other than a defined contribution plan. The liability constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit will be required to settle the obligation. obligation at the reporting date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually using the projected unit 3.5 Income statement credit method. The present value of the defined benefit 3.5.1 Revenue obligation is determined by discounting the estimated Group revenue represents sales to customers outside future cash flows using interest rates that are the Group and excludes value added tax and intra-group denominated in the currency in which the benefits will sales. be paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating to the terms of the liability. 3.5.2 Profit The profit earned by the Group before taxation as shown Provision has been made in the financial statements for in the consolidated income statement is after making retiring gratuities from the first year of service for all provision for bad and doubtful debts, all known liabilities employees, in conformity with Sri Lanka Accounting and depreciation of property, plant & equipment except Standard 16 (Revised 2006) Retirement Benefit Costs. as referred to under note 3.3.1.3 above. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability for payment to an employee 3.5.3 Expenditure arises only after the completion of 5 years continued All expenditure incurred in the running of the business service. and in maintaining the capital assets in a state of efficiency has been charged to revenue in arriving at the The liability is not externally funded. profit for the year. 3.4.1.2 Defined contribution plan 3.5.4 Borrowing costs Defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit Borrowing costs are recognised as expenditure in the plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into period in which they are incurred. However, borrowing a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for construction or production of a qualifying asset that takes contributions to a defined contribution plan are a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended recognised as an employee benefit expense in the use or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset. Borrowing income statement in the periods during which services costs capitalised are disclosed in note 10 to the financial are rendered by employees. statements. The Group contributes a sum not less than 12% of the 3.5.5 Revenue recognition gross emoluments of employees as provident fund Revenue is recognised on an accrual basis from the sale benefits and 3% as trust fund benefits respectively. of goods when all significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer. 124 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements Revenue on rendering of services is recognised on a job the relevant tax statutes as disclosed in note 12 to the completion basis. financial statements. In respect of the Group’s hotel operations, apartment Taxation for the current and previous periods to the revenue is recognised on the rooms occupied on a daily extent unpaid is recognised as a liability in the financial basis, and food & beverage sales are accounted for at the statements. When the amount of taxation already paid in time of sale. respect of current and prior periods exceeds the amount due for those periods the excess is recognised as an Dividends from investments are recognised when the asset in the financial statements. right to receive such is established. 3.5.8.2 Deferred taxation 3.5.6 Disposal of property, plant & equipment Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary Gains or losses on the disposal of property, plant & differences between the carrying amounts of assets and equipment have been accounted for in the income liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the statement. amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not 3.5.7 Grants and subsidies recognised for the following temporary differences: the Grants and subsidies which are intended to compensate initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of a related cost are recognised in the income statement assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business on a systematic basis over the period necessary to match combination and that affects neither accounting nor the grant with the related cost. taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent Grants and subsidies which intend to compensate an that they probably will not reverse in the foreseeable expense or loss already incurred or received for the future. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are purpose of immediate financial support with no future expected to be applied to temporary differences when related costs are recognised in the income statement in they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted the period in which the grant becomes receivable. or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Grants and subsidies related to assets are immediately A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses recognised in the balance sheet as a deferred income and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that and recognised in the income statement on a systematic it is probable that future taxable profits will be available and rational basis over the useful life of the asset. against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets 3.5.8 Income tax expense are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to Income tax expense comprises of current and deferred the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax. Income tax expense is recognised in the income tax benefit will be realised. statement except to the extent that it relates to the items Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by individual recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised companies within the Group are disclosed separately as in statement of changes in equity. assets and liabilities in the group balance sheet and are not offset against each other. 3.5.8.1 Current Tax The current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable 3.5.8.3 Economic service charge income for the year, using tax rates enacted or As per the provisions of the Economic Service Charge Act substantially enacted at the reporting date, and any No 13 of 2006, ESC is payable on the liable turnover at adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. specified rates. ESC is deductible from the income tax liability. Any unclaimed liability can be carried forward Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka and set off against the income tax payable as per the Provision for current tax for companies incorporated in relevant provisions in the Act. Sri Lanka has been computed in accordance with the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and its amendments 3.5.9 Segment information thereto. A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group engaged either in providing products or services Companies incorporated outside Sri Lanka (business segment) or in providing products or services Provision for current tax for companies incorporated in a particular economic environment (geographical outside Sri Lanka have been computed in accordance to Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 125 segment) which is subject to risks and rewards that are Commitments and Contingent liabilities are disclosed in different from those of other segments. The business Note 34, 35 and 36 to the financial statements. segment has been identified as the primary segment of the Group and the geographical segment has been 3.6.4 Related Party transactions considered the secondary segment. The business Disclosure has been made in respect of the transactions segments are determined based on the Group’s in which one party has the ability to control or exercise management and internal structure. significant influence over the financial and operating policies/decisions of the other, irrespective of whether a Segment results, assets and liabilities include items that price is being charged. are directly attributed to a segment or a relevant portion of results, assets and liabilities that can be allocated on a 3.6.5 Earnings per share reasonable basis as determined by the management. The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated 3.5.9.1 Business segment by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary The activities of the Group have been broadly classified shareholders of the company by the weighted average into four main segments according to the nature of the number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. product or service provided. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted 3.5.9.2 Geographical Segment average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the The activities of the Group have been broadly classified effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. into two segments, namely, operations within Sri Lanka and those outside Sri Lanka, that is, Asia & Africa. Geographical Segment is identified by the location of 4. Events Occurring after the assets. Balance Sheet Date Segment information analysed by business and All material post balance sheet events have been geographical segments are disclosed in notes to the considered, disclosed and adjusted where applicable. accounts 6 & 27 on pages 127 and 145. 5. New Accounting Standards Issued but 3.6 Other general accounting policies not effective as at Balance Sheet date 3.6.1 Movement of reserves 5.1 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Movements of reserves are disclosed in the statement of issued a new volume of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, changes in equity. which are applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 01st January 2012. Accordingly these 3.6.2 Cash flow Standards have not been applied in preparing these 3.6.2.1 Cash and cash equivalents financial statements as they are not applicable for the The cash flow statement has been prepared using the year ended 31st March 2012. “indirect method”. 5.2 These new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards comprise Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand Accounting Standards prefixed both SLFRS and demand deposits, readily converted to known (corresponding to IFRS) and LKAS (corresponding to amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of IAS) and are commonly referred to by the term SLFRSs. changes in value. Application of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards prefixed SLFRS and LKAS for the first time is deemed to Interest paid is classified under operating cash flows for be an adoption of SLFRSs for the first time. The Council the purpose of presentation of the Cash Flow Statement of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and reported based on the indirect method. has also adopted the Interpretation Guidelines issued by 3.6.3 Commitments and contingencies the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Contingencies are possible assets or obligations that Committee (guidelines referred to as IFRICs) and arise from a past event and would be confirmed only on Standing Interpretation Committee (guidelines referred the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future to as SICs). events, which are beyond the Group’s control. 126 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.3 The Group completed an extensive assessment of the necessary training for the employees at all levels who are impact of applying the SLFRSs, LKASs, IFRICs & SICs to required to implement the changes. Group companies and identified the gaps in the current 5.4 The Group evaluated each new Accounting Standard accounting practices applied by the Group. The Group and the relevant Interpretation Guidelines (SLFRSs, has reviewed and finalised the relevant changes LKASs, IFRICs & SICs) and identified the standards necessary for correction of the identified gaps and has relevant to the Group. The following table sumarises the obtained the requisite approvals from the Group Audit applicability of these standards to the Group. Committee. The Group has also completed the modifications to the operational and accounting systems to facilitate the above changes and completed the Applicable to the Applicable to the Currently not Group with Group but no applicable to the Material changes Material changes Group to the Financial to the Financial Statement Statement SLFRS 1 First time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards ü SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment ü SLFRS 3 Business Combinations ü SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts ü SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations ü SLFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources ü SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure ü SLFRS 8 Operating Segments ü LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements ü LKAS 2 Inventories ü LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows ü LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors ü LKAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period ü LKAS 11 Construction Contracts ü LKAS 12 Income Taxes ü LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment ü LKAS 17 Leases ü LKAS 18 Revenue ü LKAS 19 Employee Benefits ü LKAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance ü LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates ü LKAS 23 Borrowing Costs ü LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures ü LKAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans ü LKAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements ü LKAS 28 Investments in Associates ü LKAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies ü LKAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures ü LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation ü LKAS 33 Earnings per Share ü LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting ü LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets ü LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets ü LKAS 38 Intangible Assets ü LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement ü LKAS 40 Investment Property ü LKAS 41 Agriculture ü IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease ü IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements ü All other IFRICs and SICs ü Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 127 6 Segment analysis of group revenue and profit 6.1 Business segment a. Revenue Total revenue Inter segmental Intra-segmental Revenue generated revenue revenue from external customers 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Tourism sector* 12,678,164 10,779,827 46,409 23,726 1,369,767 788,830 11,261,988 9,967,271 Cargo logistics sector 5,189,783 4,604,821 353,426 296,774 134,665 180,044 4,701,692 4,128,003 Strategic investments* 14,176,444 10,894,292 155,885 133,980 53,067 37,153 13,967,492 10,723,159 Services sector 1,866,267 1,670,455 164,363 169,456 17,106 14,238 1,684,798 1,486,761 Total segment revenue 33,910,658 27,949,395 720,083 623,936 1,574,605 1,020,265 31,615,970 26,305,194 Share of associate company revenue (945,553) (1,161,383) (945,553) (1,161,383) Total revenue 32,965,105 26,788,012 720,083 623,936 1,574,605 1,020,265 30,670,417 25,143,811 * Includes associate companies b. Profit Profit from Profit before Non cash Income tax operations tax * expenses expense 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Tourism sector 2,648,384 1,602,206 2,654,254 1,564,264 17,398 44,734 389,818 48,382 Cargo logistics sector 846,825 601,670 853,077 594,566 40,506 21,380 249,390 192,751 Strategic investments 1,131,534 961,046 972,061 861,922 27,253 25,256 79,864 109,840 Services sector 977,640 791,594 984,065 794,803 10,417 2,256 33,828 36,362 5,604,383 3,956,516 5,463,457 3,815,555 95,574 93,626 752,900 387,335 * Includes associate companies Profits from operations and profits before tax of the strategic investments segment is after recognising Rs. 26 million as impairment of goodwill. There were no impairment losses recognised directly to the equity during the year and no reversals of impairment losses recognised in profits or directly in equity during the year. 6.2 Geographical segment Total revenue Revenue from Profit before generated external customers tax 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Rs’.000 Sri Lanka 23,817,806 19,483,953 22,304,527 18,321,249 3,058,864 2,738,078 Asia & Africa 9,147,299 7,304,059 8,365,890 6,822,562 2,404,593 1,077,477 32,965,105 26,788,012 30,670,417 25,143,811 5,463,457 3,815,555 128 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 7 Other operating income Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Dividends from investments 8,145 7,902 1,163,086 1,656,179 Gain on disposal of investments 591,793 10,691 591,793 180,564 Gain on retirement of assets held for sale 343 12,781 Gain on disposal of property, plant & equipment 61,671 41,925 8,173 10,070 Loss on disposal of investment property (23,711) Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) 4,536 137,068 61,554 (13) Compensation received 13,500 Proceeds from insurance claims 12,849 1,772 Government grants 4,747 Surplus on acquisition of companies 7,784 30,127 Sundry income 10,474 8,896 4 162 698,246 254,205 1,837,391 1,825,023 7.1 Gain on disposal of shares in Colombo International Container Terminals Limited. During the year the Company concluded the sale of its 30% shareholding in Colombo International Container Terminals Limited (CICT) to China Merchants Holdings (International) Company Limited, the joint venture partner. The total gain on the above divestment recognised during the year is as follows; Group/ Company Rs.’000 Gain on disposal of investment (included under other operating income) 590,798 Foreign exchange gain (included under other operating income) 61,556 Interest income on deferred terms (included under finance income) 2,328 654,682 8 Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following: Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost of inventories and services 19,985,978 15,792,050 265,184 212,650 Directors’ remuneration & fees 222,722 193,544 37,571 22,896 Auditors’ remuneration KPMG 8,890 7,718 750 682 Other auditors 6,039 4,827 Fees paid to Auditors for non-audit services KPMG 3,977 3,250 286 1,786 Other auditors 4,937 3,813 Depreciation 1,711,330 2,001,576 51,396 44,047 Amortisation 39,985 68,860 Impairment of goodwill 26,134 24,004 Operating lease payments 282,772 394,720 Provision / (write back) of bad and doubtful debts 8,782 (3,894) (14,611) 987 Provision for fall in value of investment 19,894 (995) 4,488 Legal Expenses 7,196 3,953 71 45 Defined contribution plan cost EPF & ETF 228,718 205,988 27,820 22,880 Defined benefit plan cost Retirement benifits 88,476 80,020 13,404 9,163 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 129 9 Other operating expenses-direct Direct operating expenses as disclosed in the income statement refers to the cost of services other than staff costs which are directly related to revenue. Since most of the companies in the Group operate in service industries, other direct operating expenses represents a substantial portion of the total operating costs. 10 Finance expenses Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Interest on long-term borrowings 432,214 433,756 228,605 177,642 Interest on short-term borrowings 188,084 226,684 127,733 178,063 Bank charges 52,575 44,954 4,962 5,886 Finance charges on leases 21,102 25,834 693,975 731,228 361,300 361,591 Borrowing costs capitalised by the Group on qualifying assets during the financial year amounted to Rs. 45.1 million (2010/2011 Rs. 3.3 million) (Company-nil). 11 Share of associate companies profit (net of tax) Group 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements (Pvt) Ltd. (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC.) 15,810 93,643 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. 48,183 (4,628) M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. * 6,289 63,993 95,304 * During the period under review the Group acquired the balance control of M.P.S. Hotels Ltd., the financial results of which are accounted as a subsidiary for the year 2011/2012. 12 Income tax expense Income tax provision of Aitken Spence PLC., its subsidiaries, joint venture companies and associate companies which are resident in Sri Lanka have been calculated on their adjusted profits at 28% in terms of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto; other than for companies which carry on any undertaking with an annual turnover not exceeding Rs. 300 million (except buying and selling), whose profits have been taxed at 10%. Tax status of companies in the Group which are; • Enjoying income tax exemptions/concessionary tax rates are given in note 12.1 • Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.2 • Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 12.3 130 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.1 Companies exempt from income tax /liable to tax at concessionary rates Companies exempt from tax Company Statute Period Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2011/2012 Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2012/2013 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2014/2015 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years from 1st Year of Profit Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 3 Years Ending 2012/2013 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2012/2013 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years Ending 2014/2015 Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd Section 13(b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of Indefinite 2006 Companies liable to tax at concessionary rates Company Statute Period Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Ltd Hethersett Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Kandalama Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite M.P.S. Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd 12% under Section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Ending 2014/2015 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 52 & 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of Ending 2014/2015 2006 Spence International (Pvt) Ltd 10% under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 2 Years Ending 2011/2012 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) 2% of Turnover under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 15 Years Ending Ltd 2018/2019 Colombo International Nautical & 15% under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 15 Years Ending Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd 2014/2015 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements 12% under Section 46 of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Ltd Elpitiya Plantations PLC Agricultural Profits Liable for Tax at 10% under Section 48A of Indefinite Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 In addition to the above, the following income tax exemptions and concessions are available to companies operating in the Group in terms of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto; Profits and income earned in foreign currency (other than any commission, discount or similar receipt) from services rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to a party outside Sri Lanka is exempt from income tax in terms of section 13 (ddd) of above. Profits and income from any undertaking for the operation and maintenance of facilities for storage, development of software and educational services carried out in Sri Lanka are liable for tax at 10%. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 131 12.2 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka Company Countries Operated Tax Status Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd South Africa Business profits liable to tax at 33% in South Africa and exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd Oman Business profits liable to tax at 12% in Oman and exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 12.3 Companies incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka Company Countries Operated Tax Status Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Crest Star Ltd Hong Kong Nil Crest Star (BVI) Ltd British Virgin Islands Nil ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Pvt Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd India Liable at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law Ace Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Liable at 37.5% as per as per Bangladesh Tax Law Business Travel Services LLC Oman Liable at 12% as per as per Oman Tax Law Income derived from the provision of services by non-resident companies operating in the Republic of Maldives is subject to withholding tax of 10%, when remitted overseas w.e.f. July 2011. 12.4 The companies in the Group have brought forward tax losses amounting to Rs. 2,311 million (2010/11 – Rs. 2,196 million) which are available to be set off against the future tax profits of those companies. Deferred tax assets not accounted on these losses amounts to Rs. 73 million (2010/11 Rs. 102 million). Aitken Spence PLC has a brought forward tax loss of Rs. 174 million (2010/11 Rs. 188 million) which is available to be set off against the future tax profits of the company. Deferred tax asset not accounted on these losses amounts to Rs. 49 million (2010/11 Rs. 53 million). 12.5 Income tax expense Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tax on current year profits (Note 12.6) 549,081 351,055 7,609 Deferred tax expense / (income) (Note 12.7) 98,134 (87,136) Tax on dividends paid by subsidiaries 95,599 138,342 Under / (over) provision in respect of previous year 10,086 (14,926) 4,870 752,900 387,335 12,479 132 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.6 Reconciliation of the accounting profit and tax on current year Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit before tax 5,463,457 3,815,555 1,778,372 1,657,162 Consolidation adjustments 18,349 (6,123) Profit after adjustments 5,481,806 3,809,432 1,778,372 1,657,162 Income not liable for income tax (2,622,189) (2,897,029) (1,162,822) (1,652,452) Effect of revenue taxed at source 350,063 Accounting (gain) / losses adjusted for tax purposes (14,611) 5,625 (14,611) 5,625 Adjusted profit / (loss) 3,195,069 918,028 600,939 10,335 Non taxable receipts / gains (105,812) (16,776) (663,701) (184,292) Aggregate disallowed expenses 1,398,565 983,596 203,566 170,633 Capital allowances (994,310) (471,682) (43,010) (38,777) Aggregate allowable deductions (744,010) (230,734) (61,285) (48,677) Utilisation of tax losses (187,261) (144,809) (13,452) Current year tax losses not utilised 603,954 194,157 90,778 Taxable income 3,166,195 1,231,780 23,057 Income tax charged at; Standard rate of 28% (2010/11 35%) 105,205 210,534 7,250 Concessionary rate of 10% or 12% (2010/11 15%) 85,667 75,107 Other rates 600 500 Varying rates on off shore profits 357,609 64,914 359 549,081 351,055 7,609 12.7 Deferred tax expense / (income) Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Origination of temporary differences 132,272 33,959 Impact of tax rate changes (24,330) Change in unrecongnised other temporary differences 49,020 166,327 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses (83,158) (263,092) 98,134 (87,136) 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations. Group Company 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent (Rs.) 3,709,162,417 2,535,955,572 1,765,893,105 1,657,162,313 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 Earnings per share (Rs.) 9.14 6.25 4.35 4.08 As there were no options outstanding at year end the diluted earnings per share is equal to the basic earnings per share for the year. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 133 14 Dividends 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Final ordinary dividend recommended Rs. 1.40 per share (2010/11 Rs. 1.00 per share) 568,394 405,996 568,394 405,996 The Directors have recommended a Rs. 1.40 per share final dividend payment for the year ended 31st March 2012 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting on 28th June 2012. The entire dividend for the year will be paid out of tax exempt dividends received by the company and will be exempt in the hands of the shareholders. In compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard No. 12Events after the Balance Sheet Date (Revised 2005), the final dividend recommended is not recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 31st March 2012. 15 Property, plant & equipment 15.1 Group Freehold Freehold Plant Motor Furniture Leased Capital Total land buildings machinery & vehicles & assets work-inequipment fittings progress Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance as at 01.04.2011 6,335,297 10,877,542 13,037,774 1,223,502 1,264,916 4,909 632,405 33,376,345 Surplus on revaluation 365,668 365,668 Companies acquired during the year 314,702 188,829 96,476 9,327 31,368 13,347 654,049 Exchange difference 1,892 889,107 180,658 17,948 41,569 2,126 1,133,300 Additions 82,131 130,415 1,494,973 124,116 31,789 1,666 2,330,519 4,195,609 Transfers 398,362 169,867 4,256 23,649 (596,134) Disposals / write-offs (72,727) (83,212) (49,532) (5,198) (5,301) (100) (216,070) Balance as at 31.03.2012 7,099,690 12,411,528 14,896,536 1,329,617 1,388,093 14,621 2,368,816 39,508,901 Accumulated depreciation Balance as at 01.04.2011 2,539,645 5,680,797 542,847 683,376 2,803 1,224 9,450,692 Companies acquired during the year 35,205 66,968 5,605 25,125 7,530 140,433 Exchange difference 272,062 130,874 12,597 30,922 446,455 Charge for the year 208,142 1,273,212 137,067 87,871 4,286 1,710,578 Transfers 2,609 (1,909) (20) (680) Disposals / write-offs (2,213) (77,192) (43,393) (5,335) (4,621) (132,754) Balance as at 31.03.2012 3,055,450 7,072,750 654,703 821,279 9,998 1,224 11,615,404 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2012 7,099,690 9,356,078 7,823,786 674,914 566,814 4,623 2,367,592 27,893,497 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2011 6,335,297 8,337,897 7,356,977 680,655 581,540 2,106 631,181 23,925,653 134 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements The value of property, plant & equipment pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs. 9,919 million (2010/2011-Rs. 8,906 million). Capital work-in-progress represents the amount of expenditure recognised under property plant & equipment during the construction of a capital asset. The exchange difference has arisen as a result of the translation of property, plant & equipment of foreign entities which are accounted for in foreign currencies and translated to the reporting currency at the closing date. In compliance with the accounting policy, the Group revalues land owned by the Group companies by independent, professional valuers at least once in every five years. Details of the revalued land are given in the Note 15.3.1 to the financial statements. There were no tax implications or tax liabilities arising due to the revaluation of land. On re-assessment of the fair value of the group’s assets, it has been identified that there is no permanent impairment of property plant & equipment which requires provision in the financial statements. 15.2 Company Plant Motor Furniture Total machinery & vehicles & equipment fittings Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance as at 01.04.2011 205,986 94,033 81,213 381,232 Additions 21,754 18,803 6,831 47,388 Disposals (2,259) (2,160) (2) (4,421) Balance as at 31.03.2012 225,481 110,676 88,042 424,199 Accumulated depreciation Balance as at 01.04.2011 128,591 25,312 18,200 172,103 Charge for the year 26,367 14,032 7,488 47,887 Disposals (2,092) (1,635) (27) (3,754) Balance as at 31.03.2012 152,866 37,709 25,661 216,236 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2012 72,615 72,967 62,381 207,963 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2011 77,395 68,721 63,013 209,129 There were no assets pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from the banks. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 135 15.3 Freehold land 15.3.1 Land carried at revalued amount Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying revaluation amount as at surplus amount date 31.03.2012 at cost Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence PLC. 1 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2009 1A1R0P 900,000 898,843 1,157 Aitken Spence PLC. 1 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 31.03.2009 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 223,650 218,659 4,991 Aitken Spence PLC. 1 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 31.03.2009 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 188,000 145,039 42,961 Aitken Spence PLC. 1 Moragalla, Beruwala 31.03.2009 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 499,200 498,246 954 Aitken Spence PLC. 1 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 31.03.2009 0 A 1 R 10.92 P 12,700 12,700 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. 1 775/5, Negombo Road, Wattala 31.03.2009 22 A 0 R 24.88 P 1,240,700 1,145,309 95,391 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. 1 385, Colombo Road, Welisara 31.03.2009 8 A 3 R 12.23 P 424,000 337,327 86,673 Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. 1 Hittetiya Matara 31.03.2009 0 A 0 R 5.68 P 284 84 200 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. 2 “Ahungalla Resorts”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 15.06.2010 10 A 2 R 39.25 P 509,039 470,001 39,038 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. 2 Meeraladuwa Island, Ahungalla 15.06.2010 26 A 2 R 10.40 P 423,525 333,093 90,432 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd.1 222, Agalawatte Road, Matugama 31.03.2009 2A3R0P 8,800 6,220 2,580 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. 2 “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 31.03.2012 11 A 3 R 34.02 P 565,000 547,559 17,441 Aitken Spence Property Developments Ltd. 1 “Creamland Farm” , Mawaramandiya. 31.03.2009 3 A 0 R 25.08 P 30,300 5,872 24,428 Clark Spence & Co., Ltd. 1 24-24/1, Church Street, Galle 31.03.2009 0 A 1 R 27.90 P 67,900 67,865 35 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. 2 Moragalla, Beruwala 31.03.2009 5 A 3 R 6.80 P 194,500 183,420 11,080 Kandalama Hotels Ltd. 2 Kandalama , Dambulla 31.03.2009 169 A 2 R 22.00 P 9,000 1,616 7,384 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. 2 Ayurvedic village Moragalla, Beruwala 31.03.2009 0 A 0 R 19.30 P 4,425 362 4,063 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. 3 Cochin Kerala 31.03.2012 16 A 3 R 24.00 P 208,300 64,160 144,140 Vauxhall Investments Ltd. 1 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 31.03.2009 0 A 1 R 21.08 P 76,287 54,448 21,839 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. 1 305, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2009 0 A 2 R 37.50 P 529,000 514,269 14,731 6,114,610 5,505,092 609,518 The above land have been revalued by independent, qualified valuers on the basis of current market value. 1. Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) 2. Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. K.C.B Condegama, A.I.V (Sri Lanka) 3. Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. T.T. Kripananda Singh, B.S.C.(Engg.) Civil, MICA, FIE, FIV, C.(Engg.) of N. Raj Kumar & Associates, India 136 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.3.2 Land carried at cost / fair value Company Location Acquisition date Extent Carrying Rs.’000 amount as at 31.03.2012 Rs.’000 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. 80, Negombo Road, Wattala 29.09.2009 2 A 2 R 17.03 P 421,992 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 27.08.2010 1 A 3 R 23.20 P 51,978 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 20.10.2011 0 A 1 R 33.50 P 9,174 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. “Ahungalla Resorts”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 20.04.2011 2 A 1 R 8.00 P 59,002 Branford Hydropower 263, 1st lane, Gangabada Road, (Pvt) Ltd. Kaludewala, Matale 11.05.2009 2 A 0 R 23.32 P 3,183 Branford Hydropower 263, 1st lane, Gangabada Road, (Pvt) Ltd. Kaludewala, Matale 02.11.2010 1 A 0 R 1.31 P 7,350 Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College Millenium Drive, IT Park, Malabe 27.10.2011 6 A 2 R 24.72 P 79,081 Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College Mirishena, Ethnamadala, Kalutara North 27.10.2011 1 A 1 R 10.00 P 8,400 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 418, Parellel Road, Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 19.03.2010 5 A 2R 0 P 21,253 Logilink (Pvt) Ltd. 309/4 a, Negombo Road, Welisara 16.07.2010 2 A 1 R 9.50 P 82,491 M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. 200/21, Peradeniya Road, Kandy 01.04.2011 3 A 1 R 8.00 P 241,176 985,080 15.3.3 Total carrying amount of land Land carried at revalued amount 6,114,610 Land carried at cost / fair value 985,080 7,099,690 16 Leasehold properties Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost Balance as at 1st April 1,551,988 1,597,261 Exchange difference 243,459 (50,820) Additions * 1,022,800 5,547 Balance as at 31st March 2,818,247 1,551,988 Accumulated amortisation Balance as at 1st April 192,505 128,812 Exchange difference 36,492 (5,167) Amortisation during the year 39,985 68,860 Balance as at 31st March 268,982 192,505 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2,549,265 1,359,483 The acquisition cost of the leasehold rights of the Island of Vadoo in the Republic of Maldives and prepaid lease rentals for the Island of Meedhupparu, HudhuRan Fushi and Rannalhi in the Republic of Maldives & properties at Biyagama, Katunayake & Seethawake is recognised under leasehold properties. * Additions during the year represent the total fees paid to the Maldives tourism authority to obtain the extension of leases for four properties in the Republic of Maldives in terms of Section 8 of the second amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act ( Law no 2/99). Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 137 17 Intangible assets Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Goodwill on consolidation Balance as at 1st April 134,026 154,185 Addition on acquisitions 415,542 3,628 Addition on change in percentage holdings in Group companies 5,423 217 Impairment during the year (26,134) (24,004) Carrying amount as at 31st March 528,857 134,026 The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five year periods. The key assumptions used are given below; Business growth – Based on the long term average growth rate for each business unit. The weighted average growth rate used is consistent with the forecast included in industry reports. Inflation – Based on current inflation rate. Discount rate – Risk free rate adjusted for the specific risk relating to the industry. Margin – Based on past performance and budgeted expectations. 18 Investment property 18.1 Movement during the year Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance as at 1st April 103,048 28,936 724,162 747,464 Additions 109 56,612 109 14,941 Transfered from property, plant & equipment 17,500 Disposals (38,243) Balance as at 31st March 103,157 103,048 724,271 724,162 Accumulated depreciation Balance as at 1st April 249 48,274 58,978 Charge for the year 752 249 3,509 3,828 Disposals (14,532) Balance as at 31st March 1,001 249 51,783 48,274 Carrying amount as at 31st March 102,156 102,799 672,488 675,888 138 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 18.2 Details of land under investment property Location Extent Carrying value of Number of investment property buildings Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02* 1A1R0P 160,000 2 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13* 1 A 0 R 20.37 P 76,379 3 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15* 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 96,167 8 Moragalla, Beruwala* 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 296,957 9 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 0 A 1 R 10.92 P 1 Irakkakandi Village, VC road, Nilaweli 113 A 1 R 1.00 P 84,656 42,985 4 3/2, Seewali lane, Kudaedanda, Wattala 0 A 0 R 36.10 P 17,500 102,156 672,488 Properties which are occupied by the companies within the group for the production or supply of goods and services or for administration purposes are treated as property plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements while these properties are treated as investment property in the relevant company’s balance sheet. Value of land and buildings that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1st April 2005, the date these were identified as investment property in the company financial statements is treated as deemed cost of the asset as at this date. 18.3 Market value Investment properties in the group are accounted for on the cost model. The open market value of the above property based on the Directors valuation as at 31st March 2012 for the Group was Rs. 3,035 million (2010/2011 Rs. 1,676 million), and for the Company was Rs. 4,760 million (2010/2011 Rs. 3,461 million). Directors valuation of the properties marked * is based on the last professional valuation carried out by the Group which is also the value recorded under property, plant & equipment in the consolidated financial statements. 18.4 Income earned from investment property Total rent income earned by the company from the investment property during the year was Rs. 15.7 million (2010/2011 Rs. 10.4 million) (Group-nil). There were no direct operating expenses arising on any of the above investment properties. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 139 19 Investments 19.1 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted Number Company Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 of shares holding % holding % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 a) Ordinary Shares Subsidiary companies Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 990,000 100.00 100.00 245,173 231,547 Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 2,250,000 100.00 100.00 22,500 22,500 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 1,550,002 100.00 100.00 15,500 15,500 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 4,010,000 100.00 100.00 40,100 40,100 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 8,900,000 100.00 100.00 89,000 89,000 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 1,400,000 100.00 100.00 14,000 14,000 Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 5,222,500 100.00 100.00 36,307 36,307 Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd. 11,925,001 100.00 100.00 119,250 Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 10,000 100.00 100.00 820 820 Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 52,500 100.00 100.00 514 514 Aitken Spence Group Ltd. (b) (c) (d) 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd. 4,020,000 100.00 100.00 40,200 40,200 Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 150,000 100.00 100.00 1,500 1,500 Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd. (d) 140,000 100.00 100.00 1,400 1,400 Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 100,000 47,600 Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. (d) 2,038,072 100.00 100.00 132,717 132,717 Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 1,577,506 100.00 100.00 13,888 1,888 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. 16,400,100 100.00 100.00 223,000 210,000 Logilink (Pvt) Limited. (d) 30,000,000 100.00 100.00 222,690 222,690 Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 50,000 100.00 100.00 500 500 Spence International (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 25,000 100.00 100.00 650 650 Triton Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 50 50 Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 50,000 50,000 Vauxhall Investments Ltd. 1,320,000 100.00 100.00 13,200 13,200 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. 11,270,000 100.00 100.00 153,401 153,401 Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 46,000 92.00 92.00 1,825 1,825 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 74,865,000 90.00 99.96 748,650 748,650 Western Power Company Ltd. 80 80.00 80.00 75,000 Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 37,500 75.00 75.00 375 375 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 124,033,413 74.00 74.00 1,404,415 1,404,415 Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 133,400 66.75 66.75 7,302 7,269 Ace Alliance Power Ltd. 6,400 64.00 64.00 96 Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 20,046,998 51.00 51.00 200,470 200,470 Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 21,523,362 51.00 51.00 215,234 215,234 Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* 10,001 50.00 100.00 263 263 Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd. (b)* 4,924,500 49.00 86.99 49,245 49,245 Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd. * 10,323,225 49.00 86.99 99,000 99,000 Kandalama Hotels Ltd. * 6,000,000 37.00 82.97 182,050 182,050 Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Pvt) Ltd. 2 100.00 100.00 Ace International (Pvt) Ltd. 2,800 a, b, c, d refer note 38. 140 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.1 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted (Contd.) Number Company Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 of shares holding % holding % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* 100.00 Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd. * 100.00 Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd. (a) (d)* 100.00 A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. * 100.00 Clark Spence & Company (Pvt) Ltd. (d) * 100.00 Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* 100.00 ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Pvt Ltd.* 86.99 Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd.* 86.99 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. * 74.49 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. * 74.49 Crest Star (BVI) Ltd. (a)* 74.49 Crest Star Ltd. * 74.49 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. (c)* 74.49 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. * 73.57 Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd. * 72.96 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. * 72.96 Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * 70.77 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. * 65.22 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* 44.69 Joint ventures Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c) 1,704,000 50.00 50.00 60,876 60,876 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. 998,750 50.00 50.00 26,257 26,257 MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 750,000 50.00 50.00 35,566 35,566 Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* 60.00 Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. * 60.00 Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. * 51.00 Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * 50.00 Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * 50.00 Clark Spence Garments Ltd. * 50.00 Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d) * 50.00 Ace Bangladesh Ltd. (a) * 49.00 Business Travels Services LLC. (b) * 43.50 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd. * 40.00 4,673,384 4,390,779 b) Preference Shares Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 500,000 100.00 100.00 5,000 5,000 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) 16,500,000 100.00 100.00 165,000 165,000 Kandalama Hotels Ltd. 17,500,000 100.00 100.00 175,000 175,000 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. 4,000,000 72.70 72.70 40,000 40,000 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. * 74.49 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 385,000 385,000 Provision for fall in value of investments (169,507) (175,807) Carrying amount as at 31st March 4,888,877 4,599,972 a, b, c, d refer note 38. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 141 19.2 Investment in subsidiaries quoted Number Company Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 of shares holding % holding % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) (Ordinary Shares) 239,472,667 71.20 74.49 2,458,287 2,458,287 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2,458,287 2,458,287 Market value as at 31st March 16,763,087 21,839,907 * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Triton Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Clark Spence & Company Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., or Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd., Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd., ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., and Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in the Republic of Maldives, Crest star (BVI) Ltd. is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Crest star Ltd. is incorporated in Hongkong, Ace Bangaldesh Ltd., and Ace Alliance Power Ltd,. is incorporated in Bangaldesh , PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd. and Aitken Spence Hotel Management (South India) (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in India and Business Travels LLC. is incorporated in Oman, while all other companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. a, b, c, d refer note 38. 20 Investment in associates 20.1 Investment in associates unquoted Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 No. of Holding 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 36,114 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements Ltd. (b) (Ordinary shares) 8,300,000 39.0 165,000 165,000 8,300,000 39.0 165,000 165,000 Elpitiya Plantations PLC. (a) (b) (Ordinary shares) (Subsidiary of Aitken Spence Plantation Managements Ltd.) 24.0 Carrying amount as at 31st March 165,000 201,114 165,000 165,000 Share of movement in equity value 215,332 215,936 Equity value of investments 380,332 417,050 165,000 165,000 a, b, c refer note 38. 142 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 20.2 Investment in associates quoted Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 No. of Holding 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a) (Ordinary shares) 48,384,563 27.8 923,482 841,101 Carrying amount as at 31st March 923,482 841,101 Share of movement in equity value 166,343 76,851 Equity value of Investments 1,089,825 917,952 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 706,415 941,796 Equity value Net book value unquoted 380,332 417,050 unquoted 165,000 165,000 Equity value Net Book Value quoted 1,089,825 917,952 quoted Equity value Net book value as at 31st March 1,470,157 1,335,002 as at 31st March 165,000 165,000 20.3 Summarised financial information of associates Group share of balance sheet Total assets 2,679,934 2,494,656 Total liabilities (1,209,777) (1,159,654) 1,470,157 1,335,002 Group share of revenue and profit Revenue 945,553 1,161,383 Profit (net of tax) 63,993 95,304 Dividends 34,066 21 Long-term investments Group Company No. of 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 No. of 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 shares Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 2,500,000 25,000 25,000 2,500,000 25,000 25,000 Palm Village Hotels Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 1,815,674 10,070 10,070 934,707 3,533 3,533 Business Process Outsourcing LLC. (Ordinary shares) 7,500 8,640 8,640 7,500 8,640 8,640 Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (Secured Redeemable Debentures of Rs.100/each) 130,700 55,700 130,700 55,700 Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (Preference shares) 75,000 75,000 Poovar Island Resorts (Ordinary shares) 988,764 126,650 126,650 Barefoot Resorts & Leisure (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 25,000 86,590 86,590 Cargo Village Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 38,571 357 357 Ingrin Institute of Printing & Graphics Sri Lanka Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 10,000 100 100 Skynet Worldwide Express Management Company Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 1,000 99 99 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) * 90,450 388,206 478,656 167,873 167,873 Provision for fall in value of investments (4,711) (4,711) Carrying amount as at 31st March 383,495 473,945 167,873 167,873 * Consequent to the purchase of an additional 30% stake in Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd., during the year, the investment is now accounted as a joint venture. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 143 22 Deferred tax assets Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 22.1 Movement in deferred tax assets Balance at the beginning of the year 138,314 56,823 Companies acquired during the year 5,011 Exchange gain 705 674 Impact of rate change transferred to income statement (27,845) Reversal of temporary differences transferred from income statement 71,449 103,651 Balance at the end of the year 210,468 138,314 22.2 Composition of deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets attributable to; Defined benefit obligations 37,075 40,955 Tax losses carried forward 257,761 212,868 Other items 20,563 23,849 Companies acquired during the year 5,011 Property, plant & equipment (104,931) (144,369) Net deferred tax assests 210,468 138,314 22.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group As at 31st Recognised Exchange As at 31st Recognised Subsidiaries Exchange As at March in income gain March in income acquired gain 1st April 2012 statement 2011 statement 2010 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax assets Defined benefit obligations 37,075 (3,880) 40,955 297 40,658 Other items 20,563 (3,991) 705 23,849 360 674 22,815 Tax losses carried forward 257,761 44,893 212,868 212,506 362 Companies acquired / (transferred) during the year (5,011) 5,011 (2,716) 5,011 2,716 315,399 32,011 705 282,683 210,447 5,011 674 66,551 Deferred tax liability Property, plant & equipment (104,931) 39,438 (144,369) (134,641) (9,728) (104,931) 39,438 (144,369) (134,641) (9,728) Net deferred tax assets 210,468 71,449 705 138,314 75,806 5,011 674 56,823 23 Inventories Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Raw materials 1,414,101 1,333,840 Work in progress and finished goods 86,864 79,244 Consumables 287,502 194,640 1,651 1,755 1,788,467 1,607,724 1,651 1,755 Value of inventories pledged as security for facilities obtained from banks by the Group amounted to Rs. 900 million (2010/2011-Rs. 683 million) (Company-nil). 144 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 24 Trade & other receivables Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade receivables 7,438,967 3,466,261 Other receivables 1,611,956 776,592 611,879 272,611 Provision for bad and doubtful debts (116,160) (113,685) (15,094) 8,934,763 4,129,168 611,879 257,517 Loans to employees 19,064 19,205 17,228 16,842 8,953,827 4,148,373 629,107 274,359 The movement of loans above Rs. 20,000/given to executive staff is as follows: Loan to company officers summary 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at the beginning of the year 16,842 14,667 Loans granted during the year 7,400 7,510 24,242 22,177 Recoveries during the year (7,014) (5,335) Loans as at 31st March 17,228 16,842 No loans have been given to the Directors of the company. 25 Current investments Group Company No. of 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 No. of 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 shares Rs.’000 Rs.’000 shares Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank (Ordinary shares) 24,770 399 399 24,770 399 399 Overseas Realty (Ceylon) PLC. (Ordinary shares) 3,750 37 37 3,750 37 37 Colombo Dockyard PLC (Ordinary shares) 13,543 123 123 Hatton National Bank PLC (Ordinary shares) 191,400 4,060 4,060 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC (Ordinary shares) 1,500,000 256,817 256,817 261,436 261,436 436 436 Provision for fall in value of investments (19,894) Carrying amount as at 31st March 241,542 261,436 436 436 Market Value as at 31st March 241,542 322,164 2,839 2,184 26 Assets classified as held for sale Consequent to the decision made by the Group to divest from the ship owning business in 2007/08 and the sale of ships by the Group’s ship owning companies, the Group recognised the fair values of the investments in Ceyaki Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. & Ceyspence (Pvt) Ltd. under Assets held for sale. The liquidation of these companies are not yet concluded. Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Share of net assets of associates classified as held for sale 141,446 141,446 57,237 57,237 Net current assets of group companies classified as held for sale 7,679 40,043 13,600 149,125 181,489 57,237 70,837 There were no discontinued operations recognised in the income statement during the period. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 145 27 Segmental information Group a. Business segment Total assets Total liabilities 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tourism sector 20,951,069 16,388,280 7,116,263 5,808,687 Cargo logistics sector 5,165,999 4,722,771 1,731,645 1,396,996 Strategic investments 20,772,729 14,891,287 11,300,199 5,972,414 Services sector 4,163,066 3,826,972 334,685 320,854 51,052,863 39,829,310 20,482,792 13,498,951 Goodwill on consolidation 528,857 134,026 51,581,720 39,963,336 20,482,792 13,498,951 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 181,489 51,730,845 40,144,825 20,482,792 13,498,951 Additions to Depreciation, property, plant amortisation and & equipment impairment of goodwill 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tourism sector 1,411,176 664,872 488,910 786,085 Cargo logistics sector 282,515 162,974 137,960 108,826 Strategic investments 2,320,804 1,096,958 1,059,639 1,066,779 Services sector 181,114 88,131 90,940 132,750 4,195,609 2,012,935 1,777,449 2,094,440 b. Geographical segment Total assets Total liabilities 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 40,337,520 31,353,308 15,950,545 9,437,959 Asia & Africa 10,715,343 8,476,002 4,532,247 4,060,992 51,052,863 39,829,310 20,482,792 13,498,951 Goodwill on consolidation 528,857 134,026 51,581,720 39,963,336 20,482,792 13,498,951 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 181,489 51,730,845 40,144,825 20,482,792 13,498,951 Additions to Depreciation, property, plant amortisation and & equipment impairment of goodwill 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 3,986,301 1,901,339 1,522,688 1,495,316 Asia & Africa 209,308 111,596 254,761 599,124 4,195,609 2,012,935 1,777,449 2,094,440 146 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 28 Stated capital & reserves 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 28.1 Stated capital Stated capital as at 31st March 2,135,140 2,135,140 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 No. of shares No. of shares Opening balance 405,996,045 27,066,403 Issue of shares on subdivision 378,929,642 Closing balance 405,996,045 405,996,045 28.2 Reserves Revaluation reserve Revaluation reserve relates to the amount by which the Group has revalued its property, plant & equipment. There were no restrictions on distribution of these balances to the shareholders. General reserve The General reserve reflects the amount the Group has reserved over the years from its earnings. Exchange fluctuation reserve Exchange fluctuation reserve comprises of all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries in the Group and the portion of exchange gain or loss arising from the translation of the hedge instrument in relation to cash flow hedges. Other capital reserves This represents the portion of share premium of subsidiaries attributable to the Group. 29 Interest-bearing liabilities 29.1 Analysed by lending institution Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 4,385,423 3,332,877 700,000 100,000 DFCC Bank. 1,994,100 250,731 1,300,000 100,000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 532,729 940,950 260,000 540,000 Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 452,282 439,999 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 122,033 204,848 Employees’ Trust Fund. 100,000 175,000 100,000 175,000 National Savings Bank. 100,000 175,000 100,000 175,000 Union Assurance PLC. 100,000 175,000 100,000 175,000 Indian Bank. 80,000 140,000 80,000 140,000 Bank of Ceylon. 6,050 20,117 Eagle Income Fund. 2,400 4,200 2,400 4,200 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. 1,400 International Water Management Institute Pension Fund. 800 1,400 800 1,400 Incorporated Trustees of the Church of England in Ceylon. 800 1,400 800 1,400 Federal Bank Ltd. 454 7,878,017 5,861,976 2,644,000 1,412,000 Current portion of interest-bearing liabilities (2,135,469) (1,718,328) (544,000) (568,000) Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 5,742,548 4,143,648 2,100,000 844,000 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 147 29.2 Analysed by repayment period Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Payable within one year 2,135,469 1,718,328 544,000 568,000 Payable between one and two years 1,537,022 1,911,177 157,500 544,000 Payable between two and five years 3,584,686 1,802,093 1,732,500 Payable after five years 620,840 430,378 210,000 300,000 7,878,017 5,861,976 2,644,000 1,412,000 29.3 Analysed by currency equivalent in rupees Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs. Equivalent % Rs. Equivalent % Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 United States Dollars 3,492,293 44 3,888,966 66 Sri Lankan Rupees 4,385,724 56 1,973,010 34 2,644,000 1,412,000 7,878,017 100 5,861,976 100 2,644,000 1,412,000 29.4 Movement of interest-bearing liabilities Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Total outstanding as at 01st April 5,861,976 6,697,809 1,412,000 1,620,000 Exchange difference 530,060 (189,341) Loans obtained during the year 3,246,944 1,244,137 1,800,000 300,000 Companies acquired during the year 2,408 521 9,641,388 7,753,126 3,212,000 1,920,000 Loan repayments during the year (1,763,371) (1,891,150) (568,000) (508,000) Total outstanding as at 31st March 7,878,017 5,861,976 2,644,000 1,412,000 Current portion of interest-bearing liabilities (2,135,469) (1,718,328) (544,000) (568,000) Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 5,742,548 4,143,648 2,100,000 844,000 30 Deferred tax liabilities Group 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 30.1 Movement in deferred tax liabilities Balance at the beginning of the year 267,078 278,408 Companies acquired during the year 7,921 Impact of rate change transferred from income statement (52,176) Origination of temporary differences transferred to income statement 169,583 40,846 Balance at the end of the year 444,582 267,078 30.2 Composition of deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities attributable to; Property, plant & equipment 460,290 278,895 Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 8,588 12,497 Companies acquired during the year 7,921 Defined benefit obligations (22,940) (14,266) Tax losses carried forward (9,277) (10,048) Net deferred tax liabilities 444,582 267,078 148 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 30.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group As at Subsidiaries Recognised As at Recognised As at 31st March acquired in income 31st March in income 1st April 2012 statement 2011 statement 2010 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant & equipment 460,290 181,395 278,895 24,982 253,913 Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 8,588 (3,909) 12,497 2,623 9,874 Companies acquired/ (transferred) during the year 7,921 7,921 (44,909) 44,909 476,799 7,921 177,486 291,392 (17,304) 308,696 Deferred tax assets Defined benefit obligations (22,940) (8,674) (14,266) (932) (13,334) Tax losses carried forward (9,277) 771 (10,048) 6,906 (16,954) (32,217) (7,903) (24,314) 5,974 (30,288) Net deferred tax liabilities 444,582 7,921 169,583 267,078 (11,330) 278,408 31 Employee benefits Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 31.1 Retirement benefits obligations Present value of unfunded obligations 387,984 335,637 56,394 46,936 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 387,984 335,637 56,394 46,936 31.2 Movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations Defined benefit obligations as at 01st April 335,637 295,266 46,936 41,674 Benefits paid by the plan (43,837) (39,863) (3,946) (3,901) Current service cost 36,105 31,702 5,166 4,252 Interest cost 39,563 35,423 5,632 5,001 Actuarial (gains) / losses 12,808 12,895 2,606 (90) Exchange difference 112 (41) Defined benefit obligations of companies acquired during the year 7,596 255 Defined benefit obligations as at 31st March 387,984 335,637 56,394 46,936 31.3 Expenses recognised in profit or loss Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Current service cost 36,105 31,702 5,166 4,252 Interest cost 39,563 35,423 5,632 5,001 Actuarial (gains) / losses 12,808 12,895 2,606 (90) 88,476 80,020 13,404 9,163 The provision for retirement benefits obligations for the year is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by professionally qualified actuaries, Messrs. Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., as at 31st March 2012. The actuarial present value of the promised retirement benefits as at 31st March 2012 amounted to Rs. 387,984,018/(Company Rs. 56,394,211/-) The liability is not externally funded. The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the cost are given below; Discount rate 12%. Salary increments will range between 7% and 11% p.a. Retirement age of 55 years. The company will continue in business as a going concern Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics and mortality tables. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 149 32 Trade and other payables Group Company 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade payables 2,462,172 1,289,858 Other payables 4,137,237 2,648,753 230,612 330,633 Unclaimed dividends 4,652 3,576 4,652 3,576 6,604,061 3,942,187 235,264 334,209 33 Joint ventures The Group’s interest in joint ventures and their principal activities are described in note 19.1 and pages 192 to 198 respectively. Included in the consolidated financial statements are the following items that represent the Group’s interest in the assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures. 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Income 3,448,173 2,858,405 Expenses 3,084,770 2,631,343 Current assets 1,297,850 1,041,646 Non-current assets 457,059 214,268 Current liabilities 1,392,251 958,122 Non-current liabilities 81,929 50,683 34 Contracts for capital expenditure The following commitments for capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March have not been provided for in the financial statements. 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 4,441,473 3,846,024 Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 191,790 168,521 4,633,263 4,014,545 35 Lease commitments 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases of the Group are as follows; Lease rentals payable within one year 324,101 279,955 Lease rentals payable between one and five years 1,620,817 1,068,968 Lease rentals payable after five years 6,556,367 962,159 8,501,285 2,311,082 150 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.1 Details of leases under operating lease Company Location of the leased properties Unexpired lease periods Kandalama Hotels Ltd. Dambulla 30 years Hethersett Hotels Ltd. Nuwara Eliya 82 years Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * Republic of Maldives 29 years Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. * Republic of Maldives 36 years ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Republic of Maldives 14 years Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * Republic of Maldives 33 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Biyagama 75 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Katunayake 75 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Seethawake 40 years * During the year the Group’s properties in the Republic of Maldives obtained extensions to the remaining lease periods upto a maximum of a further 25 years in terms of Section 8 of the second amendment to the Maldives Tourism Act (Law no. 2/99). The unexpired lease periods given above is reported after adjusting for such extensions. 36 Contingent liabilities The contingent liability as at 31.03.2012 on guarantees given by Aitken Spence PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 2,301 million. Of this sum Rs. 2,103 million and Rs. 198 million relates to facilities obtained by subsidiaries and joint ventures respectively and none to associate companies. Liability as at 31.03.2012 on guarantees given by subsidiaries to third parties amounted to Rs. 2,683 million. None of the above guarantees were in relation to facilities obtained by companies other than companies within the Group. There were no guarantees given in relation to facilities obtained by Aitken Spence PLC. Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., a subsidiary company currently supplies power to the Ceylon Electricity Board based on a generation license validly obtained on 14th January 2004 for which payment has been received regularly. However, the Sri Lanka Electricity Act No.20 of 2009, states that for a company to be eligible to obtain a power generation license for power generation capacity of over and above 25MW, the company must be incorporated under the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, in which the government, a public corporation, a company in which the government holds more than fifty per centum of the shares or a subsidiary of such a company, holds such number of shares as may be determined by the Secretary to the Treasury with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance. However such determination has not been made by the Secretary to the Treasury to-date. Based on the legal opinion obtained by the company we are of the view that the above provision of the Act will not have a material impact on the financial position of the subsidiary and/or the Group. Further, in the absence of the determination by the Secretary to the Treasury, Aitken Spence PLC is unable to determine the financial effect on the dilution, if any, of its holding in the shares of Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. 37 Directors’ fees The Directors of the Company have received fees amounting to Rs. 122,400 /from subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March 2012. 38 Related party transactions Aitken Spence Group carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting Standard No.30 Related Party Disclosures, which are transacted at normal business terms. The pricing policy applicable to such transactions are comparable with those that would have been charged from unrelated companies. Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd., and Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd., which are Subsidiaries of the Group. He is also the Chairman of Browns Beach Hotels PLC., an associate company and the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of companies indicated by “ * ” in the list of companies disclosed under note 38.4. Mr. J.M.S Brito, Deputy Chairman /Managing Director of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies that are indicated by “a” in Notes 19 and 20 to the financial statements. Mr. J.M.S Brito is also the Chairman of DFCC Bank., and DFCC Vardhana Bank Ltd. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 151 Dr. R.M Fernando a Director of the company is also the Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “b” in note 19 and 20 to the financial statements. Mr. G.M.P erera a Director of the company is also the Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “c” in note 19 and 20 to the financial statements. He is also a Director of Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. Dr. P. Dissanayake a Director of the company is also the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “d” in note 19 and 20 to the financial statements. Mr. C.H. Gomez a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Mr. N.J. de S Deva Aditya a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is aslo a Director of Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC and Melstacorp Ltd. Mr. V.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Chairman of Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., which is a joint venture company of the Group. He is also the Chairman or a Director of Holcim (Lanka) Ltd., Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., National Olympic Committee (NOC), and Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., and Browns Beach Hotels PLC. He is also a Director of CIC Holdings PLC., LOLC PLC., Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., Royal Ceramics PLC., and Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC. Transactions between the companies within the group and related parties are given in note no. 38.1 38.6. Details of significant related party disclosures are given below. Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 38.1 Transactions with subsidiary companies listed in note 19 Income from services rendered 390,020 361,392 N/A N/A Rent income received 15,735 10,380 N/A N/A Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 42,112 41,439 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 29,652 42,741 N/A N/A Interest income received 140,321 175,781 N/A N/A Interest paid 264,157 190,039 N/A N/A 38.2 Transactions with associate companies listed in note 20 Sale of goods and services 4,260 9,498 7,068 31,416 Purchase of goods and services 615 1,013 14,014 48,177 38.3 Transactions with joint venture companies listed in note 19 Sale of goods and services 54,148 63,781 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 2,658 38,642 N/A N/A 38.4 Transactions with other related companies Sale of goods and services 270,443 183,958 Purchase of goods and services 120,225 14,246 675,755 664,202 Loans obtained 1,800,000 200,000 3,100,895 1,093,680 Repayment of loans and debentures 752,457 869,933 Short/ long term facilities as at 31st March 2,000,000 200,000 8,193,231 5,288,206 152 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes to the Financial Statements Transactions with Ambewela Livestock Company Ltd.*, Ambewela Products (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen International (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Dairies (Pvt) Ltd.*, Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC.*, Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC.*, Continental Insurance Lanka Ltd.*, Bell Solutions (Pvt) Ltd.*, Ceylon Garden Coir (Pvt) Ltd.*, Indo Lanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Texpro Industries Ltd.*, Hatton National Bank PLC (Directed till 31.12.11)*, DFCC Bank., DFCC Vardhana Bank Ltd., Holcim (Lanka) Ltd., Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Holcim (Lanka) Ltd., National Olympic Committee (NOC), Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., CIC Holdings PLC., Melstacorp Ltd., Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd., LOLC PLC., Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., Royal Ceramics PLC., and Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC. are reflected under transactions with other related companies, above. Balances with Balances with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 38.5 Amounts due from related parties Fully owned subsidiaries 1,139,269 1,008,612 N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 1,554,493 943,333 N/A N/A Joint ventures 29,912 51,059 N/A N/A Amount due from subsidiaries & joint ventures 2,723,674 2,003,004 N/A N/A Associates 3,983 8,143 6,100 23,326 Other related companies 6,831 7,136 38.6 Amounts due to related parties Fully owned subsidiaries 618,192 764,960 N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 108,240 622,175 N/A N/A Joint ventures 1,240,578 553,571 N/A N/A Amount due to subsidiaries & joint ventures 1,967,010 1,940,706 N/A N/A Associates 726 45 14,088 482 Other related companies 2,000,000 200,556 6,754,080 3,988,882 38.7 Transactions with key management personnel Aitken Spence PLC., considers its Board of Directors as the key management personnel of the company. The Board of Directors, Vice Presidents and Assistant Vice Presidents of subsidiary companies are considered as key management personnel of group companies. Compensation paid to / on behalf of key management personnel of the Company is as follows. Company Group Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 Short term employee benefits 37,571 316,775 Post employment benefits 29,728 No post-employment benefits were paid to key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC during the financial year. The Company/ Group did not have any material transactions with its key management personnel or their close family members during the year. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 153 39 Foreign currency translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were; 31.03.2012 31.03.2011 Rs’ 000 Rs’ 000 United States Dollar 127.85 110.46 British Pound 204.88 177.86 Euro 171.18 156.15 Oman Rial 332.96 286.73 South African Rand 16.63 16.18 Indian Rupee 2.50 2.48 Maldivian Rufiya 8.30 8.63 Bangaladesh Taka 1.56 1.52 40 Number of employees The number of employees of the Group at the end of the year was 5,791 (2011 5,328) The number of employees of the Company at the end of the year was 192 (2011 163). 41 Events occurring after balance sheet date The Board of Directors of the Company resolved to recommend a first & final ordinary dividend of Rs. 1.40 per share for the year 2011/2012 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting. Details of the dividend is disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements. There were no other material events that occurred after the balance sheet date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. 42 Comparative information The accounting policies have been consistently applied by the Group and are consistent with those used in the previous year. The presentation and classification of the financial statements of the previous period, have been adjusted, where relevant, for better presentation. 154 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Consolidated Income Statement In USD For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 USD.’000 USD.’000 Revenue 239,894 227,628 Revenue tax (3,743) (3,755) Net revenue 236,151 223,873 Other operating income 5,461 2,301 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (46) 185 Raw materials and consumables used (77,095) (60,127) Employee benefits expense (28,005) (27,660) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill (13,903) (18,961) Other operating expenses direct (47,526) (51,239) Other operating expenses indirect (31,201) (32,553) Profit from operations 43,836 35,819 Finance income 3,825 4,481 Finance expenses (5,428) (6,620) Net finance expense (1,603) (2,139) Share of associate companies profit (net of tax) 501 863 Profit before tax 42,734 34,543 Income tax expense (5,889) (3,507) Profit for the year 36,845 31,036 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 29,012 22,958 Minority interest 7,833 8,078 Profit for the year 36,845 31,036 Net profit attributable to Aitken Spence PLC 29,012 22,958 Unappropriated profit brought forward 64,993 67,374 Profit available for appropriation 94,005 90,332 Appropriations Transfer to general reserve 5,922 12,652 Dividend for 2010/2011 3,176 2,450 Retained in the business 84,907 75,230 Earnings per Share USD cents = 7.15 5.66 Exchange rate USD = 127.85 110.46 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 155 Consolidated Balance Sheet In USD As at 31st March 2012 2011 USD.’000 USD.’000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant & equipment 218,174 216,977 Leasehold properties 19,939 12,307 Intangible assets 4,137 1,213 Investment property 799 553 Investments in associates 11,499 12,086 Long term investments 3,000 4,291 Deferred tax assets 1,646 1,252 259,194 248,679 Current Assets Inventories 13,989 14,555 Trade and other receivables 70,034 37,555 Amounts due from associates 48 211 Current investments 1,889 2,367 Deposits and prepayments 5,911 4,952 Current tax receivable 1,237 1,107 Short-term deposits 46,086 45,699 Cash at bank and in hand 5,068 6,663 144,262 113,109 Assets classified as held for sale 1,166 1,643 Total Assets 404,622 363,431 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Stated capital 16,700 19,330 Reserves 98,218 100,227 Retained earnings 84,907 75,230 199,825 194,787 Minority interest 44,587 46,439 Total Equity 244,412 241,226 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 44,916 37,513 Deferred tax liabilities 3,477 2,418 Employee benefits 3,035 3,039 51,428 42,970 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 51,656 35,687 Interest-bearing liabilities repayable within one year 16,703 15,556 Amounts due to associates 110 4 Current tax payable 2,241 1,626 Short-term bank borrowings 38,072 26,362 108,782 79,235 Total Equity and Liabilities 404,622 363,431 Exchange rate USD = 127.85 110.46 Supplementary Information Sustainability Strategy 158 Global Compact Principles 172 GRI Index 175 Investor Information 182 Ten Year Summary 187 Time Line 188 Economic Review 190 Group Companies 192 Glossary of Terms 199 Notice of Meeting 202 Form of Proxy 203 158 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Board of Directors Management Board Sustainability Team Subsidiary Sustainability Subcommittees Integrated Sustainability Strategic Policy Framework Differentiation Focus Areas Leading positive (Key Elements of Sustainability) change through the champoining of a clearly identified Environment Product & Service Quality strategic sustainability Sustainable Wealth Creation Governance thrust (creating value for stakeholders) Global & Local Partnerships 191 sustainability committee Examples 43 Environmental Management Systems members were trained on ‘Human implemented across the Rights at the Workplace’ to Group companies implement a protection framework GOALS : See table 1 DISCLOSE PERFORMANCE : See table 2 and the GRI Index MONITORING : Bi-annual subsidiary rating Strategic Sustainbility Framework Organisations have come to the forefront of driving and structured integration of sustainability into our business sustainability forward by engaging in efficient, productive and model. The policy encompasses 19 clauses on compliance, smarter ways of doing business to meet the challenges of ethical conduct, environment, community outreach, economic, environmental and social risks. Adaptability to sustainable processes, governance, stakeholder engagement, climate change, social and economic trends and future quality, customer service, talent management, innovation, vulnerabilities would be a key ingredient to the profitability, health and safety, human rights, information security, integrity and viability of an organisation in the years to come. continuous improvement and credible reporting. The policy A strong sustainability-consciousness and a long term focused framework is implemented on a tier basis, to ensure that basic strategy have been hallmarks of Aitken Spence well before requirements in all key areas are met. From a patchwork of this global paradigm shift took shape. Throughout our history sustainability initiatives tackled in different manners, the of over 150 years the company has always sought ways of integrated policy served to blanket all areas identified as making a meaningful and relevant contribution to all of our important for the sustainable growth of the organisation and key stakeholders, thereby generating sustainable value and implement essential activities in all areas across the Group. enduring relationships. Simultaneously subsidiary companies are required to pay closer attention to key areas specific to their operation as per Integrated Sustainability Strategy the impacts, risks and opportunities identified. For more details By mid-2009, Aitken Spence began implementing a Groupof this analysis see: www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. wide integrated sustainability policy, which enabled the formal Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 159 Tier I of the integrated policy framework involves the 2012 the Group companies had completed over 70% of the implementation of essential elements and activities to ensure implementation of essential or tier I action points that are sustainable operations and proactive risk management across common to all SBUs and are now in the process of customising all strategic business units (SBUs). In this respect, each the remaining action points in a more SBU specific manner. subsidiary works towards setting benchmarks of acceptable behaviour, thereby setting a trend that leads itself to Companies undertake a process of leading positive change competitive advantage. The overarching elements of tier I through the championing of a clearly identified strategic policy implementation include the reduction of energy and sustainability thrust, known as Strategic Differentiation. The water consumption and carbon emissions; zero waste differentiation so identified must be one that is directly dumping; increased resource efficiency; maintaining customer connected to the operations of each SBU and therefore a satisfaction and loyalty; establishing required governance source of sustainable business benefit. Companies are structures; maintaining strong and competitive human encouraged to share their knowledge and experience and to resources and assisting communities. seek recognition for their efforts. Tier II action points are intended to raise Company benchmarks The Group’s sustainability activities are conceptualised, on various sustainability aspects to a level that is expected directed and managed entirely through internal expertise, and from a leading sustainable company. Companies who identify are driven by the Sustainability Team which is supported by value in championing specific sustainability issues in their subsidiary-level sustainability sub committees. The Company respective industries would consider the implementation of has developed a Rating Scheme to assess the sustainability relevant tier III – IV action points. implementation standards of the different subsidiaries. This is presented to the Sustainability Team and the Management Extensive efforts were undertaken during 2011/12 for capacity Board in a performance scorecard every 6 months. building on sustainability with the Group committing over 60,000 man hours towards capacity building on sustainability topics and implementation of the strategy. As of 31st March 160 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Key Elements of Sustainability Our focus areas of sustainability are categorised into the key elements listed below. The identified goals of key elements to achieve the sustainability model of the Group are presented in table 1. Table 1. Key Sustainable Wealth Product/Service Local & Global Environment Governance Elements Creation Delivery Partnerships Ø Mitigate adverse Ø Maintain strong Ø Ensure product/ Ø Establish required Ø Internalise the 10 environmental economic service governance principles of the UN impacts from the performance. responsibility and structures. Global Compact. operations using a safety. scientific approach. Ø Establish and Ø Review and revise Ø Internalise the 7 UN maintain a strong Ø Ensure the health Group wide code of Women’s Ø Protect ecosystems and competitive, and safety of all ethics, policies, Empowerment impacted by the skilled human key stakeholders practices and Principles. operations of our resource. including procedures as per company. employees, guests the risks, Ø Maintain a GHG Ø Community and clients. challenges and emission inventory Ø Increase energy upliftment through opportunities and meet the efficiency and employment Ø Engage with identified. requirements of the usage of energy creation, local suppliers, Caring for Climate from renewable and purchasing, child contractors and Ø Establish a initiative. cleaner energy and elder care other service workplace human Goals sources. programmes. providers to ensure rights protection Ø Fullfil the all links within the framework. commitment to the Ø Improve waste Ø Infrastructure supply chain Global Compact resource development. network are aware Ø Maintain Local Network. management. of the Group’s occupational Ø Review and revise health and safety Ø Increase awareness Ø Develop adaptation the channels for all values and of global issues on commitments. systems within all strategies to tackle key stakeholders to Group Companies. a local platform. climate change provide feedback. Ø Establish quality effects on our Ø Develop a network management business interests. Ø Extend systems aligned of stakeholders with opportunities for similar interests for Ø Develop and skills development with internationally knowledge sharing implement good and lifelong learning accepted standards. and to work on long environmental for the employees term strategy programmes and and communities. development. policies. In order to achieve the goals mentioned, the Group has prioritised the following activities and efforts for next financial year. Table 2. Key Sustainable Wealth Product/Service Local & Global Environment Governance Elements Creation Delivery Partnerships Ø Reducing overall Ø Increase Ø Carry out a Ø Implement the Ø Engage more energy cost. engagement with customer Human Rights effectively with key stakeholders to perception study. Protection entities within the Ø Increasing resource identify impacts and Framework. Global Compact efficiency. risks to plan Ø Implement brand network. adaptation and risk awareness and Ø Internalise the 7 Ø Zero waste Priorities for 12/13 management brand qualities Women’s Ø Increase awareness dumping. within the Empowerment of the UNGC strategies. Ø Increase awareness employees. Principles. principles, the of environmental Ø Increase hours Women’s sustainability among committed for skills Ø Strengthen the OHS Ø Continue to review Empowerment development and risk management the established Principles. employees and procedures of the policies, procedures other key lifelong learning of the employees. strategic business and general Ø Establish a carbon stakeholders. units. practices against emission inventory Ø Reduce withdrawal Ø Engage in required ISO 26000 and disclose data of freshwater by skills development guidelines and on emission increasing efficiency and improving the improve areas reductions as per of usage. employability of vulnerable to the Caring for target groups. potential risk. Climate initiative. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 161 Stakeholder engagement This Annual Report complies with the financial reporting regulations pertaining to the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 The ability to engage with its stakeholders in healthy, mutually and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, and beneficial, lasting relationships forms the bedrock of a follows the reporting criteria laid down by the Institute of sustainable organisation. The multiple and diverse relationships Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL). built by Aitken Spence across industries and society have been formed on trust, mutual respect and understanding and developed over time. There are many channels in place, as Report content and reporting boundary illustrated in the diagram, to facilitate engagement with these The report encompasses information pertaining to all owned stakeholders so that the Company and the Stakeholder both and managed operations with significant operational control, receive continuous feedback. At Aitken Spence, the feedback which includes operations in Asia and South Africa. A limitation thus received is analysed based on the relevance and priority of this report is that only the sustainability performance of of each stakeholder group and enables us to make an internal owned and managed operations in Sri Lanka and Maldives are judgment about business priorities. disclosed as the sustainability programmes have not yet been extended to other operations in India, Oman and South Africa. Key sustainability issues and concerns addressed through stakeholder engagement include return on investment, profit Data collection at SBU level has been sourced through the and growth for investors, business partners and shareholders; main representative of each subsidiary’s sustainability sub career progression, benefits, remuneration, working facilities committee, who has the responsibility to coordinate with their and personal development for employees; product and colleagues to extract the necessary information. Some service quality, cost, reliability for customers; economic, social limitations exist in the availability of required data. The data and environmental impact including local purchasing and has been calculated and measured on the basis of generally employment for communities. accepted industry norms and standards, and has been presented in the most comparable manner. An example of a project launched in response to stakeholder concerns raised is the development of the container yard and The process of identifying the indicators to report, involved the 400 ft stretch of road at Mabole at the cost of the company first shortlisting all performance indicators of significant to improve the facility for customers and community members. importance to the Group by the centre. These indicators were (See performance table on pages 163 to 168.) then filtered through the subsidiary sustainability representatives and other subsidiary personnel following See www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability which, the senior management were consulted. The identification of the disclosures were governed by the Sustainability Reporting materiality of the performance indicators, the completeness of The 2011/12 annual report of Aitken Spence PLC is presented the information available and the requirements of stakeholders. as an integrated report – an attempt at portraying the sustainability strategy of the Group in its actual implementation For detailed information, please visit www.aitkenspence.com/ structure. We believe that integrated reporting allows our sustainability. stakeholders to evaluate the strategic, long term focus of our sustainability programmes. Please refer to the GRI Index on pages 175 to 181. The disclosures contained in this report follow the GRI G3.1 guidelines of the GRI Reporting Framework and meet the application criteria of a self-declared B Level report. The reporting process is driven and supervised entirely by the internal expertise of the Group. 162 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Open door policy Rewards & recognition Employee satisfaction surveys Employees Small group meetings with the CEO Annual and mid year appraisals Internal newsletter Grievance handling Customer loyalty programmes Customer service and support for products & services Customers Direct contact with key customers Customer feedback system Memberships Offices in working groups Industry Participation in industry events Reports Investor meetings Interim reports Investors Annual General Meeting Other General Meetings Direct communication with communities Communities Site visits Annual reviews & appraisals Website Press Releases Financial Negotiations on Annual Report Institutions financing and trade Social Media transactions Sourcing market information Supplier appraisals Suppliers Seminars on quality & efficiency Direct dialogue Society Cooperation with public sector Public announcements Global Communication on Progress (COP) Compact Local Network Regional gatherings Meetings Statutory annual returns Government Industry and national events Industrial associations Lobby groups Reports Interest Groups & Dialogue with policy makers, Regulators regulatory authorities and experts Stakeholder Engagement Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 163 Sustainability Performance Summary The efforts made by Group Companies in achieving the goals mentioned in table 1 are summarised below. Note: The impact/ risk analysis leading to this summary is available for perusal at www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for Tourism key aspects managed Cargo Logistics (Please also refer to the GRI Strategic Investments Index on pages 175 to 181) Services Policy, practices and Priority given to local service providers as general practice. proportion of spending on locally Plantations source raw materials for estate requirements from a 25km radius vicinity of the estate. based suppliers Certain exceptions are made for specialised items such as packing materials, fertilizer and chemicals -(EC6) which are sourced from reliable sources in Colombo. Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC adheres to local purchasing as and when possible with a written policy for local purchasing being maintained at all Heritance properties. Aitken Spence Travels sources 100% of the safari vehicles from local suppliers. Development and Aitken Spence power plant in Embilipitiya contributed Rs. 15 million for the Gemi Diriya Sanitation impact of and Water Project which benefited about 350 families within the immediate vicinity of the power infrastructure plant. investments and services provided Aitken Spence Travels together with the Foundation of Goodness renovated a building for Economic Performance -(EC8) educational purposes at the Anula Girl’s Home at Balapitiya which provides hostel and educational facilities for around 45 destitute girls. The total project value was approximately USD 20,000.00 The yard development project in the logistics segment of the Group, initiated in 2009, will benefit approximately 400 customers and 500 staff members once completed. Project cost is approximately Rs. 375 million. The road development project of about 400 ft in front of the container yard in response to key issues brought up in stakeholder engagements was completed in 2011 at a cost of about Rs. 8 million. For more details see Management Discussion and Analysis and www.aitkenspence.com/ sustainability Access points in low MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd, (MMBL)Access points are available in low populated and rural populated or areas where access to financial services are provided to low income communities via rural banks or economically multipurpose Co-operative Societies. MMBL maintains 296 access points in the Western Province disadvantaged areas (54% of the total access points in the area), 94 in the Central Province (24%), 284 in the North by type Central Province (62%), 241 in the Southern Province (56%), 19 in the Eastern Province (18%) and 9 in the Northern Province (12%). No additional charges are imposed on the receiving parties (FS13 – Financial and the community members are provided with fast and reliable service, for their fund transfer Services Sector requirements, who would otherwise have to travel extensively to reach access points in the nearest Supplement for towns. MMBL Money Transfer) MMBL hopes to extend their services to increasing financial literacy among low income and rural communities as part of their strategic sustainability programmes. Energy saved due to Energy saving at Aitken Spence Towers, the Group’s garment manufacturing segment, Elpitiya Energy conservation and Plantations and the printing segment was 788.12 GJ, 460 GJ, approx. 1,000 GJ and approx. 560 GJ efficiency per annum respectively. Total energy saving at the Sri Lankan hotels was 2,335 GJ. Energy saving at improvement efforts the Maldivian hotels and the logistics segment is not quantifiable at the moment because of -(EN5) insufficient data. 164 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for Tourism key aspects managed Cargo Logistics (Please also refer to the GRI Strategic Investments Index on pages 175 to 181) Services Initiatives to provide Building Management System (BMS) maintained at Aitken Spence Towers. energy efficient of renewable energy Energy efficient elevator product introduced and promoted in the local market by the elevators based products and segment of the Group. services-(EN6) New ‘Green Printing’ facility in the Group’s printing segment which was completed during the year. Investment in mini hydro power projects in the plantation sector and renewable energy based power plants in the power segment. The destination management segment of the Group takes initiatives to increase fuel efficiency of the vehicle fleet. The Group’s hotel properties maintain environmental friendly operations in line with the ISO 14001: 2004 standards and energy management systems in line with the ISO 50001:2011 standard. The Cargo Logistics sector of the Group maintains operations in line with the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 certification for environmental management systems. Energy See Management Discussion and Analysis and www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability for more details. Direct energy Energy consumption from diesel fuel for the generator at Aitken Spence Towers was 131 GJ. At the consumption by Aitken Spence Power plants, the energy consumption is mostly from diesel fuel. The power plant in primary energy Matara consumed less than 3% of the generated power for plant operations and the power plant in source-(EN3) Embilipitiya consumed 24.5 GJ. At the Sri Lankan hotels total direct energy consumption was 19,410 GJ from non-renewable sources and 7,752 GJ from biomass. Energy consumption at the plantations segment from petrol and diesel fuel was 5,446 GJ. See www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability for more details. Indirect energy Consumption of energy from electricity at Aitken Spence Towers was 10,218 GJ. The printing and consumption by logistics segments of the Group quantified the energy consumption from electricity at an average of primary source-(EN4) 5,800 GJ per annum and approx. 5,000 GJ per annum respectively. The consumption of energy through electricity at the plantation sector was 14,589 GJ. Note: Percentage share of renewable and non-renewable energy sources is not possible to differentiate since both these sources are fed to a common grid. Thermal and hydro power are the main contributors while solar and wind energy sources have a very small share. See www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability for more details. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 165 Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for Tourism key aspects managed Cargo Logistics (Please also refer to the GRI Strategic Investments Index on pages 175 to 181) Services Total direct and Aitken Spence Towers 2,185.5 tonnes of carbon emissions. indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Sri Lankan hotels 7,221 tonnes. weight -(EN16) Maldivian hotels 14,105 tonnes. Emissions, effluents and waste Carbon emission details are currently not available for the Strategic Investments sector and the logistics segment of the Group. For more details see www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability. Initiatives to reduce At Aitken Spence Towers, the Building Management System (BMS) and programmes to conserve greenhouse gas energy as per the Environmental Management Systems (EMSs) of the Group companies have emissions and achieved a reduction of 156.52 tonnes of carbon emissions from the previous year. Elpitiya reductions achievedPlantations achieved a reduction of 1,170 tonnes of carbon emissions from the mini hydro power (EN18) plant at the Sheen estate. The quantified carbon emission reductions achieved at the Sri Lankan hotels was 691 tonnes. Due to insufficient data the emission reductions achieved at the Maldivian hotels and the Group’s logistics segment are not quantified. Total number and None volume of significant spills -(EN 23) Total water Municipal Water Utilities: 142,256 m3 withdrawal by source-(EN8) Cooling water for chillers: 8,100 m3 Ground Water: 474,768 m3 Sea Water: 586,409 m3 Surface Water: approx. 100 m3 at the logistics segment. See www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability for more details. Percentage and total Aitken Spence Towers approx. 121.67 m3 of rainwater harvested for use in cisterns within the volume of water building. recycled and reused -(EN 10) The garments manufacturing segment Water from the canteen is directed to a secondary water treatment unit before discharging and the quantity is not currently measured. Water Elpitiya Plantations Primary level and secondary level water treatment units installed at Talgaswella and Deviturai estates respectively where the treated water is reused in the palm cultivations. Embilipitiya power plant 640 m3 which is 1.88% of the total volume of water used. Matara power plant 150 m3 which is less than 1% of the total volume of water used. Sri Lankan hotels – 219,508.9 m3 Treated water used for irrigation purposes is 1,750 m3 (Assumption – 30% of the year are rainy days). Maldivian hotels – 211,107 m3 which is about 36% of the total water withdrawal. For our Maldivian hotels, the assumption in the calculation of above figures is that since there is no separate metering, 10% of the total water produced by the Reverse Osmosis (RO) Plant is lost due to evaporation and other means. 166 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for Tourism key aspects managed Cargo Logistics (Please also refer to the GRI Strategic Investments Index on pages 175 to 181) Services Location and size of The transmission line corridors from the power plants to the nearest substations have relatively land owned, leased, short distances – 500m in Horana, less than 1km in Embilipitiya and 3km in Matara. These lines managed or adjacent restrict the height of trees along their path to 25m but do not restrict movement of any animals to, protected areas along the pathways. No heated water is released to the environment from any of the three power and areas of high plants. biodiversity value outside protected The power plant in Embilipitiya is situated on a 44 acre block of land out of which 34 acres consist areas -(EN11) of flower gardens, herb gardens, tree cover, landscape plots, animal husbandry plots, and an apiary. The Heritance Kandalama Hotel conserves 58 acres of forest area, flora and fauna within the hotel Biodiversity and 198 acres of forest area rich in bio diversity outside the hotel. See www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability for more details. Description of None of our operations are located within close proximity to national reserves or protected areas. significant impacts of We take necessary precautions to ensure that areas of high biodiversity are protected and preserved. activities, products, services on See www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value. -(EN12) Total hours of Training conducted by the Group Business Development division for the sustainability Investment and procurement practices employee training on subcommittee members of Aitken Spence Companies. policies and 191 out of 213 sustainability committee members, who are responsible for the execution of procedures sustainability driven strategies at subsidiary level, have been trained since the Human Rights at the concerning aspects of Workplace programme was introduced in 2010 to the Group. Of this number almost 55% received human rights that are their training during the 2011/12 financial year. This amounts to 336.5 man hours committed across the Group to capacity building on “Human Rights at the Workplace” to date. relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained -(HR3) Percentage of Group wide effort – Personnel in the Group Security Division and the externally sourced personnel Security practices security personnel at Aitken Spence Towers have been trained on “Human Rights at the Workplace” and a refresher trained in the programme is planned for 2012/13. organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights -(HR8) Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 167 Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for Tourism key aspects managed Cargo Logistics (Please also refer to the GRI Strategic Investments Index on pages 175 to 181) Services Practices related to A customer responsiveness study launched during the year to assess the effectiveness of Group customer satisfaction, wide practices. including results of General practice is to maintain direct contact and open communication with the customers and surveys measuring clients to ensure customer satisfaction. customer satisfaction Product and Service Labeling Audit conducted of the Aitken Spence Tower II to evaluate accessibility for differently abled persons. -(PR5) Printing segment – ISO 9001: 2008 certified Quality Management System. The printing segment was the latest company in the Group to receive the ISO 9001: 2008 certification. Garments manufacturing segment – Routine compliance audits conducted by the clients. Elpitiya Plantations ISO 22001/ HACCP compliant food safety systems are maintained by the plantation sector of which 5 factories are certified. Power segment – All 3 Aitken Spence power plants are ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007 certified. Aitken Spence Travels – ISO 9001: 2008 certified Quality Management System. Sri Lankan hotels – All owned hotels in Sri Lanka are Sri Lanka Tourist Board Star Classified. Cargo Logistics sector – ISO 9001: 2008 certified Quality Management System. Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., maintains an ISO 9001:2008 certified QMS for their operations. Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for key aspects managed Tourism (Please also refer to the GRI Index on pages 175 to 181) Cargo Logistics Strategic Investments Services Monetary value of significant fines and total number of None non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations-(SO8) Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non None – monetary sanctions for non – compliance with environmental laws and regulations-(EN28) Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with None laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services-(PR9) Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control Awareness programmes on HIV/AIDS as a workplace issue in Occupational Health & Safety programs in place to assist workforce members, their the Group’s orientation programme. families or community members regarding serious diseases -(LA8) 168 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Overview of Sustainability Performance Performance indicators for Tourism key aspects managed Cargo Logistics (Please also refer to the GRI Strategic Investments Index on pages 175 to 181) Services Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning – Programmes conducted by the Group Human Resources Training & Education (LA11) Division. (See Human Resources report). Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions No incidents reported. Non discrimination taken – (HR4) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with None Marketing Communications regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship – (PR7) Total number of substantiated complaints regarding None breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data – (PR8) Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 169 Certifications ISO 14001:2004 Certification ISO 9001:2008 Certification Forestry Stewardship Certificate (FSC) Certifications sustained Certifications sustained Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. received the Forestry Stewardship Ace Power Generation Matara Ltd. Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. Certificate (FSC) accreditation from Bandarawela Hotel Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. the Control Union of Certifications of Browns Beach Hotel Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Netherlands, for Forestry Standards Earl’s Regency Ltd. with the FSC Chain of Custody (COC) Heritance Ahungalla Ace Power Generation Matara Ltd. ‘Lanka’ Group. Heritance Kandalama Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Heritance Tea Factory Aitken Spence Travels Ltd. ISO 50001: 2011 Certification The Sands, Kalutara Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. New certifications New certifications New certifications Heritance Ahungalla Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (First resort hotel in the world to receive Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. the certification) Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Greening SL Hotels Certificate Ministry of Tourism, Sri Lanka ISO 22000/ HACCP: 2005 Sustainable Energy Authority & OHSAS 18001: 2007 Certification Certification Ministry of Environment & Certifications sustained Natural Resources Certifications sustained Ace Power Generation Matara Ltd. Deviturai Tea Factory Certifications sustained Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Dunsinane Tea Factory Bandarawela Hotel Ltd. Earl’s Regency Browns Beach Hotel Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Heritance Ahungalla Earl’s Regency Heritance Kandalama Heritance Ahungalla Heritance Tea Factory Heritance Kandalama Worldwide Responsible Nayapana Tea Factory Heritance Tea Factory Accredited Production (WRAP) New Peacock Tea Factory Hilltop Hotel Certification Talgaswella Tea Factory The Sands, Kalutara Certifications sustained Adaaran Club Rannalhi Aitken Spence Garments Adaaran Select Meedhupparu EarthCheck Silver Certificate Adaaran Select Hudhuran Fushi Adaaran Prestige Vadoo Certifications sustained Bandarawela Hotel Browns Beach Hotel Hygienically Certified Earl’s Regency Establishment (HCE): SGS Heritance Ahungalla Certifications sustained Heritance Kandalama Bandarawela Hotel Heritance Tea Factory Hill Top Hotel Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara The Sands, Kalutara 170 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Sustainability Strategy Recognition Group Awards Aitken Spence PLC • Ranked at No. 2 in the STING Corporate Accountability Index 2012 out of 63 leading business entities and SMEs in Sri Lanka, Aitken Spence PLC remains the ‘Best in Class for Policy Coverage’ and is the highest ranked Diversified Holdings Company in the Index. The Company has also maintained the Platinum Classification for the third consecutive year. • Ranked among the Ten Best Corporate Citizens of Sri Lanka, which is conducted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, for the 6th consecutive year. • Aitken Spence PLC won the Silver award in the Diversified Holdings category at the ICASL Annual Report Awards 2011. Tourism Sector Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC • Winner of the Hospitality Sector at the National Business Excellence Awards (NBEA) 2011 presented by the National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka. Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC also won a Merit Award in the Extra Large category. • Silver award winner in the Hotel Companies category at the ICASL Annual Report Awards 2011. • Winner of the Medium Scale category at the ACCA Sustainability Reporting Award 2012 (ACCA Sri Lanka). • Heritance Hotels crowned the Most Energy Efficient Hotel Chain in Sri Lanka at the National Energy Efficiency Awards 2011. The hotel chain bagged the Gold (Heritance Kandalama), Silver (Heritance Tea Factory) and Bronze (Heritance Ahungalla) Awards. • Ranked at 8th place out of 63 leading corporate entities and state owned enterprises in Sri Lanka in the STING Corporate Accountability Index 2012. Aitken Spence Hotels Holdings has been rated Gold again. • Heritance Hotels collectively won 13 special awards out of a total of 32 special awards at the 14th Culinary Art Competition organised by the Chefs Guild of Sri Lanka in August 2011. The special awards received include the award for the Best Hotel Team in the island. Aitken Spence Hotels won an unprecedented 145 medals at the competition. Heritance Kandalama • Heritance Kandalama received the International Gold Award for the Built Environment at the International Green Apple Awards ceremony held at the University of Westminster in London. • Gold Flame Award Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards 2011 • Gold Award in the Large Scale Hotel category National Green Awards 2011. • Presented with a Green Hero Award by the Green Organisation at their 18th annual international awards ceremony held at the House of Commons in recognition of the environmental projects at Heritance Kandalama. • Winner of Most Outstanding Regional Team (Cultural Triangle Province) at the 14th Culinary Art Competition (August 2011) organised by the Chefs Guild of Sri Lanka. • Awarded the Best Host Hotel for Eco Tourism at the Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2010 which concluded in May 2011. Heritance Ahungalla • Bronze Flame Award Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards 2011. • Named Best Hotel Team, Best Culinary Team in Sri Lanka and Most Outstanding Regional Team (Southern Province) at the 14th Culinary Art Competition (August 2011) organised by the Chefs Guild of Sri Lanka. • Awarded the Best 5-Star Resort in the island at the Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2010 (which concluded in May 2011). Heritance Tea Factory • First Sri Lankan hotel to win a Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA) Grand Award in its 2012 awards. • Presented a Green Hero Award by The Green Organisation at their 18th annual international awards ceremony held at the House of Commons in recognition of the environmental projects at Heritance Tea Factory. • Heritance Tea Factory received the International Gold Award for Architectural Heritage at the International Green Apple Awards ceremony held at the University of Westminster in London. • Silver Flame Award in the Large Scale Hotel Sector category at the Sri Lanka Energy Efficiency Awards 2011. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 171 • Awarded the Best 4-Star Resort in the island for the second year in a row at the Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2010 (which concluded in May 2011). • Silver Award in the Medium Scale Hotel category National Green Awards 2011. Adaaran Select Meedhupparu • Winner of the Thomson Gold Award 2011 for the Three T category in Maldives. • Winner of the Best Hotel Partner category and the Best Hotel Partner of TEZ TOUR in the TEZ WORLDBERRY Award for two consecutive years – 2010, 2011. Adaaran Club Rannalhi • Winner of the TEZ WORLDBERRY award in 2010 & 2011; Winner of best Hotel Partner category and the best Hotelpartner of TEZ TOUR – 2010, 2011. Aitken Spence Travels • Hayes and Jarvis (British Tour Operator) Service Excellence award 2011. • Hayes and Jarvis Preferred Partner award 2011. Cargo Logistics Sector Port Management Container Services Ltd. • Aitken Spence’s port efficiency enhancement and terminal management services segment, Port Management Container Services Ltd. was one of the three shortlisted listed finalists for the ‘Investment in People’ award at the inaugural Containerisation International Awards held in London. The award attracted 90 applications from companies worldwide. The other two finalists were Port of Salalah in Oman and the Belgium-based multinational Safmarine Lines. Strategic Investments Sector Elpitiya Plantations • The Plantations Human Development Trust (PHDT) recognised the General Manager of Talgaswella Estate as the Best Manager for his “Outstanding Achievements in Improving Quality Life of Workers, Worker Families on the Estate”. • The Child Development Centre (CDC) of Gulugahakanda estate has been recognised at regional level as the “Best Child Development Centre” by the PHDT. Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. • Aitken Spence Printing won 3 Distinction and 4 Merit awards at the Sri Lanka Print Exhibition & Awards Night “Collate 2012” organised by the Sri Lanka Association of Printers. • Winner of 4 Gold awards, 3 Silver awards and 1 Bronze award at the Lanka Star Competition in the Consumer, Transport And Student category. Services Sector MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd. • Locations of MMBL agents emerged victorious at the “WU & You Sri Lanka 2011”, a programme organised by Western Union to honour the best performing locations within their Sri Lanka network. MMBL locations made up 67 of the 91 locations recognised including 4 of the top 5 locations in Sri Lanka. 172 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Global Compact Principles The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary strategic policy initiative launched by the UN in order to encourage businesses to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Aitken Spence PLC has been a signatory of the Global Compact since 28th May 2002 and a privileged member of the UNGC steering committee of the Sri Lanka Network. We have also been appointed to the Board of Directors of the UNGC Network Ceylon which is currently chaired by Dr. Rohan Fernando who is a Director of Aitken Spence PLC. The UNGC Local Network’s role is to promote the Global Compact within Sri Lanka and to facilitate the progress of companies engaged in the Global Compact with respect to implementation of the ten principles, create opportunities for multi-stakeholder engagement, collective action and to deepen the learning experience of all participants through their own activities and promote action in support of broader UN goals. Note: Integrated Policy of Aitken Spence PLC is available at www.aitkenspence.com/sustainability Relevant GRI UNGC Principle General Practices at Aitken Spence Indicators Disclosed Human Rights 1. Businesses should support LA8, LA14, The Integrated Sustainability Policy of Aitken Spence PLC formalises the and respect the protection of HR3, HR4, general practice of the Company to support and protect internationally internationally proclaimed HR8, PR8 proclaimed human rights by including a written clause (Clause P) on the human rights same; • Building capacity on ‘Human Rights at the Workplace’ (structured training programme reviewed by reputed human rights lawyer in Sri Lanka) for the Group’s sustainability subcommittee members • Assessment of the Aitken Spence PLC policies, procedures and general 2. Businesses should make sure HR3, HR4, practices against the essential, expected and exemplary action points of the that they are not complicit in HR8 Human Rights Protection Framework as subscribed by the Business Leaders human rights abuses Initiative. • Open door policy for grievance handling where all employees are encouraged to go to the highest authority figure for any complaints • Planned activities for 2012/13 include refresher training for the Group Security Division and the externally sourced security personnel on duty at the Aitken Spence premises on Vauxhall Street as well as extending the assessment of policies/ procedures/ general practices of individual Aitken Spence Companies to identify SBU specific activities. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 173 Relevant GRI UNGC Principle General Practices at Aitken Spence Indicators Disclosed Labour Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the LA5, HR3 Sri Lanka has become signatory to and ratified the core conventions of the freedom of association and International Labour Organisation which are in the areas of Freedom of the effective recognition of Association, Forced Labour, Discrimination and Child Labour. The Group rigidly the right to collective complies with the labour laws of Sri Lanka and the ILO conventions with bargaining respect to employment of persons. 4. Businesses should uphold the HR3 The Group affords equal opportunities to existing and potential employees elimination of all forms of irrespective of gender, race, or religion. All eligible persons are given the forced or compulsory labour opportunity to secure employment and thereafter continue in an appropriate 5. Businesses should uphold the HR3 career path. The Recruitment Policy (not a public document) of the company effective abolition of child ensures that discrimination is discouraged and no persons below the legal labour minimum age are offered employment. The common practice of the Company is to match the skill sets of employees to the job description rather than 6. Businesses should uphold the LA14, HR3, allocating specific quotas to different groups. elimination of discrimination HR4, HR8 in respect of employment and General practices of Aitken Spence PLC have been reviewed against the occupation Human Rights Framework as explained above. An assessment has also been conducted of the Company’s Group-wide practices in line with the Women’s Empowerment Principles and action points which can be implemented have been identified. Further discussions are still in place to implement the principles within the Group strategies. 174 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Relevant GRI UNGC Principle General Practices at Aitken Spence Indicators Disclosed Environment 7. Businesses should support a (EN18 The Board of Directors to the best of its ability has applied very high standards precautionary approach to Partially to protect and nurture the environment. Environmental Management Systems environmental challenges reported) (EMSs) aim to identify activities and aspects that have significant impacts on the environment proactively and manage them through programmes that are formulated through a scientific approach. Implementation of EMSs in line with the ISO 14001:2004 standard is considered an essential action point for the sustainable development of the Company. Aitken Spence Group currently has 43 EMSs, 12 of which are certified with more EMSs to be certified in the foreseeable future. Continuous awareness building for sustainability sub-committees as well as all Aitken Spence staff members is conducted as and when possible. Selected representatives from across the Group were trained as Internal EMS Auditors and 27 members completed this programme with another class of Aitken Spence executives scheduled to follow the programme in May 2012. 8. B usinesses should undertake EN5, EN6, Commemorating ‘World Days’ such as the World Environment Day gives the initiatives to promote greater EN8, EN11, organisation an opportunity to increase awareness among a larger audience. environmental responsibility EN12, The 2011 World Environment Day was marked with an email awareness EN23, EN28 campaign to all executive staff and a training programme conducted for Aitken Spence Travels staff on the ‘Forest Diversity of Sri Lanka’ marking the year of forests declared by the UNEP. Prior to the World Water Day 2012 an email quiz (EN3, EN4, was carried out asking simple questions related to water scarcity where the EN10, winners were sponsored free waterless car washes (promoting new EN16, EN18 technologies) Partially reported) Participating in public forums and sharing our experiences is another method used to influence a larger audience to be more environmentally conscious. Energy efficiency improvement programmes and energy management efforts 9. B usinesses should encourage EN5, EN6 across the Group are discussed in detail in other sections of this report (See the development and (EN10, GRI Index on pages 175 to 181). diffusion of environmental EN18 friendly technologies With the aim of monitoring our carbon emissions more efficiently we have Partially initiated an emission inventory for the Group Companies. reported) Anticorruption 10. Businesses should work SO2, SO3 The Company code of ethics has stringent instructions on anti-corruption. against corruption in all its The Internal Audit Department of the Company audits all units periodically to forms , including extortion make sure that adequate internal control systems are in place to prevent and and bribery detect fraud. All employees including new recruits are required to know the stipulated procedures and carry out their business activities in accordance with them. Even at our estates while all executive staff receives training and awareness at Group learning programmes, Company procedures on anticorruption and ethical behaviour are mentioned in all appointment letters including those of estate workers. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 175 GRI Index Fully disclosed Partially disclosed Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes 1. Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the Managing Director Chairman’s Report Organizational 6.2 1.1 6-9 and Chairman Managing Director’s Review governance 10-15 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Managing Director’s Review Organizational 6.2 1.2 10-15 Risk Management governance 86-94 2. Standard Disclosures Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organisation Corporate Information IBC 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or service Management Discussion and 2.1 28-61 Analysis Group Companies 192-198 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Management Discussion and Organizational 6.2 2.5/2.6 28-61 Analysis governance Group Companies 192-198 2.4 Location of the organisations headquarters Corporate Information IBC 2.5 Number of countries where the Management Discussion and 2.7 28-61 organisation operates Analysis Our Network 26-27 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Information 2.5 IBC 2.7 Markets served Management Discussion and 2.3/2.7 28-61 Analysis Financial Statements 112-153 Our Network 26-27 2.8 Scale of the organisation Management Discussion and 27 28-61 Analysis Financial Statements 112-153 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Chairman’s Report 6-9 period Managing Directors Review 10-15 Management Discussion and 28-61 Analysis Annual Report of the Board of 102-106 Directors 2.10 Awards received in the period Recognition & Certifications 169-171 3. Standard Disclosures Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 3.1 2012 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report 31st March 2011 3.1 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.1 3.4 Contact point for further information Corporate information IBC 3.5 Process for defining report content Sustainability Reporting 3.2 161 3.6 Boundary of the report Sustainability Reporting 3.2/ 3.3 161 3.7 Limitation on the scope of the boundary Sustainability Reporting 3.2/ 3.4 161 of the report 3.8 Basis of reporting on joint ventures and Financial Statements 3.2 112-153 other operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques Sustainability Reporting 161 3.10 Effects of any re-statements Financial Statements 112-153 3.11 Significant changes from previous Sustainability Reporting 3.2 161 reporting periods Management Disscussion and 28-61 Analysis 176 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 GRI Index Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes 4. Standard Disclosures Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Chairman’s Report Organizational 6.2 6-9 Corporate Governance governance 74-85 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest Corporate Governance Organizational 6.2 74-85 governance body is also an executive governance member 4.3 The Board composition Corporate Governance Organizational 6.2 74-85 governance 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Stakeholder Engagement Organizational 6.2 161,162 employees to provide recommendations governance 4.5 Linkages between compensation for Remuneration Committee Report Organizational 6.2 107 members of the highest governance body, Corporate Governance governance 74-85 senior managers and executives and the Financial Statements 112-153 organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Corporate Governance Organizational 6.2 74-85 governance body to ensure conflicts of governance interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Corporate Governance Organizational 6.2 74-85 and expertise of the members of the governance highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy 4.8 Internally developed statements of Vision Organizational 6.2 IBC mission or values, codes of conduct and Corporate Governance governance 74-85 principles Risk Management 86-94 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Risk Management Organizational 6.2 86-94 body for overseeing the organisation’s Corporate Governance governance 74-85 identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Corporate Governance Organizational 6.2 74-85 governance body’s own performance governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Risk Management Organizational 6.2 86-94 precautionary approach or principle is governance addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, Risk Management Organizational 6.2 86-94 environmental and social charters, Global Compact Principles governance 172-174 principles or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships of ‘Aitken Spence PLC’ in Membership in the Ceylon Organizational 6.2 associations (such as industry Chamber of Commerce governance associations) and/ or national/ Membership in the Steering international advocacy organisations Committee of the Global Compact Network Ceylon (GCNC) Member of the Board of the GCNC Members of the Sri Lanka Association of Software and Services Companies (SLASSCOM) (See www.aitkenspence.com/ sustainability for a detailed list) 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Sustainability Strategy Organizational 6.2 5.1 158-171 organisation governance Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 177 Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes 4.15 Basis of identification and selection of Sustainability Strategy Organizational 6.2 5.2 158-171 stakeholder governance 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Strategy Organizational 6.2 5.3 158-171 governance 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through Sustainability Strategy Organizational 6.2 5.4 158-171 stakeholder engagement governance Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and Financial Review Community 6.8 ECON1 62-73 distributed involvement and development 6.8.3 Community 6.8.7 involvement 6.8.9 Wealth and income creation Social investment EC 3 Coverage of the organisations defined Financial Statements ECON2 112-153 benefit plan obligations EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Management Disscussion and Promoting social 6.6.6 ECON4 28-61 spending on locally-based suppliers Analysis responsibility in Sustainability Strategy the value chain 6.8 158-171 Community involvement and 6.8.5 development Employment 6.8.7 creation and skills development Wealth and income creation EC 8 Development and impact of infrastructure Management Disscussion and Economic, social 6.3.9 ECON5 28-61 investments and services provided Analysis and cultural primarily for public benefit through Sustainability Strategy rights 6.8 158-171 commercial, in-kind or pro bono Community engagement involvement and 6.8.3 development 6.8.4 Community 6.8.5 involvement Education and 6.8.6 culture* Employment 6.8.7 creation and 6.8.9 skills development Technology development and access* Wealth and income creation Social investment 178 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 GRI Index Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and The 6.5 ENVT5 efficiency improvements Management Disscussion and Environment 6.5.4 Analysis Sustainable 10-15 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy – efficient or ENVT6 Sustainability Strategy resource use 158-171 renewable energy based products and services and the reduction in energy consumption as a result of these initiatives EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Sustainability Strategy ENVT8 158-171 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased The 6.5 ENVT11 managed in, or adjacent to, protected Environment 6.5.6 areas and areas of high biodiversity value Protection of the outside protected areas environment & 86-94 Risk Management biodiversity, and 158-171 EN12 Description of significant impacts of Sustainability Strategy ENVT12 restoration of activities, products, and services on natural habitat biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN23 Total number and volume of significant Sustainability Performance The 6.5 ENVT18 163-168 spills Summary Environment 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and Sustainability Performance The 6.5 ENVT22 163-168 total number of non – monetary sanctions Summary Environment for non – compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary The 6.5 ENVT3 energy source Environment 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary The 6.5 ENVT4 source Environment 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use Sustainability Strategy 158-171 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water The 6.5 ENVT10 recycled and reused Environment 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas The 6.5 ENVT13 emissions by weight Environment 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation action EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Management Disscussion and The 6.5 ENVT14 10-15 emissions and reductions achieved Analysis Environment 6.5.5 Sustainability Strategy Climate change 158-171 mitigation action Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Human Resources Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL1 95-99 employment contract and region Employment 6.4.3 and employment relationships Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 179 Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes LA3 Benefits provided for full time employees Bonus/ Salary increments on Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL3 performance basis Employment 6.4.3 Festival advance and Medical benefits employment 6.4.4 Retirement benefits obligations relationships Conditions of work and social protection LA5 Minimum notice periods 1 month Labour Practices 6.4 Employment 6.4.3 and employment 6.4.4 relationships Conditions of 6.4.5 work and social protection Social dialogue LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention Awareness session on HIV/AIDS Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL6 and risk-control programs in place to assist as a workplace issue in the Health and 6.4.6 workforce members, their families or Group’s Orientation Programme safety at work 6.8 community members regarding serious for new recruits. Community diseases involvement and 6.8.3 development 6.8.4 Community 6.8.8 involvement Education and culture Health LA11 Programmes for skills management and Human Resources Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL8 95-99 lifelong learning Human 6.4.7 development and training in 6.8.5 the workplace Employment creation and skills development LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100% of the executive cadre Labour Practices 6.4 performance and career development Human 6.4.7 reviews development and training in the workplace 180 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 GRI Index Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by 1:1 Discrimination 6.3.7 employee category and vulnerable groups 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and 6.4 rights at work 6.4.3 Labour Practices Employment 6.4.4 and employment relationships Conditions of work and social protection Society Performance Indicators SO2 Percentage and total number of business Fair Operating 6.6 units analyzed for risks related to Practices 6.6.3 corruption Anti-corruption 86-94 Risk Management 172-174 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Global Compact Principles organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and Sustainability Performance Fair Operating 6.6 163-168 total number of non-monetary sanctions Summary Practices 6.6.7 for non-compliance with laws and Respect for 6.8.7* regulations property rights Wealth and income creation Human Rights Performance Indicators HR3 Total hours of employee training on Global Compact Principles Human Rights 6.3 172-174 policies and procedures concerning Sustainability Strategy Avoidance of 6.3.5 158-171 aspects of human rights that are relevant complicity to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination Sustainability Performance Human Rights 6.3 163-168 and actions taken Summary Resolving 6.3.6 grievances 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable 6.3.10 groups Fundamental 6.4.3 principles and rights at work Employment and employment relationships HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in Sustainability Performance Human Rights 6.3 163-168 the organisation’s policies or procedures Summary Avoidance of 6.3.5 concerning aspects of human rights complicity 6.4.3 Employment and 6.6.6 employment relationships Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 181 Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 ISO NGRS Page core social 26000 Indicator No. responsibility Clauses subjects and themes Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Management Disscussion and Consumer 6.7 SOCL16 28-61 including results of surveys measuring Analysis Issues 6.7.4 customer satisfaction Sustainability Strategy Protecting 158-171 consumers’ 6.7.5 health & safety 6.7.6 Sustainable consumption 6.7.8 Consumer 6.7.9 service, support and complaint and dispute resolution Access to essential services* Education and awareness PR7 Total number of incidents of nonSustainability Performance Consumer 6.7 SOCL18 163-168 compliance with regulations and voluntary Summary Issues 6.7.3 codes concerning marketing Fair marketing, communications, including advertising, factual and promotion, and sponsorship unbiased 6.7.6 information and fair contractual 6.7.9 practices Consumer service, support and complaint and dispute resolution Education and awareness PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Sustainability Performance Consumer 6.7 163-168 regarding breaches of customer privacy Summary Issues 6.7.7 and losses of customer data Consumer data protection and privacy PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Sustainability Performance Consumer 6.7 SOCL19 163-168 non-compliance with laws and regulations Summary Issues 6.7.6 concerning the provision and use of Consumer products and services service, support and complaint and dispute resolution* * Indirectly relevant 182 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Investor Information Stock Exchange Listing Aitken Spence PLC., is a Public Quoted Company, the issued ordinary shares of which are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Stock Exchange code for Aitken Spence PLC share is “SPEN”. Reuter code of Aitken Spence PLC is “SPEN.CM”. Market Sector: Diversified Holdings ORDINARY SHARES Information on share trading 2011/12 2010/11 Number of transactions 6,772 16,124 No. of shares traded during the year 100,909,029 63,532,950 Value of shares traded during the year (Rs. Million) 12,144 19,529 Percentage of total value transacted 2.77 2.57 Market Capitalisation on 31st March (Rs. Million) 45,756 65,893 Percentage of total Market Capitalisation 2.27 2.72 Market Value Highest Lowest Year End Rs. Rs. Rs. 2009/2010 1,450.00 330.00 1,373.75 2010/2011 Pre Sub Division* 3,500.00 1,340.00 2010/2011 Post Sub Division 200.10 159.00 162.30 2011/2012 169.50 100.00 112.70 The market value of the Ordinary share as at 24th May 2012 was Rs.110.00 * Each ordinary share registered as at 5th October 2010 was sub divided in to 15 ordinary shares. Net Assets per share 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 31st March 2010 The Group (Rs.) 62.93 53.00 46.54 The Company (Rs.) 25.37 22.02 18.61 The above figures are restated taking into consideration the sub-division of share. Share Prices vs Indices 2011/2012 12 Month Trend Index Level Share Price Rs. 8,000 180 160 140 7,000 120 100 6,000 80 60 5,000 40 20 4,000 0 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sep 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 ASI MPI Share Price Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 183 Earnings 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 31st March 2010 Earnings per share (Rs.) Basic/Diluted 9.14 6.25 5.07* Price Earnings ratio (P/E) 12.33 25.97 18.06* * The above figures are restated taking into consideration the sub-division of shares. Earnings Per Share Price Earnings Ratio for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Rs. Times 10 30 25 8 20 6 15 4 10 2 5 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Shareholder Base – Voting Ordinary Shares There were 4,606 voting registered shareholders as at 31st March 2012 (31st March 2011 5,045). The distribution schedule of the number of shareholders and the percentage holdings are as follows: 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 Range of shareholding No. of No. of % No. of No. of % Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares 1 1,000 2,755 956,184 0.24 2,937 1,046,723 0.26 1,001 10,001 1,397 4,724,408 1.16 1,588 5,257,778 1.29 10,001 100,000 350 10,332,137 2.54 402 12,150,286 2.99 100,001 1,000,000 72 20,410,435 5.03 80 23,380,370 5.76 1,000,001 above 32 369,572,881 91.03 38 364,160,888 89.70 Total 4,606 405,996,045 100.00 5,045 405,996,045 100.00 Analysis of Shareholders Resident/Non-Resident 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 No. of shares % No. of shares % Nationals 220,627,110 54.34 249,004,786 61.33 NonNationals 185,368,935 45.66 156,991,259 38.67 Total 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 184 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Investor Information Individuals / Institutions 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 No. of shares % No. of shares % Institutions 367,415,231 90.50 363,033,649 89.42 Individuals 38,580,814 9.50 42,962,396 10.58 Total 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 As per the rule No 7.6 (iv) of Colombo Stock Exchange, percentage of public holding as at 31st March 2012 was 40.26%. Nationals & Non-Nationals Institutions & Individuals as at 31st March as at 31st March Percentage Percentage holding holding 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Nationals Institutions Non-Nationals Individuals Shareholding of directors together with their spouses in Aitken Spence PLC 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 294,495 288,495 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 7,308,240 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 Indirect holding by Directors 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe – Manohari Enterprises Ltd 298,830 298,830 Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena – Stassen Exports Ltd 3,244,500 3,244,500 – Milford Exports (Ceylon) Ltd 4,321,500 4,321,500 In Group companies 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 Aitken Spence Hotel Mr. J.M.S. Brito 106,596 106,596 Holdings PLC Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 2,852,241 2,852,241 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 31st March 2012 31st March 2011 Hethersett Hotel Ltd. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1,041,500 1,041,500 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 185 Twenty largest shareholders as at 31st March 2012 Name No. of shares % 1. Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC 113,728,925 28.01 2. Rubicond Enterprises Limited 65,990,145 16.25 3. Melstacorp (Pvt) Limited 47,359,256 11.66 4. HSBC International Nominees Limited-BPSS LUX-Aberdeen Global-Asian Smaller 23,745,300 5.85 Companies Fund 5. HSBC International Nominees Ltd-BPSS LDNAberdeen Asia Pacific Fund 17,192,300 4.23 6. HSBC International Nominees Ltd-BPSS LUX-Aberdeen Global-Emerging Markets Smaller 11,000,000 2.71 Companies Fund 7. HSBC International Nominees LTD-SSBT-Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds, LLC 10,129,500 2.49 8. Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 1.80 9. HSBC International Nominees Ltd-SSBT-National Westminister Bank Plc As Depositary of 7,232,455 1.78 First State Asia Pacific Fund, A Sub Fund of First State Investments ICVC 10. Placidrange Holdings Limited 5,521,500 1.36 11. Mellon Bank N.A.-Florida Retirement System 5,050,852 1.24 12. Employees Provident Fund 5,000,063 1.23 13. HSBC International Nominees Ltd-Bp2s London Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust 4,503,555 1.11 Xcc6 14. HSBC International Nominees Ltd-BPSS LDN-Aberdeen Investment Fund ICVC Aberdeen 4,342,500 1.07 Emerging Markets Fund 15. Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Limited 4,321,500 1.06 16. HSBC International Nominees Ltd-BPSS LUX-Aberdeen Global-Emerging Markets Equity 4,311,000 1.06 Fund 17. HSBC International Nominees Ltd.-SSBT-Janus Overseas Fund 3,768,000 0.93 18. Stassen Exports Limited 3,244,500 0.80 19. Ms. A.T. Wickremasinghe 3,211,975 0.79 20. Ms. K. Fernando 3,135,070 0.77 Total 332,122,450 86.20 Market Value Per Share Market Capitalisation as at 31st March as at 31st March Rs. Rs. Mn 180 70,000 150 60,000 50,000 120 40,000 90 30,000 60 20,000 30 10,000 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 186 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Investor Information Dividends An ordinary dividend of Rs 1.40 per share (2010/2011 – Rs. 1.00 per share) has been recommended to the shareholders for approval at the forth coming Annual General Meeting. History of Dividend Per Share and Dividend Cover for the Past 10 Years Year Dividend Per Share (Rs.) Dividend Cover 2002/03 0.30 4.34 2003/04 0.40 7.88 2004/05 0.40 6.88 2005/06 0.43 6.90 2006/07 0.43 8.30 2007/08 0.47 9.72 2008/09 0.63 7.93 2009/10 0.67 7.61 2010/11 1.00 6.25 2011/12 1.40 6.53 Dividend Per Share Share Prices vs Indices for the year ended 31st March 10 Year Trend Index Level Share Price Rs. Rs. 8,000 250 1.50 7,000 200 6,000 1.20 5,000 150 0.90 4,000 3,000 100 0.60 2,000 50 0.30 1,000 0 0 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 11 12 0.00 08 09 10 11 12 ASI MPI Share Price Unsecured Redeemable Debentures 2006-2012 The Company, in a private placement, raised Rs. 960 million by issuing 9,600,000 unsecured redeemable debentures at Rs. 100/each. Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited assigned a credit rating of AA (lka) on these debentures. (i) Fixed rate 3,000,000 Fixed rate unsecured redeemable debentures of Rs. 100/each were issued on 25th October 2006 with interest payable annually at the rate of 13.75% p.a. The applicable interests on these debentures were duly paid on 25th October 2011. In accordance with the terms of the Issue, 30% of the face value (Rs. 30/-) of these debentures were redeemed each on 25th October 2010 and 25th October 2011. (ii) Floating rate 6,600,000 Floating rate unsecured redeemable debentures of Rs. 100/each were issued on 25th October 2006 (4,100,000) and 24th November 2006 (2,500,000) with interest payable semi annually at an interest rate of six months gross Treasury Bill rate + 1.25% p.a. The applicable interests on these debentures were duly paid on 25th April 2011 and 25th October 2011. In accordance with the terms of the Issue, 30% of the face value (Rs. 30/-) of these debentures were redeemed each on 25th October 2010 and 25th October 2011. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 187 Ten Year Summary Year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Operating Results Revenue 30,670,417 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 27,515,960 19,765,632 13,593,263 10,063,989 9,157,160 7,030,843 Profit before taxation 5,463,457 3,815,555 3,353,169 3,396,916 3,064,792 2,582,088 1,910,115 1,721,123 1,883,501 877,992 Taxation 752,900 387,335 366,193 328,385 235,110 298,018 197,623 162,599 184,005 145,576 Profit after taxation 4,710,557 3,428,220 2,986,976 3,068,531 2,829,682 2,284,070 1,712,492 1,558,524 1,699,496 732,416 Profit attributable to 3,709,162 2,535,956 2,059,636 2,040,010 1,841,150 1,459,774 1,213,661 1,116,776 1,275,523 525,185 Aitken Spence PLC Equity & Liabilities Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,134,326 2,130,837 2,112,433 Reserves 12,557,127 11,071,652 9,317,199 7,227,545 3,505,284 2,673,510 2,370,383 2,306,075 2,038,132 975,543 Retained earnings 10,855,377 8,309,395 7,442,131 7,715,269 6,263,600 5,122,472 4,022,929 3,126,517 2,405,847 1,626,591 Minority interest 5,700,409 5,129,687 4,566,388 4,553,439 3,881,704 3,193,710 2,679,745 1,774,362 1,765,622 1,433,522 Non-current liabilities 6,575,114 4,746,363 5,730,436 6,677,114 6,903,834 6,832,112 5,815,540 4,476,808 2,504,832 3,439,933 Current liabilities 13,907,678 8,752,588 8,352,184 8,072,337 8,495,631 6,393,881 6,182,957 3,288,637 3,432,392 2,492,515 51,730,845 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 17,106,725 14,277,662 12,080,537 Assets Property, plant & equipment 27,893,497 23,925,653 23,328,896 22,635,636 16,982,305 16,770,495 15,450,267 11,005,913 8,576,500 7,754,569 Leasehold property 2,549,265 1,359,483 1,468,449 1,505,151 1,356,987 Intangible assets 528,857 134,026 154,185 109,164 122,520 159,407 191,811 170,058 92,017 98,117 Investment property 102,156 102,799 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 Investments 1,853,652 1,808,947 1,251,078 1,157,582 1,028,065 867,209 903,608 1,202,476 1,150,139 856,579 Deferred tax assets 210,468 138,314 56,823 74,008 39,342 Current assets 18,443,825 12,494,114 11,093,448 10,721,243 11,465,087 8,524,778 6,632,072 4,699,342 4,459,006 3,371,272 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 181,489 161,663 149,124 161,951 51,730,845 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 17,106,725 14,277,662 12,080,537 Share Information Earnings per share (Rs.) 9.14 6.25 5.07 5.02 4.53 3.60 2.99 2.75 3.16 1.31 Market value per share (Rs.) 112.70 162.30 post share sub division Market value per share (Rs.) 1,373.75 315.00 430.00 380.00 339.00 380.00 263.50 140.00 pre share sub division Market capitalisation on 45,756 65,893 37,182 8,526 11,639 10,285 9,176 10,282 7,113 3,754 31st March (Rs. mn) Price earnings ratio 12.33 25.97 18.05 4.18 6.32 7.05 7.56 9.20 5.56 7.11 Net assets per share (Rs.) 62.93 53.00 46.54 42.06 29.32 24.46 21.01 18.64 16.24 11.72 Employees Information No. of employees 5,791 5,328 5,042 5,045 5,090 4,199 4,209 4,209 4,112 3,590 Value added per employee (Rs. ‘000) 2,058 1,884 1,770 1,635 1,503 1,467 1,038 857 897 697 Ratios & Statistics Ordinary dividend (Rs. ‘000) 568,394 405,996 270,664 257,131 189,465 175,931 175,931 162,341 161,969 120,974 Dividend per share (Rs.) 1.40 1.00 0.67 0.63 0.47 0.43 0.43 0.40 0.40 0.30 Dividend cover (times covered) 6.53 6.25 7.61 7.93 9.72 8.30 6.90 6.88 7.88 4.34 Dividend payout ratio 0.15 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.15 0.13 0.23 Current ratio (times covered) 1.33 1.43 1.33 1.33 1.35 1.33 1.07 1.43 1.30 1.35 Debt-equity ratio 0.18 0.16 0.22 0.29 0.41 0.49 0.48 0.45 0.27 0.52 ROE (%) 15.76 12.55 11.45 14.08 16.86 15.82 15.08 15.79 22.60 11.77 Interest cover ratio 42.14 23.48 6.44 6.54 5.78 4.93 6.38 9.66 12.12 5.10 188 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 1868 1873 1876 1952 In the southern port city of Name of the partnership in Lloyds of London appoints Aitken The partnership of Edward Galle, Thomas Clark and Patrick Colombo was changed to ‘Aitken Spence & Co., as the agents for Aitken and Patrick Gordon Gordon Spence ventured into Spence Company’, after the two Ceylon a position which the Spence, was further partnership as merchants and brothers Edward and S.R Aitkin Company holds to this date. strengthened with the commission agents under the joines Thomas Clark and G. Spence. attachment of other British name of ’Clark & Spence’. capitalists, who later converted the business to a Private Limited Liability Company. 1993 1994 1996 2002 Entrance into the Maldivian Commenced commercial operations The first theme hotel in Sri Lanka The Governments decision tourism sector with the of Heritance Kandalama one of the ‘The Tea Factory, commences to rely on private sector for acquisition of Bathala Island worlds defining ecologically operations. The Hotel is awarded generation of power, the first resort in Maldives establishes conscious hotels and becomes the the ‘Building Conservation award by 20 MW thermal power plant Aitken Spence as the pioneers first Asian hotel to receive the the Royal Institution of Chartered is completed in Matara. in this field. prestigious ‘Green Globe 21’ Surveyors London’. certification. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 189 1974 1977 1983 1985 The first resort hotel of The Company which is an IATA The Company shares were quoted Printing business which was Aitken Spence ‘Neptune agent moved into inbound and for the first time on the Colombo successfully carried out as a Hotel’ was constructed in outbound travel, with this Aitken Stock Exchange with an issued division of Aitken Spence & Co., Beruwala designed by the Spence Travels Ltd was share capital of 51 million. was separated and Aitken renowned architect Geoffrey incorporated. Spence Printing (Pvt) Ltd was Bawa. Neptune now is incorporated. rebranded as ‘Heritance Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd, was Ayurveda Maha Gedara’. incorporated, taking over the inland container terminal at Mattakkuliya. 2005 2007 2008 2009 The 100 MW thermal power Aitken Spence obtains the The Group opens ‘Adaaran Prestige Acquires Logilink(Pvt) Ltd a plant at Embilipitiya was management of four hotel Vadoo’ the fifth resort with fifty container freight station completed and commences properties in Oman, becoming the luxury villas in close proximity to the operation with specialized its commercial operations. first hospitality company to enter Malè atoll. solutions for warehousing and Adaaran Prestige Water Villa the Middle East. During that same Aitken Spence Corporate office is garments on hangers. a twenty exclusive luxury year the Group becomes the first Sri relocated to ‘Aitken Spence Tower II, water villas at Meedhupparu Lankan Company to venture into with the completion of the Island is launched. ‘Port Efficiency Management’ construction of a luxurious office outside Sri Lanka. complex. 190 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Economic Review Overview to volatility, especially due to supply side constraints resulting from flood damage, crop failures and world market conditions. The Sri Lankan economy grew by 8.3% in 2011, keeping pace with the 8.0% growth experienced in 2010. Industrial and the The total consumption expenditure increased by 22.4% to services sectors were the drivers of the high growth Rs. 5,536 billion of the total consumption. Private consumption momentum in 2011. Industrial output, which accounts for grew by 25.1% which was one of the key drivers of economic under a third of GDP, grew by 10.3% powered by the expansion, fueled by remittances, greater demand from the manufacturing sub sector which grew by 7.9% due to the northern and eastern provinces, and salary increases for public contribution made by the garments industry. Construction sub servants. sectors also grew by double-digits, reflecting the major infrastructure projects undertaken by the Government and the Imports and exports both recorded strong growth, the former private sector. by 50.7% due to higher oil prices and strong domestic demand coupled with imports of raw materials for the The Services sector, the largest component of GDP, grew garments industry and capital goods. Export earnings recorded 8.6% with the Hotels and Restaurant sub sector recording a a growth of 22.4% which was supported by garments, rubber remarkable 26.4% growth as tourist numbers to the country and rubber products, and agricultural produce. The current increased. Earnings from tourism reached a record USD 830 account deficit more than doubled to 7.8% of GDP in 2011 as million as the number of arrivals exceeded 855,000. The imports outpaced exports at a rapid pace. The larger current transport and communications sub sectors also grew steadily account deficit was a reflection of the widened trade deficit. as the northern and eastern provinces became more Total foreign remittances received from migrant workers’ and integrated with the rest of the economy. the increased surplus in the services account helped contain the current account deficit. During the first half of 2011 the agricultural output declined due to the adverse weather conditions prevalent in the country The Central Bank maintained a moderate stance on the but recovered during the second half of the year to record a monetary policy in 2011 to boost economic growth through growth of 1.5%. the rapid expansion of credit. Credit to the private sector has accelerated rapidly since early 2010, with greater injections The inflation level was maintained at single digits throughout into the construction, agriculture, and wholesale and retail the year, averaging 6.7% though the food inflation was prone industries. GDP Growth Rate Annual Inflation Rate Average USD/LKR Exchange Rate (Year -on-Year) 18.8% 8.3% 114.94 8.0% 14.4% 113.06 6.8% 110.62 6.0% 110.57 6.9% 108.33 6.7% 4.8% 3.5% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 191 Total investment expenditure grew by 26.7% in 2011. The successfully carried out a USD 500 million international bond growth in investment expenditure was led by the private issue which amply demonstrated the confidence of foreign sector which was supported by low interest rates, the investors in the country’s economy. conducive investment climate and the improved macroeconomic environment. Investment activity also picked The Central Bank has revised its growth projection for 2012 to up with the implementation of major infrastructure 7.2%, down from an earlier estimate of 8.0% after the new development initiatives, particularly in transport, energy, water, monetary and fiscal measures were announced. With the sanitation, and irrigation, as well as with more investors Central Bank tightening the monetary policy and increasing seeking a foothold in the fast-expanding economy. Foreign policy rates the demand for credit is expected to ease to direct investment inflows recorded an all time high of USD 1 moderate levels during the current year. The inflation is billion and increase of 107%, with the largest FDI inflows was expected to be at single digits. to the hotel and tourism subsector. In order to prevent fluctuations in the exchange rate The central bank intervened on both sides of the domestic foreign exchange market for most of part of 2011, the Government announced a 3% devaluation when presenting the 2012 budget in November 2011. The subsequent liberalization of the exchange policy resulted in a rapid devaluation of the Rupee. With strong demand pressures, gross official reserves as at end-March 2012 slipped to USD 6.1 billion from USD 6.6 billion recorded in 2010. In March 2012, the Government revived the International Monetary Fund (IMF) standby arrangement, which was suspended since last year. A USD 427-million installment was released by the IMF in April strengthening the country’s external reserve position. The facility, negotiated in 2009, was intended to build Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves. Bank of Ceylon 12 Month T Bill Rate All Share Price Index 19.96% 19.12% 6,635.9 6,074.4 3,385.6 9.33% 9.31% 2,541.0 7.55% 1,503.0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 192 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Group Companies TOURISM CARGO STRATEGIC SERVICES LOGISTICS INVESTMENT Hotels Freight Power Inward Money Forwarding Generation Transfer Inbound Printing Operation & Courier & Outbound & Packaging Maintenance of Services Travel Power Plants Integrated Garment Elevator Agency Airline GSA Logistics Manufacture Maritime Insurance Transport Plantation Property Management TOURISM SECTOR INBOUND TRAVEL Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd ** (Pvt) Ltd ** General sales agents for Kingfisher Airlines. Leading Destination Management Company in An IATA-accredited travel agent and general sales Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Sri Lanka. A joint venture with TUI, one of the agent for Tradewinds and Rail Europe. Organises (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), largest tourism companies in the world. outbound tours and holiday packages. G.M. Perera, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Directors: R. Subramaniam (Managing Director), R .Subramaniam G.M. Perera (Managing Director), G.M. Perera, (Appointed w. e. f. 30.12.2011), R. Subramaniam N.A. N. Jayasundera N. A. N. Jayasundera (Departmental Director), (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). A.C. Garcia Tenorio DelCerro Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd ** CONVENTION SERVICES (Resigned w. e. f. 01.02.2012), D.C. Schelp. Former passenger sales agents for Aeroflot. Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd ** Professional conference, exhibition & event OUTBOUND TRAVEL Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) organiser. Also offers destination management (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. services. Dr. J.W.A. Perera (Managing Director), General sales agents for Singapore Airlines and G.M. Perera, Directors: G.M. Perera (Managing Director), Singapore Airlines Cargo R. Subramaniam. R. Subramaniam, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), N.A.N. Jayasundera (Appointed w.e.f. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera (Managing 20.03.2012), Director), S.T.B. Ellepola (Appointed w.e.f. G.M. Perera. 20.03.2012). ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 193 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. ** Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd ** A D S Resorts Pvt Ltd ** The holding company of the Group’s hotel Leases the land and building to Heritance Owns and operates Adaaran Select interests. Owns and operates the Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara. Hudhuranfushi – Maldives Ahungalla. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Chairman), R. E. V. Casie Chetty S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012) C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, S.M. Hapugoda, M. Mahdy. S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Unique Resorts Ltd ** G.P.J. Goonewardena, Ahungalla Resorts Ltd ** Owns and operates Adaaran Prestige Vadoo R.N. Asirwatham, Owns a land for a proposed future hotel. Resort – Maldives. C.H. Gomez, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya. (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), R. E. V. Casie Chetty S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd ** (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Owns and operates Heritance Ayurveda Maha S.M. Hapugoda, M.S. Hassan, Gedara. C.M.S. Jayawickrama. T.D.U.D. Peiris. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd ** PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd S.M. Hapugoda, Owns and operates The Sands. Owner of Heritance Cochin India, currently C.M.S. Jayawickrama, under construction. N. Ratwatte. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito Heritance (Pvt) Ltd ** R. E. V. Casie Chetty (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Owns a land for a proposed future hotel. (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012), C.L.B. Ekanayake S.M. Hapugoda, (Appointed w. e. f. 10.01.2012), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) C.M.S. Jayawickrama. S.M. Hapugoda, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, Crest Star (BVI) Ltd K. Khadar, C.M.S. Jayawickrama The holding company and managing agents of M. Narayanan. (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011), Jetan Travel Services Company Pvt Ltd. R.E.V.Casie Chetty Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011). Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Local Marketing of the Indian Hotels in India. S.M. Hapugoda, Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama. Directors: R.S. Rajaratne, Owns and operates Heritance Kandalama. M.P. Wijesekara. Jetan Travel Services Co. Pvt Ltd ** Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Owns and operates Adaaran Club Rannalhi Aitken Spence Hotel (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Maldives. Managements (Pvt) Ltd** R.E.V. Casie Chetty Manages resorts in Sri Lanka. (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) S.M. Hapugoda, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) C.M.S. Jayawickrama. S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), C.M.S. Jayawickrama S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director) Hethersett Hotels Ltd ** M. Mahdy, C.M.S. Jayawickrama (Deputy Owns and operates Heritance Tea Factory. H. Mohamed. Managing Director), R. E. V. Casie Chetty Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Cowrie Investments Pvt. Ltd ** (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Owns and operates Adaaran Select R. E. V. Casie Chetty Meedhupparu Island Resort Maldives. Aitken Spence Hotels (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012), International (Pvt) Ltd** S.M. Hapugoda, Directors: J.M.S. Brito Owns Resorts in the Maldives and provides C.M.S. Jayawickrama. (Chairman & Managing Director), international marketing services to overseas S.M. Hapugoda, resorts. I.M. Didi, M. Salih, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) C.M.S. Jayawickrama. (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, S. M. Hapugoda (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011), C. M. S. Jayawickrama (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011). ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. 194 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Group Companies Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd ** Nilaveli Holidays (Pvt) Ltd Asia (Pvt) Ltd ** Human resource management, foreign Constructing, owning and operating a beach Manages resorts in India, Oman and Maldives. employment & recruitment company resort. Directors: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda, G.P.J. Goonewardena. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, G.P.J. Goonewardena. R. E. V. Casie Chetty Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (South India) Pvt Ltd Crest Star Ltd Manages resorts in India. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd ** (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), To operate a future hotel project Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) C.M.S. Jayawickrama. (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito S.M. Hapugoda S.M. Hapugoda, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011), C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, R. E. V. Casie Chetty C.L.B. Ekanayake. S.M. Hapugoda, (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011). R. E. V. Casie Chetty Triton (Pvt) Ltd Nilaveli Resorts (Pvt) Ltd (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). The Holding Company of Aitken Spence Aviation Constructing, owning and operating a beach (Pvt) Ltd. resort. Business Travel Services LLC Destination Management Company organising Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Resigned w. e. f. inbound and outbound tours in Oman. A joint (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), 30.12.2011), venture with Oman Holdings International SAOG. S. M. Hapugoda S.M. Hapugoda, (Appointed w. e. f. 20.03.2012), M.P.S. Hotels Ltd C.M.S. Jayawickrama R. E. V. Casie Chetty Owns and operates Hotel Hilltop, Kandy. R. E. V. Casie Chetty (Appointed w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). C.M.S. Jayawickrama Directors: Mr. J. M. S. Brito (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), C .M. S. Jayawickrama, S. M. Hapugoda, R. E. V. Casie Chetty (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR FREIGHT FORWARDING Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd Provides international air express, domestic Operates as general sales agents for airline cargo. Providing International freight forwarding services. delivery and international mailing & supply chain Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) operations. Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), H.B. Kelly Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Dr. P. Dissanayake (resigned w. e. f. 21.06.2011), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Deputy Chairman), K. R. T. Peiris K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), K.R.T. Peiris, (Appointed w. e. f. 03.06.2011), Dr. P. Dissanayake H.B. Kelly J. E. Brohier (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012), (Resigned w. e. f. 21.06.2011), (Appointed w. e. f. 06.06.2011). J. Brohier. J.E. Brohier (Appointed w. e. f. 07.10.2011). Ace Bangladesh Pvt Ltd Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd Provides international freight forwarding services International freight forwarding & general sales Spence International (Pvt) Ltd in Bangladesh. agents for airline cargo. Regional operating headquarters to manage operation overseas. Directors: A. Mannan (Chairman), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) R. Rahman (Managing Director), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) J.M.S. Brito, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Mrs. F.R. Ahmed, (Deputy Chairman), K.R.T. Peiris, K.R.T. Peiris, K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), J.E. Brohier A. Rahman, J.E. Brohier (Appointed w. e. f. 07.10.2011), H.B. Kelly (Appointed w. e. f. 07.10.2011), Dr. P. Dissanayake (resigned w. e. f. 21.06.2011). H.B. Kelly (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Resigned w. e. f. 21.06.2011). Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 195 Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd J.M.S. Brito Provides air express & freight forwarding in Undertakes clearing, forwarding and operates an (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Maldives & general sales agent for airline cargo. inland container depot. A. Jayasekera, I.S. Cuttilan, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), K.R. Aluwihare. K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), Dr. P. Dissanayake M. Firaq, (Deputy Chairman), Clark Spence & Co. (Pvt) Ltd ** J. Brohier. N. D. F. Perera Shipping and bunkering agents in the ports of (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011). Colombo, Galle and Trincomalee and an INTEGRATED LOGISTICS international freight forwarder. Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd ** Logilink (Pvt) Ltd ** Operates an inland container depot and a freight Act as a Container Freight Station and to deal in Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) station and the provision of Container Transport the deconsolidation of imports and the storing, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Services. distribution and consolidation of Exports. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) I.S. Cuttilan, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), R.E.V. Casie Chetty Dr. P. Dissanayake Dr. P. Dissanayake (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Deputy Chairman), (Deputy Chairman), N.D.F. Perera, K.R.T. Peiris, Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd ** A. M. M. Amir N. D. F. Perera Liner agency representation. (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Appointed w. e. f. 20.03.2012). Directors: V.M. Fernando (Chairman), Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd ** MARITIME TRANSPORT J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), Provides container storage, customs brokerage Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd ** Dr. P. Dissanayake, and warehousing services. Holding company of certain Maritime Transport K.M.A.T.B. Tittawella, sector companies. I.S. Cuttilan, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) K.M. Fernando. (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) A.M.M. Amir, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd ** Dr. P. Dissanayake Dr. P. Dissanayake, NVOCC Freight forwarding operator. (Deputy Chairman), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, N. D. F. Perera R. E. V. Casie Chetty Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Dr. P. Dissanayake, Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd ** Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd.** N.D.F. Perera, Undertakes container repairs and container Holding Company of Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) A. M. M. Amir conversion. Ltd and Port Management Container Services (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Pvt) Ltd. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Port Management Container (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Services (Pvt) Ltd ** Dr. P. Dissanayake (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Operating & productivity enhancement (Deputy Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake, management in ports. N. D. F. Perera I.S. Cuttilan (Appointed w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) A. M. M. Amir D.R. C. Hindurangala (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). (Appointed w. e. f. 30.12.2011). Dr. P. Dissanayake, I.S. Cuttilan, Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd** Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd ** D. R. C. Hindurangala Provides total logistics support and warehousing Shipping Agent. (Appointed w.e.f. 01.12.2011). with multi country cargo consolidation. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd ** Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Dr. P. Dissanayake, Liner agency representation. (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), I.S. Cuttilan. Dr. P. Dissanayake Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), (Deputy Chairman), Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd ** Dr. P. Dissanayake, A.M.M. Amir, Liner, Cruise and Tramp agency representation, K.R. Aluwihare, N. D.F. Perera NVOCC and an international freight forwarder. M.E.G. Elizalde, (Appointed w. e. f. 03.11.2011). A.M. Thakkar. Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman & CEO), N.D.F. Perera (Managing Director), ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. 196 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Group Companies Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd ** Colombo International Nautical & Provide international freight forwarding services. Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd Sri Lanka’s largest private maritime and higher Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) education campus. (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), M. Shabir (Managing Director), Directors: P. P. A. P. Wikramanayake, H.B. Kelly C. L. Jayanetti, (Resigned w. e. f. 21.06.2011), H. Kumara, K.R.T. Peiris, E. P. Komrowski, J.E. Brohier M. P. Dissanayake, (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). J. M. S. Brito (Appointed w.e.f. 02.12.2011), Ms N. Sivapragasam (Appointed w .e .f. 02.12.2011), Mrs. N.W. De A. Guneratne (Appointed w. e .f . 02.12.2011), R. G. Pandithakorralage (Appointed w. e. f. 02.12.2011). STRATEGIC INVESTMENT SECTOR MANUFACTURING SECTOR APPAREL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE PRINTING & PACKAGING Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd ** ‘Manufacturer and exporter of high quality mens, Owns and operates a 24MW power plant in Provides printing & packaging services to the boys, ladies & girls shirts and blouses to Matara to supply power to the national grid. export market prestigious departmental stores and apparel Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) importers in USA and EU. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director), D.V.H. de Mel, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, P. Karunatilake, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Dr. R.M. Fernando, Ms. N. Sivapragasam R.G. Pandithakorralage, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). J.S.A. Fernando R. Gupta, (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2012). K.N. Ahsan Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd ** (Resigned w.e.f. 09.07.2011), Provides printing & packaging services to the local Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd A. Malla, market. Manufacturer and exporter of high quality mens, M. S. Mohideen boys, ladies & girls shirts and blouses to (Appointed w.e.f. 01.02.2012), Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) prestigious departmental stores and apparel M. Vuksanovic (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), importers in USA and EU. (Appointed w.e.f. 21.02.2012), D.V.H. de Mel. J.M.S. Brito appointed as a allternate P. Karunatilake, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Director to Deshamanya D.H.S. Ms. N. Sivapragasam D.V.H. de Mel, Jayawardena w.e.f. 24.02.2012, (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). J.S.A. Fernando G.P.B.N. Gunarathne appointed as a (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2012). Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging allternate Director to Dr. R.M. (Pvt) Ltd ** Clark Spence Garments Ltd Fernando w.e.f. 27.02.2012, Provides printing & packaging services to the local Directors: J. M. S. Brito (Chairman) J.M.S. Brito appointed as a allternate market. (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), Director to Deshamanya D.H.S. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Jayawardena w.e.f. 24.02.2012. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) J. S .A. Fernando (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w.e.f. 30.12.2011), D.V.H. de Mel, R.G. Pandithakorralage P. Karunatilake, (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2012). Ms.N. Sivapragasam (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2012). ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 197 Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd Owns and operates a 24MW power plant in Owns and operates a 100MW power plant in Owns a 3 MW Wind Power plant in Ambewela to Horana to supply power to the national grid. Embilipitiya to supply power to the national grid. supply electricity to the national grid, which is scheduled to commission in 2012. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director), Directors: J.M.S. Brito D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, M.S. Mohideen, D.V.H. De Mel, Dr. R.M. Fernando, Ms. Maria Spoelgen, Ms. N. Sivapragasam., Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Ms. A.M. Fernando. M.S. Mohideen. R.Gupta, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne. K.N. Ahsan Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd (Resigned w.e.f. 09.07.2011), Owns a 2.5MW hydro power plant in Matale to Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd A. Malla, supply electricity to the national grid. Proposed for constructing, commissioning and M. S. Mohideen operating a 10MW Waste to Energy Power Directors: S.A.W. Manawadu (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 01.02.2012), Project in Meethotumulla, to supply electricity to J.M.S. Brito M. Vuksanovic the national grid by conversion of municipal solid (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w.e.f. 21.02.2012), waste. D.V.H. de Mel, J.M.S. Brito appointed as a allternate Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Directors: J. M.S. Brito Director to Deshamanya D.H.S. M.S. Mohideen, (Resigned w. e. f. 30.12.2011), Jayawardena w.e.f. 24.02.2012, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne. D.V.H. de Mel G.P.B.N. Gunarathne appointed as a (Appointed w.e.f. 05.10.2011), allternate Director to Dr. R.M. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Fernando w.e.f. 27.02.2012. (Appointed w.e.f. 05.10.2011), P. Benihin (Appointed w.e.f. 05.10.2011), S.R.S.L. Karunanayake (Appointed w.e.f. 31.10.2011). SERVICES SECTOR PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Vauxhall Investments Ltd INSURANCE SURVEY & CLAIM Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Owns and operates the printing office complex. SETTLING AGENCY Ltd** Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd ** ‘Owns and operates the multi-storied office (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), Survey and claim settling agents for several complex; “Aitken Spence Tower I”. D.V.H. de Mel, reputed insurance companies and organisations P. Karunatilake, worldwide, including Lloyd’s, CESAM, PICC and Directors: Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Ms. N Sivapragasam Tokio Marine & Fire Insurance Company Ltd, R.G.Pandithakorralage. (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). Oriental Insurance Co. of India, Superintendents for UN World Food Programme in Sri Lanka and Aitken Spence Property Developments Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd ** the Maldives. (Pvt) Ltd ** ‘Owns and operates the multi-storied office Property Development Company. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) complex; “Aitken Spence Tower II” which serves Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), as the Group’s corporate office at Vauxhall Street (Deputy Chairman), Mrs. N.W.de A. Guneratne in Colombo. A.M.M. Amir, (Managing Director), N. D.F. Perera A.N. Seneviratne, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). R. G. Pandithakorralage (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), (Appointed w.e.f.21.03.2012). Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Dr. R.M. Fernando, R. G. Salgado. ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. 198 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Group Companies INSURANCE BROKERING Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd Ms. N.Sivapragasam, Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Provision of IT enabled services G.M. Perera, Ltd** D.V.H. de Mel, Directors: Dr. R.M. Fernando, Dr. P.Dissanayake, Placement of insurance business life & general D.S. Mendis, with insurance Companies in Sri Lanka. S.M. Hapugoda, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Mrs. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) S. Santhosh C.M.S. Jayawickrama, (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), (Resigned w.e.f. 03.01.2012), R.G. Pandithakorralage, Mrs. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Mrs. N. Nanvati D.S. Mendis, A.N. Seneviratne, (Resigned w.e.f. 03.01.2012), V.M. Gunatilleka. R.G. Pandithakorralage K.R. Suresh (Appointed w.e.f.21.03.2012). (Resigned w.e.f. 03.01.2012). Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd ** MANAGEMENT SERVICES Exports dry rations and perishables to the ELEVATOR AGENCY Group’s resorts in the Maldives. Also bottles and Elevators (Pvt) Ltd** Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Pvt) markets “Hethersett bottle water”. Solely responsible in Sri Lanka and Maldives for Ltd ** marketing, installing, commissioning and Provider of Financial Services and secretaries to Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) (Resigned maintaining OTIS Lifts, escalators and other the companies of the Group. w.e.f. 30.12.2011), equipment.The world leader in elevators, S. M. Hapugoda, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) C.M.S. Jayawickrama, escalators, moving walkways and dumb waiters. (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), R. E. V. Casie Chetty Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Appointed w.e.f. 20.03.2012). R.E.V. Casie Chetty, (Managing Director), R.G. Salgado (Managing Director), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Ms. T.L. Cordes-Fei. Mrs. N.W.de A. Guneratne, R.G. Pandithakorralage, FINANCIAL SERVICES V. M. Gunatilleka MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd ** (Appointed w.e.f. 01.09.2011). Principal agent for Western Union Money Transfer Services in Sri Lanka. Aitken Spence Group Ltd ** Overall management of the Aitken Spence Group Directors: M.D.D.Peiris (Chairman), Companies. D.S. Mendis (Managing Director), J.M.S.Brito, Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman) Mrs. Y.N. Perera, (Resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011), K.Balasundaram, Dr. R.M. Fernando, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.V.A. Corera. K.R.T. Peiris, ASSOCIATE COMPANIES PLANTATIONS HOTELS Aitken Spence Plantation Managements Browns Beach Hotels PLC ** Ltd ** Owns Browns Beach Hotel, Negombo. Managing agents for Elpitiya Plantations Ltd Negombo Beach Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Elpitiya Plantations PLC Constructing, owning and operating a beach Owns 15 tea and rubber estates in the resort in Negombo. Pundaluoya, Pussellawa and Galle regions with a total land extent of 8,851 hectares. ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 199 Glossary of Terms Assets Held for Sale EBIT Margin (Operating Proft Margin) Net Assets per Share The carrying amount of the asset value which Earings before interest and tax divided by Total assets less total liabilities including minority will be recovered through a sale transaction revenue. interest divided by the number of shares in rather than through continuing use. issue as at 31st March. Effective Rate of Dividend Assets Turnover Rate of dividend per share paid on the number Price Earnings Ratio (PER) Total turnover divided by average total assets. of shares ranking for dividend at the time of Market value per share divided by the earnings each payment. per share. BOT Build Operate and Transfer Effective Rate of Interest Price to Book Value Ratio (PBV) Total long-term and short-term interest divided Market price per share divided by net assets per Capital Expenditure by average long-term and short-term liabilities at share. The total of additions to property, plant & the beginning and end of the year. equipment and the purchase of outside Quick Asset Ratio investments. Financial Leverage Total current assets less inventories divided by Total average assets divided by total average total current liabilities. Capital Reserves equity. Reserves identified for specific purposes and Related Parties considered not available for distribution. Goodwill on Consolidation Parties who could control or significantly The excess of the cost of acquisition over the influence the financial and operating decisions Compound Shareholder Return fair value of the share of net assets acquired of the business. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for the time when purchasing an interest in a company. length of three years. Return on Equity Gross Treasury Bill Rate Profit after tax and minority interest divided by Current Ratio Weighted average treasury bill rate gross of average equity less minority interest at the Current assets divided by current liabilities. withholding tax published by Central Bank of Sri beginning and end of the year. Debenture Lanka at the auction immediately preceding an Revaluation Surplus A long-term debt instrument issued by a interest determination date. Surplus amount due to revaluing assets in corporate. Intangible Assets accordance with its fair value. Debt/Equity Ratio An identifiable non-monetary asset without Revenue Reserves Non-current interest bearing borrowing divided physical substance held for use in the Reserves set aside for future distributions and by the total equity and minority interest. It production or supply of goods or services for investments. shows the extent to which the firm is financed rental to others or for administrative purposes. by debt. Total Equity Interest Cover Total of share capital, reserves, retained earnings Diluted EPS Operating profit before interest divided by the and minority interest. Net profit for the period attributable to ordinary net interest. shareholders divided by the weighted average Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Interest Rate Swap of ordinary shares in issue during the period, Change in market price of the share between An arrangement whereby two parties swap adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential end and beginning of the financial year, plus interest rate commitments with each other to ordinary shares. dividend for the year, divided by the market reduce interest rate risks on fixed or floating rate price of the share at the beginning of the Dividend Cover loans. financial year. Net profit attributable to the ordinary Investment Property shareholders divided by the total dividend. Treasury Bill Investments in land and buildings that are held Short term debt instrument of 3,6 or 12 months Dividend – Payout Ratio to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or for issued by the Government of Sri Lanka. Dividends per share divided by earnings per both. share. This indicates the percentage of the Treasury Bond LIBOR Company’s earnings that is paid out to Medium to Long term debt instrument of 2 to London Inter Bank Offered Rate. shareholders in cash. 20 years issued by the Government of Sri Lanka Market Capitalisation which carries a coupon (Interest) paid on Dividend Yield The number of ordinary shares in issue semiannual basis. Dividend per share divided by the market value multiplied by the market price per share. of a share. Unquoted Shares Minority Interest Shares which are not listed in the Stock Dividend per Share (DPS) Part of the net results of operations and of net Exchange. Dividends paid and proposed divided by the assets of a subsidiary attributable to interests number of issued shares, which ranked for Yield to Maturity which are not owned, directly or indirectly those dividends. The Discount rate that equals present value of through subsidiaries, by the parent. all expected interest payment and the Earnings per Share (EPS) Net Profit Margin repayment of principal. Net profit for the period attributable to ordinary Net profit attributable to shareholders divided by shareholders divided by the weighted average revenue. number of ordinary shares in issue during the period. 200 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notes Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 201 202 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Sixtieth Annual General Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC will be held at the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30 A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07., at 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, June 28, 2012, for the following purposes :• To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors together with the Financial Statements of the Company and the Report of the Auditors’ thereon for the year ended 31st March 2012. • To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. • To re-elect Mr. C.H. Gomez who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. • To re-elect Mr. G.M. Perera who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. • To re-elect Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has attained the age of 78 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. • To re-appoint the retiring Auditors, Messrs. KPMG, and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. • To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD R.E.V. Casie Chetty F.C.A, F.C.M.A, M.C.M.I. J Dip. M.A. Company Secretary Colombo 25th May, 2012 Notes : 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead and a Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. The completed Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. 3. It is proposed to post the dividend warrants on July 10, 2012 provided the dividend recommended is approved. In accordance with the rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, the shares of the Company will be quoted exdividend with effect from June 29, 2012. Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 203 Form of Proxy I/We ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. of ........................................................................................................................................................................ being a member/members of Aitken Spence PLC hereby appoint ........................................................................... of ...........................................................................(whom failing) Don Harold Stassen Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) Joseph Michael Suresh Brito of Colombo (whom failing) Rohan Marshall Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) Gehan Marcel Perera of Colombo (whom failing) Mahinda Parakrama Dissanayake of Colombo (whom failing) Gaurin Chandraka Wickremasinghe of Colombo (whom failing) Charles Humbert Gomez of Gibraltar (whom failing) Niranjan Joseph de Silva Deva Aditya of United Kingdom (whom failing) Vernon Manilal Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) Rajanayagam Nalliah Asirwatham of Colombo as my/our Proxy to represent me/us, to speak and to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 28th day of June 2012, and at any adjournment thereof and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. Signed this ........................................... day of June Two Thousand Twelve. ...................................................................... Signature Note: Instructions as to completion are noted on the reverse hereof. 204 Aitken Spence PLC Annual Report 2011-2012 INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION Kindly perfect the form of proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. If the proxy form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of attorney should also accompany the proxy form for registration, if such power of attorney has not already been registered with the Company. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal (if required), which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. The completed form of proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No. 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 before 10.00 a.m. on June 26, 2012, being 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting. Corporate Information Name Audit Committee Aitken Spence PLC R.N. Asirwatham Chairman G.C. Wickremasinghe Legal Form C.H. Gomez A public quoted company with limited liability, N.J. de S. Deva Aditya incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1952 Remuneration Committee Company Registration Number G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman PQ 120 V.M. Fernando R.N. Asirwatham Registered Office 315 Vauxhall Street Nomination Committee Colombo 2 G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Sri Lanka D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Directors V.M. Fernando D.H.S. Jayawardena R.N. Asirwatham Chairman J.M.S. Brito LLB, FCA, MBA Company Secretary Deputy Chairman and Managing Director R.E.V. Casie Chetty FCA, FCMA, M.C.M.I., J.Dip.M.A. R.M. Fernando Ph.D., MBA, FCIM (UK) G.M. Perera FAIM Auditors M.P. Dissanayake KPMG MBA, Ph.D., Postgraduate.Dip Marketing FCIM, FICS, FCILT Chartered Accountants (UK), (GLE) Harvard Business School G.C. Wickremasinghe Contact Details C.H. Gomez 315 Vauxhall Street Colombo 2 N.J. de S. Deva Aditya DL, FRSA, MEP Sri Lanka V.M. Fernando Attorney-at-Law R.N. Asirwatham FCA T : (94 11) 2308308 F : (94 11) 2445406 Alternate Director www.aitkenspence.com A.L. Gooneratne FCA (appointed as Alternate Director to N.J. de S. Deva Aditiya w.e.f. 08.05.2012) Designed & produced by Photography by Taprobane Street Digital Plates & Printing by Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd AITKEN SPENCE PLC 315 Vauxhall Street Colombo 2 Sri Lanka T : (94 11) 2308308 F : (94 11) 2445406 www.aitkenspence.com
