Hager Group – Communication on Progress (COP) 2012 Hubert Reeves at the Hager Group Symposium 2011 in Paris. As an astrophysicist and nuclear physicist as well as the writer of bestsellers United Nations Global Compact on popular science, Hubert Reeves has made science history. 1 CEO Statement of Commitment Page 3 Human. Eco-friendly. Economic. E3 – Hager Group’s sustainability approach Page 4 01 Human Rights Page 8 02 Labour Page 10 03 Environment Page 16 04 Anti-Corruption Page 20 05  Selected Social Activities Page 22 Cover page: during his talk at the Hager Group Symposium 2011, Hubert Reeves described the history of the universe as a sequence of ongoing innovations. Each year, between 400 and 2,000 Hager Group managers gather at the Symposium to discuss topics that drive our company. “Innovation – from Products to Solutions” was the motto of the Symposium in 2011 – a topic that is so important to Hager Group that the Annual Report 2011 has been given over to it: www.hagergroup.net /annualreport 2 CEO Statement of Commitment 2012 Hager SE intensifies its approach for a sustainable world The way forward usually begins with a first few steps – and for Hager Group the year 2011 saw the first major steps on the way towards a systematically sustainable enterprise. In that process, the principles behind the Global Compact Initiative, to which we subscribed five years ago, are serving us as a navigation ­system. The driving force comes from our E3 Sustainability approach which, over the year, began to unfold its potential. E3 stands for Ethics, Environment and Energy at Hager Group. We recognise that people are the most important resource and therefore treat them with care. This is why under ethics, for example, we define the ongoing support we provide for our employees according to the ambitious goals set out in the Investors in People management standard. This internationally recognised seal of approval is aimed at distinguishing those companies that offer their employees exceptional training opportunities and that translate the IIP principles into ­practice on an exemplary basis. With the result that in 2011 we received the IIP Bronze Award. To ensure a more economical way of dealing with energy, we take care to provide energy-efficient solutions. For instance, in Australia we have launched a carbon calculator to give our customers a general idea of how much carbon they release into the atmosphere every year. The use of this tool in conjunction with our miniwebsite will help households to reduce their energy consumption. And we are c­ ontinuously improving our balance in terms of the environment by means of our eco-design approach. This means that, during the ­development process, we register and minimise all the possible environmental impacts of a given product for its complete life cycle. Thanks to our new Blue Power modular circuit breakers, for instance, we were able last year to cut down 27,000,000 kilowatt hours of energy and over 500 tonnes in raw materials – the overall equivalent of around 16,000 tonnes in CO2 emissions. We will thus continue to reduce our ecological footprint and improve our sustainability balance over the coming years. As we single-­mindedly pursue the strategy to which we as Global Compact signatories originally committed, this report will take a closer look at the progress we have made in various fields over the past year. Daniel Hager CEO Hager Group 3 Human. Eco-friendly. Economic. E3 – Hager Group’s sustainability approach “Quidquid agis respice finem” – Whatever you do, consider the consequences! This motto which goes back to the Greek fable writer Aesop (around 600 BC) holds true more than ever today. Induced by technological progress, increasing globalisation and diminishing natural resources, the consequences of our actions are becoming ever more grave. At the same time the calls for greater corporate responsibility are getting louder and louder. Even though Hager Group is only a small cog in a large wheel, we want to move forward in such a way that we leave a clean bill of health for future generations. We have road-mapped our sustainability plan in a concise and clear concept – it is called E3. And this all-encompassing E3 Hager Group concept deals with how we can use our planet’s limited resources in a caring and sparing way. It comprises three pillars – Ethics, Environment and Energy – each of which is supported by a catalogue of clear-cut measures which Hager Group has explicitly committed itself to implementing. Everyone today talks about sustainability. As a family business, we actively practice it – using E3! “We act ethically and responsibly, caring for people and our environment” Daniel Hager 4 Ethics Our most important natural resource is each individual person. That is why we are prepared to do everything to support our worldwide staff of more than 11,000 ‘positive energisers’ and mobilise new supporters for Hager Group. We have been certified ‘Investors in People’ (IIP) and prioritise structured processes ensuring mutually fair behaviour. What is more, we have committed ourselves to comply with the United Nations Global Compact principles. This undertaking between a company and UNO is concluded on a voluntary basis with the purpose of making globalisation more caring and ecological. And last but not least, we ensure that by using meaningful local Care Management, each Hager Group employee feels at ease. Authenticity Courage Integrity 5 ENVIRONMENT This Care Management approach has been extended to the environment, in that we keep it as clean as possible. And this is why we adhere to the motto ‘less is more’. In real terms this means that eleven of Hager’s production plants are already certified under the ISO 14000 environmental management standard. And determined to keep a good thing going, we apply for further certifications year after year. So when developing new products and during manufacturing processes, we focus on eco-design and eco-production. This includes making an exhaustive product life cycle assessment and optimising it where possible from ecological aspects. When the product is finished, it is packed in such a way that no extra tree is felled – in 100% recycled carton. By doing this we are continually reducing our ecological footprint at the same time as advancing technology in the right direction. This move secured Hager the iF Packaging Design Award 2011. 6 ENERGY Taking a step in the right ecological direction is an advantage our customers also benefit from – by using intelligent meters and innovative display software so that energy consumption is clearly visible. This in turn creates better energy awareness. Many of our appliances from dimmers to ultra-sensitive motion detectors all the way to intelligent Tebis KNX building automation actively help reduce energy consumption. And last but not least, the use of Hager systems enables renewable resources to be integrated into each and every building, assuring a good future. In other words, we devote all our energy to saving yours! For detailed information about E3 – see www.hagergroup.net/sustainability 7 01 Human Rights Human Rights – Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Hager Group Ethics Charter > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Hager Group Ethics Charter is part of E3 – our sustainable development programme. By means of the Ethics Charter, Hager Group acknowledges its responsibility for sustainable development. For everyone at Hager SE, adher­ence to the laws and regulations governing the protection of human rights and the environment is an elementary principle that derives from legal and ethical concerns in equal measure. > Implementation: Awareness training of the Top 100 managers within the framework of a summer school held in June 2012 Active communication throughout the whole Group in 2012 via different media channels 8 01 Human Rights Sustainable Growth and Ethical Trading Policy Suppliers are encouraged to sign up to the UN (United Nations) Global Compact. The Global Compact is a voluntary international corporate citizen­ > Assessment, Policy and Goals: By working with partners who strictly ship network initiated to support the participation of both the private ­sector respect the standards of social ­responsibility, Hager Group Sourcing Policy and other social actors in the advancement of responsible corporate citizen­ strives for the excellence that our customers around the world expect. ship and universal social and environmental principles as they relate to In all regions of the world, Hager Group commits to respecting ethical the challenges of globalisation. Hager Group aims to deal only with suppliers principles with regard to environmental protection, human rights and labour whose values respect these principles. It is not only the respons­ibility of standards. The Sustainable Growth and Ethical Trading Policy is the basis Hager Group suppliers to comply with these fundamentals, but also of our collaboration with suppliers. Its principles aim to … ­Hager Group Sourcing’s responsibility to avoid or cancel business with protect the environment; any supplier who will not respect – or who no longer respects – these take a proactive approach to environmental challenges; funda­mental values, as soon as Hager Group becomes aware of such encourage and implement environmental responsibility initiatives by using non-compliance. only recyclable materials and non-polluting manufacturing processes; support human rights; Hager Group’s suppliers are thus expected to approve and sign our respect the protection of the freedom of Sustainable Growth and Ethical Trading Policy. internationally proclaimed human rights; > Implementation: This Sustainable Growth and Ethical Trading Policy is ensure no complicity in the abuse of human rights; accessible on Hager Group Intranet to all employees. A copy is sent to all ensure no discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; our suppliers. As an integral part of Hager Group Sourcing requirements, it is maintain labour standards; binding on all suppliers. Any requests for a price quotation must include the respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining; and charter. Business is given only to suppliers who have signed the charter. work towards the abolition of child labour. A supplier monitoring tool was implemented in 2010 to check on adherence to the policy. Responsibility for the Sustainable Growth and Ethical Policies was centralised at Hager Group Sourcing head office in Saverne. > Measurement of outcomes: Around 80% of our suppliers have signed this Policy. Audits are performed by the Sourcing Development Organisational Unit. 9 02 Labour Labour – Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Investors in People (IIP) > Measurement of outcomes: In 2011, the company decided to use the new IIP approach known as > Assessment, Policy and Goals: IIP is a framework that focuses on “Your Choice” in order to support Hager Group Project 2015. Linked to ­continuous improvement of business performance through people. this Hager Group strategy, the focus on the external IIP assessments was > Implementation: places on the theme of “Leadership & Management”. IIP has been in place as a standard at Hager Group since 2009. In 2011, France and UK/Ireland were IIP recognised with Bronze, followed In 2011, 76% of employees worked in IIP-recognised units by Belgium in 2012. (including the German Hager Group companies Berker and Elcom In 2011, Spain, Sweden and China (with the Dongguan location for the who joined ­Hager Group in 2010 and 2012). first time) were recognised as well as Poland for the first time In 2011 eleven IIP reviews (internal and external) took place and in 2012, In 2012, Belgium received the Bronze Award of the IIP standard in April; it will be nineteen. Austria had its first external review in January; Atral Italy was recognised The Internal Review team consists of 34 internal reviewers of different in February; a first IIP diagnostic for the Business Area in Blieskastel nationalities (French, Italian, German, Polish, British and Chinese). (­Germany) was held in January; an internal review was carried out in April for the Market Area in Milano (Italy) and the Business Area in Porcia (Italy); and an IIP diagnostic for Pune (India) took place in June 2012. We adhere to the labour principles, which are also stipulations set out in the Hager Group’s Sustainable Growth and Ethical Policy and in its Ethics Charter. In addition, Hager Group took further action to enhance the labour conditions of its employees. 10 02 Labour Hager GO! (Global Opinion) > Measurement of outcomes: 57% of employees took part in the survey. Results showed that more > Assessment, Policy and Goals: In 2011, all Hager Group employees than 72% of staff are satisfied with their work at Hager Group. However, were invited to participate in the first phase of a global survey Hager GO! there is still a lot to do! For example, future action will be required in (Global Opinion). They were asked questions about their expectations the im­portant fields of staff development, recognition and reward and of Hager Group, their work and their working area and about their ­leadership and management. job ­satis­faction. 248 improvement actions are planned group-wide for 2012. The aim of this project is that Hager Group be recognised as an employer Their im­plementation is monitored on a quarterly basis. of choice, one who provides an environment in which current and future The next global survey will be carried out in 2013. employees are motivated to develop their careers. > Implementation: More than 6,000 Hager Group employees responded to the questionnaire, which was distributed in 21 languages. The results were assessed by an international project team in conjunction with those responsible for the individual countries. 11 02 Labour Care Management at Hager Group > Implementation: Services and programmes vary from country to country and can include different aspects such as: > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Care management at Hager Group Ergonomics + Safety: is considered an important in-house service provision for members of the Ergonomic advice, workplace training, safe driving training Hager community. As such, Care Management continually develops and Work Life Balance: implements needs-oriented and target-group measures around the Cooperation with child day-care centres, child care during the holiday periods, following topics. international school student exchanges between Hager Group locations In that process, we take into account country-specific Sports + Relaxation: circumstances and local needs: Participation in public sports events and preparation for marathons, Ergonomics + Safety family hiking days, sports groups and relaxation courses Work Life Balance Health + Prevention: Sports + Relaxation Annual breast cancer screening, health awareness day, flu vaccination, Health + Prevention prevention courses (back training, fitness, yoga etc) and cancer early detection tests. Objectives: to create health-promoting work and environment conditions with the help > Measurement of outcomes: In 2011 and 2012, special events of specific target-group and needs-oriented measures; revolving round health care and relaxation were held: to convey to the employees information that will facilitate a healthy lifestyle bowel cancer examinations in Austria and Germany tailored to their individual situation; child care during holidays in Germany to organise and strengthen the feeling of well-being in our group student exchange programs for European locations and subsidiaries of companies via cooperation with the works councils and relevant recreation programme for people living on Hager sites (China) ­experts from the fields of occupational safety and physiotherapy; and sport facilities on site (e.g. volleyball courts in India) to facilitate a sensible work life balance. at Hager Group’s French sites of Obernai, Bischwiller and Saverne, there was an increase in the number of occupational health physicians providing physical examinations and advice aimed at improving work conditions (e.g. massage in Obernai and ergonomics mapping for p ­ eople working in shifts) – this in collaboration with ergonomists and health ­centres. In France, Hager Group has been praised for its initiatives by the social security administration. 12 02 Labour Health & Safety Certification to OHSAS 18001 > Implementation: One of the tools implemented is a Health & Safety Road Map allowing each site to auto-evaluate its own performance > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Besides our own in-house safety and thus develop a progress strategy more effectively. In addition to the ­measures, we do our utmost to uphold the international OHSAS 18001 ­cross-coherence obtained by utilising this tool, it also helps establish best standard (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) throughout practice in safety and promote knowledge sharing with other companies. the group. Meanwhile, 40 per cent of all Hager Group employees work in OHSAS 18001-certified manufacturing facilities. Compliance to these Moreover, an agreement signed by the directors of the Group and the ­standards is regularly monitored by independently certified o ­ rganisations Hager SE Corporate Committee provides for the implementation of an such as ­Bureau Veritas worldwide or the German TÜV and Dekra. In independent commission made up of CE members. Their main role will be ­addition to p ­ hysical ­protection of the employees, as a matter of course to monitor the implementation of the Health & Safety principles at work – as Hager Group also p ­ rovides extensive data protection. well as the principles of environmental protection at all the European sites. > Measurement of outcomes: From 2011 to mid 2012 the following sites > Measurement of outcomes: Result: a decrease by 7% of the number were certified to OHSAS 18001: Uebigau (Germany), Blieskastel (Germany), of work accidents over the two last years. Telford (UK), Porcia (Italy), Kornik (Berker, Poland), Bischwiller (ADC, France). Altogether 12 production sites and 2 logistic sites are certified to OHSAS. Hager Group Health & Safety Policy > Assessment, Policy and Goals: As part of Hager Group Project 2015, senior management is committed to the continuous improvement of the health and safety of all employees. For this reason, a Health & Safety group policy has been created with the aim of initiating a consistent and ­preventive approach across the group. The policy also sets out to certify the safety management system of all Hager industrial and logistic sites according to the OHSAS 18001 standard. 13 02 Labour Environment, Health & Safety Agreement with the Agreement on physical serious work European Works Council (EWC) > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Commitment to reduce ­occupational > Assessment, Policy and Goals: The EWC can visit European hazards resulting from physical pressure or an aggressive physical locations and subsidiaries under their own steam to review the status of ­environment or working schemes that may wear employees down. occupational safety. > Implementation: Six initiatives/actions covering all the professional The committee conducts independent audits and has access to information ­categories (not only the shopfloor workers) aimed at improving work and annual reports regarding environmental and occupational safety at all ­conditions (noise reduction, workplace ergonomics, working hours for older Hager locations. employees, awareness programmes and prevention). The committee monitors compliance with legal regulations. > Measurement of outcomes: Agreement implemented in all French The establishment of this committees was not legally required; it was ­subsidiaries since January 2012. The agreement is available on the Intranet initiated voluntarily by Hager Group. of Hager Group. > Implementation: The agreement, signed by both Hager Group ­management and the EWC, was implemented by the end of 2011. 14 02 Labour Agreement on the equality of the sexes improving working conditions and avoiding arduous conditions, developing skills, qualifications and access to information, > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Commitment to ensure the equal m  anaging the end of careers and the transition between activity and retirement, treatment of men and women. A person’s gender may not be a criterion preparing for changes on the career path that leads to either an advantage or a disadvantage in working situations. > Measurement of outcomes: > Implementation: Seven initiatives/actions covering professional Forums were held in France: promotion, work conditions, professional activity and family responsibility in Saverne on 4 February 2011 / 100 employees were invited, 60 attended; balance, hiring and professional training. in Crolles: 8 July 2011 / 180 employees were invited, 86 attended. > Measurement of outcomes: Agreement was implemented in all French Further forums are planned at French Hager Group locations: subsidiaries January 2012. The agreement is available on the Intranet in Obernai for July 2012 / 800 employees invited; of Hager Group. in Bischwiller for October 2012 / 100 employees invited. Seniors Days – new career impulses for the “45+” target group > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Experienced people play an important role at Hager Group since they can pass on their experience and values as well as their operational and organisational skills. Hager Group wishes to accompany them, help them assess their capabilities, prepare for the future and, not least, give a new impetus to their development. > Implementation: Employees over 45 years of age were invited to attend forums in Saverne and Crolles (France) with a focus on “preparing for a new stage in careers”. The company agreement – which was drawn up with the help of staff, managers, HR and the medical department – outlines 16 concrete measures, to be implemented within the next three years, all designed to address the following issues: maintaining employment, preparing for changes on the career path, 15 03 Environment Environment – Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. Eco Design When making a “Life Cycle Assessment”, the environmental effects of each product phase are taken into account and recorded. If they are too high, we > Assessment, Policy and Goals: When developing new products, go one better by changing the product or by improving service life. Hager Group systematically focuses on ecological design. This includes carefully examining the complete life cycle of the future product in terms > Measurement of outcomes: 25 new product environmental profiles of procuring raw materials, the manufacturing process, transport and (PEP) were drawn up in 2011 and developed for major product ranges. the use of the product itself – right through to recycling or disposal. A total of 97 PEPs are currently available. Hager Group provides its customers with Product Environmental Profiles Read more about Eco Design at Hager Group’s website at: (PEP) for the products. A PEP provides information on: http://www.hagergroup.net/sustainability/environment/eco-design/8049.htm Constituent materials End of life recyclability rate and visit the French Hager website for more information about PEP: http://www.hager.fr/hager/developpement-durable/actionsEnvironmental impact on the four life cycle phases via 11 indicators environnemen­tales/pep-profils-environnementaux-produits/14529.htm ­(covering air & water pollution, raw material depletion, carbon footprint, ­energy conception and waste production etc.) The objective is to cover 80% of products sold with an environmental ­de­claration (PEP) for the major markets. > Implementation: Hager Group is co-founder of the PEP eco-passport. Its aim is to provide compatible and relevant data for the environmental “Life Cycle Assessment” (LCA) of electric installations in buildings. 16 03 Environment Carbon footprint & initiatives ISO 14001 certification ISO 14001 is applicable to issues relating to the manufacturing process and > Assessment, Policy and Goals: The production of compressed air for the services of the Environmental Management System. This EMS is a part use in manufacturing also generates “lost heat”. A new system recovers this of the Administrative Management System, the organisational structure and energy and transfers it to the heating system of the buildings. This means the system of planning and liability distribution, which are necessary for the less energy consumption and environment-friendly production processes. realisation of the environmental policy. > Implementation: The systems are implemented in the plants in Obernai > Implementation: By mid-2012 ... (France) as well as in Heltersberg (Germany) 20 Hager Group production sites were certified to ISO 9001 > Measurement of outcomes: The energy savings are equivalent to 11 Hager Group production sites were certified to ISO 14001 a reduction of around 1,100 tonnes in CO2 emissions in the Obernai plant in France. Certifications ISO 9001 certification ISO 9001 is the international standard which addresses quality management systems, operations improvement and methodical instructions for the devel­ opment and application of a quality management system oriented towards higher efficiency. 17 03 Environment RoHS: Restriction of Hazardous Substances REACH defines a new framework in which the manufacturers have to prove that substances so produced are safe. In future, imported and > Assessment, Policy and Goals: The restriction of dangerous ­materials ­manu­factured substances in the EU can only be used when they have been in products is a worldwide trend. It was for this purpose that the RoHS registered by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki. The most ­directive was implemented in Europe. From 1 July 2006, this directive dangerous substances, categorised as substances of “very high concern”, ­restricts the use of six materials in the manufacture of various types of are to be submitted to authorisation procedures. electronic and electrical equipment: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent ­chromium, poly­brominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl > Implementation: Hager Group has already initiated the necessary ether (PBDE). ­actions leading to compliance with the requirements of the regulation. > Implementation: The majority of products and equipment sold by Hager The declaration can be downloaded from Hager Group’s website: are not affected by the categories mentioned above and therefore do not http://download.hager.com/group.net/files_download/environment/ have to be compliant with the RoHS directive. But as a certified company REACH_declaration_E.pdf and in line with our environ­mental protection philosophy, it is a matter of course that Hager Group voluntarily adapt its products to the RoHS stand­ Hager Group hazardous substances ard within a worldwide programme – and so go beyond legal requirements. assessment programme Please read more about RoHS on > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Suppliers survey and assessment to http://www.hagergroup.net/sustainability/environment/eco-production/ ensure that products are free of harmful substances (in compliance with rohs/2886.htm. RoHS, Reach). REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation > Implementation: In 2011, laboratory tests on a randomised selection of products were made and supplier surveys implemented. 800 suppliers have and Restriction of Chemicals been involved in the investigative process. > Assessment, Policy and Goals: The targets of the European REACH ­regulation (CE 1907/2006) are: to minimise the effects of chemicals on ­human health; to further a high level of environment protection; and to promote the development of safer substances. 18 03 Environment WEEE: CE declaration of conformity Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment > Assessment, Policy and Goals: The CE marking is a mandatory > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Human activity is generating more ­conformity mark for all products submitted to one or more European and more waste. To protect natural resources and our environment, the directives concerning security, consumer safety, health or environmental prevention and/or recycling of waste has become a major issue. requirements. To protect human lives and the environment, the European Commission > Implementation: The CE declaration is a document by which published the WEEE directive 2002 / 96 / CE, the object of which is to Hager Group certifies that the product is in compliance with the “essential define the conditions of collection, storage, treatment and recycling of requirements of health and safety” of the regulations which govern it. electric and electronic products. For more information, please visit: > Implementation: Due to the business to business nature of its activities, http://www.hagergroup.net/brands/service/ce-declaration/4923.htm Hager Group products mostly fall outside the field of the WEEE directive. However, Hager Group actively undertakes a responsible approach and can be contacted in any case of questions regarding the directive. Please read more about WEEE on http://www.hagergroup.net/sustainability/environment/eco-production/ weee/4943.htm 19 03 Environment E-mobility thanks to Hager > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Hager Group promotes e-mobility. As one of the most committed pioneers in the field of e-mobility, Hager provides the charging stations for pilot projects in different cities. > Implementation: In April 2010, the Toyota hybrid vehicles on the road in Strasbourg were all powered by Hager charging stations. A series of charging stations was set up at participating companies as well as at the homes of drivers taking part in the pilot project. Meanwhile, Hager provides charging stations in other pilot projects such as in Paris, Saarbrücken and Nice. Hager Group employees are also invited to test and experience e-mobility: A Peugeot iOn can be used for shuttling between the Blieskastel and ­Heltersberg sites in Germany. > Measurement of outcomes: Further e-mobility pilot projects with Hager as selected major partner are planned for 2012. Read more about e-mobility in the Hager Group’s Annual Report 2011 at: http://www.hagergroup.net/annualreport/ 20 04 Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption – Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption initiatives > Implementation: Compliance reviews organised since 2011 > Assessment, Policy and Goals: Process of investment authorisation is communicated and implemented, Compliance Management: board meetings at each Hager Group the financial manual is available on Hager Group’s intranet. company includes a compliance review on the basis of internal rules, Prudency rules to prevent external extortion attempts have been including anticorruption communicated to the management of Hager Group. Investment authorisation defined in Hager Group’s Financial Manual Publication of Prudency Rules We adhere to the anti-corruption principles, which are also stipulations set out in the Hager Group’s Sustainable Growth and Ethical Policy and in its Ethics Charter. In addition, Hager Group took further action to fight corruption. 21 05 Selected examples of social activities within Hager Group THE PETER-UND-LUISE-HAGER-STIFTUNG (PETER AND LUISE HAGER FOUNDATION): one year after the start-up first projects launched. As an innovative and fast growing family company, Hager Group adopts F inancial support for talented students in cooperation with the “Studien a sustainable approach in all areas of activity. We are recognised for our Stiftung Saar” (Study Foundation of the Saar), by awarding two one­commitment towards the employees as well as for taking actions to year scholarships to students in the fields of electrical engineering and protect the environment and its resources. By establishing a charitable ­mechanical engineering. body such as the Peter-und-Luise-Hager-Stiftung Foundation at the end “ Laos”, a programme run by the “Lycée Louis Marchal”, a school in of 2010, Hager Group accepted further social responsibility and gave a ­Molsheim, France. The pupils installed solar-operated street lighting in ­concrete meaning to the concept of corporate citizenship. The Hager family Ban Na Teui, a village in Laos. is convinced that it is ­important to give something back to society from their economic success. A  German Industrial initiative named MINT, under the patronage of Chancellor Angela Merkel. The aim behind MINT, an acronym based on The aim of the Foundation is to encourage sustainable projects that encomMathematics, Information Technology, Natural Science and Technology, pass the activities of Hager Group. Its funds make it possible for selected is to advance the study of these subjects within the German educational projects to be implemented in the fields of science and research, education system. and training, culture, as well as the environment and non-profit activities. Initiatives close to company locations worldwide tend to be preferred. T  he “Peter-und-Luise-Hager-Preis” Award for Interdisciplinary Aesthetics providing funds, for a period of three years, to highly talented students Only a year after start-up, it already supports more than a dozen projects in at the Saar University of Fine Arts based in Saarbrücken, Germany. Each its chosen areas, and until now has funded a total of 100,000 EUR. year, a theme will be set and entrants will make an artistic representation Summary of the main projects thus far … of their theme. The best will then receive awards from the Foundation. a supporting programme for children of pre-school and primary school age organised by the “Deutscher Kinderschutzbund” (German Society for the Protection of Children) in order to help them read better and develop their language skills. This project initially to be funded over a period of three years. 22 05 Selected examples of social activities within Hager Group Solidarity campaign for the victims of the catastrophe in Rio de Janeiro On 11 January 2011, the state of Rio de Janeiro faced one of the worst natural catastrophes in the history of Brazil. Burdened by a storm that in twenty-four hours rained more than usually expected in an entire month, the mountain regions in particular suffered from landslips and mudslides. Nearly 900 people lost their lives. Thousands were injured, made homeless or went missing. Sensitised to the situation, Eletromar started a campaign of solidarity for the victims, appealing for donations such as food, personal hygiene supplies and water. Eletromar’s employees, along with relatives and n ­ eighbours, were mobilised to collect the donations. For every one kilo donated, Eletromar donated another kilo. In the end, the colleagues collected 1,880 kilos of food, 1,130 kilos of personal hygiene material and 307 litres of water. Eletromar completed the campaign by ­buying 3,330 litres of water. All donations were delivered to the Red Cross in Teresopolis by a truck ­provided by Tegon VALENTI. We would like to thank all our colleagues for supporting the solidarity ­campaign. 23 Published by: Hager Group, Corporate Communications Hager SE, Zum Gunterstal, 66440 Blieskastel, Germany, www.hagergroup.net Follow us: www.facebook.com/hagergroup www.twitter.com/hagergroup
