SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 VKG is Estonia’s largest producer of shale oil and relevant chemicals. In year 2011 the processing volume of the Group was 2.4 million tonnes of oil shale and profit exceeded 29 million euros. Viru Keemia Grupp AS (VKG) includes 9 business enterprises which provide jobs for a total of more than 1,800 people. The total amount of environmental investments of the Group for that past 8 years has exceeded 64 million euros. This sustainable development report is the third such report to be issued in the history of the organisation. With this report we intend to highlight our openness and commitment to environmental protection and social development of the region. Our aim is to increase the transparency of our organisation’s activities and establishment of the relationship of trust between the parties interested in the activities of the enterprise, the residents of the region, and the employees of VKG On the photo: Saka village near the VKG production site Introduction Target groups The sustainable development report of the VKG for year 2011 is a public document available in Estonian, English and Russian languages on paper and in electronic form via the website of the Group. With this report, we primariIntroduction of sustainable developStructure and methods of the report ly want to introduce our enterprise in more detail to: ment report The sustainable development report for year 2010 is >> Strategic investors, in order to allow informed based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiainvestment decisions; This is the third sustainable development report of VKG tive (GRI). The GRI is a voluntary organisation promoting and its goal is to publish the economical, social, environreporting and gathering the enterprises valuing sustain>> The population of Ida-Viru County, in order to present mental and organisational data of VKG for the period of able development all over the world. This organisation is the developments of recent years and the plans for 2010 2011. considered to be the founder of the concept of sustainfuture; able development and it has developed recommended >> The employees of VKG, in order to explain more The report reflects mainly the developments of the guidelines for sustainable development reports. aspects of organisational changes and activities. Group for year 2011 and for the beginning of year 2012, compares the results to those of previous years, and Read more about the organisation and the guidelines at provides a moderate prognosis for years 2012-2013. The report includes primarily the data pertaining to the enwww.globalreporting.org. Limitations of the report terprise. The sphere of activities of the enterprise is also The preparing of the report was also guided by the Preparing of sustainable development reports is a reflected in a smaller scope. document “Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary voluntary activity for organisations. The data presented Sustainability Reporting” issued in cooperation of the in the report has not been verified beforehand by any With this report, the Viru Keemia Group intends to introInternational Petroleum Industry Environmental Conserindependent parties, except in cases prescribed in the duce and promote the concept of sustainable developvation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum legislation. ment and the basics of responsible entrepreneurship in Institute (API). The ISO and OHSAS certification matethe Ida-Viru County and in Estonia as a whole. rials of the enterprise were also used in preparing the The economic data for year 2011 and the prognoses for report. The data pertaining to environment protection years 2012-2013 are prepared by VKG and they have not In addition to that, our goal is to: and occupational safety conform to the requirements been audited. For that reason the data for year 2011 prescribed in the relevant standards. may be somewhat different from the data stated in the >> Increase the transparency of our organisation’s approved annual report. All questions related to the report can be sent to Julia activities; Aleksandrova, Public Relations Manager of VKG The enterprise is presenting the data in its report on the >> Establish a relationship of trust between the parties (julia.aleksandrova@vkg.ee). basis of the principles of transparency and good business interested in the activities of the enterprise, the practice. residents of the region, and the employees of VKG. 5 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Contents, abbreviations 4 Introduction VKG Viru Keemia Grupp AS 6 Contents, abbreviations mln EUR million euros 8 Recognition ROA Return on Assets 9 Foreword from the Chair of the Board ROE Return on Equity 10 Description of the enterprise th EUR thousand euros 12 The main economic indicators of VKG HPP heat and power plant 13 Chronology of the group GRI Global Reporting Initiative 14 Main events of the reporting period 16 VKG management 22 Risk management 26 Economic indicators 30 Social responsibility policy 36 Occupational health and safety 42 Environment protection 54 GRI summary 7 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Recognition Awards and recognitions received by VKG in years 2009 2011: >> The Best Estonian Enterprise 2009, VKG Oil AS; >> Best Enterprise of Ida-Viru County 2010, VKG; >> Estonia’s Responsible Enterprise 2010, VKG; >> Estonia’s Responsible Enterprise 2011, VKG; >> “Environmental Deed 2011” (“Keskkonnategu 2011”) in the category of environmental management, VKG; >> Nikolai Petrovitš, Board Member of VKG received a Level IV Order of the White Star from the President of the Republic of Estonia on February 23, 2012. In years 2003 – 2012, VKG and its subsidiaries have been recognised in more than 20 cases. The full list of recognitions is available at the website of VKG at www.vkg.ee and in the first Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report of VKG for years 2008-2009. 8 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Foreword from the Chair of the Board Major enterprises and local communities: is a dialogue possible? In the beginning of year 2012, Estonia was shaken by a wave of strikes. A difficult situation coupled with a partial lack of a dialogue between the parties brought about a conflict which was felt by nearly all residents of Estonia. As far as 2 years ago VKG started making efforts to involve the local population in its decision-making process. At that time it was a new option which required lots of effort to bear any fruit. Now the picture is wholly different. The cooperation between the major industry and the local population became regular by itself, the meetings of the enterprise and the population are always held with full attendance now. People want to know, they want to participate in the activities of the local major enterprise and they are willing to invest their own personal time for that. Fortunately we were ready for such cooperation. We are open with the public and our openness has not been abused – quite the contrary. Cooperation with the local people has brought an unexpected amount of benefits; the most important of those are being better informed and having a clear picture of the local community’s expectations towards the enterprise. We know what the local people think of VKG and what they expect, and we put our cards on the table about the current matters and the future plans. VKG has participated regularly in the life of the region for as long as 3 years now, supporting the best local cultural and sports organisations and events. Since year 2011 our employees also have new opportunities to make a personal contribution to the solving of the region’s problematic issues. The contribution of an enterprise with 1,800 employees is noticeable in every field of life, be it cooperation with the local blood bank or food bank, donation of toys or voluntary activities. Back in year 2009 it seemed that it would be risky and difficult to involve the employees and the public, and that the publishing of the enterprise’s data would be a high-risk measure. But now we can see that no initiative of VKG has ever become a problem. The sense of responsibility entailed only benefits for the business. Priit Rohumaa Chair of the Board, VKG 9 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Viru Keemia Grupp AS is the largest Estonian oil shale processing enterprise based on private capital. On the photo: VKG production site Description of the enterprise Viru Keemia Grupp AS (VKG) is the largest Estonian oil shale processing enterprise based on private capital. The main field of activities of the Group is producing shale oil and generating heat and electricity. The production activities and services supporting the VKG Oil AS VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ Group’s main activity are divided between separate Producing shale oil and refined chemicals Selling and distributing electricity subsidiaries, the shares of which are 100% owned by the VKG Energia OÜ VKG Transport AS parent enterprise. Generating heat and electricity Providing logistics services for road and railway transportation The fields of activities of the subsidiaries in the VKG VKG Kaevandused OÜ Group are as follows > Mining oil shale as the main raw material of the Group Viru RMT OÜ Providing repair and assembly services VKG Soojus AS Generating (until1.01.2013), distributing and selling heat VKG Elektriehitus AS Providing industrial power supply and electricity VKG Plokk OÜ installation services Producing construction materials from oil shale ash VKG’s mission VKG’s business philosophy Valuing the most important earth deposit of The business philosophy of VKGis the full opening of the Estonia. mineral and organic potential of Estonia’s most valued earth deposit and the managing of the full chain of oil shale industry from mining of oil shale to marketing of VKG’s vision refined chemicals, for the benefit of the traditional EsTo be the world leader in production of oil shale tonian industry and the growth and development of the products and in opening the potential of oil shale entire industrial region of Ida-Viru County. 11 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 The main economic indicators of VKG Sales revenue of VKG across products and services (th EUR) 2010 2011 Sales revenue of VKG across regions (th EUR) 2010 2011 Shale oils 81,818 123,609 Estonia 46,147 61,129 Electricity and distribution services 19,698 21,630 European Union 77,762 118,853 Railway and road transportation services 9,243 10,871 Russia and Belarus 1,492 1,558 Heat energy 8,125 7,464 Other countries 94 2,027 Coke and phenol products 3,322 6,802 Design, construction and assembly works 528 2,874 In the European Union, the products of VKG are bought by Maintenance and repairs of machinery and equipment 446 1,106 Austria, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Latvia; Malta, Poland, Other turnover (sales of materials, other services and products) 2,315 9,212 Sweden, Germany, Finland, United Kingdom, Denmark, Czech Republic, Italy. Investments into development and environmental protection (th eur) 52,000 50,000 44,000 40,000 34,000 30,000 30,000 20, 000 16,000 14,000 14,700 10,000 3,000 2,000 2,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Environmental protection Developmental and occupational safety activities 12 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Chronology of the group 1999 2011 Founding the VKG on the basis of the state enterprise Kiviter Purchasing the enterprise Kohtla-Järve Soojus AS (the new name of the enterprise becomes VKG Soojus) 2002 Opening the reserve and top load boiler plant of Kohtla-Järve Soojus AS Starting to separate refined chemicals from oil shale Purchasing the bankruptcy estate of Silbet Plokk OÜ; establishing a new enterprise in October – VKG Plokk OÜ 2004 Opening a new turbine of VKG Energia Starting to utilise oil shale retort gas in boilers of VKG Energia VKG restores the tradition of Miners’ Day in Ida-Viru County 2005 2012 Expanding the oil shale processing plant, 4 new retorts Commissioning the production line of VKG Plokk OÜ, establishing the trademark of Rocklite. 2006 Commissioning a long-distance aboveground conveyor from the Ojamaa mine Starting the industrial production of refined chemicals Opening the Ojamaa mine; the mine achieving its full capacity Completing the largest environmental project for reduction of organic conStarting the construction of the Petroter II plant tent of oil shale processing waste, up to 8% Implementing the project of a heat pipeline running from Kohtla-Järve to Ahtme 2007 Constructing and commissioning the shale oil purifying plant, thus solving 2013 Commissioning the Kohtla-Järve – Ahtme heat pipeline, terminating the activity an 80-year problem of oil shale filtering. The implemented technology is a of the Ahtme HPP protected invention of the engineers of VKG Oil Starting the project of a follow-up processing plant for shale oils Starting the construction of the Petroter I plant 2008 2014 Constructing the second sulphur scrubbing unit Commissioning the sulphur scrubbing unit Obtaining the surveying and mining permit for the Boltyshski deposit 2015 Starting the project of a cement factory 2009 Obtaining state support for the project of developing the technology for 2016 producing diesel fuel from shale oil. Commissioning the follow-up processing plant for shale oils and the production Starting the construction of the Ojamaa mine of diesel fuel in VKG December 21, 2009 – Opening the Petroter I plant 2010 Petroter I has achieved full capacity Issuing the first proper social responsibility and sustainable development report of VKG; it’s also the first in Estonia Starting the project of a heat pipeline running from Kohtla-Järve to Ahtme 13 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Main events of the reporting period 2010 2011 March September February Starting the long-term cooperation between VKG and the VKG challenged the issuing of the mining permit of Uus-Kiviõli. Starting the design works for the Ojamaa long-distance Jõhvi Concert Hall for the purpose of developing the local aboveground conveyor and for the enrichment plant. culture. March VKG took over the local heat generating and distributing October May VKG and Eesti Energia exchanged the mining permits of enterprise KohtlaJärve Soojus AS (by signing a purchase-sales Issuing VKG’s first proper Social Responsibility and Suscontract for 60% of its share capital); also, the brand new boiler Usnova and Sompa mines; tainable Development Report; it’s also first in Estonia. plant of the enterprise was opened in March. VKG and Jõhvi Concert Hall established the Kaljo Kiisa June grant for young filmmakers. April VKG signed a 225 million euro consortium loan agreeVKG purchased the bankruptcy estate of Silbet Plokk OÜ. Withment for the purpose of covering the enterprise’s near-fuin a year, the first employees were hired for the enterprise and December ture investments into development and environmental a new subsidiary was formed, named VKG Plokk. VKG received the title of Estonian responsible protection. enterprise for year 2010. May July VKG signed support agreements with Estonian Concert and Starting the design works for the heat pipeline running Estonian National Opera. The total value of current support from Kohtla-Järve to Ahtme. agreements is as high as 100,000 euros. August June The Petroter I plant achieved full capacity; VKG conducted an economic influence analysis of the Group in cooperation with the consultations office PriceWaterhouseVKG joined the world’s most influential social responsiCoopers; the analysis indicated that the Petroter I plant alone bility initiatives – GRI and UNGP (United Nations Global provides up to 1% of the Estonian GDP. Compact). VKG and the Jõhvi Concert Hall initiated the first photo competition of the Virumaa region: “Beautiful Virumaa” („Ilus oled, Virumaa!”). The jury panel included Evelin Ilves and Kaupo Kikkas. The competition turned into an annual tradition. 14 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 August VKG restored the tradition of Miners’ Day. October VKG opened ceremoniously the new turbine of VKG Energia. VKG received the environmental award The cost of the project exceeded 16 million euros. “Environmental Deed 2011” (“Keskkonnategu 2011”) November The City Council of Kohtla-Järve initiated a detailed plan for in the category of environmental the shale oil follow-up processing plant and its strategic management environmental assessment. December VKG turned to a court regarding the decision of the Ministry of the Environment to grant the mining permit of Uus-Kiviõli to Eesti Energia AS; VKG initiated a year-long charity campaign among its employees. At the same time, cooperation started with the local representation of the Food Bank. Also in December 2011, the local orphanages received support; VKG received the environmental award “Environmental Deed 2011” (“Keskkonnategu 2011”) in the category of environmental management; For the second year in a row, VKG received the title of the Estonian responsible enterprise; The Government adopted the new CO2 allocation plan, and 15 received 100% of the quotas requested earlier. VKG SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 VKG management Organisational changes of VKG in year 2011 New subsidiary VKG Soojus AS – on March 8, 2011 VKG In April 2011 VKG purchased the bankruptcy estate of acquired Kohtla-Järve Soojus AS, and within the same the former Silbet Plokk OÜ. Using the bankruptcy estate, month the name of the enterprise was changed to VKG a new subsidiary of the Group was formed in October Soojus AS. Andres Veske, the former Board Member of 2011 – VKG Plokk OÜ. The new enterprise was given the VKG Energia was assigned as the Manager of the new task of producing construction materials on the basis subsidiary. Sergei Kulikov, one of the former directors of of oil shale ash. Hannes Niinepuu, the former Head of the enterprise was assigned as the other Board Member Sales Department of VKG Soojus OÜ was assigned as the of the enterprise. Director of the new enterprise. In relation with Andres Veske leaving the management In February 2012 the new production line of porous team of VKG Energia OÜ, a new Management Board blocks made of oil shale ash was commissioned in was assigned for the enterprise. Tarmo Tiits, the former VKG Plokk OÜ. The marketing of the new product was Administrative Manager of VKG and Sergei Kulikov, one launched with a new trademark, Rocklite. of the Board Members of VKG Soojus AS were assigned as the new Board Members of the enterprise. Targets and challenges of the upcoming period (2012 – 2013) >> Opening the Ojamaa mine and achieving its full >> Designing and starting the construction of a followcapacity; up processing plant for shale oils; >> Obtaining part of the Uus-Kiviõli resources for the >> CO2 Footprint Directive. Regarding this Directive, the production needs of VKG; target of VKG is to make it clear to the creators of the Directive that the oil shale industry will not develop >> Successful implementation of the Petroter II project. in the situation of too harsh CO2 quotas. Construction works are planned to start in year 2013; 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Corporate Governance Good practices of corporate General meeting. governance Exercising the rights of shareholders The good practices of corporate governance are intendThe highest management body of the VKG is the general The following decisions were made in the course of the ed to be followed primarily by the enterprises having meeting of shareholders. General meetings can be reggeneral meeting of shareholders: their shares traded in the Estonian regulated market, ular and extraordinary. The competence of the general but it is also recommended for other enterprises subject meeting is prescribed in the Commercial Code of Estonia >> To approve the annual report of the financial year to public interest. The objective of VKG is to follow the and in the Articles of Association of VKG. The new 2010. good practices of corporate governance and to present edition of the Articles of Association of the enterprise is >> To approve the net profit of year 2010 in the amount the activities of the enterprise in a transparent manner; valid since 20.10.2011. of 300,830,000 EEK. thus the sustainable development report includes a chapter dedicated to the description of the good pracNotices of summoning a general meeting are sent by >> To pay a total of 10,014,000 EEK as dividends from the tices of corporate governance. VKG follows the good the Management Board of VKG AS. General meetings net profit of year 2010. practices of corporate governance in its activities. are summoned by the Management Board of VKG. The notice of summoning a regular general meeting of Shares and share capital shareholders is sent to the shareholders at least 3 weeks before the date of holding the general meeting; the As of 01.01.2011, the nominal value of the share capital notice of summoning an extraordinary general meeting of VKG was 6,391,164.21 euros. There were no changes in is sent at least 1 week before the date of holding the the share capital in years 2008–2011. The shares of the meeting. Annual reports are available to shareholders VKG are not noted on the securities market. at least 2 weeks before the date of holding the general meeting. The Group has four shareholders with the following shares as of 01.01.2011: A general meeting of shareholders is competent to make decisions if more than 50% of the votes granted by OÜ Tristen Trade 38.91% shares are represented at the meeting. The meeting that OÜ Alvekor 25.49% approved the annual report of 2010 was held on June 29, Ants Laos 19.53% 2011 with the participation of 100% of the votes granted OÜ Sergos Invest 16.07% by shares. 17 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Management Board. Staff, duties and remuneration Terms of office of Management Board Members Priit Rohumaa, Chair of the Management Board – 11.09.2000 Management of the parent enterprise Ahti Puur, Deputy Chair of the Management Board – 07.10.2009 Jaanus Purga, Management Board Member, Development The Management Board of VKG consists of six members: The duties of the Management Board include everyday Director – 26.01.2001 Chair of the Management Board, Deputy Chair of the management of VKG’s economic activities and repreMeelis Eldermann, Management Board Member, Technical Management Board and Financial Director, Developsenting the business association. Director – 06.03.2008 ment Director, Technical Director, Management Board Margus Kottise, Management Board Member – 09.05.2000 Member of VKG Kaevandused OÜ, Management Board In all legal procedures of the Group, an enterprise is Nikolai Petrovitš, Management Board Member – 16.11.1999 Member of VKG Oil AS. always represented by two Management Board Members together, whereas one of them must be the Chair The Management Board Members are paid a monthly remuFour Management Board Members – Priit Rohumaa, Ahti or Deputy Chair of the Management Board. neration consisting of the pay for performing the duties of a Puur, Jaanus Purga and Meelis Eldermann – manage the Management Board Member and the pay for keeping business activities of the Group as a whole and are also SuperviThe activities of the Management Board are supervised secrets and for respecting the competition prohibition. The dusory Board Members of subsidiaries. by the Supervisory Board ties of Management Board Members are stated in service contracts signed with the Management Board Members. According Two Management Board Members – Margus Kottise and to the service contracts, the Management Board Members can Nikolai Petrovitš – are the Managers of the strategically get additional monetary remuneration which is paid according most important enterprises of the Group. to the relevant decisions of the Supervisory Board. Priit Rohumaa Ahti Puur Jaanus Purga Meelis Eldermann Margus Kottise Nikolai Petrovitš Chair of the Management Deputy Chair of the Development Director, VKG Technical Director, VKG Management Board Member Management Board Member Board, VKG Management Board, VKG Kaevandused OÜ VKG Oil AS Financial Director, VKG 18 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Supervision over the ManCommercial name Member of the Board Members of the Council agement Board’s activities Viru Keemia Grupp AS Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) Ahti Puur Toomas Tamme (Chairman) Jens Haug Jaanus Purga Jaan Uustalu Nikolai Petrovitš Supervision over the activities of the parent enterMeelis Eldermann prise’s Management Board is effected by the SuperviMargus Kottise sory Board consisting of three Members. Meetings of the Supervisory Board take place once per month, on VKG Oil AS Nikolai Petrovitš Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) the last Wednesday of every month. Urgent matters Meelis Eldermann requiring approval of the Supervisory Board are conAhti Puur structively decided over telephone and e-mail. VKG Transport AS Raimond Niinepuu Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) Meelis Eldermann Pursuant to the Authorised Public Accountants Act of Ahti Puur the Republic of Estonia, VKG is considered to be an entity subject to public interest and is thus required to Viru RMT OÜ Uku-Madis Savisto Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) have an Audit Committee. The members of the Audit Meelis Eldermann Committee of VKG are Ants Laos (Chair of the CommitAhti Puur tee), Priit Piilmann, Margus Kangro and Elar Sarapuu. VKG Kaevandused OÜ Ahti Puur (Chairman) Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) According to the Statutes, the Audit Committee is an Margus Kottise Jaanus Purga advisory body for the Supervisory Board of VKG in Aleksandr Borovkov Meelis Eldermann the fields of accountancy, auditing, risk management, internal audits, supervision and budgeting and also VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ Marek Tull Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) legality of activities. Meetings of the Audit Committee Toomas Rätsep are held at least twice a year. The staff of the ManageAhti Puur ment Boards and Supervisory Boards of the parent VKG Energia OÜ Tarmo Tiits Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) enterprise and subsidiaries of the Group is stated in Sergei Kulikov Meelis Eldermann the following table > Ahti Puur VKG Elektriehitus AS Andry Pärnpuu Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) Toomas Rätsep Cooperation between the ManageAhti Puur ment Board and the Supervisory Board VKG Soojus AS Andres Veske Priit Rohumaa (Chairman) Sergei Kulikov Meelis Eldermann Cooperation between the Management Board and Ahti Puur the Supervisory Board takes place in a constructive manner. In addition to regular monthly meetings of the Supervisory Board, any urgent matters requiring approval of the Supervisory Board are decided without summoning a meeting. Consultations are provided as well. 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Supervisory Board. Staff, duties and remuneration Conflict of interests The Supervisory Board plans the activities of the Group, >> Deleting hopeless accounts receivable; Management Board Members are prohibited from comorganises its managing and exercises supervision over peting with VKG in its field of activities, unless having >> Signing any employment contracts with employees, the Management Board; according to the Articles of the prior consent of the Supervisory Board. if those contracts grant pension and/or benefits Association the Supervisory Board has three to seven after the end of the employment relation; members. The Articles of Association of the Group state In years 2010–2011, no Management Board Member that transactions and activities on behalf of the Group >> Approving the annual budget of the Group; notified about own actual or intended direct or indirect require consent of the Supervisory Board if they bring participation in entrepreneurship in the field of activi>> Establishing and terminating subsidiaries. about the following: ties of VKG. >> Acquiring and terminating holdings in other Meetings of the Supervisory Board take place regularly In order to avoid conflicts of interest, all Management associations; once per month on the last Wednesday of every Board Members and middle-level managers of the busimonth. If there are any urgent matters requiring ness associations belonging to the Group are required >> Acquiring, transferring or terminating an enterprise; approval of the Supervisory Board between the regular to submit upon any and all changes a declaration in >> Acquiring, transferring and encumbering immovable meetings, then those are decided by way of voting in approved format, stating their holdings in legal entities property; writing, without summoning a meeting. and/or membership in management bodies of legal entities and/or activities as self-employed persons. >> Acquiring, transferring and encumbering In years 2010–2011 the Supervisory Board of VKG conconstructions; sisted of three members. >> Establishing and closing foreign subsidiaries; Toomas Tamme >> Making investments which exceed the investment Chair of the Supervisory Board since 29.12.1998 funds allocated from the budget for the current financial year; Jens Haug >> Taking loans and assuming debt obligations in Supervisory Board Member since 29.09.1999 amounts exceeding the relevant allocations in the year’s budget or under terms differing from those Jaan-Mihkel Uustalu approved by the Supervisory Board; Supervisory Board Member since 10.01.2006 >> Granting loans, if outside the scope of everyday activities; >> Securing debt obligations; 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Financial reporting and auditing The Management Board of VKG has the duty of financial state, economic results and cash flows. If the and tax guidelines, or by other reasons. The enterprise is preparing financial reports. The accounting principles internal regulations don’t describe an event occurring required to document all its economic transactions and and methods of presenting information, utilised in in the accountancy of VKG, then the event is accounted to register those transactions in its accounting ledgers. accountancy of VKG (and all its subsidiaries), conform according to the International Financial Reporting Economic transactions are carried on debit accounts to the International Financial Reporting Standards Standards (IFRS), the Accounting Act of the Republic and credit accounts according to the double entry (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards of Estonia, the guidelines issued by the Estonian method. Board (IASB) and to the relevant issued interpretations. Accounting Standards Board (EASB), and other legal acts. Decisions about VKG’s largest transactions and about its The accounting period is a financial year with the length Economic transactions are recorded in chronological strategic financial targets are made by the Management of 12 months. The financial year begins on January 1 and and systematic accounting registries at the moment of Board of the Group at its weekly meeting. ends on December 31. Upon establishing or terminating them taking place or immediately after. An accounting an accounting entity, changing its starting date of the registry is a database used in accountancy. An accountThe Financial Division of the Group manages and plans financial year, and in other cases prescribed in the ing registry is formed in chronological order (ledger) and the everyday cash flows, i.e. prepares the budgets of law, the financial year can be shorter or longer than 12 as accounts (turnover balance). All reports and registries the Group and its subsidiaries, exercises supervision months but it can never exceed 18 months. of accounts are prepared on the basis of the accounting over the respecting of those budgets, prepares business software in use. Reports and registries of accounts are projects, and communicates with sources of financing. VKG has the right and obligation to keep independent preserved on computer diskettes, CDs and/or as paper The Financial Division of the Group is aided in this by accounts on the basis of the internal regulations of printouts. Since January 1, 2001 the Baan software the Financial Divisions of the subsidiaries having the accountancy approved according to the procedure for resource planning and financial management of duty of analysing the economic activities of the relevant prescribed in the Articles of Association of the Group. enterprises is used in the accountancy of the Group. subsidiary. All technical financial transactions are The internal regulations of accountancy are replaced performed by the centralised Accountancy Department and amended with the approval of the owners of VKG, The auditor of VKG is assigned with a decision of the of the Group, located in the head office of VKG. The if necessitated by economic considerations, reorganisageneral meeting of shareholders. The Management Accountancy Department makes the necessary payouts, tion of the activities of the Group, amendments of the Board organises a competition to find an auditor, with accounts the salaries, makes the payments of vacation accounting principles on the basis of the contents of the goal of finding the auditor for the next financial year. pay and sick pay, and prepares the annual balance sheet the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) The latest competition to find an auditor took place of the financial year. An accounting entity is required and the guidelines and recommended methods issued in year 2011 when a decision of the general meeting to ensure the availability of relevant, significant, by the Estonian Accounting Standards Board (EASB) or assigned KPMG Baltics OÜ to be the auditor. objective and comparable information about its on the basis of amendments of the national tax laws 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Risk management Risk management system should be considered more and which require a further plan of actions for hedging them. The risk assessment VKG is carefully following the prescribed environmental requirements and participates actively in the activities document has been approved by the Management of professional associations, in order to be in knowledge Board of VKG, and a responsible person from among the about future regulations. The Environmental DepartThe Management Board of VKG has the duty of shaping Management Board Members has been assigned to every ment of the Group is centralised and internal monitorthe risk management policy and effecting the risk mansignificant risk, whereas such responsible persons must ing processes have been developed for it. New investagement of the Group. ensure that the Group actually hedges the relevant risk. ments are continually made in case of environmental The person responsible for managing the risk prepares an regulations becoming stricter. The goals of risk management of VKG are as follows: action plan for hedging the risk and presents the action plan to the responsible Management Board Member. The activity of VKG depends on timely making and finan>> To support the making of management decisions; cial success of large investments. In order to hedge risks, >> To avoid or diminish any damages to the assets and attention must be paid to management of investments – reputation of the Group; planning, project management and follow-up assess>> To increase the efficiency of the Group’s activities; Business risks ment. A comprehensive process is used for budgeting of investments: investment budgets are prepared across >> To increase the efficiency of using the Group’s subsidiaries and a separate project team is assigned resources (capital, energy); Business risks are the main strategic risks of VKG. Regular for more important investments, involving relevant attention must be paid to the risk of delivery continuity specialists from all levels of responsibility within the >> To reduce the occurrences of unexpected situations of raw material, the risk of competitiveness of oil shale Group. Securing the financing of investments is also and to prepare action plans and risk scenarios for processing and the risk of managing capital-intensive considered an important part of managing investments. such situations. investments. A syndicate loan agreement signed in year 2010 was used for refinancing the Group’s loan portfolio and for In year 2011 the main risks of VKG were mapped and the The delivery continuity of raw material is one of the main ensuring the financing for ongoing large investments base document for risk management was prepared. The business risks in the production chain of shale oils. In like the Petroter I oil plant, construction of the turbine document provides descriptions of significant risks of order to secure the availability of oil shale resource and unit of VKG Energia OÜ, and establishing of the Ojamaa the Group, assessments of those risks, and opportunities to hedge the relevant risk, VKG will open the Ojamaa oil mine. For new capital-intensive investments, new to hedge them. The risks are determined on the basis shale mine in year 2012; it is the largest investment of the targeted loans will be undertaken on the basis of the of the Group’s most important targets, related to VKG’s Group for the period of 2008-2012. syndicate loan. The syndicate loan agreement of the striving to value oil shale as much as possible and to Group is financed by AS SEB Pank, Nordea Bank Finland process it as efficiently as possible. Oil shale processing may become uncompetitive primarPlc Estonian Branch and Pohjola Bank Plc. ily due to new environmental regulations or a significant The results of risk assessment highlight the risks which decrease of the global price of crude oil (market risk). 22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Market risks Environmental risks The most influential of the Group’s strategic market In year 2011 the share of 67% of the Group’s turnover The VKG has an environment-intensive production cycle. risks are changes of the crude oil price and the exchange came from sales to the European Union and to third Environmental impacts are expressed upon mining the rate of US dollar; these would cause the Group to have countries. The most important sales currencies are resource and there is environmental risk present in both insufficient cash flows. Also, more and more attention euro and US dollar. The Group’s expenditure is mainly in producing and marketing of shale oils. Environmental must be paid to the market prices of CO2, because the euros. Contracts are primarily signed with the currency risks are assessed very highly and attention is being dependency on those prices may continually increase of the country of location, and open currency positions paid to those risks in many aspects. in the future as the environmental directives will cause are being avoided in organising the everyday activities. less and less emission quotas to be allocated for carThe most important foreign contracts are signed in Centralisation of the Environmental Department and bon-intensive producers. euros and in US dollars. The Group has not signed any the mapping of risks on the Group’s level ensure an contracts for derivative instruments for the purpose of integral availability of environmental knowledge and The risk of changes of global prices is an inevitable hedging the currency risk. The dollar risk is indirectly competences. Environmental risks are mapped in the part of the Group’s activities. Most of the shale oil sales hedged with oil price fixing options signed in euros. production cycles of each enterprise, quality standards contracts of VKG Oil AS are directly dependent on the The Group is conducting an ongoing monitoring of the for environmental management are adopted, and envistock market prices of crude oil and crude oil products. currency risk, in order to analyse the sensitivity of the ronmental risks are taken into account when establishThe rest of the sales prices of shale oils (domestic sales) budgeted profit to changes of the exchange rate of US ing new investments, utilising independent experts for are also indirectly dependant on the global prices. The dollar. A change of the exchange rate between euro and assessing the environmental impacts. Environmental prices in the global market also affect the production US dollar by 0.01 EUR/USD would bring about a change risks are hedged via fulfilment of all legal requirements costs of the Group, primarily via the price of natural gas of the profit by ca. 1.7 mil EUR (at the crude oil price of and via exercising of supervision. There is cooperation used in the production process and the price of raw oils 111 USD/barrel). with the Rescue Board, and conformity to the requirepurchased from other producers. The purpose of moniments prescribed by regulations is being audited. toring that risk for the enterprise is to conduct ongoing No financial instruments have been acquired for hedganalysis of the sensitivity of budgeted profit to changes ing the market risk of CO2. The Group has been allocated of global prices for crude oil and crude oil products. A emission quotas within the current allocation plan change of the crude oil specification “Brent” by 1 US dol2008-2012. Continual monitoring will be conducted until lar per barrel would bring about a change of the annual the adopting of the allocation plan for the next period, profit by ca. 1 mil EUR. In order to hedge the risk of a similar to monitoring other environmental regulations; sharp drop of crude oil prices, the Group is acquiring oil long-term plans consider the possible risk scenarios and price fixation options and gathering a liquidity reserve. develop the competence regarding trading with quotas The risk is indirectly hedged through the activities of on the stock market. the Group’s Financial Division which regularly monitors the market overviews and analyses the readiness to a market decline. 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Risks of destruction of assets Credit risks Interest risks Destruction of assets can be caused by risks of producCredit risk is an inevitable part of entrepreneurship. As of 31.12.2011 the Group has interest-bearing liabilities tion technology and in turn it can cause liquidity risk. Upon managing credit risks, careful attention is paid to in the amount of 124 million euros, making up 31% of The main cash flows of the Group depend on the oil the payment discipline of the partners, their financial the balance sheet volume. Due to the large share of industry, thus diagnostics need to be performed and state is analysed and if necessary then third parties interest-bearing liabilities, the management considers repair schedules of equipment need to be followed. are involved as guarantors in transactions. In case of the risk of increase of money market interest rates to be Mapping of the significant elements of the production pre-payments to suppliers, the beneficiary of the paya significant risk to the Group’s activity. Regarding loan process allows timely reactions to occurrences of techment is requested to present a bank guarantee. We grant obligations, the Group has primarily the risk of decrease nological risks. In order to systematise this activity and business credit fundamentally only to our long-term of cash flows. In the period of 2012-2020 the Group is to hedge the risk, implementation of an asset managecooperation partners. In case of one-off transactions planning to make extremely capital-intensive investment programme was started in year 2011. and new clients we always request either pre-payment ments (more than 500 mil EUR), and these will increase or a letter of credit. the interest risk. The loan interests of the Group are VKG has signed a complex property insurance agreebased on the interest rate of (2.35-3.00%) plus 1 month’s ment for business interruptions and liability insurance, Delayed accounts receivable from clients are managed Euribor. in order to protect itself against destruction of assets. on daily basis. In case of exceeding a payment deadThe complex property insurance agreement includes all line of an invoice issued to a buyer, the debtor is sent In relation with possible fluctuations of Euribor, the subsidiaries (except VKG Soojus AS, VKG Plokk OÜ and reminder notices and warnings. Conditions have been Group is analysing the sensitivity of its cash flows and VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ which have signed separate propdetermined for initiating a court action for collecting profit to the increase of the interest rate by 1%. The erty insurance agreements) and the insurance provider the debt. Signing of special agreements belongs to the analysis performed indicates that an increase of interest is SVAG Schwarzmeer und Ostsee. The insured object is competence of the Management Board. The maximum rates by 1% would influence the cash flows generated the immovable and movable property which belongs credit risk resulting from unsecured claims is ca. 11 by the Group in year 2012 and would affect the profit to the insured entity, is administrated or controlled million euros as of the balance sheet date. before income tax in the extent of ca. 1.3 million euros. by the insured entity, or for which the insured entity bears legal liability. Separate construction insurance The liquid funds of the Group are held in short-term deagreements are signed for major investments like the posits of banks with the highest credit ratings. Deposits establishing of the mine and its plant complex which are with moderate risk level are used for hedging liquidity planned to be completed in year 2012. risk in addition to credit risk: the Group has a target of ensuring the availability of at least 12 months’ funds for loan repayments and interest payments. 24 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Internal Auditing Department An important part of risk management is ensuring and the Group on the basis of trustworthiness and efficiency The task of internal auditing is to identify possible monitoring the functioning of internal auditing systems. of internal auditing. This task requires the following: shortcomings in the activities of the employees of the VKG has established an internal auditing department Group and its subsidiaries, their possible work errors for that function; the department is a structural unit >> Verifying the correctness of economic data; and cases of abandoning of duties and exceeding of that operates independently from VKG and monitors authorisations, to draw attention to those, and to make >> Verifying the sufficiency of action guidelines and the activities of the Group, its subsidiaries and their suggestions for avoiding those in the future. regulations and their conformity to the prescribed subsidiaries, and other business associations belongrequirements, and presenting suggestions for ing to the consolidated group of VKG, in order to make The internal auditor prepares an act or report of internal enhancing them if necessary; sure that those activities conform to the laws of the auditing and presents it to the audited entity for reviewRepublic of Estonia and to other legal acts, the Articles >> Monitoring the respecting of action guidelines and ing and opinion-taking. The Internal Auditing Departof Association of VKG, decisions of general meetings of regulations; ment prepares reports of discovered shortcomings toshareholders, decisions of the Supervisory Board and gether with assessments, conclusions and suggestions, >> Verifying the efficiency of property protection and the Management Board, and internal regulations and consolidates data about the activities of the Group and resource use; action guidelines of the Group and its subsidiaries. its subsidiaries, and prepares overviews and analyses >> Verifying the efficiency of supervision system; thereof for presenting to the Executive Managers and The central task of the Group’s Internal Auditing DepartManagement Board Members of the Group and/or its >> Monitoring the risk management. ment is to study and assess the economic activities of subsidiaries depending on their importance and level of generalisation. International management systems International management systems like ISO and OHSAS Name of subsidiary ISO certificates OHSAS certificate have separate procedures for risk hedging in quality VKG Oil AS ISO9001, ISO14001 OHSAS18001 management, environmental management and occupational safety management. Those internationally recVKG Energia OÜ OHSAS 18001 ognised systems are in effect in each subsidiary of VKG. VKG Transport AS ISO9001, ISO14001 OHSAS 18001 The tables below list all subsidiaries of the Group and the management systems in use by those subsidiaries. Viru RMT OÜ ISO9001 OHSAS 18001 VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ ISO9001 25 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 The consolidated net profit of VKG for year 2011 was 29.4 mil eur Economic indicators This chapter presents the consolidated economic results of VKG for year 2011, compared with the Sales revenue and its distribution results for year 2010. Total sales revenue for the year 2011 was 183.8 mil eur The economic indicators for year 2010 are based on Total sales revenue for the year 2010 was 125.5 mil eur the audited annual report of year 2010; the data for year 2011 are initial and not yet audited by the time of preparing this SDR, thus the data presented in Sales revenue across products and services (th EUR) 2010 2011 this report may differ from the data presented in the Shale oils 81,818 123,609 annual report of year 2011. Electricity and distribution services 19,698 21,630 Railway and road transportation services 9,243 10,871 Heat energy 8,125 7,464 Coke and phenol products 3,322 6,802 Profit Design, construction and assembly works 528 2,874 The consolidated net profit of VKG for Maintenance and repairs of machinery and equipment 446 1,106 year 2011 was 29.4 mil eur Other turnover (sales of materials, other services and products) 2,315 9,212 The net profit for year 2010 was 19.2 mil eur Sales revenue of the VKG Group across regions (th EUR) 2010 2011 Estonia 46,147 61,129 Total retained profit as of 31.12.2011: European Union 77,762 118,853 165.1 mil EUR Russia and Belarus 1,492 1,558 Other countries 94 2,027 In the European Union, the products of VKG are bought by Austria, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Poland, Sweden, Germany, Finland, United Kingdom, Denmark, Czech Republic and Italy 27 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet of Viru Keemia Grupp AS (TH EUR) 2010 2011 The balance sheet volume of VKG inASSETS creased by 50 mil EUR during year 2011, Current assets 30,719 54,006 reaching the level of 407 mil EUR as of Fixed assets 326,328 352,973 31.12.2011. TOTAL ASSETS 357,047 406,979 The share of equity capital was 55%. LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL Short-term liabilities 90,077 76,848 Long-term liabilities 95,932 106,214 Total liabilities 163,001 183,062 Equity capital 194,046 223,917 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL 357,047 406,979 28 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Investments Investments in 2011 (th eur) VKG AS 967 The total volume of investments of the VKG Oil 2,379 enterprises in VKG for year 2011 was VKG Transport 1,128 48,7 mil eur. VKG Soojus 2,165 VKG Energia 4,276 The largest object of investment in Viru RMT 259 year 2011 was the Ojamaa mine of VKG Elektrivõrgud 1,286 VKG Kaevandused OÜ (36 mil EUR). VKG Elektriehitus 15 VKG Plokk 15 VKG Kaevandused 36,246 TOTAL 48,735 Loan encumbrance Loan encumbrance Loan encumbrance, (th EUR) beginning of 2012 Payments in 2012 The existing loan encumbrance of the Group (as of the VKG AS 119,763 24,053 end of year 2011) is indicated by the following table, presenting the balance of all loans and financial lease VKG Transport 3,062 1,785 agreements of the subsidiaries which are signed with VKG Energia 49 6 parties outside the Group, and also their payments for Viru RMT 78 29 year 2012. VKG Kaevandused 1,270 412 The largest part of the loan obligations comes from VKG Elektrivõrgud 8 4 the loan undertaken for financing the establishing of the Ojamaa mine; it continues to increase the loan VKG Oil 5 5 encumbrance in the first half of year 2012 until the VKG Elektrehitus 96 72 commissioning of the mine. TOTAL 124,331 26,365 In 2012 a loan will be added for the purpose of financing the construction of the Kohtla-Järve – Ahtme heat pipeline of VKG Soojus AS, in the amount of 13 mil EUR. 29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Social responsibility policy VKG’s integral policy of social responsibility and sustainable development was founded in year 2009 and its purpose is to increase the awareness of the Group’s overall influence on the economy, social life and environment of the country and to assess and manage this influence. The concept of social responsibility and Directions of VKG’s social responsibility >> Public relations standards approved in the enterprise, prohibiting the publishing of incorrect or inaccurate sustainable development is the basis of and sustainable development policy: data; the Group’s everyday activities and the >> Environment protection. The environment protection >> Implementing social responsibility principles approved framework for its decisions. VKG is folpolicy of VKG was established in year 2001. During the by international organisations (GRI, UN global lowing the international principles of past 8 years the Group has invested more than 64 mil agreement) in the enterprise; EUR into environment protection. VKG’s environmental a socially responsible enterprise in all >> Paying special attention to the development of the investments in the period of 2012 – 2020 will require its activities. VKG also promotes those region and to the local population (primarily via additionally nearly 60 mil EUR; sponsorships and volunteer activities). principles on the local and the national >> Social reporting (full publishing of data about the VKG’s principles of social responsibility and sustainable level and recognises the fact that it social, economic and environmental influence development are implemented into the management cannot be a single actor. according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which process of the enterprise on the level of top management. is the world’s strictest reporting regulation; In October 2011, the enterprise implemented the principles >> Socially responsible organisation of production in of responsible behaviour, and from end of the same year The support and sponsorship activithe enterprise itself (creating safe work conditions, the principles started to be implemented in the everyday ties of VKG are clearly targeted to the motivating employees, additional benefits, additional life of the Group. The introducing of the principles among Ida-Viru region and the people working pays, ongoing dialogue between the employees and the employees takes place via involving them into social initiemployer), and among employees (everyone accepts atives (cooperation with the local food bank and children’s and living here. responsibility for everything); institutions). 30 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 VKG’s influence on regional During year 2011, and national economy VKG has provided support and aid to: VKG acknowledges its major influence on the EstoNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS ORGANISATIONS OF THE VIRUMAA REGION nian economy and the Ida-Viru region, and declares its willingness to accept responsibility before the Eesti Kontsert Jõhvi Concert Hall public for its decisions. The study conducted within National Development Fund Kirderanniku singing choir the framework of preparing VKG’s first report of Estonian Wrestling Association Jõhvi Music School social responsibility and sustainable development for Estonian National Opera Ice hockey club Viru Sputnik years 2008–2009 indicated that the VKG Group and its Maarja Päikesekodu Ahtme School of Arts employees contribute nearly 4% of the budget of the Aviation Museum Ida-Virumaa Sports Association City of Kohtla-Järve. NPO Sport Event Team Football club FC Lootus Kohtla-Järve Kalev sports association According to the study conducted by AS PricewaterKohtla-Järve Aljonuška kindergarten houseCoopers Advisors (PwC) in year 2011, the total EVENTS Mäetaguse Tõruke kindergarten economic influence of VKG on the Estonian econoKiikla community centre my was as high as 0.9% of the GDP in year 2010. The Purtse river festival PurFest Tammiku community centre Group’s influence on the country’s tax basis was on ELO national winter games for youth Kohtla-Järve Järve Russian upper secondary school the level of 29.4 million euros, i.e. 0.6% of the total tax Events organised by the TUT: Energy Week, Chemistry Kohtla-Järve Järve Estonian upper secondary school income of the country in year 2010. Upon commissionDays, BEST engineering competition Kohtla-Järve orphanage ing the Ojamaa mine in the beginning of year 2012, JOFF – Jõhvi film festival 2011 Kiikla orphanage VKG will provide jobs for a total of nearly 2,000 people Film festival of the Rakvere upper secondary school and it also creates hundreds of new jobs as a result of Mäetaguse Mansion Days the consumption of its products and services. Taking Maidla Mansion Lights into account the fact that Ida-Viru County is one of Summer camp of the Rescue Board the regions having the highest rate of unemployment Alutaguse Biking Minirally in Estonia, the jobs created by the Group are especialViru Ski Marathon on Mõedaku sports base ly important for the region. Christmas Tournament VKG also has a marked influence on the export and foreign trade balance of the country, i.e. 0.9% and 14.6% respectively. All this shows the importance of VKG for the Estonian economy. 31 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 The best photo in the cathegory „My Virumaa“ in the Virumaa’s first photo competition “Beautiful Virumaa” („Ilus oled, Virumaa!”) Author Dmitry Kolyshkin 32 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 VKG’s own initiatives for local culture Virumaa’s first photo competition “Beautiful Virumaa” („Ilus oled, Virumaa!”) Kaljo Kiisa grant for young filmmakers In year 2011, Virumaa’s first photo competition “BeautiThe first competition lasted a little over four months In year 2009, VKG in cooperation with the Jõhvi Concert ful Virumaa” („Ilus oled, Virumaa!”) took place. (27.06.2011–01.11.2011) and during that time the competiHall and the Jõhvi Municipal Government established a tion gallery received about 1,500 beautiful photos from grant for young filmmakers, to the honour of the wellThe competition was founded by VKG and the Jõhvi nearly 300 authors. Over 30 authors were awarded as a known director and actor Kaljo Kiisa who was born in Concert Hall; later, other enterprises of the region joined result of the photo competition. In year 2012 the next Ida-Viru County. the initiative. The purpose of the competition is to photo competition was initiated; it will end with a photo record the beauty and diversity of the Virumaa region, exhibition and a publication on the topic of Virumaa. The initiators of the grant wish to preserve the memory and especially to provide a hobby activity for young of Kaljo Kiisk (1925–2007). The purpose of the 2,500 EUR photographers. Read more about the competition at grant is to support young filmmakers who have used www.vkgsoojus.ee/konkurss Ida-Viru County in their works thus far, and to encourage The competition for year 2011 was headed by Evelin young filmmakers to discover and record the variety of Ilves and Kaupo Kikkas. Ida-Viru County. In the beginning of year 2012, the organisers jointly award the second grant. The first grant was awarded to Liis Nimik (“Alasti Kino” www.alastikino.ee) with the film “Helene elukool” (“Helene’s School of Life”) from a series of Estonian success stories. Children’s electrical safety game Promoting charity among employees In the beginning of year 2012, VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ In December 2011, VKG initiated a charity year in its Read more about the social initiatives of VKG in Faceinitiated an electrical safety campaign intended collective of more than 1,800 employees. The enterprise book and on the Group’s websites: primarily for children in the pre-school and basic school creates opportunities for its employees to participate age. The purpose of the campaign is to inform children in charity. In December and January the employees of >> www.vkg.ee at an early age about the dangers of electricity and to the Group donated foodstuffs to the Food Bank and >> www.vkgsoojus.ee increase their awareness. In the course of the campaign, children’s toys and clothes to the local orphanages and an electrical safety poster and a relevant game were kindergartens. In each subsequent month VKG adds >> www.vkgev.ee developed. The posters will be distributed to all local more initiatives, providing various opportunities for charschools and kindergartens. The purpose of the bilingual ity. The campaign is titled “It’s easy to be a good person” game is to provide children with more detailed advice (“Lihtne on olla hea inimene”). about electrical safety. In time the enterprise plans to supplement the children’s part of its website with useful information and to add more information about electrical safety to its website in general. Read more about the campaign at www.vkgev.ee/lastele. 33 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 A number of community celebrations are organised at the initiative of VKG and in cooperation with the local communities. For example Chemist’s Day, Miner’s day and Elderly people day. 34 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Keeping the traditions of the industrial region Chemists’ Day Miners’ Day of 60,000 euros. A community celebration organised at the initiative of In year 2011, VKG restored the tradition of celebrating VKG and in cooperation with the region’s largest chemMiners’ Day. VKG considers it important to continue the Elderly People’s Day ical industry enterprises Molycorp Silmet, Eastman, tradition of Miners’ Day as a community celebration. In cooperation with the City Government of Kohtla-Järve, Novotrade Invest. The tradition of Chemists’ Day was Organising the celebration is the enterprise’s gesture VKG is organising the annual Elderly People’s Day. The restored in year 2000 and the event was held for the 10th of recognition and deep respect towards all miners and celebration involves retired people with long work time in year 2011. also the residents of the region. The event of year 2011 experience in the oil shale industry and also all other saw the participation of more than 25,000 people and elderly people whose work has made a contribution to More than 7,000 people participated in the event in 2011. the budget of the community celebration was in excess the development of the city. VKG received the title of Estonia’s Responsible Enterprise in years 2010 and 2011. In December of year 2011 the Group received the award “Environmental Deed 2011” (“Keskkonnategu 2011”) in the category of environmental management. VKG’ principles of socially responsible behaviour >> VKG identifies and studies the industry’s effect on >> VKG ensures a safe and comfortable work >> VKG pays special attention to the development of the environment and if possible then eliminates environment for its employees; the region, keeping active contact with the local or minimises it. VKG is conducting ongoing authorities and residents; >> VKG has initiated motivational and developmental environmental monitoring; systems for its employees; >> VKG supports important projects of the region, >> VKG develops resource-conservative and especially cultural and sports events; >> VKG supports the professional union in its activities, environment-friendly fields of technology and offers additional benefits for its employees >> VKG isa trustworthy partner for state and local implements those into its production processes; and supports ongoing dialogue between the authorities and for its business partners; >> VKG provides the public with regular reports about its management team and the employees; >> VKG promotes the principles of social responsibility activities; >> VKG promotes the idea of everyone accepting and recognises the fact that it cannot be a single >> VKG communicates proactively with the media and responsibility for their work: everything depends on actor. the public, doesn’t hide information and provides only everyone; accurate and truthful data about itself; >> VKG employs internationally recognised principles of social responsibility; 35 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 In year 2011 there were more than 1,800 employees in VKG; 80% of them are active in production and 20% are office employees Occupational health and safety The Group employs an occupational health and safety management system standard as means for ensuring safe work conditions and work practices for the employees, sub-contractors and visitors of the Group. In order to achieve the best results, the subsidiaries of the Group employ the occupational health and safety management system standard EVS 18001. The relevant certificate is already held by VKG Oil AS, VKG Transport AS, Viru RMT OÜ and VKG Energia OÜ. Occupational accidents in year 2011 List of significant risks related 3 3 3 to the Group’s activities. 2 2 In year 2011 there were more than 1,800 employees in VKG; 80% of them are active in production and 20% are 1 1 1 1 1 office employees. 0 0 0 0 Due to the job structure, the most significant risks are wrong work techniques, violations of safety rules, imperfect internal auditing of work environment, not using Viru RMT OÜ VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ personal protection equipment, carelessness, and the VKG oil AS VKG Kaevandused OÜ work environment characteristic to the industry. In year VKG Elektriehitus AS VIru Keemia Grupp 2011 there were 12 occupational accidents in the Group, of those 7 severe and 5 light accidents. VKG Energia OÜ VKG Soojus AS VKG Transport OÜ VKG Plokk OÜ 37 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 In the period of 2008-2011, the most occupational accidents took place in VKG Oil AS (14 accidents), Occupational accidents in the period of 2008-2011 followed by Viru RMT OÜ (11 accidents). 16 14 Viru RMT OÜ VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ 12 11 VKG oil AS VKG Kaevandused OÜ 8 VKG Elektriehitus AS VIru Keemia Grupp 6 5 VKG Energia OÜ VKG Soojus AS 2 4 2 VKG Transport OÜ 1 1 1 0 There were 8 occupational accidents in the Group in Number of occupational accidents in the Group for the period of 2008-2011 year 2008, and 9 occupational accidents in year 2009. The number of occupational accidents grew in years 16 1 2010 and 2011 – to 16 and 12 respectively. 1 1 Viru RMT OÜ VKG Elektrivõrgud OÜ 12 1 2 3 VKG oil AS VKG Kaevandused OÜ 2 1 8 1 VKG Elektriehitus AS VIru Keemia Grupp 1 2 1 2 2 6 VKG Energia OÜ VKG Soojus AS 4 3 1 5 3 VKG Transport OÜ 3 2 1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 During the past 4 years there have been a total of 46 Occupational accidents in the Group for the period of 2008-2011, across severities occupational accidents in the Group, of those 30 light and 13 severe occupational accidents. 16 5 12 Light accidents 8 2 7 1 11 Severe accidents 4 7 7 5 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 38 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 The number of light occupational accidents in year Severities of occupational accidents across enterprises, for the period of 2008-2011 2008 and year 2009 were equal – 7 accidents. In year 2010 the number of light occupational accidents in10 creased by 4 accidents when compared to years 2008 10 and 2009. In year 2011 the number of occupational 8 accidents decreased. 7 6 During the past 4 years, the occupational accidents 4 4 4 3 3 entailing severe health damages have taken place 2 2 2 primarily in production enterprises: VKG Energia OÜ 2 1 1 1 1 1 (4); VKG OIL AS (3); VKG Kaevandused OÜ (3); VKG Elek0 trivõrgud OÜ (2) and VKG Elektriehitus AS (2). Viru RMT VKG oil VKG EleVKG EnVKG VKG eleVKG VKG VKG ktriehiergia transktrivõrkaevandus soojus tus port gud The trend of increasing number of occupational accidents in year 2011 is correlated to the increase Light accidents Severe accidents of the number of employees. During the same period a wide-scale performance of construction and reconstruction works took place in the territory of the Group, and this could also have had a role in the increase of the number of traumas. List of measures employed There were no occupational accidents in the past year in VKG Soojus AS, VKG Plokk OÜ and Viru to minimise accidents Keemia Grupp AS. The management team of the Group ensure the availabilOn the basis of management plans, the management There haven’t been any deadly occupational acciity of the necessary resources for more efficient functionteams of the Group and the subsidiaries have identified dents in the Group for a long time. ing of the management system. The basis for ongoing and planned various measures and ensured the availabilfunctioning of the occupational health and safety ity of the relevant resources for achieving the occupaDue to improving the work environment of the management system according to the standard EVS 18001 tional health and safety targets of the Group. employees, the number of chronic occupational is as follows: illnesses has decreased when compared to previous years. The most important factors for achieving this >> Identified fields of responsibility of the management in the chemical industry are the improvement of team; work conditions and the investments made into envi>> Identified rights and duties of the employees; ronment protection and technologies. There were no cases of occupational illnesses in the Group for years >> Ongoing verification and ensuring of functioning of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. the management system; >> Implementing the corrective measures. 39 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Employees and safety measures in the enterprise; 3. Every subsidiary has conducted a risk analysis. This means identifying the risks factors of the work >> Employee representatives, i.e. work environment occupational safety. trustees have been elected to mediate the problems environment, measuring the relevant parameters and assessing the possible effect of the risk factors on the and worries of employees to the employer. A work health of the employees, leading to management of The enterprises of the Group have develenvironment trustee has the duty to ensure that the the risk factors by way of preparing action plans. An relevant occupational health and safety measures oped a system of requirements which enare implemented in each workplace and that the action plan is a means for eliminating or preventing the shortcomings/problems found. sures that all employees have the comemployees have proper and functioning personal petence necessary for their work duties. protection equipment. 4. The Group’s employees are provided with regular medical health checks. The enterprise also has an own The system involves requirements for >> Work environment councils have been established; medical office. these are cooperative bodies of the employer and education, skills and experience. The rethe employees, where issues related to occupational 5. Very serious attention is paid to the instructing and quirements for each job are determined health and safety in the enterprise are solved. The training of employees. The Group conducts occupaby job descriptions, procedures, reguladuty of a work environment council is to plan the tional training of its personnel. Upon a new employee measures promoting a good working environment, starting to work, the work environment specialist tions and occupational safety manuals. to ensure their implementation and functioning, conducts an introductory instructing of that employee. and to promote cooperation between the employer The initial instructing of the employee at the workplace Both the employees and the owners are interested and the employees in order to develop the work is conducted by the relevant person (Manager of the in the continuation and development of the Group’s environment further. The work environment council structural unit) assigned by the employer. Training of activities. Incompetent economic managing can lead a is active in helping the employer to develop, monitor safe work practices takes place after the initial instructcompany to a cease of activities or even bankruptcy and and improve the occupational health and safety ing. The training follows an approved programme. After thus to loss of jobs. Insufficient organisation of occupaprocedures. The work environment council regularly absolving the training programme, the employee is tional health and safety measures, on the other hand, analyses the work conditions in the enterprise, allowed to an examination for verifying the employee’s may lead to loss of an employee. registers all occurred problems, makes suggestions knowledge necessary for allowing him or her to work to the employer for solving those issues and independently. Unsatisfactory level of knowledge Upon planning the activities of the Group, the Managemonitors the performance of the adopted decisions. displayed by an employee at the examination can be ment Board has considered the need to ensure a healthy grounds for terminating the employment contract with and safe work environment and the need to establish 2. The next step in organising the measures related to that employee. Employees are also provided with in-serand maintain a successful organisation of occupational the work environment is the establishing of an internal vice training and periodic instructing. Safety regulations health and safety. auditing system for occupational safety; this is purely are compulsory for all employees of the Group. internal verification system of the enterprise, intended 1. Nothing happen by itself, thus every subsidiary of the for ensuring safety in all work activities. This internal 6. The subsidiaries provide their employees with proper Group has determined a distribution of occupational auditing is a planned and systematic activity with the personal protection equipment and conduct training health and safety duties among its employees and has goal of ensuring the respecting of all legal acts related for proper use and maintenance of that equipment. shaped a work environment structure: to occupational health and safety, thus preventing occupational accidents and occupational illnesses and >> Competent work environment specialists have been protecting the employer’s property. assigned to organising the occupational health and 40 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 In year 2011, VKG invested a total of approximately 2 million euros into environment protection measures. On the photo: Marches near VKG production site Environment protection Overall Environmental environmental policy management system VKG pays much attention to environment protection 3. In our everyday activities we follow the requireConformity top the ISO standard in its activities. The main priorities are prevention or ments prescribed in the legal acts, conventions and minimisation of environmental impacts resulting from agreements of Estonia and the European Union; Most of the subsidiaries of VKG are employing an enthe production activities. vironmental management system conforming to the 4. We consider it important to inform the institutions international standard ISO 14001. and the population of the region about the activities The Group’s environmental mission is to ensure conof the enterprise and about possible environmental servative use of the oil shale resource and maximum Since year 2006, VKG Oil AS and VKG Transport AS hold impacts of those activities; utilisation of the potential of oil shale by employing the ISO 14001: 2004 and ISO 9001: 2000 certificate for the best available technology. 5. We pay much attention to the promoting of environmental and quality management system. Viru sustainable development in the enterprise, by way of RMT holds the ISO 9001: 2000 certificate for quality The Group’s environmental vision is to be an open reusing as much as possible the materials and wastes management system and the OHSAS 18001 certificate and trustworthy enterprise working under a unified generated from the production process; for occupational safety. VKG Energia OÜ has implemanagement system towards preservation of the 6. We consider it important to have good cooperation mented an occupational health and safety managebiological variety of environment and conservative use with research and development institutions, both for ment system conforming to OHSAS 18001. of the natural resources. solving environmental issues and for developing new technologies; VKG Energia OÜ and VKG Soojus OÜ are in the process The Group has developed a unified environmental of implementing an environmental and quality manpolicy, based on the following principles: 7. We encourage our employees to improve their agement system conforming to ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. knowledge about environment protection and we rec1. Acting upon an environmental management system ognise and encourage practical use of that knowledge; conforming to the international standard ISO 14001; 8. We work towards valuing of oil shale, creating 2. Identifying the ecological aspects and environmenadditional value with our oil shale products. tal impact of the enterprise’s production activities and assessing their conformity to the legislation in force and to other applicable requirements; 43 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Investments into sulphur dioxide as a primary pollutant into the surrounding environment. In year 2009 the level of environmental Shale oils filtration plant environment protection investments decreased due to the economic decline. In years 2010 and 2011 the direct investments into environVKG Oil AS completed a shale oils filtration plant. The implementing of the relevant process allows eliminating ment protection have remained on a moderate level when several sources of atmospheric pollution and reducing compared to previous years, due to the larger environmenemissions and production losses. As a result of impleVKG has an environmental priority of reducing the envital projects being completed and large investments being menting the new technological scheme, no hazardous ronmental impacts of valuing oil shale as an earth deposit. made into development activities. On the other hand, the liquid wastes of oil shale pitch are generated anymore, Investments, participation in the developing of legislation, principles of environment protection, energy efficiency and instead a fine-dispersing solid fuel – filter cake is monitoring the production process and the environment, and sustainable development are an integral part of planproduced. modelling the outside atmosphere, and optimising the ning and implementing the development activities. production process are the means by which the Group ensures sustainable development of shale oil production. Tank fleet The most important environmental measures undertaken in year 2011 were obtaining additional free CO2 emission Other measures of reducing atmospheric emissions are The Group follows the requirements prescribed in the quota of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system for investments into the tank fleet and reconstructing of legislation, takes into account the relevant opinions of the current trading period, passing the verification procethe heavy oil cycle. In year 2008 a tank fleet was convarious interested parties, and acts as a reliable partner for dure for free quota for the next period of 2013-2020 and structed and scrubbing equipment was installed for the state institutions, local governments and the local commusubmitting a relevant application to the European Comshale oil storage and the distillation plant. These investnity. We consider it important to have good cooperation mission according to the confirmed emission quantities ments resulted in significant reduction of emissions of with research and development institutions. of the Group’s enterprises, and also reducing atmospheric hydrocarbons and phenols. By the end of year 2009, an emissions, organising waste management and taking steps absorber for the tank fleet of shale oils was completed; The recent years have seen much work being done for related to storm water and waste water treatment. this unit binds up to 70% of volatile organic compounds. the benefit of environment; tens of millions of euros have been invested and significant shifts toward more environment-friendly production have been made. At the In year 2011, VKG invested a total of approximately 2 milPETROTER I oil plant lion euros into environment protection measures and also same time, the legislation of the European Union and the approximately 3 million euros as the operating expendiIn year 2009 a Petroter I oil plant was completed, Republic of Estonia and the increasing production needs ture of the semi-coke solid waste deposit. allowing the use of fine oil shale for oil production. This are setting higher and higher requirements and new, higher environmental targets for the Group’s enterprises. plant has several devices for environment protection. The most significant completed project for year 2011 can Its chimney stack has a continuous monitoring device be said to be the obtaining of additional free CO2 emission for flue gases; it allows us to monitor the concentration The Group’s investments into environment protection quota of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system for of pollutants emitted into the atmosphere and to react increased by ca. 64% in year 2008 when compared to year the current trading period. On the basis of the challenge immediately in case of any exceeding of limits. The plant 2006, and decreased in year 2009 by 50% when compared submitted in the first year of the period, an additional also has an utilisation boiler for using up the waste to year 2008 (see Graph 1). The largest environmental amount of 743,497 tonnes of CO2 quotas was allocated to gases and the heat resulting from those gases. The solid investment of year 2008 was the construction of a sulphur VKG Energia AS. The new shale oil plant Petroter I as a new wastes resulting from processing of oil shale in that scrubbing unit for VKG Energia OÜ. This unit cost more entrant of the period was allocated an amount of 450,000 plant are more environment-friendly, because the organthan 150 million EEK and was completed in May 2008. The tonnes of free CO2 quotas on the basis of a relevant apics content of the generated ash is significantly lower sulphur scrubbing unit allows binding more than 65% plication. These green house gas emission quotas ensure and thus conforms to the requirements prescribed in of the sulphur contained in the fuels combusted in the sustainable development of shale oil production. the legislation. Northern HPP, thus reducing significantly the emissions of 44 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Waste deposit Investments into environment protection in 2007-2011 (Th EUR) In year 2007 a new semi-coke solid waste deposit was completed, conforming to all environmental require25,000 ments; the depositing technology used excludes any 21,430 19,800 seeping of storm water into the body of the deposit. 20,000 The leachate is collected into a separate water-tight 15,370 15,000 14,000 pool and is treated in the regional waste water treatment plant if necessary. Due to special inclines, the time of contact between storm water and the deposit 10,000 7,310 surface is minimal, thus minimising the polluting of 5,700 5,000 4,240 4,880 storm water. 1,800 1,500 0 Oil removal unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Viru Vesi AS has completed the 1st stage of reconInvestments into occupational structing the oil removal unit (treating the water of the Environmental expenditure of the Group safety and environment protection territory to remove oil shale processing wastes), with the cost of 21 million EEK. The new floatation devices allow pre-treating of the industrial waste water and ensure the required water quality on exit from the oil removal unit. In the beginning of year 2012, the Environmental expenditure of the Group as cost price of oil shale (EUR/tonne) 2nd stage of reconstructing the oil removal unit was completed, with the cost of 1.1 million euros. The new 30 unit allows better treatment of industrial waste water to remove various mechanical additives. 20 Belt conveyor 10 Another significant environmental project is the 12.5 kilometre belt conveyor for oil shale, being constructed by VKG Kaevandused OÜ in years 2010-2012 to run 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 from the Ojamaa mine to the Kohtla-Järve industrial territory. The belt conveyor will help reduce significantly the environmental load resulting from road transport. 45 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Strategic vision of reducing the impact of the industry The main environmental targets of VKG AS, stated in The main directions of environmental activities for and conserving natural resources (research of using the environmental measures plan for years 2005–2009: years 2012–2018 include reducing the atmospheric mining water as coolant water); emissions, particularly regarding hydrogen sulphide. >> Implementing the environmental management >> Ongoing reduction of the environmental impact Also, heightened attention will be paid to possibilities system in VKG Energia OÜ and VKG Soojus OÜ; and hazard level of the deposited semi-coke, of reducing the emissions of sulphur dioxide and volaensuring the suitability of semi-coke for depositing tile organic compounds. There are also issues planned >> Further development of the best available and establishing a new waste deposit, in order to to be solved regarding the depositing of oil shale ash technology for oil shale processing, and ensure environmentally safe depositing of semiand bottom ash and regarding the closing of the wet implementing it in construction of the new coke, fly ash and bottom ash of oil shale; deposit. Petroter II plant and in improvement of the existing production processes. >> Reducing the number of atmospheric pollution sources of the Group’s enterprises by a total of 15 The main environmental targets for the next 5 years and to reduce the emission quantities by up to 170 The following research in planned for year 2012: are as follows: tonnes per year; >> Projects of allowed emission quantities of VKG Oil >> Avoiding the pollution of soil, soil water and ground >> Reducing the sources of odorous pollutants AS and VKG Energia OÜ, assessing the effect of the water, incl. by separating the polluted water and and emissions of aliphatic hydrocarbons and Group’s main pollution sources on the surrounding clean water of the leachate trenches surrounding hydrosulphide; territory; the semi-coke heaps and by solving the issues of >> More efficient and complex monitoring of redirecting excessive storm water; >> Selecting the sulphur scrubbing technology; the Group’s air pollution and precise forecast >> Ongoing reduction of the losses of technical water modelling of the effect of expansion; >> Determining the pollution level of sources of and potable water, and ensuring a more purposeful odorous pollutants (aliphatic and aromatic >> Reducing the quantities and concentrations of use of that resource; hydrocarbons); sulphur dioxide emission, by installing 2 additional >> Further developing of the best available technology sulphur scrubbers; >> Energy audit of the Group, to find opportunities for for oil shale processing; implementing it for increasing energy efficiency; >> Closing and tidying old hazardous waste deposits, construction of a new plant and for improvement thus reducing the pollution load of soil water and >> Environmental audit, to find opportunities of the production processes of the existing plants; ground water; for improving the functioning of the Group’s >> Continuing and improving the monitoring of work environmental management systems and to >> More efficient treatment of storm water and waste environment and natural environment, involving prepare for new requirements of European Union water; the best specialists of the relevant fields; Directives; >> More conservative resource use, by way of >> Developing and implementing an environmental >> Research to assess the possibility and feasibility of developing energy efficiency (with energy audit) management system in the Group’s subsidiaries. using mining water as coolant water. 46 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Industrial wastes Hazardous wastes Hazardous wastes generated by the Group 2009 2010 2011 In year 2011 the Group generated 1.58 million tonnes Hazardous wastes (mil. t) 1.11 1.33 1.58 of hazardous wastes, which is 15.8% more than in year 2010. The increase of hazardous wastes is caused by incl. oil shale pitch (t) 3,200 1,432 1,642 more oil shale ash being deposited in the hazardous incl. oil shale ash (t) 8,100 150,000 382,636 wastes deposit, due to the Petroter I plant achieving incl. semi-coke (t) 772,600 791,000 794,975 its 100% capacity. VKG Energia OÜ generated ca. 10 tonnes hazardous wastes in year 2010 and ca. 15 tonnes in year 2011. The increase of hazardous wastes when compared to year 2010 resulted from removal of old equipment Generated wastes per unit of production in VKG Oil AS containing PCBs. 4.08 3.98 4.03 4.09 Figure on the right presents the quantities of hazard4 ous wastes generated per 1 tonne of produced shale oil. The production volume in year 2011 increased 3 by 56,481 tonnes and the quantities of generated hazardous wastes increased by 253,952 tonnes when 2 compared to year 2010. The increase of these quantities comes from the commissioning and adjusting 1 works of the Petroter I plant. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 47 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 The total quantity of solid wastes deposited in year 2011 was 953,376 tonnes. The increase of the deposited Deposit quantities of solid wastes, tonnes wastes by 5,262 tonnes was mainly the result of depositing the ash generated by the Petroter I plant into the 1,000,000 hazardous wastes deposit. Also, the quantity of wastes generated from the NID sulphur scrubber has increased 750,000 when compared to year 2010. 500,000 The total amount of solid wastes depositing fees for year 2011 was ca. 1.56 million euros. The increase of the 250,000 pollution fees by 21.8% when compared to the previous year is mainly due to the increase of the pollution fee 0 rate, and the quantities of oil shale ash to be deposited 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 have also increased significantly because the Petroter I plant has achieved its 100% capacity. Semi-coke NID (VKG Energia) Oil shale ash (VKG Energia) Oil shale ash (Petroter I) Solid wastes depositing fees, EUR 1,500,000 1,250,000 1,000,000 750,000 500,000 250,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Semi-coke Oil shale ash (Petroter I) Oil shale ash + NID (VKG Energia) 48 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Non-hazardous wastes Non-hazardous wastes generated in the Group 2009 2010 2011 Non -hazardous wastes (t) 5,469 8,270 40,920 In year 2011 the Group generated a total amount of 40,920 tonnes of non-hazardous wastes, which is incl. construction and demolition wastes 62 253 662 approximately 80% more than a year before. The main incl. common wastes 204 201 219 waste types are mixed wastes from construction incl. calcium-based reaction wastes 5,174 7,352 14,459 and demolition, common wastes, and calcium-based from sulphur scrubbing reaction wastes from the sulphur scrubbing unit. The increase of non-hazardous wastes is primarily caused by the demolition works of old buildings. Reusable wastes Reusable wastes 2009 2010 2011 Reusable wastes (t) 336,500 386,970 667,010 In year 2011 the Group reused 667 thousand tonnes of hazardous wastes, which is nearly 42% more than a incl. construction wastes 0 0 25,577 year before. The main wastes taken into reuse were the incl. phenol water 336,500 386,970 402,735 phenol water and semi-coke from VKG Oil AS, which were used as construction materials for covering old incl. oil shale pitch 0 0 0 semi-coke heaps. incl. old oil 0 0 0 incl. semi-coke 0 0 238,695 49 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Emissions SO2 emissions in years 2007 2011, th tonnes 10 VKG Energia Atmospheric emissions 9 8 7.4 7.3 VKG Oil (old part) 7 6.7 The industrial enterprises of the Group emitted a total of 643,630 tonnes of CO2 in year 2011, which is 84,926 6 VKG Oil (Petroter I) tonnes more than in year 2010. The increase of CO2 Allowed quantity 4 emissions when comparing to year 2010 results from the (VKG Energia) Petroter I plant achieving its 100% capacity. 2 0.85 Allowed quantity 0.46 0.45 0.4 0.5 0.03 0.06 (VKG Oil, old part) Most of the carbon dioxide emissions, i.e. 452,986 tonnes 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Allowed quantity in year 2010 and 446,908 tonnes in year 2011 was gener(Petroter I) ated in VKG Energia OÜ upon combusting the retort gas and semi-coke gas generated in the course of thermal processing of oil shale. VKG Oil AS emitted 99,193 tonnes of carbon dioxide in CO2 emissions in years 20072011, th tonnes year 2010 and 196,721 tonnes in year 2011. The emissions resulted from combustion of waste gases (retort gas, 500 468 457 453 447 VKG Energia coke gas, separator gas) and natural gas in the shale oil 423 distillation plant, the phenol rectification plant and the 400 VKG Oil (old part) electrode coke producing plant, and in the course of 300 VKG Oil (Petroter I) operation of the Petroter I plant. Allowed quantity 200 There were no atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide 144 (VKG Energia) from other subsidiaries. 100 53 55 39 50 56 52 Allowed quantity (VKG Oil, old part) 0 SO2 levels in years 2007-2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Allowed quantity (Petroter I) In year 2011 the Group emitted a total of 8,122 tonnes of sulphur dioxide, which is 275 tonnes more than in year 2010 (see Graph 6). The increase of sulphur dioxide emissions is due to semi-coke gas from the Petroter I Energia OÜ upon combusting the retort gas and semiarator gas) and natural gas in the shale oil distillation plant, which is combusted in the burners of VKG Oil AS, coke gas generated in the course of thermal processplant and the electrode coke producing plant, and in and due to the flue gases of the Petroter I plant which ing of oil shale. the course of operation of the Petroter I plant. achieved its 100% capacity. VKG Oil AS emitted 907 tonnes of SO2 in year 2010 and There were no atmospheric emissions of SO2 from Most of the SO2 emissions, i.e. 7,215 tonnes in year 2011 550 tonnes in year 2011. The emissions resulted from other subsidiaries. and 7,297 tonnes in year 2010 was emitted from VKG combustion of waste gases (retort gas, coke gas, sep50 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 The increase of the pollution fees for air pollution is mainly due to the increase of the pollution fee rate Group’s pollution fees, air pollution (th EUR) and due to the increased emissions coming from the 1,000 953 Petroter I plant which has achieved its 100% capacity. 800 790 779 The increase of the pollution fees by 18% in year 2011 659 660 when compared to the previous year is mainly due to 600 the increase of the pollution fee rate. 400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Resource use Overall electricity balance, MWh 300,000 Electricity consumption Years 2008 2011 200,000 In year 2011 the electricity consumption of the entire Group was 121,217 MWh, whereas the largest consumers of electricity were VKG Oil AS and VKG Energia OÜ. 100,000 The Group consumed 12,094 MWh more electricity in year 2011 than in year 2010. The increase of electricity consumption in year 2011 was caused by the Petroter 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 I plant. Purchased from Eesti Energia OÜ electricity produced by VKG Energia 51 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 In year 2011, VKG Oil AS consumed 80,204 MWh of VKG Energia OÜ consumed 41,204 MWh of electricity in Electricity consumption of VKG Oil AS, MWh electricity, of which 24,726 MWh was consumed by the year 2011. The enterprise also produced electricity in the Petroter I oil shale processing plant. Out of the entire amount of 169,077 MWh. electricity consumption of VKG Oil AS, 3,549 MWh was 50,000 consumed by lighting and 51,553 MWh was consumed In year 2011 VKG Energia OÜ didn’t use any solid fuels in 40,000 by technological equipment. VKG Oil AS consumed energy production. The semi-coke gas consumption of 17,458 MWh more electricity in year 2011 than in year the Petroter I plant increased significantly. 26,725 toe of 30,000 2010. The increase of electricity consumption in year semi-coke gas, 102,111 toe of retort gas, 734 toe of natu20,000 2011 is due to the ongoing increase of the production ral gas and 7,871 toe of 34 bar steam from the Petroter rate of the Petroter I plant. process were consumed in year 2011. 10,000 0 2009 2010 2011 Balance of electricity sales and consumption of VKg, MWh Kiviter Petroter I 300,000 Sales to Eesti Energia OÜ 200,000 Own consumption of VKG Energia Energy produced by VKG Energia, MWh Losses 100,000 Sales of electricity to enterprises 600,000 outside the Group Electricity consumption of VKG 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 400,000 200,000 Fuel consumption of VKG Energia in toe units 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 34 bar stream from 120,000 Petroter process Electricity production Petroter gas 80,000 Heat and steam for external Oil shale consumers 40,000 Filter cake Heat and steam for VKG’s own consumption 0 Natural gas 2008 2009 2010 2011 Retort gas Unrefined shale oil Water consumption Water consumption of the Group, th m3 Water consumption in years 2010 and 2011 4,000 In year 2011 a total of 3,461 thousand cubic metres of 3,390 3,074 3,058 water was consumed; of this, 35.7 th m3 was ground 3,000 2008 2,442 water and 3,390 th m3 was lake water. In year 2011 the 2009 total water consumption was 3,139 th m3, which is 322 2,000 th m3 more than in year 2010. The increase of water 2010 consumption when compared to year 2010 resulted 1,000 2011 from an increase of production volumes (due to the 33.8 34.4 40.5 35.7 Petroter I plant) which required more coolant water. 0 Ground water Lake water Water emissions in years 2010 and 2011 Emissions into water from the Group, th m3 In year 2011 the Group’s total emissions into water were 9.37 million cubic meters (m3); of this, 1.14 million 4,568 m3 was effluent, ca. 0.84 million m3 was waste water 4,000 and 4.57 million m3 was mine effluent. In year 2010 the 2008 Group’s total water emissions into water were 3.99 3,000 million m3; of this, 0.92 million m3 was storm water, ca. 2009 0.77 million m3 was waste water and 1.53 million m3 2,000 1,533 2010 was mine effluent. Emissions into water increased by 1,272 1,361 1,141 805.6 881.8 844 922 5.38 million m3, which was due to the increase of water 1,000 768.2 2011 pumped out of mines. 0 waste water storm water effluent from mines (sediment pools) Environmental fees Environmental fees for water use, th EUR The increase of pollution charges by 42.7% in year 2011 when compared to the previous year is mainly due 300 Water pollution charge of to the water special use charges and water pollution VKG Kaevandused charges for water coming from mines, and somewhat Water special use charge of due to increase of pollution charge rates. 200 VKG Kaevandused Storm water pollution charge of VKG Oil 100 Ground water special use charge of VKG Energia 0 Lake water special use charge of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 VKG Energia GRI summary The report is drawn up by Address of the board 9 Viru Keemia Grupp AS Main products and services 11-12 Graphic design Description of organizational structure 11-16 Oliver Oberg / Kaks ood States where the organization operates 12 Photos Shareholding structure 17 Kaupo Kikkas Sven zacek Reporting level 5 Dmitry Kolyshkin Key events of the reporting period 16 Certification within the reporting period 8 Reporting period, reporting cycle 5 VIRU KEEMIA GRUPP AS Contact person for asking questions 5 Järveküla tee 14, Kohtla-Järve, Estonia Telephone: +372 334 2700 Process to define report`s content 5, 30 Info telephone: +372 334 2701 Restrictions related to the report 5 Fax: +372 337 5044 E-mail: info@vkg.ee Index of GRI content 54 www.vkg.ee Management structure of the organization 16-20 Description of top governing body 16 Involving mechanism for employees and target groups 30-34 List of target groups 5 Description (goals) of definition of target groups 5
