Annual Report 2011 Innovative by conviction 2011 – LANXESS Year of High-Tech Plastics High-tech plastics are among the key materials of the 21st century. The automotive industry in particular but also the electrical and construction industries are making increasing and more extensive use of these innovative materials. Audi's flagship A8, for example, has a front end made from aluminum and a thermoplastic-based PA composite sheet supplied by LANXESS. The advantages are obvious: our plastics are lightweight and flexible and facilitate a wide range of design options. This makes them indispensable to modern life, future mobility and sustainability – and one of the key growth drivers for LANXESS. Key Data € million 2010 2011 Change % Sales 7,120 8,775 23.2 EBITDA pre exceptionals 918 1,146 24.8 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 12.9% 13.1% EBITDA 890 1,101 23.7 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 635 826 30.1 Operating result (EBIT) 607 776 27.8 EBIT margin 8.5% 8.8% Net income 379 506 33.5 Earnings per share (€) 4.56 6.08 33.5 Dividend per share (€) 0.70 0.85 21.4 ROCE 17.0% 17.2% Cash flow from operating activities 430 1) 672 56.3 Depreciation and amortization 283 325 14.8 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 501 679 35.5 Total assets 5,666 6,878 21.4 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,761 2,074 17.8 Equity ratio 31.1% 30.2% Pension provisions 605 679 12.2 Net financial liabilities 913 1,515 65.9 Employees (as of December 31) 14,648 16,390 11.9 Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,141 1,244 9.0 Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 2.3 2.7 Energy consumption (petajoules) 52 1) 55 5.8 Total water consumption (in million cubic meters) 292 292 0.0 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons) 1,906 1) 1,935 1.5 Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons) 8.0 1) 7.8 (2.5) Total waste (in thousand tons) 259 1) 267 3.1 Total wastewater (in million cubic meters) 31 33 6.5 1) Figure restated Sales by Region Employees by Region (as of December 31) % % 13.2 22.8 20.5 29.0 9.7 8.7 EMEA (excluding Germany) EMEA (excluding Germany) 13.7 Germany Germany North America 17.9 North America Latin America 16.6 Latin America 47.9 Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to conform them to future events or developments. Performance Polymers Market Position Performance Indicators The Performance Polymers segment brings together all the activities € million 2010 2011 Change of the LANXESS Group in the production of rubber and plastics. Our % technologies give us a strong position in the global market. For example, Sales 3,692 5,059 37.0 LANXESS is among the leading manufacturers of butyl and polybutadiene rubber, used mainly for the production of car and truck tires. Our Proportion of Group sales 51.9% 57.7% high-tech Durethan® and Pocan® plastics are strong brands with signifiEBITDA1) 548 768 40.1 cant potential for growth and innovation. EBITDA margin 1) 14.8% 15.2% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 298 437 46.6 Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 4,281 4,977 16.3 • Butyl Rubber (BTR) 2010 figures restated 1) Pre exceptionals • Performance Butadiene Rubbers (PBR) • Technical Rubber Products (TRP) • Semi-Crystalline Products (SCP) Advanced Intermediates Market Position Performance Indicators The operations that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Intermediates € million 2010 2011 Change segment make it one of the world’s main suppliers of basic and fine % chemicals. Our core competencies lie in the production and marketing Sales 1,411 1,545 9.5 of industrial and fine chemicals, and in research and development in these fields. Many years of experience, successful brands and a highly Proportion of Group sales 19.8% 17.6% efficient integrated aromatics production network give LANXESS EBITDA 1) 259 264 1.9 leadership positions in the global market. EBITDA margin1) 18.4% 17.1% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 73 107 46.6 Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 2,903 2,883 (0.7) • Advanced Industrial Intermediates (AII) 2010 figures restated 1) Pre exceptionals • Saltigo (SGO) Performance Chemicals Market Position Performance Indicators LANXESS’s Performance Chemicals segment combines all the Group’s € million 2010 2011 Change application-oriented activities in the field of process and functional % chemicals. With strong brands, we rank among the world’s leading Sales 1,978 2,130 7.7 producers. For example, we hold a leadership position in the field of organic colorants for plastics. Our major strengths include a global Proportion of Group sales 27.8% 24.2% sales and service network, outstanding product quality, high innovative EBITDA1) 281 289 2.8 capability and patent protection for our company’s technologies. EBITDA margin 1) 14.2% 13.6% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 114 112 (1.8) Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 4,907 5,819 18.6 • Material Protection Products (MPP) 1) Pre exceptionals • Inorganic Pigments (IPG) • Functional Chemicals (FCC) • Leather (LEA) • Rhein Chemie (RCH) • Rubber Chemicals (RUC) • Ion Exchange Resins (ION) With innovative premium products, first-class technical expertise and German inventiveness, LANXESS contributes to its customers’ success around the globe. We are a specialty chemicals company with businesses that hold leading market positions worldwide. Resource efficiency and environmentally friendly solutions are the key to our sustainable growth. By focusing on four megatrends and the world’s growth markets, we aim to increase our EBITDA pre exceptionals to €1.4 billion by 2015. With selective investments and acquisitions in 2011, we remained on course to achieve this objective. Contents 4 Letter to Stockholders 8 Management 34 Corporate Responsibility 58 Investor Information 10 Strategy 18 Segments 68 Financial Information 120 Corporate Governance 130 Report of the Supervisory Board 134 Consolidated Financial Statements 186 Responsibility Statement 187 Auditor’s Report 188 Glossary 190 Index 191 Graphics and Tables 192 Financial Calendar/Contact 4 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 In my letter to you last year, I promised that we saw our successes not as a reason to rest on our laurels but as a further incentive to become even better and exploit growth opportunities. We have kept our word. 2011 was an outstanding year for LANXESS. At €1.146 billion, EBITDA pre exceptionals, our company’s key indicator, surpassed the billion euro mark for the first time in our history. That is a record achievement. We were also pleased to see our net income reach a new high of €506 million. Thus, we remain well on our way to achieving our ambitious business targets, which include particularly an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.4 billion in 2015. The economic environment varied widely last year. Growth in the industrial nations was very modest in light of the escalating debt crisis in some eurozone countries and the persistently high level of public debt in the United States. Once again, the global economy was driven by the emerging markets, especially the BRICS countries. This situation confirmed once again that it was both right and necessary to position LANXESS as a global enterprise – to be present especially in those markets where we can expect the strongest growth for our businesses. It is a strategy that paid off again last year. We increased sales significantly in all regions. Our success was particularly impressive in the Asian market, where we achieved sales in excess of €2 billion for the first time in our company’s history. The key contributors to this growth were our synthetic rubbers and high-tech plastics businesses, which benefited particularly from brisk demand from the global tire and automotive industries. We are the world market and technology leader in the production of rubbers for high-efficiency green tires, the fastest growing segment of the tire industry. These tires, which reduce emissions without compromising on safety, can only be manufactured using high-performance synthetic rubbers and additives. We expect further significant momentum to come from the tire labeling requirements that are set to enter into force in the E.U. this year. Other countries with large automobile markets will follow. Voluntary tire labeling already exists in Japan and South Korea. The latter has decided to introduce mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model at the end of this year. Alongside significant operational improvements last year, our innovative products and technologies enabled us to further cement our position as one of the world’s leading specialty chemical companies. These products and technologies make a substantial contribution to improving the quality of people’s lives and are the principal drivers of our business. They are essential to the ongoing enhancement of our competitiveness. That is one of the reasons we are raising our research and development spending and further increasing the number of employees in R&D. Most of our product innovations are targeted at meeting the growing requirements arising from the global megatrends of mobility, urbanization, water and agriculture. Letter to Stockholders 5 6 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 For LANXESS, 2011 was also characterized by numerous measures aimed at generating additional growth in the years ahead. We decided, for example, to build a new plant for high-performance neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) in Singapore, alongside the world-scale butyl rubber facility that is already under construction there. Nd-PBR has higher elasticity than many other tire rubbers and its lower abrasion reduces rolling resistance and makes tires last longer. It therefore has precisely the properties that are needed for manufacturing green tires. We chose Singapore as the location for our facility because of its close proximity to the growing Asian markets as well as for its excellent infrastructure and highly skilled workforce. A further milestone was achieved in summer 2011 when we commissioned our new plant in Bitterfeld to produce membrane filtration technology for water treatment applications. This facility is further proof of LANXESS’s sustained commitment to systematically investing in Germany and creating new jobs. We are also exploiting external growth opportunities as a means of expanding our enterprise. Of particular note in the year under review was the acquisition from DSM of the Keltan EPDM business, which has already contributed substantially to earnings by our Technical Rubber Products business unit. One key aspect of our entrepreneurial activities is reconciling our business dealings with our commitment to society and the environment. For us, economy and ecology are inseparable. We act and work in strict accordance with the motto “Good for business, good for society.” Against this backdrop, we are particularly pleased that we became one of the signatories to the world’s largest and fastest growing corporate social responsibility initiative, the United Nations Global Compact, in 2011. By signing the initiative, we have pledged to comply with its principles and to promote the sustainability of the global economy by exercising entrepreneurial responsibility. Our innovative products and highly efficient processes help to conserve resources and energy. They enable us not only to make an important contribution to climate protection, but also to reduce costs. That is why we will make green mobility our focus for 2012. In the long term, however, sustainable business requires innovations because these help safeguard our competitiveness. One milestone in this regard was the world premiere achieved by our Technical Rubber Products business unit at the Triunfo site in Brazil in October 2011, when it started industrial-scale production of the new bio-based EPDM rubber Keltan Eco. The ethylene used as the precursor for this product is not derived from oil, but obtained entirely from a renewable resource: sugarcane. I am confident that we will become faster at finding ways and processes for accessing alternatives to oil as the starting product for our rubbers, plastics and chemicals. Another aspect of our entrepreneurial responsibility is preparing LANXESS for the human resource challenges we will face in the coming years because of globalization, demographic change and international competition for the best talents. We have responded promptly and comprehensively to these challenges. Following the launch of our XCare program in 2010, the global Diversity X Inclusion initiative was started in 2011. Our social and environmental responsibility and our key sustainability indicators are discussed in further detail in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Annual Report. Letter to Stockholders 7 Following record results in 2010 and 2011, the economic environment has worsened in fiscal 2012. Growth expectations remain very modest because of the unresolved debt crises in the European Union and the United States. Low growth rates or even a slight recession are expected in the countries most affected by the debt situation, which may slow momentum in the chemical industry. However, we remain confident that LANXESS will continue to grow profitably. We will be focusing particularly on the growth markets in the emerging economies, most notably in the BRICS countries, where the uptrend is likely to continue at a strong pace. The LANXESS Group now makes about a quarter of its total sales in Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. We expect to benefit from our strategy of focusing on these five countries and the key megatrends that are especially significant there. We are also prepared to face any new challenges that may be thrown up by the world’s crises. Our strategic focus enables us to move quickly and efficiently when it comes to dealing with difficult situations. When faced with demanding problems in the past, we successfully resolved them with a great deal of hard work and dedication. Today, LANXESS is ideally positioned to achieve its medium-term growth target for EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.4 billion in 2015. We have the right products; we are present in the main markets; we make investments that are compatible with our strategy; and we are strongly committed to innovation and research. We have thus set the course for continued stable growth. We owe much of this to our employees around the world. Day after day, they show commitment in facing new challenges. They see opportunity in change. Through their enormous dedication and efforts, they were a vital factor in LANXESS’s successful business performance in 2011. On behalf of the entire Board of Management, I would like to express appreciation and gratitude for their hard work. I want to thank our business partners for working with us in a spirit of trust. We hope to continue these valuable relationships going forward. I also want to thank you, our stockholders, for the confidence you have placed in our company. Each and every one of us at LANXESS will continue to do all we can to ensure that LANXESS remains a valuable investment. We hope that you will accompany us on this successful course in the future as well. Yours sincerely, 8 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Management Dr. Werner Breuers Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Member of the Board of Management Chief Financial Officer Werner Breuers was born in Mönchengladbach, Germany in 1958. Bernhard Düttmann was born in Düsseldorf in 1959. He studied He studied chemistry and obtained his doctorate from Aachen Technical business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also University before beginning his career at Hoechst AG in 1989. After obtained his doctorate. In 1989 he joined Beiersdorf AG in Hamburg, holding managerial positions at various companies in Germany and Germany, where he was latterly the Executive Board Member responabroad, he latterly worked for the Basell Group as President of Basell sible for Finance/Human Resources and held regional responsibility for Polyolefins Europe. Werner Breuers was appointed to the Board of the Middle East, Africa and Turkey. Bernhard Düttmann was appointed Management of LANXESS AG effective May 14, 2007. He is married by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on February 3, 2011, to and has two children. become Chief Financial Officer of the specialty chemicals company. He is married and has three children. Management 9 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management (Industrial Relations Director) Axel C. Heitmann was born in Hamburg in 1959. After graduating in Rainier van Roessel was born in 1957 in Oisterwijk in the Netherlands. chemistry from Hamburg University and Southampton University, United He studied business administration at the University of Cologne, where Kingdom, and obtaining his Ph.D., Heitmann joined Bayer AG in 1989. he also obtained his doctorate, and joined Bayer AG in 1988. When the Following a succession of roles at Bayer, including international assignLANXESS organization was set up in 2004, he became Head of the ments in the United Kingdom and China, he was appointed Chairman Rubber Chemicals business unit, and in June 2006 he was additionally of the LANXESS AG Board of Management on September 16, 2004. appointed Managing Director of LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium. Axel C. Heitmann is married and has two children. Rainier van Roessel was appointed to the LANXESS AG Board of Management on January 1, 2007. He is married and has three children. Strategy Saves Fuel Lower weight and fewer assembly steps thanks to a high level of functional integration in the injection molding process – these are the benefits of the Audi A8 front end produced using plastic-metal composite technology. For the first time, this hybrid component uses lightweight PA composite sheets in addition to aluminum. Compared to its aluminum equivalent, the PA composite can reduce the component’s weight by around 10 to 20 percent. A customized Durethan® polyamide 6 is used in both the PA composite sheet and the injection molding process. 12 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 On course for Ideally positioned at the core of the chemical industry sustainable growth As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies, we are positioned at the core of the chemical industry. Our specialist expertise, our applications know-how and our capacity for innovation are demonstrated by our three segments: Performance Polymers, Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals. Our aim is to position all our businesses at the forefront of their respective markets. As a highly innovative supplier of preThe 13 business units in our three segments have global responsibility for their business operations and manage their activities autonomously mium products, LANXESS is one of as “entrepreneurs within the enterprise.” This ensures short communithe world’s leading specialty chemicals cation lines, flat hierarchies and motivated employees – all of which are crucial in ensuring that we can respond quickly to specific customer companies. We will be continuing to requirements and to changes in market and regulatory conditions. strengthen our position in the coming Through selective additions to our product portfolio and our distinctive years through selective investments innovation culture, we are increasingly becoming a high-tech supplier, and acquisitions. Our overriding goal reliably delivering premium-quality products, actively supporting our customers’ innovation processes and thus adding measurable value. is to achieve EBITDA pre exceptionals This enables us to strengthen customer loyalty, differentiate ourselves of around €1.4 billion in 2015. clearly from our competitors, and remain highly competitive even in economically challenging times. LANXESS Focuses on the Core of the Chemical Industry Pharma Agro Performance Specialty chemicals Chemicals • Here we can perfectly leverage our expertise in chemicals and our applications know-how. Performance Polymers Polymers • We have excellent and long-standing customer relations. Advanced Intermediates Intermediates • We see a lot of room for maneuver in these three segments. • Our balanced portfolio in these segments reduces the volatility Bulk plastics of our business. Petrochemicals Feedstocks, gas and oil Strategy 13 The steadily growing significance of research and development at We have steadily improved our regional profile in recent years. In the LANXESS is reflected in the change in two key R&D indicators over key growth regions of Asia and Latin America, we now have a sigthe past five years. Since 2007 we have raised our innovation budget nificant market presence backed by an effective modern production each year by an average of 13 percent and increased the number network, which we will continue to expand in the future. of research and development employees by a total of 79 percent. Over and above this, we have in our Innovation & Technology Group Function an efficient central organizational unit that coordinates all Clear growth target research and development activities within the Group and handles cross-business unit projects. In fiscal 2010, on the basis of our excellent strategic and economic position, we communicated a new mid-term growth target. We aim The stability of our business development is rooted in our broad dito raise our key financial indicator – EBITDA pre exceptionals – to versification, in terms of both product applications and the regions €1.4 billion in 2015. En route to this target, all of our businesses are in which we operate. Our main markets are the tire, automotive, conexpected to report average annual EBITDA pre exceptionals growth sumer goods, chemical manufacturing, agrochemical and construction of at least five percent. industries. We also supply products for electronics, water treatment, medical supplies, coatings, printing technology and packaging. This diversification means we are not dependent on individual customers. In 2011 our ten biggest customers accounted for only around 28 percent of our business. Each Business to Contribute to EBITDA 1) Growth EBITDA1) ~1,400 € million ~1,300 1,146 918 Approved and announced projects 2010 2011 Performance Advanced Performance Additional 2015 Polymers Intermediates Chemicals organic and external growth Minimum EBITDA1) growth for each business: 5% CAGR 1) Pre exceptionals 14 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Gastonia New facility (SCP) Orange Capacity expansions (PBR, TRP) Two areas of strategic focus have been defined as the framework for our business activities: 1. Participation in the global megatrends We are systematically aligning our product portfolio to four of the most important global megatrends, where we anticipate steady, aboveaverage growth in the coming years. Porto Feliz New facilities Mobility The growing desire for mobility, particularly in the emerging (SCP, RCH) markets and especially in China and India, together with the need to improve the environmental compatibility of mobility throughout Burzaco the world, opens up excellent perspectives for LANXESS. As the Capacity expansion world’s leading supplier of high-quality synthetic rubber, we stand to (RCH) benefit from rising demand for high-performance tires. In addition, our Semi-Crystalline Products business unit offers the automotive industry future-oriented concepts for replacing metals with high-tech plastics that reduce vehicle weight and improve fuel efficiency. Agriculture Rapid growth in the world’s population is significantly increasing global demand for food. Our Saltigo and Advanced Industrial Intermediates (formerly Basic Chemicals) business units already market a wide range of products to help boost agricultural productivity and protect crops. Urbanization Throughout the world, people are relocating from rural areas to cities. Current forecasts estimate that the urban population 2. A stronger presence in emerging markets will grow by 40 percent this decade. All these people will need homes, offices and an efficient infrastructure. These are the applications of We consider a local presence to be a further strategic success factor. our products for the construction sector, for example the inorganic In regional terms, we will therefore be concentrating principally on expigments produced by our Inorganic Pigments business unit. panding our business and production capacities in the booming BRICS countries, with the focus on Brazil, India and China. Our business data Water Population growth and climate change are steadily increasclearly reflect the growing significance of the BRICS countries, which ing the importance of water as a valuable resource. Studies indicate accounted for about 24 percent of Group sales in 2011. that demand for clean water will exceed the current supply by about 40 percent in 20 years. LANXESS aims to make a significant conWe regard the first-time increase of our EBITDA pre exceptionals to tribution to closing that gap. Products and processes marketed by more than €1 billion as clear evidence that our strategy has put us well our business units, for example Ion Exchange Resins, are playing an on the way to achieving our ambitious mid-term goal. What is more, increasingly important role in the treatment of drinking water, wastewe have already set the course for the next stage in our sustainable water and process water. growth strategy. Capacity Strategy 15 expansions (PBR, TRP, SCP) Antwerp Zwijndrecht Dormagen Geleen Technology Lipetsk changeover (TRP) New facility (RCH) Port Jérôme Krefeld-Uerdingen Capacity Capacity expansion expansion Changzhou Nantong (PBR) Leverkusen (AII) New facility New facility (TRP) Capacity (LEA) Hamm-Uentrop expansion Capacity (TRP) expansion (SCP) Singapore New facilities (BTR, PBR) We have initiated major capital expenditure projects in all our regions in order to achieve further organic growth. • Close by, the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit is investing some €200 million in a new production plant for its Focus on organic growth high-performance neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR). This additional production capacity is scheduled to come on We aim to generate most of our future growth organically – by expandstream from 2015. ing existing production facilities and increasing investment in new • A joint venture of LANXESS and the Taiwanese company TSRC state-of-the-art sites, through product innovations and, last but not Corporation is currently building Asia’s most advanced facility for least, through further improvements in process efficiency. In 2012 the production of NBR rubber in Nantong, China. alone, we plan to invest around €600 million. • At the same time, our Performance Butadiene Rubbers and Technical Rubber Products business units are expanding capacities at a total of five sites in Europe, North America and Latin America. Performance Polymers segment • To strengthen our Semi-Crystalline Products business unit’s hightech plastics operations, we are building new compounding plants • The Butyl Rubber business unit is constructing a state-of-the-art in Gastonia, United States, and Porto Feliz, Brazil; expanding the butyl rubber facility in Singapore that is scheduled to start proHamm-Uentrop site in Germany operated by our joint venture duction at the beginning of 2013. Costing some €400 million, with DuPont; and increasing capacities for key intermediates in this is the largest investment project in the history of LANXESS. Antwerp, Belgium. 16 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Advanced Intermediates segment • In Lipetsk, Russia, Rhein Chemie is also constructing LANXESS’s first production facility in that country to supply additives and • Through 2012, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business release agents to the rubber processing and tire industries there. unit will be expanding production capacities for synthetic menthol at the site in Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. Further information about these projects and the activities successfully completed before the editorial deadline of this Annual Report can be found in the segment sections starting on page 18. Performance Chemicals segment • Starting in 2013, the Leather business unit will be supplying Continuing our successful acquisition strategy premium products to China, the world’s largest market for leather chemicals, from a new facility in Changzhou. We also intend to continue generating additional growth through • The Rhein Chemie business unit is building a new facility in Porto selective acquisitions. Our M&A record shows that we understand Feliz, Brazil, and expanding capacities in Burzaco, Argentina. how to further grow our leadership positions in this way. In the past Rhein Chemie is therefore preparing for further growth in Latin five years, we have added a large number of activities to our portfolio. America as well. All these acquisitions have had a positive impact on earnings per share within just a short time, thanks to the new business and cost synergies generated. Strengthening the LANXESS Group with Selective Acquisitions Year Company/business Business unit Economic driver 2006 CISA Leather Vertical integration 2008 Petroflex Performance Butadiene Rubbers Growth in the BRIC countries ICOS Corporation laboratories Saltigo Expand activities in the United States R&M E.M.S. GmbH metering Material Protection Products Improve international market penetration of Velcorin stabilizers instruments business Jinzhuo Chemicals Inorganic Pigments Expand activities in Asia 2009 Gwalior Chemicals Advanced Industrial Intermediates Strengthen global position Jiangsu Polyols Advanced Industrial Intermediates Expand activities in Asia 2010 Clariant product line (phenolic active Material Protection Products Strengthen product portfolio ingredients for disinfectants) Parts of the Flexsys primary Rubber Chemicals Strengthen product portfolio accelerators business 2011 DSM EPDM business Technical Rubber Products Expand portfolio of premium EPDM products; access ACE technology Syngenta material protection business Material Protection Products Strengthen product portfolio in response to urbanization megatrend Verichem Material Protection Products Strengthen product portfolio in response to urbanization megatrend; access EPA-registered active substances Unitex Functional Chemicals Expand product portfolio; access flexible production facilities Darmex Rhein Chemie Strengthen product portfolio in response to mobility megatrend; access bladder technology Flexsys product lines (Vocol and Santoweb) Rhein Chemie Expand product portfolio for the rubber industry Wacker Chemie AG tire release Rhein Chemie Expand market position; access new growth opportunities agents business in the United States Strategy 17 We are continuing to seek out small to mid-sized enterprises that Outlook for 2012 immediately benefit our core business. In this respect, 2011 was the most active year in our history. In recent years, we have used our product portfolio to successfully position our company in the key customer industries and the world’s A milestone in our growth strategy was the acquisition of the Keltan growth regions. We aim to further strengthen our position in the comEPDM business from Dutch company Royal DSM N.V., which took ing years as well. economic effect at the start of May 2011, following approval by the antitrust authorities. This acquisition strengthens the position of our Although we must expect growing economic uncertainty and greater Technical Rubber Products business unit in the steadily growing market customer restraint in 2012, we still anticipate robust business perfor the synthetic rubber EPDM and gives us access to the innovaformance by our three segments. Our key customer industries are tive ACE technology. Compared to conventional technologies, ACE expected to continue developing positively, though with regional variareduces energy costs in the production of EPDM and, at the same tions. We are extremely well-positioned worldwide in all segments to time, increases the range of applications for these types of rubber. again benefit from this growth in 2012. We are currently investing €12 million to build new capacities using this technology at the site in Geleen, Netherlands, that was acquired Our successfully concluded capital expenditure projects and other with the transaction. measures for future organic growth initiated during 2011 are expected to make a significant contribution. Moreover, we will generate Through the acquisitions of Darmex in Argentina, Unitex and Verichem additional growth from the acquisitions we have made, our successful in the United States, and the material protection operations of Syngenta price-before-volume strategy, the focus on premium products, and AG, plus selective purchases of individual product lines from competiproduct and process innovations. tors, we have improved the market positions of the Rhein Chemie, Functional Chemicals and Material Protection Products business units Against this background, we are confident overall for 2012. We are in our Performance Chemicals segment. Further information about making better progress than ever toward achieving our medium-term these transactions can be found in the segment sections starting on growth target of €1.4 billion EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2015. page 18 of this Annual Report. We are also monitoring the market for mid-sized businesses or technologies that might be a good fit with our portfolio. Our liquidity and undrawn credit lines put us in a very good financial situation that will enable us to implement our growth strategy through further acquisitions. Segments Hard on the soft on the The coolant pipes in modern cars must satisfy a number of exacting requirements. Firstly, they transport a water/glycol mixture under pressure and at high temperatures. This may have a corrosive effect on many materials. Secondly, their surfaces have to be as smooth as possible: inside to minimize flow resistance and outside to ensure the tightest possible connection to other components. Customized high-tech plastics from our Durethan® product line not only display particularly high resistance properties and surface quality. They offer the engineer considerable design freedom. 20 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Performance Polymers The Performance Polymers segment brings together all our polymer activities and comprises the Butyl Rubber, Performance Butadiene Rubbers, Technical Rubber Products and Semi-Crystalline Products business units. They all hold leadership positions in their respective markets. People and a vehicle are transported across the Genipabu Lagoon in northeastern Brazil. An entry in LANXESS’s employee photo competition entitled “Megatrends – Megaphotos,” this picture artistically illustrates the mobility megatrend which is benefiting the Performance Polymers segment in particular. Segments 21 Performance Polymers Overview of the business units Legislators have now also recognized the huge potential of these tires and introduced corresponding regulations. From November 1, The Butyl Rubber business unit produces high-quality butyl and halo2012, all new vehicle tires in the European Union will have to be butyl rubbers for the tire and rubber industries. A key advantage of labeled to show their fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions. these products is their high impermeability to gas and moisture. The Tire manufacturers are already responding by marketing products Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit produces polybutathat comply with the new standards. However, the European Union diene rubber (PBR), solution styrene-butadiene rubber (SSBR) and is not alone in its efforts. South Korea, too, has decided to introduce emulsion styrene-butadiene rubber (ESBR), synthetic rubbers that mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model at the end of 2012. meet the most stringent requirements. Neodymium polybutadiene Similar legislation is also being debated in the United States, Brazil rubber (Nd-PBR) and SSBR are used especially for manufacturing and China. Japanese tire manufacturers voluntarily introduced a commodern, fuel-efficient tires. However, the products of the Performance parable labeling system at the start of 2010. Butadiene Rubbers business unit are also an indispensable component of many everyday products such as footwear, yogurt pots and golf As a key supplier to leading tire manufacturers, LANXESS will benefit balls. As one of the leading suppliers of technical rubber products, the from these initiatives, which will result in significant and, above all, Technical Rubber Products business unit delivers materials that are sustainable growth potential. This is because they will translate into an used in functional components in a wide range of applications – from increase in demand for green tires, which can only be produced with seals, hoses, profiles and cable sheathing to special films and adhehigh-tech synthetic rubber and additives. We expect around 2 billion sives. The Semi-Crystalline Products business unit is successful with tires to leave the production lines in 2015 – some 25 percent more the high-tech plastics Durethan® and Pocan® and their key strategic than today. Over the same period, the proportion of green tires is feedstocks. These products are used primarily in the automotive and likely to increase from 35 percent at present to around 50 percent. electronics industries. To satisfy this growing demand, we are making selective investments in the global expansion of our production capacities. Mobility megatrend is main growth driver Global expansion of production capacities The construction of our new, high-tech butyl rubber plant in Singapore is on track. Costing around With economic growth and prosperity on the rise, particularly in €400 million, it is our biggest investment project to date. From the emerging markets and developing countries, our world is becoming first quarter of 2013, this facility on Jurong Island should provide us increasingly mobile. However, greater mobility goes hand in hand with with additional annual production capacities of up to 100,000 tons to increased emissions and higher consumption of resources. Making meet the growing demand for butyl rubber in Asia. The plant will also mobility environmentally friendly is therefore one of the greatest set new standards in terms of environmental protection, with between technical challenges of our time. The business units in the Perfor10 and 15 percent of the investment volume going into technologies mance Polymers segment can use their pioneering technologies in that will cut energy and water consumption and reduce emissions. two areas to significantly contribute toward mastering this challenge. In June 2011, we also announced plans to build a new production facility for neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) close by. CostThe future belongs to green tires ing around €200 million, this facility will be the largest of its kind in the world with an annual capacity of 140,000 tons. It is scheduled The rolling resistance of tires accounts for around one quarter of a to come on stream in the first half of 2015. As was the case for the car’s fuel consumption. Improving the energy efficiency of tires is, butyl rubber plant, the key arguments in favor of the Singapore site therefore, the first important starting point for making mobility more were the good supply of raw materials, the excellent infrastructure, the environmentally friendly. As the market leader in high-performance availability of highly skilled employees, the large port and the proximity rubbers, we make it possible to achieve the key tire properties deto our growth markets in Asia. fined in the “magic triangle” of tire technology, combining low rolling resistance with good wet grip and excellent mileage. If all the vehicles in the world were fitted with these tires, annual fuel savings of some 20 billion liters could be achieved and CO2 emissions reduced by around 50 million tons each year. The success of electric mobility, too, will depend crucially on the degree to which tires with low rolling resistance can extend the still very limited range of electric vehicles. 22 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Company Ltd. – a Acquisition of DSM elastomers business completed At the start of joint venture company between LANXESS and the Taiwanese TSRC May 2011, we successfully completed the second largest acquisition Corporation – is constructing a new facility for the manufacture of in our company’s history by purchasing the elastomers business of NBR products in Nantong, northwest of Shanghai, at a cost of around Dutch-based Royal DSM N.V. €36 million. Asia’s most modern NBR plant will start with an annual capacity of 30,000 tons and supply the fast-growing Chinese market This transaction, worth €310 million, significantly improves the position with high-quality NBR grades from the first half of 2012. of our Technical Rubber Products business unit in the global market for the synthetic rubber ethylene-propylene-diene monomer (EPDM), In addition to these major new construction projects, we are also which we are marketing under the brand name Keltan. EPDM is used systematically expanding our existing facilities. above all in the automotive industry but also as a modifier for plastics, in the manufacture of oil additives and in the wire and cable and For example, we have invested €20 million in increasing the annual construction industries. Single-digit growth is forecast for the global production capacity of our butyl rubber plant in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, market in the next ten years, driven primarily by increasing demand by ten percent – or 14,000 tons. This project was finished at the end from China and Brazil. of 2011, ahead of the scheduled completion date in mid-2012. As part of the successful integration process, we are transforming the Capacities for Nd-PBR have been expanded by a total of 50,000 tons site acquired with the transaction at Geleen, Netherlands, into the new a year at our sites in Dormagen, Germany; Orange, United States; and headquarters of our global EPDM business and an innovation center Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Brazil. We have already started a second within the global LANXESS network. A new administration building expansion phase in Orange, which will increase annual capacities for accommodating up to 120 employees is scheduled for completion SSBR and Nd-PBR by an additional 20,000 tons. With an investment at the start of 2013. During 2013, we also plan to invest €12 million volume of €10 million, this project is scheduled for completion in in converting the largest of the three production lines – and therefore the third quarter of 2012. The aforementioned measures will result half the site’s capacities of 160,000 tons a year – to the innovative indirectly in increased capacities for SSBR at our production site in Keltan ACE technology. Compared to conventional technologies, Port Jérôme, France. ACE reduces the energy and production costs for EPDM and, at the same time, increases the range of possible applications for these In response to the considerable increase in global demand for our rubber products. synthetic high-performance rubber Therban®, we are expanding production capacities at our sites in Leverkusen, Germany, and Orange, Pioneer of sustainable rubber production In 2011, we achieved a United States, by 40 percent each. This investment is in the low singlenumber of successes in the development of sustainable technologies digit million euro range. The work in Leverkusen is due to be completed and processes for the production of synthetic rubber. in April 2012 and the work in Orange by the end of 2012. We increased our holding in listed U.S. biofuel and biochemical At our site in Dormagen, Germany, we are investing €17 million in manufacturer Gevo Inc. to 9.1 percent and signed a ten-year supply the expansion of our production capacities for the polychloroprene agreement. In cooperation with Gevo, we are seeking to manufacsolid rubber Baypren®. This project is scheduled for completion ture isobutene from renewable raw materials. A key precursor for the by the end of 2012 and will increase production by 10 percent to manufacture of butyl rubber, isobutene is conventionally produced in 63,000 tons a year. The expansion work will also see the deployment steam crackers using petroleum derivatives as a feedstock. Gevo is of a new technology that will make production more energy-efficient developing an alternative fermentation process using corn biomass. and resource-friendly. Tests performed over several months in a small unit in Leverkusen have shown that the butyl rubber produced there using biologically based We announced last year that we would be significantly expanding isobutene meets the high standards of the tire industry. EVM capacities at our site in Dormagen, Germany, to meet the steady rise in demand for special elastomers. €9 million is being invested to increase production by 30 percent to 15,000 tons each year. The new capacities will be available from the second half of 2012. Segments 23 Performance Polymers Rolling resistance/ fuel efficiency Wet grip/ In a system similar to the one already used braking performance for domestic appliances, classes from A (best performance) to G (worst performance) are intended to ensure greater transparency for consumers and support their decision-making process when buying new tires. The rolling resistance of category A tires will be around 40 percent lower than that of category G tires, which translates into a fuel saving of around Noise emissions/ ten percent. external rolling noise Under the name Keltan Eco, we introduced the world’s first bio-based Partnerships strengthened in growth regions We have strengthened EPDM rubber in September 2011. This material is made of ethylene several successful long-term partnerships with customers in Asia by derived from sugarcane. In terms of quality, it is on a par with convenconcluding new agreements. tionally produced ethylene. In future, we aim to supply the global market with around 10,000 tons of Keltan Eco each year from the plant at For example, we will now be supplying South Korean tire manufacturer Triunfo, Brazil, which we acquired with the DSM elastomers business. Hankook with SSBR and Nd-PBR until 2015. The world number seven in the tire industry is currently expanding its production capacities in In 2011, we continued our successful series of “Rubber Days” conSouth Korea, China, Indonesia and Hungary. We have concluded an ferences designed to foster and expand our international network agreement that will run until 2014 to supply premium halobutyl rubber of manufacturers, customers and research institutes. Four events in to the Triangle Group, one of China’s biggest tire manufacturers. This Germany, South Korea, Japan and China brought together leading company has been a customer for regular butyl and halobutyl rubber industry experts for discussion and an exchange of views. for more than a decade. We have also signed a long-term agreement to supply high-grade EPDM rubber to South Korean automotive supOur Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit received the inauplier Hwaseung Corporation. Additionally, there are plans to expand gural “Michelin Supplier Award 2010” in June 2011 in recognition of our joint research and development activities in the field of special its outstanding quality and innovative strength. This award is presented rubber applications. to suppliers that have made a special contribution toward helping Michelin achieve its quality targets. Performance Butadiene Rubbers is the only supplier to produce top-quality high-performance rubber in three regions of the world – and is therefore the ideal partner for exacting tire manufacturers. 24 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Polyamides like Durethan® and polybutylene terephthalates like Pocan® have a whole host of applications in the cars on our roads today, including on-board electronics, media hoses and weight-saving bodywork parts. Lightweight construction – Thanks to this know-how, we are the preferred partner to many major a market with a promising future automotive manufacturers. As a result, we too are benefiting from the rising demand for cars, particularly in the BRICS countries. Overall, The second important starting point for environmentally friendly mobility we expect global demand for high-tech plastics to grow annually by is the substitution of traditional materials, such as steel or aluminum, around 7 percent through 2020. In Asia, and especially in China, with innovative high-tech plastics and intelligent composites. Currently growth rates are likely to be considerably higher. We are responding in Europe, plastic parts account for around 15 percent of a vehicle’s to this market growth by significantly increasing capacities. weight. Due to the trend toward lightweight construction and the increasing importance of electromobility, we expect this to increase to New capacities for precursors and end products At our site in Wuxi, more than 20 percent in the near future. China, we have already completed the second capacity expansion at our state-of-the-art compounding facility for high-tech plastics since Using hybrid technology – a plastic/metal composite technology that production started in 2005. This expansion phase came on stream combines the strengths of sheet steel and polyamide – the Semiin July 2011 and has boosted our capacities by almost 50 percent Crystalline Products business unit has for some time had available an to around 60,000 tons a year. innovative solution that can be used to reduce the weight of vehicles and thus their fuel consumption. This solution is subject to ongoing At the end of January 2012, production also started at our first comoptimization and makes no compromises in terms of design and safety. pounding facility in India, located at our site in Jhagadia. Built at a cost Hybrid components are up to 30 percent lighter than their all-steel of more than €10 million, this plant has an initial annual capacity of counterparts but deliver the same performance. Segments 25 Performance Polymers 20,000 tons and, together with our facility at Wuxi, China, will supply At our site in Antwerp, Belgium, the expansion by 10 percent of our the entire Asia-Pacific region with our high-tech plastics Durethan® caprolactam capacities was concluded as planned at a cost of around and Pocan®. €35 million and we have already initiated the next project there – expansion of our glass fibers production plant. We will be investing Through mid-2013, we intend to invest a similar amount in construct€15 million to raise capacities by 10 percent from the current level of ing a facility of comparable size in Porto Feliz, Brazil. This will reinforce 60,000 tons a year. Like caprolactam, glass fibers are an important development of the site as our production center for cutting-edge intermediate in the manufacture of our high-tech plastics. technologies in Latin America. Our global production network and our ability to deliver at all times, Construction of our Semi-Crystalline Products business unit’s first no matter how complex the requirements, are key factors for success production facility in the United States got under way in the second in the high-tech plastics business. This is evidenced by the “Global quarter of 2011. On the world’s largest market for high-tech plastics, Supplier Award 2011” we received at the end of 2011 from our demand is currently being driven by, in particular, stricter fuel conlongstanding customer MANN+HUMMEL. This award from the world’s sumption standards for cars and light commercial vehicles. The new leading provider of filter systems recognizes not only our product quality compounding facility in Gastonia, North Carolina, will also have an and innovative capability but also our delivery reliability and flexibility. initial annual capacity of 20,000 tons and will come on stream at the end of 2012. This investment will create up to 55 new jobs. In response to growing global demand for polybutylene terephthalate (PBT), we will also be doubling capacity at the compounding facility in Hamm-Uentrop, Germany, owned jointly with U.S. chemicals group DuPont. This project represents an investment of around €10 million and is scheduled for completion in 2012. The Durethan® oil pans fitted in the engines for the Mercedes Actros trucks from Daimler are up to 120 centimeters long, 40 centimeters wide and 35 centimeters deep. These three dimensions repRecord resent a real pioneering achievement because never before have polyamide 6 and 66 been used to make such large engine oil pans. This record size confirms thanks toHiAnt the enormous performance potential in high-tech plastics that can be unlocked by applying the services marketed under the HiAnt brand. We used a series of calculations and simulations to confirm the feasibility of the project, thus helping to ensure that the pans could be designed on the computer properly and costeffectively over a relatively short development period. 26 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Advanced Intermediates The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises our businesses with basic and fine chemicals. The Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit (formerly Basic Chemicals) produces a wide range of high-quality industrial chemicals, while Saltigo operates on the custom synthesis market, specializing in tailored solutions for customers in the agrochemical and pharmaceutical sectors. Both business units are leading suppliers in Europe and are consistently expanding their positions in other regions, too. This photo of the impressive Longji Rice Terrace was taken close to the city of Longsheng, China, and depicts the agriculture megatrend. The Chinese word “longji” means dragon’s backbone, an apt description of the terrace’s appearance. Segments 27 Advanced Intermediates Advanced Intermediates benefits from of fragrances and flavorings, LANXESS is one of the world’s leading agriculture megatrend manufacturers of synthetic menthol and thymol. Our entire output is coordinated with this contractual partner and its processes. The capital The world’s population is growing steadily, particularly in the emerging expenditure project will not only double our plant’s capacity, but also economies. According to the United Nations, the global population yield significant improvements in process efficiency. For example, we exceeded 7 billion in October 2011 – and it will continue to rise to intend to use a highly efficient new catalyst developed by LANXESS around 9.2 billion by 2050. This development is a key driver of the in the expanded plant. We will also implement an energy recovery agriculture megatrend because, as the number of people on our planet technology developed by our own engineers that will greatly improve increases, so too will the demand for food. For example, the demand for the energy balance of our menthol production. The expansion project cereals is expected to grow by 1.5 percent each year through 2025. is scheduled for completion in the first half of 2012. At the same time, however, climate change and increasing industrialization are likely to actually decrease the amount of land available for Efficiency also characterizes Mebofix®, the new drying accelerator from agriculture, thus necessitating a considerable improvement in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates for conventional calcium sulfate efficiency of cultivation. screeds. It reduces drying times by more than half and ensures that freshly laid screeds can be walked on after just two days. This greatly The product portfolios of our Advanced Industrial Intermediates and improves environmental compatibility because far less water is needed Saltigo business units include many key intermediates for synthesizing than when using conventional drying accelerators. agrochemicals that can help farmers protect their plants and increase their yields. Further development of Saltigo strategy Major investments improve competitiveness At Saltigo, fiscal 2011 was characterized by further development of the business unit’s strategy. In the future, while still focusing on its 2011 saw the completion of two major capital expenditure projects core business of custom and exclusive synthesis, greater emphasis with a total volume of around €40 million, a clear signal from the will be placed on harnessing business opportunities in the field of Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of its commitment non-exclusive fine chemicals. to Germany as a production location. Saltigo already has an attractive portfolio of fine chemicals produced In Krefeld-Uerdingen, LANXESS’s second largest production site worldon an industrial scale. These include precursors for polymer addiwide, a new formalin plant came on stream in December 2011. As a tives, fragrances and flavorings, and intermediates for electronics result, we are no longer dependent on buying in this feedstock, which and cosmetics. The attractive target markets include, for example, the is needed for the production of trimethylolpropane (TMP). This is used, active ingredients segment of the agrochemical industry. In the comamong other things, to make products for the furniture, construction ing years, Saltigo aims to further strengthen its market position with and automotive industries. Synergy effects in energy utilization and multi-customer products by attracting new customers for its existing lower transport costs will contribute to improving the competitiveness product portfolio and systematically expanding its range of services. of our TMP. We optimized the process for manufacturing this product alongside constructing the formalin plant. The same production proOne example of the successful introduction of a multi-customer product cess is also used to manufacture our popular and successful brands is the insect repellent Saltidin®. Highly rated by consumer organizaRovelan®, an animal feed additive, and Folanx®, a leaf fertilizer. tions and recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) as the substance of choice for malaria prophylaxis, this product has As we had announced, we began work to expand our menthol producenjoyed an excellent reputation on the market for many years. With tion operations in Krefeld-Uerdingen in July 2011. Demand for synSaltidin® CombiSun, Saltigo has now developed its first product for the thetic menthol, a key component of many aromas and pharmaceutical consumer market. This water-resistant preparation contains 15 percent products, continues to grow steadily. Working together with a producer Saltidin® combined with UVA and UVB filters. It is therefore perfectly suited for use in tropical climates. Customers in the cosmetics and pharmaceuticals industries, for example, can apply for a license to use the frame formulation and then produce and market the preparation under their own brand name. 28 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Performance Chemicals The Performance Chemicals segment groups together our seven application-oriented business units in the field of process and functional chemicals: Material Protection Products, Inorganic Pigments, Functional Chemicals, Leather, Rhein Chemie, Rubber Chemicals and Ion Exchange Resins. They are all among the top suppliers worldwide in their respective markets. Rapid urbanization: Pudong, Shanghai’s pulsating financial and high-tech hub, has developed in just two decades and is representative of the urbanization megatrend. From the start, this district has posted high levels of economic growth. Segments 29 Performance Chemicals Overview of the business units Our market position was strengthened by two further transactions in fiscal 2011. With the purchase in April of the Vocol and Santoweb The Material Protection Products business unit is one of the leading product lines from U.S. company Flexsys, we systematically expanded global manufacturers of preservatives and biocidal active ingredients. our portfolio for rubber processors. By acquiring the tire release agent Inorganic Pigments is one of the world’s biggest producers of iron activities of Wacker Chemie AG in July, we improved our leading posioxide and chrome oxide pigments for a wide range of applications. tion on this market and gained access to new growth opportunities, Functional Chemicals provides the plastics industry and many other especially in the United States. industries with plastics additives, phosphorus-based and specialty chemicals, and organic and inorganic colorants. As one of the few We plan to strengthen our market position in Russia by constructing suppliers to the leather industry, the Leather business unit offers all LANXESS’s first production facility at the Lipetsk site, starting in spring the products needed to process leather. Rhein Chemie produces 2012. Manufacturing rubber additives and release agents for our Rhein chemical specialties for the rubber, plastics and lubricant industries. Chemie business unit, this facility is scheduled to come on stream in Rubber Chemicals is among the world’s main suppliers of high-quality the first half of 2013 and will serve especially the automotive and tire rubber chemicals. The Ion Exchange Resins business unit is one of industries in Russia and the CIS. The total investment for the project the leading international producers of ion exchange resins, adsorbers amounts to approximately €5 million. Our current planning for the site and functional polymers. With the introduction of reverse osmosis envisages adding a facility to produce vulcanization bladders in 2016. membrane technology, the business unit now offers end-to-end solutions for water treatment. Portfolio expansion in response to This broad portfolio of innovative and increasingly sustainable premium urbanization megatrend products enables the business units of the Performance Chemicals segment to participate in several of the megatrends that are the focus With urbanization continuing unabated, the United Nations estimates of our activities. that around 70 percent of the world’s population will live in cities by 2050 compared to just under 50 percent today. This trend is most evident in the emerging markets and developing countries. In China Various solutions address mobility megatrend and India alone, around 100,000 people are migrating from the country to cities every day. It is believed that eleven new megacities The Rubber Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units of the Per– cities with more than 10 million inhabitants – will develop in these formance Chemicals segment are benefiting most from the mobility two countries by 2020. Our products are used in a large number of megatrend. customer industries that are benefiting from increasing urbanization. Following the acquisition of the Argentina-based Darmex group in January 2011, Rhein Chemie is now one of the world’s leading supStrengthening the Material Protection pliers of release agents for rubber products. It also has access to Products business unit the market for vulcanization bladders, which is worth an estimated €300 million. Bladders are used in the production or vulcanization In fiscal 2011, we focused particularly on strengthening the activities of tires to give them their final shape. We are now the first manufacof our Material Protection Products business unit in response to the turer in the world to offer perfectly coordinated release agents and urbanization megatrend. high-performance vulcanization bladders as a single-source solution. Since acquiring the material protection business of Swiss-based An increasing number of tire manufacturers are outsourcing the proSyngenta AG, we are now one of the leading suppliers of biocides duction of vulcanization bladders to specialists and we aim to benefit for protecting construction materials such as wood, plasterboard from this trend in the coming years. In Burzaco, Argentina, we are and coatings. The purchase in April 2011 largely covered patents, currently expanding our production capacities by 40 percent. We are customer lists, supply agreements and registrations for Syngenta also investing some €10 million to construct a new plant at our Porto products. This transaction has given us access to a broad range of Feliz site in Brazil which, from the fourth quarter of 2012, will produce active ingredients for fungicides and insecticides and to application rubber additives and high-performance vulcanization bladders. technologies. It also marks the beginning of a long-term strategic partnership in which Syngenta will grant us access to substances and technologies developed in the future for use in material protection. 30 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The purchase of Pittsburgh-based biocide specialist Verichem in Complementing our ion exchange resins, reverse osmosis membrane November 2011 strengthens our position on the North American elements make it possible to remove minute particles from water, along material protection products market. It expands our existing portfolio with other undesirable substances such as nitrates, pesticides, viruses and gives us access to other active ingredients registered with the and bacteria. They are mainly used to treat water for power plants and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). These agents protect to produce ultra pure water for the microelectronics industry. In future, coatings, adhesives, construction materials, fibers and paper from the membrane elements manufactured in Bitterfeld will also be used destruction or discoloration by microorganisms. to produce drinking water from brackish water or seawater. The global membrane market is currently estimated to have a volume of around €1 billion, and this figure is set to rise further still. Membrane elements Concrete at its most spectacular marketed under the brand name Lewabrane® were introduced at the beginning of 2012. This has made LANXESS an end-to-end supplier In 2011, the Colored Concrete Works® campaign by the Inorganic in the field of water treatment. Pigments business unit continued to demonstrate the technical, esthetic and design potential of Bayferrox® pigments when it comes to Alongside the new facility, an extensive research and development coloring architectural concrete. For example, the campaign focused program has been initiated at the site and at other locations in the on two museums: the Polish Aviation Museum in Krakow, Poland, and region. Already home to a plant for the production of ion exchange the Casa das Histórias Paula Rego in Cascais, Portugal. Designed resins, Bitterfeld is now the center for our water activities in Germany. by star architects, the museum in Poland echoes the fascination of aviation and aviation technology. The Portuguese museum brings In March 2011, following a successful test phase, we started regutogether architecture and nature to create an esthetic of contrasts. lar production at Asia’s most modern ion exchange resins plant at It was designed by one of Portugal’s most famous architects and is our site in Jhagadia, India. The facility boasts an annual capacity of considered by “art,” a leading German art and design magazine, to 35,000 tons. Around 200 employees at the site manufacture products be among the world’s most spectacular exhibition venues. for industrial water treatment in the semi-conductor, pharmaceutical, food and energy industries. The Asia-Pacific region is already the largest market for ion exchange resins. Ongoing industrialization and Expanding business in response continued population growth will result in an above-average increase to the water megatrend in demand for clean water in the coming years. Usable water is a rare commodity. Today, around one billion people have no access to clean water. Even in areas where water is available Successful expansion of international in sufficient quantities, it often cannot be used due to high levels of production network contamination. State-of-the-art industrial processes like those used to generate electricity cannot be operated safely and economically We announced our first acquisition of a U.S. production facility in without ultra pure water. Population growth, environmental pollution October 2011. The purchase of Unitex Chemical Corporation in and climate change will greatly exacerbate this situation in the decades Greensboro, North Carolina, broadens our Functional Chemicals ahead. Against this backdrop, water treatment products are gaining business unit’s portfolio of environmentally friendly phthalate-free in significance – and with them the activities of our Ion Exchange plasticizers, which are posting growth of around seven percent each Resins business unit. year. The facility at Greensboro has an annual capacity of more than 50,000 tons and is characterized by its flexible production units. End-to-end supplier for water treatment In July 2011, we started work on the construction of our new leather chemicals production facility in Changzhou in Jiangsu province, Following the successful start of the pilot and development phase in China. Equipped with cutting-edge technologies and environmenMay 2011, we commissioned our production plant for reverse osmosis tally friendly processes, this facility will have an annual capacity of up membrane technology at the Bitterfeld site in September. We are now to 50,000 tons. From the first half of 2013, it will produce premium the only manufacturer of these membrane elements in Europe. The leather chemicals such as Tanigan®, Isoderm®, Euderm® and Levotan® new production units, laboratories, logistics facilities and offices at the for the steadily growing local market. The investment of €30 million site represent an investment of around €30 million that will result in will create around 150 new jobs. some 200 new jobs in the long term. Segments 31 Performance Chemicals The photo competition entry that illustrates the water megatrend shows a small boy playing on the Marina Barrage in Singapore. This structure protects the heart of the city state from flooding, has created a freshwater reservoir covering 240 hectares, and is a popular place for Singaporeans to spend their leisure time. As well as expanding our production network, we are also broadening In India, we have now relocated the production of leather chemicals, our service offering in China. For example, we opened a new techmaterial protection products and products of the Rhein Chemie businology center at our research and development facility in Qingdao ness unit from Madurai to Jhagadia, thus concentrating more of our in July 2011. Ten specialists from the Material Protection Products Indian manufacturing activities at this state-of-the-art site. business unit are working at this center to expand our service offering for the Chinese beverage industry. Alongside analytical, technical and consulting services, our portfolio includes customized solutions based on our Velcorin® cold sterilization technology. China will become the world’s largest beverage market in the next ten years. 32 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The 2011 Colored Concrete Works® campaign by the Inorganic Pigments business unit showed impressive examples of the uses of Bayferrox® pigments: the Polish Aviation Museum in Krakow, Poland (below), and the Casa das Histórias Paula Rego in Cascais, Portugal (left). German art and design magazine “art” considers the latter to be one of the world’s most spectacular exhibition venues. Segments 33 Performance Chemicals New premium products underline commitment to The Leather business unit, too, has committed to sustainable and sustainability ecologically compatible products and processes with its pioneering “Sustainable Leather Management” initiative. A unique technology A range of innovations in 2011 underlines our commitment to combinplatform will be used to develop innovative solutions for improving ing cutting-edge technology and sustainability to generate pioneering efficiency in the production, processing and recycling of this favorite solutions. age-old natural material. The Leather business unit already develops and markets the X series portfolio of premium products and system With “Natural Choice,” the Material Protection Products business unit solutions tailored specifically to the sustainable production of leather. launched its first product consisting entirely of natural ingredients. This innovative flavoring with stabilizing properties is a sustainable alternaThis portfolio includes the X-Tan® organic tanning system launched tive to conventional preservatives for beverages containing fruit juice in September 2011. One key feature of this entirely new tanning such as still lemonade or isotonic sports drinks. Initially available only process is the high degree of whiteness, which makes it possible in the United States, the world’s largest beverage market, “Natural to produce brilliant colors during subsequent dyeing. Moreover, no Choice” is to be introduced successively in other countries. environmentally hazardous or harmful substances occur at any stage of the process. X-Tan® combines first-rate performance with ecologiIn 2011, our Inorganic Pigments business unit was honored once cal benefits and therefore perfectly fits the objectives of “Sustainable again as the best supplier of iron oxide color pigments by the reLeather Management.” spected Brazilian trade journal “Paint & Pintura.” The judges praised the outstanding product quality and, in particular, the business unit’s A plastics additive launched by the Rhein Chemie business unit in innovative strength and high environmental standards in production. 2011 significantly improves market opportunities for bioplastics. For more than 85 years, our high-performance iron oxide pigments BioAmide™ extends the service life of bio-based polyesters, enabling have combined optimum shade and color strength with easy processtheir use for the first time in long-life high-end applications. It also makes ing and very good dispersibility. it possible to increase the proportion of renewable raw materials in ready-to-use plastics. In recognition of this innovative product develThe products manufactured by Inorganic Pigments do more than just opment, Rhein Chemie received the prestigious Global New Product add color, as evidenced by the successful launch of two new Bayoxide® Innovation Award from respected consulting firm Frost & Sullivan. products in 2011. With high-purity technical iron oxides for the production of lithium iron phosphate (LFP), we have strengthened our The Rubber Chemicals business unit has been producing zinc oxide focus on the mobility megatrend. LFP is a cathode material used in refor 80 years. Originally an important additive in rubber production, it chargeable lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. In response to the has in recent years become a popular specialty chemical with a broad agriculture megatrend, we have also introduced a new technical iron range of uses. With applications ranging from ceramics, electronics and oxide that can be used to remove sulfur from biogas. This was tested household products to specialty pharmaceuticals and UV protection, together with the Chamber of Agriculture of North Rhine-Westphalia zinc oxide products are becoming increasingly important. They owe and complies with the provisions of Germany’s fertilizer legislation. the beneficial properties that make them so popular to a very special and complex production process mastered by only a few manufacturStarting 2012, the Functional Chemicals business unit – in a strategic ers worldwide apart from LANXESS. partnership with U.S. company BioAmber Inc. – plans to manufacture phthalate-free plasticizers from succinic acid derived from the waste To support the market launch of Lewabrane® membrane elements from agriculture and sugarcane production. The fermentation process for water treatment (see page 30), the Ion Exchange Resins business used to produce the acid requires much less energy, is significantly unit also introduced a completely revised version of its calculation more cost-effective and emits less CO2 than the conventional process software for customer-specific engineering. This enables users to using fossil fuels. This partnership is further evidence of our high level switch seamlessly from designing reverse osmosis systems to ion of commitment to green chemistry. exchange resins – all in the same package. Customers can therefore utilize the benefits of our end-to-end water treatment solutions to generate real added value. Corporate Responsibility A substitute for steel Thanks to its outstanding stability, highly reinforced polyamide 6 can be used in many automotive engineering applications. As an alternative to sheet steel, aluminum and glass-mat-reinforced thermoplastics (GMT), the material boasts a large number of advantages in terms of design and production. One example is the spare wheel recess with integrated reinforcing channels for the Audi A8. Using our high-tech plastic Durethan®, it is possible to accurately produce the complex component geometry in just one injection molding step – which could not be done using sheet metal. 36 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Corporate The greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility (CR) activities are achieved if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially, Responsibility economic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core business or to our available expertise. Alongside climate protection, our commitment to education is a key area of activity. Management system drives success As an international specialty chemicals We have established a globally integrated management system to breathe life into the concept of sustainable development in our everyday group, we bear a major responsibility business. In addition to internal directives and operating procedures, toward people and the environment. strict quality and environmental standards in line with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 apply worldwide. Our central management system Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this provides the necessary global structures to ensure sustainable work sense of responsibility. Safety, environpractices throughout the company. With this toolbox, we have created a transparent framework of values and rules that unites management mental protection, social responsibility, and employees across national borders. quality and commercial efficiency are all In 2007, we started integrating all our sites worldwide into a single key corporate goals at LANXESS. management system covered by one global matrix certificate. We regularly commission external, independent experts to audit and verify the implementation status of this process. In 2011, the sales office in Moscow, Russia, was included in the management system for the first Good for business, good for society time. By the end of the year, a total of 81 sites (mainly production facilities, technical laboratories and sales offices) had been integrated into In its business activities, LANXESS is committed to taking account of our matrix certificate, thus making it one of the most comprehensive the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. industrial certificates in the world. For our sites in the United States, “Good for business, good for society.” This short sentence perfectly we have also received certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible sums up our approach to business. It reflects our conviction that our Care®). In 2012, we plan to integrate our facilities in Liyang, China, products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development can and Jhagadia, India, and the sites we acquired from DSM in Geleen, make a significant contribution to supporting our customers, protecting Netherlands, and Triunfo, Brazil, into the matrix certificate. the environment and improving the quality of life of people everywhere. Good for Business Good for Society • Strengthening reputation • Protection of climate/environment • Improving image Corporate • Social responsibility • Transparency, trust and good partnership Responsibility • Training and education with stakeholder groups • Culture • Satisfied employees and stakeholders • Safety and security • Increasing awareness among customers and public • Neighborhood Corporate Responsibility 37 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Area Principle Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2) Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5) Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6) Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8) Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9) Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Resource and energy efficiency is a critical factor in climate and All management systems are based on values and guidelines that proenvironmental protection. We have in the past taken measures to vide a clear framework for a company’s management and employees. ensure the efficient utilization of both resources and energy. However, Our system is based on established global standards and on our in light of the greatly increased significance of resource and energy company’s own basic rules, which are subject to ongoing amendment. efficiency in both ecological and economic terms, we decided in 2010 to introduce a global energy management system at LANXESS. With By signing up to the world’s largest and fastest growing corporate a uniform approach, process transparency and energy efficiency as social responsibility initiative, the U.N. Global Compact, we once again part of a well-structured operative energy management system, we raised our sustainability profile during the reporting period. With its aim to preserve resources, reduce energy costs and thus considerably established principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, improve our competitiveness. In February 2011, we published our environmental protection and anti-corruption, the pact now numbers correspondingly revised corporate policy in which climate protection more than 8,000 participants from over 135 nations. and resource efficiency are given a more prominent position. Transparency and improved public dialogue are among the stated We established a project group to drive forward the introduction of objectives of the Responsible Care® Global Charter launched by the an energy management system based on ISO 50001. This has been International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). This is the only developed with practical application in two pilot facilities in Leverkusen way to build confidence and trust in an industry that plays a crucial role and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. In the reporting period, we drafted in improving people’s living standards and quality of life. LANXESS a global energy management guideline and compiled an accomhas supported this initiative since 2006, when it also became one of panying handbook to ensure the optimal implementation of energy the signatories to the ICCA charter. For us, applying the Responsible management at operational level. All business units have appointed Care® Global Charter to our business means working consistently to energy management officers with responsibility for global energy improve our processes and services in terms of environmental and management. The focus of our activities is on transparently mapping climate protection, health, safety and quality. Amended in February energy flows and identifying potential for improving efficiency as the 2011, our corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter basis for systematic analysis and a prioritization of our measures. We are integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. are using the experience gained in our two pilot facilities to develop We firmly believe that our company’s future can only be safeguarded standards for analysis and process development. We aim to complete by acting responsibly. implementation of our energy management system in Germany by the end of 2012. Roll-out to other countries should then take place. 38 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Our Corporate Compliance Guideline is a code of legal compliance and In September 2011, representatives from the tire industry, the certificaresponsible conduct that is binding on all LANXESS employees and tion organization TÜV, various NGOs and LANXESS came together in commits them to act in accordance with the law, apply the principles Leverkusen to discuss the potential of modern green tires in reducing of Responsible Care® and demonstrate ethical conduct. In our view, fuel consumption and thus also CO2 emissions in vehicles. The key such conduct also includes respect for human rights and the avoidance topics on the agenda included: of child labor. The guideline also covers issues such as competition, occupational, product and plant safety, environmental protection, • The importance of the proposed tire labeling regulations in the E.U.; and interactions with other people. To oversee implementation of • Ways of raising the still relatively low level of consumer awareness the Corporate Compliance Guideline, the Board of Management has for the advantages of high-performance tires and tire labeling; established the Compliance Committee, comprising representatives • Potential instruments for preventing tire labeling abuse; from a range of specialist backgrounds. This Committee handles all • The considerable differences between regional tire markets; referrals concerning compliance violations, with the goal of countering • The outlook for the tire industry through 2020. illegal or unethical conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and introducing suitable measures to prevent improprieties altogether. The consequences of E.U. tire regulations and the associated challenges in communication with consumers were also a main focus of All globally applicable LANXESS directives and guidelines are our second roundtable meeting in Brussels in December 2011. For contained in a system that is accessible to every employee. the first time, representatives from the tire industry were joined by politicians and representatives from the automotive industry. First stakeholder roundtable meetings Given the positive feedback from both events, roundtable meetings will continue to be an important instrument for stakeholder dialogue Current ecological and social issues and related opinions are very in 2012. We generally aim to expand dialogue to include other important to LANXESS. We therefore actively seek dialogue with areas where our expertise can make a key contribution to a more key stakeholders on issues that are or may become relevant to our sustainable future. company and our economic success. We see this dialogue as an opportunity to actively engage in public debate and, at the same time, receive direct feedback on our business activities, especially with Praise from all sides for our CR activities respect to corporate responsibility. We consider the large number of external ratings and awards we The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, institutions received in 2011 as confirmation that we are on the right track with and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through our our CR strategy. business units and who therefore have an interest in our activities. The primary purpose of our dialogue with customers, employees, • In recognition of our ambitious sustainability initiatives, oekom suppliers, and representatives of the capital market, politics, public research – a leading independent rating agency for sustainable authorities and NGOs is therefore to identify topics that we consider investment – increased our corporate responsibility rating to “C+.” to be significant in terms of our corporate responsibility. At the same This upgrade applies to both social and environmental activities. time, we seek to encourage mutual understanding and build trust • The capital market recognized our improved sustainability profile through open and constructive dialogue. by including LANXESS in the renowned FTSE4Good index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World. Following our first telephone survey in 2010, we engaged in a more • Our business units, country companies and individual sites also personal dialogue with our stakeholders at two roundtable meetings received a host of awards for their sustainable product innoheld as planned during the reporting period. vations, environmental initiatives and social commitment. Corporate Responsibility 39 Employees In fiscal 2011, we continued to seek direct contact with talented university and school students through our presence at a large number Our successful growth strategy and the associated increase in of career fairs and university events and by organizing our own events. employee numbers in all key target markets have made human We also cooperate with university career centers and fund a range of resources activities an increasingly important strategic factor. Comscholarships as part of the German government’s “Germany Scholarpared to the prior year, our workforce grew by 1,742, including 301 ship” program. In the United States, we support high school and women and 1,517 non-German employees. At our companies in college students interested in pursuing a career in chemistry through Germany, we hired 382 new employees across all age groups. Our the American Chemical Society. In Brazil, we identify future talents main focus was on specialists in the areas of production and technolthrough a structured intern program encompassing both training and ogy, especially engineers and chemists. practical phases. With the “Inside LANXESS” program, we give high school graduates an insight into working life. Recruiting young talent In China, alongside our existing alliances, we have now entered into a partnership with the Changzhou Institute of Engineering Technology. As part of its sustainable corporate policy, LANXESS is continuing This aims to share practical and scientific expertise with the university, to position itself as an attractive employer on all key markets. We give students an insight into the working world through internships are giving particular attention to the BRICS countries and our home and thus arouse their interest in working for LANXESS. In Pittsburgh, market in Germany. United States, we support the Carnegie Science Center in a variety of ways – for example, as a founding sponsor of the “Center for STEM By means of various activities, we aim to attract, integrate and retain the (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Education and best talents for our company. In recent years, we have worked closely Career Development.” Activities include projects for high school stuwith our employees to develop the basis for an employer brand with dents and events for young women interested in science. the goal of conveying an authentic image of LANXESS. Our corporate culture is based on flat hierarchies and encourages employees to assume responsibility in an international context at an early stage. This gives our employees unique development opportunities. At a large number of recruiting events, university graduates gained interesting insights into the LANXESS Trainee Program and also had the opportunity to experience our products up close. 40 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 We also intensified our cooperation with selected schools and uniDeveloping young managers Each year, under the motto “Prepare for versities worldwide with a view to giving teachers, children, faculty the Future,” our LANXESS corporate trainee programs attract highly and students the opportunity to discover more about the many skilled university graduates. Our aim is to prepare the participants interesting functions in process engineering, chemical research and for an international career within the LANXESS Group and establish central administration that we can offer on account of our chemical a global pool of young managers with international experience. In and process diversity. fiscal 2011, our marketing, controlling, finance and human resources programs were complemented by a new engineering program. Since Establishing early contact with schools close to our sites in Germany the initiative started, we have offered a wide range of entry-level posiand around the world, for example, as part of specialist project weeks, tions to 51 university graduates with an interest in embarking on an and promoting science education at local high schools are two of the international career. focal points of LANXESS’s extensive education initiative, which we continued to extend in fiscal 2011. As a company, we consider this In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program specifinitiative to be part of our social and corporate responsibility. ically for the Chinese market. This two-year program aims to prepare highly qualified business and technology graduates for management International partnership with Teach First Our special commitment roles and create a pool of local talent. In China, we were again honored to education is also reflected in our partnership with Teach First in as “China’s Top Employer” by the CRF Institute. In the United States, we Germany and India. We have been one of the main sponsors of this received two prestigious “Best Places to Work” awards: in Pennsylvania not-for-profit organization since 2010. Teach First, which is already and in Ohio. At our Pittsburgh site, we were also named “Manufacturer established in a number of countries, has set itself the goal of helping of the Year” by the Pittsburgh Business Times. school students who have had a difficult start in life, fostering their individual talents and supporting them in developing career prospects. Specially qualified university graduates from all disciplines, who also Encouraging and supporting individual development have the requisite soft skills, act as fellows for a period of two years, helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas with education and LANXESS has put in place a multi-tiered process of global HR developschooling tasks. In Germany, we focus particularly on supporting felment conferences enabling us to review the potential of talented lows specializing in mathematics and science. Activities at schools in employees and assess the performance and leadership skills of manaNorth Rhine-Westphalia will continue from February 2012. In addigerial staff on a regular basis. Moreover, the Development Center has tion to providing financial support, we are also making a practical become an established tool worldwide for assessing the potential of contribution through activities such as vocational training preparation future managers and supporting their development. Management for school students, personal coaching for fellows and a mentoring workshops are a special way of fostering and recording the potential program supported by our experienced managers. A parallel aim is of top managers. The results of this multi-dimensional approach are to recruit fellows to LANXESS after their assignments in schools. A an integral part of our HR development policy, which is augmented number of the fellows from the first year of the program are now workby systematic succession planning for key positions. ing for the company. We also offer the school students we support the opportunity to visit our facilities and help them apply for a vocational We do not impose a uniform leadership style on our managers. training place at LANXESS. Instead, we expect them to find a personal balance between strategic vision (Head), empathy (Heart) and the courage to make decisions We started working with Teach First in India in December 2010. The (Guts). We also provide our managerial staff with a wide range of first fellows assigned to the Indian partner schools in Mumbai and consulting services, including personal coaching and 360-degree Delhi were given the opportunity to complete internships at our sites feedback. In addition, the range of special modular and multi-dimenin India as part of the program. The school students they support are sional programs available at the LANXESS Academy was extended. also given career guidance and an insight into working life through Designed specifically to prepare trainee managers for their future visits to our facilities. In addition, LANXESS employees support projects tasks, these programs prove to be a very successful component of in the schools in their free time. our structured management training. Corporate Responsibility 41 2011 also saw the creation of the International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) as part of the LANXESS Academy. This one-year modular program is the first ever functional training offering for sales The International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) teams around the world and aims to develop both the specialist knowlteaches new approaches to ensure that our sales employees have the best-possible training. Our edge and soft skills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements aim is always to be that crucial one step ahead in the programs already in place in the business units and countries by international competition. facilitating communication and the sharing of best practices across business units and national borders. We consider this training to be a targeted investment in our employees and an important lever in our efforts to further improve our customer relationships. It also gives LANXESS a crucial competitive edge in today’s global markets. The LANXESS Forum, featuring high-caliber lectures and a subsequent plenary discussion, explores societal trends and company issues, providing a platform for dialogue between employees and management. In 2011, it focused on topics such as Japan and China and the unusual scientific field of economics and happiness. With a view to optimizing our corporate culture, we conducted our first ever employee survey in 2011. Using the “Great Place to Work” approach, 800 employees were asked to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of their current work environment at LANXESS in Germany. The aim of the survey is to further enhance our appeal as an employer and optimize our attractive, motivating and performance-oriented workplace culture. Development opportunities and diversity for international markets Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. Today, LANXESS employs people from 67 countries across the world. Our successful focus on the BRICS countries is a deliberate strategy to increase proximity to local customers and markets. However, training, the transfer of know-how and practical experience are not one-way streets, which is why LANXESS is increasingly sending employees from the BRICS countries to its sites in Western Europe and North America. In this way, LANXESS is providing both new and experienced managers as well as skilled non-managerial employees with the opportunity for short stays abroad and longer international assignments. 42 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 With the five pillars of our XCare demographic concept, we are developing answers to the challenges of demographic change. In 2011, 241 employees – around eight percent of our managers – Our employees with their diverse qualities and skills are the key to worked as expatriates outside their home countries. In addition to the our success in the international arena. We aim to foster this diversity possibilities for sharing know-how and acquiring intercultural skills, and the differences within our global team to an even greater extent. these overseas assignments also provide employees with the chance This approach is beneficial both to our employees and to LANXESS. for personal development. Sending employees abroad will remain a Ensuring diversity within the workforce generates new ideas, impetus central HR policy in 2012. To encourage the transfer of know-how and greater creativity – and therefore continued success. Moreover, between LANXESS companies, we are increasingly also sending accepting differences and deviations from the norm, and embracing non-managerial employees abroad for periods of up to twelve months and encouraging these in a spirit of inclusion, creates a culture in for training purposes and project work. Our long-term goal is still to which people feel accepted and enjoy their work. equip local managers with expertise and international competencies. We are supporting achievement of this goal with, for example, our We aim and need to continue fostering and increasing diversity at regional Leadership Academy in Brazil which firmly embraces the LANXESS if we are to maintain our competitive position on the global LANXESS leadership principle of “Head, Heart and Guts.” market in future. This also applies particularly to attracting and inspiring new talents for LANXESS. We are therefore committed to systematically The global Diversity X Inclusion initiative The business environment harnessing the power of diversity, to a culture of valuing our employees in which LANXESS operates is changing at a dramatic pace. Globaliand, above all, to equal opportunities worldwide. We want LANXESS zation, demographic change and global competition for the best talents to become an even more diverse and inclusive company in which our are among the many and increasingly varied factors that influence the employees feel motivated and valued for their individuality. economic success of companies like LANXESS. Corporate Responsibility 43 However, if we want to improve and increase diversity within the comLANXESS Employee Structure Rest of the World 1) pany in the coming years, we first need to know how diverse LANXESS Age group Female Male Total already is. That is why, in fall 2011, we launched our global Diversity X < 20 1 8 9 Inclusion initiative. In a first project phase, we are analyzing the gender, 20 – 29 315 1,081 1,396 nationality and age spread of LANXESS employees worldwide. We 30 – 39 566 2,040 2,606 are initially focusing on three pilot areas: the Inorganic Pigments and 40 – 49 363 2,038 2,401 Technical Rubber Products business units and the Accounting group 50 – 59 279 1,627 1,906 function in Germany, the United States, Brazil, China and India. > 60 35 191 226 Total 1,559 6,985 8,544 Alongside the evaluation of processes within the HR department and 1) Permanent employees anonymous personal data, interviews with employees comprise a key element of the analysis. Following the survey, the project team will develop targeted measures for the pilot areas with a view to improving The XCare project is based on an extensive demographic analysis of diversity within the company. An international team comprising HR the entire LANXESS organization in Germany, which resulted in five experts and specialists from various business units and group functions areas of activity – people and health; work and training; time and organiis responsible for project implementation. Dr. Rainier van Roessel is zation; career and family life; and savings and retirement provision. the member of the Board of Management with overall responsibility for the project. Since completion of the pilot phase, roll-out of the One aspect of work and training was the analysis of our trainee figures project to all other areas of the company began at the start of 2012. from a demographic perspective. Among the measures based on our findings was the decision to increase the number of vocational training places we offer. By 2015, some 600 training places will be available Achieving corporate goals – successfully mastering at our sites throughout Germany. challenges In 2011, 123 young people (97 men and 26 women) took the opporLong-term training and ongoing employee development ensure that tunity to start a technical, commercial or scientific training program at we achieve our corporate goals and safeguard the competitiveness of LANXESS, sometimes combining a regular job with a part-time course our company. In view of the challenge posed by demographic change, of study. With a total of 317 trainees in 14 different career paths (as LANXESS cooperated closely with the employee representatives in of December 31, 2011), LANXESS continues to train more young 2009 to develop XCare, a comprehensive demographic concept for people than it needs to meet its own requirements. Despite fluctuating the German LANXESS companies based on the collective agreement employee numbers, we have directly or indirectly hired 253 trainees on lifelong worktime and demography in the chemical industry. This for temporary and permanent positions in recent years. project was continued in 2011 and aims to find answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average age of the workforce Another main focus of our demographic project is balancing career coupled with a shortage of skilled young people. and family life, which remains an important issue for a large number of LANXESS employees. Around four percent of our employees LANXESS Employee Structure Germany 1) in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made use of the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost 50 percent were fathers. In Age group Female Male Total 2011, in support of parents looking for care for their children, we also < 20 — 2 2 started offering our employees reserved places at childcare facilities 20 – 29 119 379 498 in Cologne ahead of the relocation of our company headquarters to 30 – 39 257 1,212 1,469 that city planned for 2013. 40 – 49 581 2,595 3,176 50 – 59 366 2,236 2,602 The introduction of caregiver leave has long been an important aspect > 60 13 86 99 of career and family life. The aim is to support employees who care for Total 1,336 6,510 7,846 family members. In line with the German government’s draft legislation 1) Permanent employees excl. trainees on family caregiver leave, which comes into force in 2012, we are one of the first companies to conclude a comprehensive agreement with employee representatives on a multi-stage caregiving program that 44 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 includes advice from an external service provider, short-term release Following our excellent business performance in 2011, we made from duties, and individually agreed part-time working for caregivers. a total of €100 million available to give our employees worldwide a This allows employees to reduce their working time to a greater extent share in the company’s success. Much of this amount was paid out than their salary during the care phase and to make up the shortfall in the form of an additional bonus. Our managers are able to reward when they return to work. outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically. In fiscal 2011, this resulted in payments of €8.7 million worldwide We have expanded our projects in the area of people and health. – €6.4 million to employees in Germany – for outstanding individual Our primary goal is to raise awareness of occupational health among performance. employees and managers and to facilitate the reintegration of employees who have suffered prolonged illness. To this end, workWe again offered an employee stock plan in 2011. All LANXESS Group place integration teams comprising integration officers and employee employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy LANXESS representatives are now in place at all LANXESS sites. In the area of shares at a 50-percent discount. The shares were purchased at an occupational health management, we have increased the number average price of €57.54 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The parof our facilities participating in pilot projects. These, too, are steered ticipation rate was 75 percent. At the reporting date, our employees individually by working groups made up equally of employee and and Board of Management members held around one percent of the employer representatives who, with the support of external specialists, company’s shares through stock plans. analyze the existing health situation and develop a participatory action model. The projects encompass management workshops, prevenFor some time now, we have also offered a long-term incentive program tion concepts, advice on ergonomics for plant workers and nutrition for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United States, programs for shift workers. Canada, India and China. This stock performance plan compares the company’s value against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Since Canada is experiencing a similar development to Germany, our index over a period of three years. Since participants make a personal subsidiary there has been actively addressing demographic change investment and there is the chance that the stock will increase in since 2010. By regularly updating succession and training plans, all value, the program is an attractive long-term incentive and a means business units aim to ensure that knowledge is transferred in due time of boosting employee loyalty. and the handover to the next generation is achieved in an orderly way. For the period 2010 to 2013, the Board of Management has drawn up a new long-term incentive plan (LTIP) for LANXESS. The Long-Term Rewarding performance Stock Performance Plan 2010–2013 (LTSP) comprises four tranches, one commencing each year. This plan compares the company’s value LANXESS has established a fair remuneration policy that is linked to against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index over a period the long-term success of the company and offers employees worldwide of four years. The participation rate is 89.7 percent. a transparent and market-oriented compensation system. Collective bargaining agreements provide the main basis for the compensation of non-managerial staff in Germany and numerous other countries. The Acting in partnership fixed salaries of managerial staff are supplemented by performancebased compensation components that are linked, on the one hand, A key pillar of our HR policy is close cooperation with labor unions to the attainment of the Group’s defined EBITDA targets and, on the and employers’ associations in accordance with the principle of active other, to employees’ individual performance. codetermination. Almost 70 percent of our employees worldwide are governed by collective agreements. In Germany, the figure is more than 90 percent. Corporate Responsibility 45 We regularly discuss our corporate objectives with employee repreCompared to the record year 2010 when savings amounted to sentative bodies in Germany, Europe and around the world and involve €4.8 million, the figure in 2011 was much lower because the numthese bodies at an early stage in the event of organizational changes. ber of ideas that yielded financially quantifiable benefits declined by In Germany, in the crisis year 2009, we responded to declines in 31 percent. The average processing time for ideas – including a oneproduction by implementing QUEST, a training, deployment and job year trial phase to determine the cost savings, as defined in the General management center, as part of our Challenge09-12 program. This Works Agreement on Idea Management – was around 500 calendar helps employees affected by low capacity utilization levels to prepare for days. This means that the relatively low number of new ideas suband find new challenges. An internal team of consultants supports the mitted in 2009 because of plant shutdowns and short-time working affected employees in qualifying for new tasks and finding jobs inside only took effect in 2011. or outside the company. As of December 31, 2011, the center had already found a permanent solution or a new challenge for more than As a further incentive to attract ideas, the LANXESS Ideas Competition 87 percent of applicants. It also helped place employees in temporary was launched in 2008. Each year, the company’s organizational units positions within and outside the LANXESS Group. This innovative can measure themselves in terms of team benefit1). The focus is on instrument has already proved its value as a means of preventing job identifying further cost-cutting potential, increasing both implemenreductions. tation and participation rates, and shortening processing times. In 2011, the Inorganic Pigments business unit won the Ideas Competition for the fourth year in succession. 241 employees submitted an idea Open to ideas that was implemented and contributed to the business unit’s success. They each received an additional payment of €300. All ideas that are When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work proceimplemented are evaluated in accordance with our _FormulaX criteria. dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. An idea management At 65 percent, “Come up with solutions” was the most important system fosters the development, processing and implementation of component in the creativity process. With its attractive, performancesuggestions for improvements to ensure that LANXESS will continually related bonus system, our idea management system is an essential receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety element of innovation management at LANXESS and will continue and environmental protection. In 2011, employees at LANXESS’s to play a key role in our company’s future success. German companies submitted a total of 3,191 new suggestions, a rate of 445 per thousand employees. In the same period, 1,199 ideas were implemented, yielding total savings of €2.2 million. 759 of these ideas led to improvements in occupational safety and environmental protection. A total of €908,000 was paid out to employees whose ideas were put into practice. The highest individual payment amounted to €36,000. FormulaX Take on responsibility Come up with solutions Dare simplicity Accelerate progress 1) The team benefit is calculated from the proven cost savings yielded by ideas with a financially quantifiable benefit and from the bonuses paid (= benefits) for ideas with no quantifiable benefit and set in relation to the number of eligible employees in an organizational unit. 46 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Health, safety, environment and climate protection Environmental and Safety Performance Data * 2010 2011 Global HSEQ management Safety Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees HSEQ (health, safety, environmental protection and quality) manageresulting in at least one day’s absence ment is an important part of LANXESS’s integrated management (per million hours worked) 1) 2.3 ++) 2.7 ++) system. From the outset, we have aligned this system toward ensuring uniform standards and reference bases for all our sites worldwide. Volume sold 2) (in thousand tons) 6,404 +), 3) 6,434 +) The key performance indicators (KPIs) required for this purpose are Emissions, waste and wastewater recorded electronically, thus enabling us to systematically determine Emissions into air (in thousand tons) and analyze performance in each business unit and at each site and Emissions of greenhouse gases as CO2 to develop this sustainably in the future. equivalents (Scope 1) 4) 1,906 ++), 3) 1,935 ++) Emissions of greenhouse gases as CO2 The HSEQ Committee, comprising LANXESS’s senior executives under equivalents (Scope 2) 11) 2,650 3) 2,893 the direction of Board of Management member Dr. Werner Breuers, is Emissions of volatile organic compounds 5) 8.0 ++), 3) 7.8 ++) tasked with ensuring worldwide compliance with uniformly high quality CO emissions 2.1 ++), 3), 10) 3.0 ++) management, safety and environmental protection standards. The NO x emissions 6) 2.6 ++), 3), 10) 2.8 ++) SO2 emissions 7) 1.7 ++), 3), 10) 1.9 ++) committee has responsibility for initiating and monitoring the global NH 3 emissions 0.2 ++) 0.2 ++) implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, strategies and Emissions into water (in thousand tons) programs, as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives and monitoring Total nitrogen 0.54 ++), 3) 0.54 ++) their achievement. It also defines the global strategy for our integrated Total organic carbon (TOC) 2.1 ++) 2.2 ++) quality and environmental management system in accordance with Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) 0.0047 +), 3) 0.0045 +) Waste (in thousand tons) Systematic recording of key performance indicators We use an elecTotal waste generated 259 ++), 3) 267 ++) tronic system for the systematic global recording of KPIs in the areas of • Hazardous waste 141 ++), 3) 143 ++) safety and environmental protection. This proprietary system enables • Non-hazardous waste 118 ++), 3) 124 ++) us to define a broad range of KPIs for each business unit and location Wastewater (in million cubic meters) Total wastewater 31 ++) 33 ++) worldwide. These provide a valid database for internal and external reporting and map the progress we are making toward achieving our Consumption of resources globally applicable HSEQ objectives (see table on page 52). Data Total water consumption for all indicators except the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) are (in million cubic meters) 292 ++), 3) 292 ++) gathered only at those of our production sites in which LANXESS has Cooling water consumption 8) a holding of more than 50 percent. (in million cubic meters) 235 ++), 3) 239 ++) Process water consumption (in million cubic meters) 57 ++), 3) 53 ++) We are aware of the challenge involved in defining and ensuring Energy consumption 9) (in petajoules) 52 ++), 3) 55 ++) the use of uniform indicators for all sites and regions. Our internal Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data standards and criteria for recording safety and environmental perfor*) The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an mance data are aligned with the G3 guidelines of the Global Reportinterest of more than 50 percent, but excluding the site at Redmond, U.S.A. The new Keltan sites (since May 2, 2011) at Geleen, Netherlands, and Triunfo, Brazil, and the Darmex ing Initiative (GRI G3). We are working continuously to better comply sites assigned to Rhein Chemie (since January 11, 2011) at Burzaco and Merlo, Argentina, and Colonia, Uruguay, are already included. The newly acquired Unitex site at Greensboro, U.S.A. with these requirements. If we deviate from the currently valid GRI (since October 2011) and the Verichem site at Neville Island, near Pittsburgh, U. S. A. (since definitions, then we indicate this with an explanation. November 9, 2011) were not included in 2011. On account of limited recording and control options and the resulting estimates, the base data contain some inherent uncertainties. In the year under review, auditors KPMG AG WirtschaftsprüfungsData recording in 2011 was aligned with GRI G3. To ensure better comparability, we are reporting our HSE performance data in the same way as in 2010. Our full HSE performance gesellschaft assessed our data recording processes and system in the data recorded in 2011 in accordance with GRI G3 can be viewed online at www.lanxess.com. course of a business audit. Most of our HSE indicators for 2010 and +) Indicator was assessed (limited assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in 2011 were tested with a view to achieving a “reasonable assurance” the course of a business audit. ++) Indicator was assessed (reasonable assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsrating. The certificate can be viewed at www.lanxess.com. gesellschaft in the course of a business audit. 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one working day or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including subcontract workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3) Values corrected compared to the values shown in the Annual Report 2010 4) All Scope 1 Kyoto gases are calculated as CO2 equivalents (CO2e). In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2010: 153 kt CO2; 2011: 241 kt CO2. Corporate Responsibility 47 5) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone reporting structures and the employee situation there. We are already 6) Nitrogen oxide (NO x) calculated as NO2 (excluding N 2O nitrous oxide) 7) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO2 implementing a special program that aims to significantly and sustain8) Equivalent to circulating cooling water ably reduce the number of accidents at the mine. 9) The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy contained in raw materials). Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting 10) Significant increase compared to the published value on the basis of the full inclusion of the in Absence from Work (LTIFR) CO, NO x and SO2 emissions from the use of renewable energies, diesel and gasoline. 11) The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2009 were used. 2011 2.7 Further details on data quality: • The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 2010 2.3 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). • In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO2e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). 2009 3.0 2008 3.1 Health and safety 2007 3.7 The health and safety of our workforce are among our top priorities. 0 1 2 3 4 5 We aim to protect our employees from accidents by maintaining high standards in health protection and plant safety and implementing continuous improvements in workplace safety precautions. Uniform standards for process and plant safety, occupational safety and environmental protection Across the globe, LANXESS operates at Xact initiative To systematically and sustainably improve all aspects of 47 production sites in which it holds an interest of at least 50 percent occupational, process and plant safety, including environmental and (as of December 31, 2011). The diversity of the Group’s product porthealth protection, we initiated the global Xact program in 2011. In folio necessitates the use of many chemical and technical processes. the analysis phase, which began in mid-September 2011, 22 pilot Uniformly high standards for planning, engineering and operating plants in Germany and abroad were tested carefully and thoroughly. facilities are applied to ensure a high level of process and plant safety. From the second half of 2012, the program will be introduced at all We use a systematic approach to identify risks and hazard potential our plants worldwide after adaptation to the specific requirements at and to reduce these by implementing safety measures. To help us each site and business unit. All existing safety programs will then be achieve this, we have established a comprehensive HSE management combined under one roof and refined to meet our objectives. system that governs procedures for all safety-critical processes in our production facilities. All LANXESS facilities around the world must Occupational safety Thanks to our global electronic Incident Reporting verify their safety standards with a certificate. System (IRS), we are able to record accidents and incidents using standardized procedures. The incidents that are documented include Regular monitoring and employee training ensure systematic impleaccidents involving people, transport accidents, environmental incimentation of the HSE management system. We have been carrying dents and downtime caused by, for example, bad weather or strike out HSE compliance checks at LANXESS facilities in Germany since action. We communicate significant incidents worldwide via our intra2005. Experts conduct specific spot checks to assess whether all net or by newsletter. Each incident is carefully analyzed to identify necessary measures are being taken to ensure the safe operation of measures that can be taken to avoid similar accidents or disruptions facilities. Since 2007, HSE compliance checks have also been carin the future. ried out at key production sites operated by LANXESS subsidiaries. In 2011, a total of 32 facilities were checked, 11 of which are assigned The LTIFR, known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. in Germany, is the key indicator we use to assess occupational safety. In 2011, the LTIFR was 2.7, a slight deterioration on the previous Safety also plays an important role in all our acquisition projects. Before year (2.3). This resulted primarily from a number of accidents at just making any acquisition, we carry out technical due diligence tests one site – our chrome ore mine in South Africa. The site has gained alongside the economic appraisals. Gap analyses are performed by statistical relevance through the international harmonization of our LANXESS soon after the takeover of a production site. These are used to identify any differences between the HSE system already in place at the site and LANXESS’s own system. The results serve as the basis for drawing up action plans to implement LANXESS’s binding global HSE standards at these locations. In 2011, we performed four such gap analyses. 48 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Global product stewardship The International Council of Chemical participation of everyone involved in the supply chain. Our internal Associations (ICCA) launched the Global Product Strategy (GPS) Central Product Surveillance Directive governs worldwide tracking initiative with the primary aim of establishing global standards for of the health-related and ecological implications of raw materials and product stewardship and thus minimizing the impact of chemicals on products. human health and the environment. We believe it is only right that we should implement this initiative. From the moment that LANXESS was Successful product safety demands globally standardized substance founded, we have sought to introduce uniform, global safety standards data and systems for documentation and processing. These also for the handling and transportation of products. Product safety is a ensure compliance and provide support for business operations top priority in all the processes along the value creation chain – from worldwide. We control the transportation of our products around the research and development, through production and transportation, world by employing standardized classifications and interpretations of to downstream processing and disposal. Product stewardship begins transportation regulations for hazardous goods. Moreover, we operate for us with the procurement of raw materials and services. a globally applicable electronic system for generating safety datasheets and managing our SAP system in terms of marketability and hazardous Our product portfolio also includes substances that are classified as goods data. In 2011, we introduced this system in Brazil, Indonesia hazardous. In order to prevent possible harm to health, we systemand South Korea and in three of the businesses we acquired (Keltan atically test the properties of our products and draw our customers’ EPDM, Syngenta material protection products and Unitex). It is soon attention to the risks associated with their use. LANXESS views product to be launched in other countries such as Singapore and China. The stewardship as a responsibility to continually improve product safety system is regularly adapted to the Globally Harmonized System of for the sake of both human health and the environment. Our Product Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) in the various counSafety Directive steers the Group-wide observance of product stewardtries in the event of changes relating to hazardous goods and other ship throughout the product life cycle and secures the necessary amendments to legislation. REACH Implementation Schedule Creation of the European Pre-registration of all substances Chemicals Agency Preparation for REACH 5WDUVCPEGUȖVRC3) CMR substances  %CVȖVRC3)) 5WDUVCPEGUYKVJ4 ȖVRC3) 5WDUVCPEGUȖVRC3)WRVQVRC3) 5WDUVCPEGUȖVRC3)WRVQVRC3) ,WPG ,WPG &GE &GE ,WPG ,WPG 1VJGTQDNKICVKQPUGXCNWCVKQPRTQEGFWTGUTGIKUVTCVKQPRTQEGFWTGUGVE 1) CMR: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic 2) Very toxic to aquatic organisms; may cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment 3) tpa = tons per annum We expressly support the protection goals of E. U. chemicals policy. 750 dossiers over all three phases through 2018. Since REACH During the first registration phase stipulated by the REACH regulation, prescribes the stewardship of substances over their entire life cycle, we prepared dossiers for all 193 substances at LANXESS that are we are cooperating very closely with our suppliers and customers. affected and submitted these to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) by the deadline of November 30, 2010. A further 250 subIn addition to REACH, there is another important regulation in E.U. stances from our portfolio are now to be registered during the second chemicals policy – the CLP Regulation – which is intended to implephase, which runs until the end of May 2013. To date, these activities ment the international GHS initiative in the European Union. The are going to schedule. We expect to have to complete a total of some objective of GHS is to harmonize existing classification and labeling Corporate Responsibility 49 systems used in various sectors, such as transportation and con2010 alone, we started up four new cogeneration plants at our sites sumer, employee and environmental protection. The CLP Regulation in Porto Feliz, Brazil; Nagda and Jhagadia, India; and Zwijndrecht, (also sometimes referred to as the GHS Regulation) stipulated the Belgium. Wherever possible, we use renewable and environmentally classification and labeling of all chemical substances in the E. U. by friendly raw materials such as waste from food production to fuel December 1, 2010. We also met this deadline for all relevant subthese plants. stances in our portfolio. The use of isobutene from renewable resources will also make a significant contribution to cutting direct and indirect greenhouse gas Environmental and climate protection emissions by our butyl rubber business in the medium term. This manufacturing process is being optimized for industrial-scale use in As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for example, cooperation with Gevo Inc. (see also page 22). Isobutene is an importhrough the most efficient possible use of raw materials and energies – tant raw material for the manufacture of butyl rubber and, until now, and identifying further potential for reducing emissions and waste are has usually been produced from petroleum derivatives. According to an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our ecological responsibility our calculations, switching to this new technology would significantly to which we must apply our expertise. The continuous improvement improve the eco-balance of our butyl rubber. of environmental performance is a key corporate goal. In March 2011, we became the first chemical company to use the It is an established part of our strategy to equip all new production TÜV SÜD-approved Eco-Plus solution offered by logistics provider sites in line with state-of-the-art environmental standards, even if the DB Schenker Rail for transporting our products by rail. The electricity applicable local regulations are less stringent. This approach sets required for transport is obtained from renewable energy sources. In us apart from many local competitors, particularly in the emerging this way, we can reduce the CO2 emissions from our rail transport markets. It will also give us a clear competitive edge in the medium operations by almost 75 percent. Each year, LANXESS transports term, as these regions, too, are gradually introducing much tougher a total of around 160,000 tons of chemicals and bulk materials by environmental standards. rail in Europe. Progress in climate protection As a driving force in the chemical Energy Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold industry, we are helping to reduce or even eliminate greenhouse gas gigajoules per ton of product emissions using a range of cutting-edge technical solutions. Our mea2011 8.52 sures are applied along the value creation chain – from energy generation through manufacturing processes to waste disposal. 2010 8.161) We have been involved in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006, 2009 8.47 sharing data and information on climate protection and the reduction of emissions. The Carbon Disclosure Project is an organization repre2008 8.25 senting international institutional investors who have joined forces in order to improve transparency for the financial market on questions 2007 8.04 linked to climate change and the requisite corporate guidelines. 0 2 4 6 8 10 Since 2007, we have succeeded in reducing our direct greenhouse 1) Figure restated gas emissions by around 45 percent worldwide. In Germany, our aim was to cut emissions of climate gases through 2012 by around The absolute energies for 2010 were corrected as information 80 percent compared to 2007 levels. We achieved this target in about new energies was requested subsequently in light of GRI G3. 2009. A further review showed that CO2 equivalents remained within In addition, two sites (Zwijndrecht and Orange) provided some data the target corridor in 2011. late, especially in respect of heating oil, diesel and steam. The further increase in absolute energies in 2011 is attributable to the new Having succeeded in almost completely neutralizing our emissions of Keltan sites. particularly harmful nitrous oxide since the start of 2009, we are now focusing our climate protection efforts on the sustainable generation and economical use of energy by, for example, utilizing one of the most efficient power plant technologies available – cogeneration. In 50 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 We also aim to continually improve the energy efficiency of our producWe have almost halved specific emissions since 2007. Alongside many tion facilities. The energy management systems we have introduced individual measures, the start-up of a second facility for the reduction should help us achieve the targets we have set ourselves. One of these of harmful nitrous oxide (N2O) at our Krefeld-Uerdingen site in 2009 is cutting each segment’s specific energy consumption by ten percent had a major impact on the results. by 2015 (base year: 2010). We have also recorded indirect CO2 emissions worldwide (according Energy Consumption by Segment to the GHG Protocol Scope 2), as shown below. gigajoules per ton of product Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) in Relation to Volumes Sold Performance Polymers 8.55 CO2 , tons per ton of product 8.58 Advanced Intermediates 9.17 2011 0.45 8.38 Performance Chemicals 2010 7.74 0.41 7.05 0 2 4 6 8 10 2009 0.46 2011 2010 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 Other atmospheric emissions The European Union’s NEC (National The Scope 1 specific greenhouse gas emissions are unchanged. Emission Ceiling) Directive has set maximum limits for the release of the atmospheric pollutants sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in Relation to Volumes Sold ammonia (NH3) and volatile organic compounds. Since 2011, these CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product limits may no longer be exceeded. We have specifically inspected sites that release relevant emissions and taken all the necessary precautions 2011 0.30 for ensuring compliance with the limits. 2010 0.301) VOC Emissions in Relation to Volumes Sold VOC, kilograms per ton of product 2009 0.32 2011 1.21 2008 0.41 2010 1.261) 2007 0.56 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 2009 1.31 1) Figure restated 2008 0.68 Our stated aim is to reduce each segment’s specific CO2e emissions 2007 0.60 by ten percent by 2015 (base year: 2010). 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 1) Figure restated CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product Performance Polymers 0.36 0.35 Advanced Intermediates 0.25 0.27 Performance Chemicals 0.24 0.22 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 2011 2010 Corporate Responsibility 51 In 2011, VOC emissions declined further year on year in relation to Waste for Disposal volumes sold. This was due to, among other things, various measures % taken to achieve our environmental protection target of cutting VOC emissions by 30 percent through 2015. The general increase in VOC 12 emissions between 2008 and 2009 was attributable to our portfolio Landfilled waste 35 expansion, especially in Brazil. 18 Incinerated waste without energy recovery Conserving resources LANXESS attaches great importance to the Incinerated waste careful use of resources. The company aims to employ a consistent with energy recovery 9 Material recovery 26 material flow management process – from the use of raw materials to Waste disposal by other means the manufacture of the final product – so as to minimize the amount of waste we produce. Some forms of waste can be used as secondary raw materials and are thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore involves systematically avoiding waste and, if The total amount of waste generated worldwide in relation to volumes this is not possible, using waste as a raw material and energy source. sold has decreased by approximately 19 percent compared to 2007. We are working on the continual optimization of our production proSome 43 percent of our waste is used in material or energy recovery, cesses with the aim of maximizing the reduction in off-spec product. while around half is classified as hazardous. Numerous measures have enabled us to cut absolute hazardous waste volumes in particular by around 32 percent compared to 2007 levels. Solutions for clear water Our innovative products and technologies help our customers worldwide to clean, treat and conserve water. We In January 2011, we started up a new state-of-the-art waste incinealso go to great lengths to minimize water consumption and pollution ration plant at our site in Nagda, India. It is now no longer necessary to during production operations at our own plants. transport production residues to distant incineration facilities. Instead, they can be used effectively at our own site. The off gases from incineOverall, total water consumption in relation to volumes sold declined ration are also used to generate steam, which is fed directly into our only marginally year on year. production process. Water Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold Total Waste in Relation to Volumes Sold cubic meters per ton of product kilograms of waste per ton of product 2011 37.2 8.2 45.4 2011 41.6 2010 36.71) 8.91) 45.61) 2010 40.51) 2009 49.1 14.4 63.5 2009 39.6 2008 49.6 4.8 54.4 2008 46.5 2007 49.1 23.6 72.7 2007 51.3 2) 0 20 40 60 80 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Cooling water Process water 1) Figure restated 1) Figure restated 2) Adjusted for one-time effects related to a production closure at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site 52 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 HSEQ Targets for 2011 Target Program/Measures Target Target Attainment Date 1. Improved occupational No injuries Ongoing The number of accidents with working days lost increased to 76 safety compared to 2010 when 61 accidents with working days lost were recorded worldwide. LTIFR of work-related injuries resulting in days of absence 2011 In 2011 the LTIFR was 2.7, compared to the prior-year figure of 2.3. less than 2.0 in 2011 (all business units, group functions The target was not attained. and companies with a higher LTIFR will have failed to attain their target) 2. Climate protection Reduction in specific CO2e emissions by 10% per 2015 Unchanged business segment by 2015 (base year: 2010) Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per 2015 Unchanged business segment by 2015 (base year: 2010) Footprint analyses for relevant products 2011 Pilot project for Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) concluded for adipic acid; other PCFs will be produced for butyl rubber and Mesamoll®. 3. Environmental Reduction in absolute VOC emissions by 30% by 2015 2015 Reduction from 8,000 t in 2010 to 7,700 t in 2011 protection (base year: 2010) 4. Implementation of an Completion of the project by the end of 2012 2012 A global energy management directive and handbook were compiled energy management (focus on Germany) as the basis for the management system and optimized in collaboration system with two pilot plants in Uerdingen and Leverkusen. The roll-out of the energy management system (ISO 50001) is planned for 2012/2013. In 2012 the focus is on implementation in plants in Germany. 5. REACH implementation Registration by the specified deadlines of substances 2013 Fully completed by the specified deadlines – next level > 100 tpa Adaptation of safety datasheets in accordance 2011 Fully attained with REACH 6. Adaptation to national Compliance with requirements of national chemicals 2011 Fully implemented by the specified deadlines chemicals programs in programs by the specified deadlines non-E.U. countries 7. Continuation of GHS Implementation of measures required by GHS in the 2011 GHS and resulting measures were fully implemented by the specified implementation E.U. by the specified deadlines deadlines. Monitoring of GHS activities in non-E.U. countries and 2011 GHS in the various countries fully implemented by the specified implementation by the specified deadlines deadlines. 8. Continuation of consoliGlobal harmonization of HSE data in ATRION 2011 The further roll-out of the harmonized HSE data system for categorizing dation of HSE data (now IHS: global regulatory product compliance system) and classifying products, raw materials and waste was completed with systems the roll-out of SCORE to Brazil, South Africa and Italy. Preparatory work has been started for implementation in China and Singapore. 9. Improvement in Optimization of interfaces between external logistics 2011 Extensive analysis of current situation and development of transport safety and providers and LANXESS to develop stable transport improvement measures; implementation of measures in 2012 quality processes and to minimize operative risks; pilot project started in January 2011 10. Completion of the global Inclusion of further sites in LANXESS’s global matrix 2011 In 2011, the sales office in Moscow, Russia, was included in the matrix certificate certificate: Liyang (China), Moscow (Russia) and management system for the first time. By the end of 2011, a total of (ISO 9001 & ISO 14001) Jhagadia (India) 81 sites (mainly production facilities, technical laboratories and sales offices) had been integrated into our matrix certificate. The site at Jhagadia, India, was audited by DQS at the end of 2011. Inclusion in the certificate is expected for February 2012. At the production site at Liyang, China, the implementation of safety projects has priority. The site is to be included in the matrix certificate in 2012. 11. Standardization of Global provision, standardization and optimization of 2012 eMax (document management system) was rolled out and implemented management system electronic management system tools by the end of 2012 in Germany and introduced in both legal entities (LANXESS Pte. Ltd. tools and LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd.) in Singapore. The roll-out process was started at the multi-BU sites in France, North America, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa and Argentina. Triple A (audit and activity management tool), the HSE data recording system and April Star (complaint management system) are already established worldwide and are used systematically. Corporate Responsibility 53 HSEQ Targets for 2012 Target Program/Measures Target Date 1. Improvement in occupational safety and Implementation of Xact safety project 2012 plant safety – no injuries 2. Implementation of international Implementation and monitoring of chemicals programs worldwide by the specified deadlines, e.g. By the specified chemical programs REACH, TSCA Inventory Update Rules Amendments (U.S.A.), South Korean REACH requirements, deadlines CSCL in Japan, EHS in Malaysia, notification procedure for China, GHS 3. Climate protection Reduction in specific CO2e emissions by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Increase in resource efficiency and analysis of environmental footprint of suitable products 2012 4. Environmental protection Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 2015 5. Energy management Introduction of an energy management system based on ISO 50001 2012 (roll-out focus in 2012 is Germany) 6. Harmonization of HSE data for Global harmonization of HSE data in the IHS system 2012 categorizing and classifying products, (formerly ATRION: global regulatory product compliance system) as part of the raw materials and waste • SCORE project for e.g. China, Singapore, Keltan sites • AXAPTA project for the United Kingdom (pilot project) 7. Improvement in transport safety Optimization of transport safety in line with the potential analysis performed in 2011 2012 8. Standardization of management Expansion of global implementation of eMax (document management) in accordance with the 2012 system tools 2011 plan and implementation of April Star (complaints management), Triple A (audit and activity management tool) and the HSE data recording system at newly acquired sites 54 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Society The workshops held in 2011 were inspired by the LANXESS Year of High-Tech Plastics. Under the motto “High-tech plastics made easy,” As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society in which 40 talented high school students took part in a four-day workshop we operate – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, legal and dedicated to this versatile material. The aim was to develop plastic political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We believe it is only innovations and generate new impetus for the future. The young people right that, in line with the concept of corporate citizenship, we assume were invited to give full rein to their inventiveness and creativity. In responsibility and ensure that society also benefits from our success. addition to the practical side of things, the workshop also encouraged Our social commitment is based on the same fundamental principle them to think along economic and business lines. They considered as our entrepreneurial activities – a consistent focus on a manageable future developments such as globalization, climate change, environnumber of projects that promise long-term success. mental pollution and the increasing scarcity of resources. In a future workshop, they analyzed key trends, developed ideas for new manuOur not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science facturing processes and designed new applications. They presented education in schools. After all, skilled employees are a crucial pretheir product ideas in a forum attended by leading figures from the requisite for the sustainable success of our company, no matter where region’s political, business and public-sector communities. in the world it operates. We endeavor to encourage young people to develop a passion for chemistry at a young age, awaken their inventive In recognition of its valuable contribution to Germany’s position as a spirit and make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that business and industry location, the LANXESS education initiative was the LANXESS Group offers. among the winners in 2011 of the country’s sixth “365 Landmarks in the Land of Ideas” contest. Under the patronage of the German President, this annual competition honors ideas and projects that The LANXESS education initiative – make a sustainable contribution to Germany’s future viability as a an award-winning model for success business location. In 2008, we launched the extensive LANXESS education initiative Over the past four years, we have invested around €3.5 million in the that underscores our clear commitment to Germany as a business initiative. Feedback from teachers, principals and school authorities location and as a base for the chemical industry. This initiative has since confirms that we have succeeded in significantly boosting the imporprovided funding to schools close to eight of our sites in Germany. We tance of the MINT subjects (mathematics, information technology, also regularly offer interested and talented students the chance to gain work experience and to take part in vacation courses and workshops. Chemical research and industry play key roles in developing new energy sources, feeding the growing world population and conserving resources. The United Nations proclaimed 2011 the International Year of Chemistry with the aim of drawing attention to chemistry’s accomplishments and contributions to the wellbeing of humanity. We contributed to the celebrations with a total of 48 projects and events worldwide. Corporate Responsibility 55 Social Activities by Topic 1) Social Activities by Region 1) % % 4 4 17 9 39 Education 14 Climate protection 52 20 Water Asia-Pacific Corporate volunteering 17 EMEA Culture North America 24 Networking Latin America 1) Basis: 107 projects undertaken in 2011 1) Basis: 107 projects undertaken in 2011 natural sciences and technology) in school timetables, in fundamentally We also foster scientific knowledge with our Green Cycle environmental changing the way these subjects are taught and in stimulating the competition, which was staged at four Brazilian sites in 2011. The demand for more courses. winners not only receive recognition for the environmental protection projects they develop for the competition. LANXESS also fully finances Spurred on by this extremely positive feedback, we will continue the implementation of the projects. initiative in future. In 2012, we plan to provide financial support for school projects, project weeks at schools close to our sites and experiThe Educate to Grow initiative in Argentina aims to promote development kits for elementary school children. ment in the Zárate region by supporting schools and not-for-profit organizations engaged in educational, social and environmental protection activities there. As part of this initiative, we provide funding Engaged around the world for sustainable education projects and help those wishing to launch such projects by delivering the fundamental know-how they need. LANXESS has also initiated projects focusing particularly on the pro27 schools took part in the fourth year of the program in 2011. More motion of science education at almost all its sites across the globe. than 7,000 people have already benefited directly or indirectly from the In the BRICS countries especially, we are involved in a wide range of 29 projects implemented since the program was launched in 2007. projects and initiatives. In 2011, we received the Corporate Social Responsibility Award from the Industrial Association of Zárate and Campana for our commitment The local activities in Brazil have been merged under the “e3” initiative. in the region. “e3” stands for education, ecology and economy. South America’s largest country has some catching up to do, particularly in the fields of An important CR project in India is the long-term Teach for India proenvironmental protection and education. We aim to use our expertise gram, part of the Teach to Lead initiative. It recruits top graduates to offer effective support in this area. from Indian universities who, after completing their studies, spend an initial period of two years teaching full-time at schools with insufficient The Chemical Theater project at our Triunfo site provides chemistry funding. Our financial support, which amounts to €50,000 each year, lessons of a completely different kind. Actors seek to interest students will fund current Teach for India projects in Mumbai until at least 2013. in science by playing short scenes that explain basic chemical prinThe funding will also help extend the project to other towns and cities ciples in an entertaining way. The Rubber Club and Rubber University in India, including New Delhi and Jhagadia, where LANXESS has sites. initiatives launched at Triunfo in 2011 have the same goal. School students of various ages were invited to our facility to investigate the interesting world of synthetic rubber close up. 56 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 On a spectacular bike trip from the United Kingdom to Hong Kong, British scientists Jon Lee and Micheil Gordon drew attention to water as an important environmental issue. The LANXESS Education Project run jointly with the not-for-profit Science Day made its debut at our site in Qingdao, China, in 2011. organization Save The Children India (STCI) aims to provide socially More than 80 participants had the opportunity to look behind the disadvantaged children in Mumbai with a pre-school education so scenes and get involved in experiments themselves. that they can attend state-run high schools later on and continue their education there. As an event sponsor, we had our own stand at Fun Chemistry World in South Korea for the first time in 2011. Using a range of entertaining Since 2010, our partnership with India’s ArriveSafe initiative has experiments, LANXESS employees gave elementary school students focused on road safety. The aim of this cooperation is to make the their first encounter with the fascinating world of modern chemistry. Indian population more aware that investing in high-quality tires improves road safety. We donated €10,000 to this initiative in 2011 The aim of the Xplore Science with LANXESS program initiated by our and also supported training events. subsidiary LANXESS Corporation in the United States is to show young people that science can be exciting and that learning can be fun by A project organized jointly with the Stree Mukti Sanghatana Women’s introducing interactive learning experiences. In cooperation with the Liberation Organization, a not-for-profit organization that recycles Science Screen Report organization, we distributed educational DVDs waste paper, combines social responsibility, environmental awareon current science-related topics to schools around the country, thus ness and resource conservation in a special way. Together, we used extending the program’s reach far beyond our U. S. sites. World Environment Day as a platform to raise employee awareness of recycling. For example, we implemented a waste separation guideline At our site in Merebank, South Africa, we organized an employee event to help reduce the amount of waste generated in our offices in future. to raise awareness and knowledge of HIV. The highlights of the event included a speech and performance by HIV-positive singer Tender The environment and sustainable development were also the focus Mavundla. All participants also had the opportunity to have their blood of a project day for high school students at LANXESS’s Nagda site. sugar, cholesterol and blood pressure measured and to be tested for Within the context of the UNESCO International Year of Chemistry initiaHIV. The event marked the start of a series of CR activities that we tive, we helped these young people develop ideas for using modern intend to organize in South Africa in the future. chemistry to protect the environment – for example, in the treatment of drinking water. Corporate Responsibility 57 Clean water In 2011, East Africa was hit by one of the worst droughts in more than 60 years. Our donation of €250,000 to the African Medical Our knowledge of water is a further focal point of our corporate & Research Foundation (AMREF), an organization we have been responsibility. working with for many years, was used to fund projects to improve food supplies and medical care in the affected regions. Once again, In 2011, we donated equipment and financial support to an unusual our employees demonstrated great solidarity and a readiness to help, water initiative. Environmental scientists Jon Lee and Micheil Gordon donating more than €18,000. took exactly 259 days to cycle from Newbury, United Kingdom, to Hong Kong to raise money for WaterAid and promote awareness of water as an environmental issue through various events and countless Promoting art and culture conversations. The two young Britons raised more than €23,000 on their 15,740 kilometer trip that took them to many LANXESS sites. For several years now, our cultural commitment has focused on WaterAid is a non-governmental organization that aims to provide encouraging young musicians. We support two Young Euro Classic people in the poorest parts of the world with clean drinking water. Our orchestras, which bring together the greatest talents from Germany, water treatment products enable us to make an important contribution. China and India and give them the opportunity to showcase their ability during concert tours and prestigious events. We have also been supporting the African Medical & Research Foundation (AMREF) for a number of years. By the end of 2010, AMREF At the end of May 2011, the Young Euro Classic Orchestra Germanyhad used LANXESS’s financial assistance to establish water supIndia celebrated its debut at the official celebrations in New Delhi to plies for 25 Tanzanian schools attended by approximately 10,000 mark 60 years of diplomatic relations between Germany and India. The children and provide the sanitary facilities they need. In addition to performance was enjoyed not only by India’s Parliamentary Speaker these infrastructure measures, AMREF also provided hygiene training Meira Kumar and Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel, but also by the for teachers and children, thus helping spread the safe water message accompanying German delegation which included LANXESS Board in their daily lives. of Management Chairman Dr. Axel C. Heitmann. The celebrations to mark the 150th anniversary of the friendship between Germany and We have now launched a similar project at schools near our South Japan were also accompanied by two concerts, including a solidarity African production site in Rustenburg. As many as 3,000 students, concert for the evacuees of the Fukushima disaster. their teachers and parents in this area will soon benefit from improved access to clean water and modern sanitary facilities. The project also Our LANXESS SNYO Classic cultural initiative sponsors an exchange aims to significantly reduce the incidence of disease caused by conprogram for the Singapore National Youth Orchestra. The program is taminated water. intended for young orchestral musicians who, by rehearsing with internationally renowned soloists, can benefit from the skill and experience of these musical celebrities. We also supported the formation of the Help where it is needed Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy Orchestra (OICMA) in 2011. Led by Japanese star conductor Seiji Ozawa, this ensemble Although our social commitment is normally carefully thought out and offers talented young musicians from across Asia the chance of a topinfluenced by strategic considerations, some events require a rapid quality musical education. and unbureaucratic response. We will remain the main partner to lit. COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest Following the devastating earthquake in Japan in March 2011, for literature festival in Cologne, until at least 2015. At this annual event, example, we immediately provided €250,000 to help rebuild the local renowned authors and actors demonstrate how the written word can infrastructure such as school buildings. We also matched the donations really be brought to life. made by our employees worldwide. Over the course of the year, we gave a further €310,000 to Save the Children Japan. Investor Information For a fast start An increasing number of cars are equipped with a fuel-saving start-stop system which can reduce consumption by up to 15 percent, especially in urban traffic. Made from our flame-retardant plastic Pocan®, high-performance booster modules for on-board electrical systems are fitted in the engines of the French PSA Peugeot Citroën Group to ensure a fast, almost soundless and vibration-free start. The Pocan® grade used is characterized above all by its low level of distortion, which is crucial for the exact positioning of the circuit boards on the module. 60 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Investor The performance of the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, the LANXESS benchmark index, was broadly similar to that of the German Information indices. It climbed above the 600-point threshold in the first half of 2011, only to decline steeply from the third quarter onward and hit a low of about 430 points in October. At the end of December, the DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM registered just under 514 points, a loss of 11 percent on the year. The international stock markets displayed extreme nervousness last The European debt crisis dominated the year, chiefly because of the European debt crisis. It increasingly became the dominating theme and influenced stock market performance in the stock markets in 2011. In Germany, both second half of the year especially. Other significant events in 2011, the blue-chip DAX and LANXESS’s including the political unrest in the Middle East and the catastrophic natural disaster in Japan, triggered significant price corrections, pribenchmark index MDAX fell sharply. Our marily in February and March, but did not have a sustained impact. stock also came under pressure, dropping On the contrary, the strong economic upswing continued to inject positive momentum, especially in the second quarter, leading to the in value and closing the year at €40. indices’ solid performance as described above. At that time, hope still prevailed that Europe’s debt crisis would ease, with the member In the first half of 2011, the world’s stock markets were still posting states of the European Union holding out the prospect of additional a gratifying performance overall and stayed at the high level seen in aid packages, particularly for Greece. 2010. The DAX touched a new three-year high of over 7,500 points in April. The MDAX, which includes LANXESS stock, again drew When the debt crisis in Europe intensified in the third quarter, stock close to 11,000 points. Market turmoil then increased from the prices slumped massively across the world. Greece’s overindebtedthird quarter and continued until the end of the year. All German ness worsened dramatically, and the financial crisis in other European indices sustained significant and persistent losses in the wake of the countries like Italy and Spain also escalated. The events in Europe domiupheaval. The DAX dropped to a low for the year of 4,966 points nated market dynamics through the end of 2011. Thus, December 30 in September and ended the year at 2009 levels on 5,898 points, marked the end to a very turbulent trading year in which Europe’s a loss of around 15 percent. The MDAX also fell sharply, dipping stock markets in particular performed poorly. below 8,000 points to 7,780 points in the fourth quarter. At year’s end, it stood at 8,898 points, a decline of 12 percent over the LANXESS stock continued to trade at the high prior-year level during reporting period. the first half of 2011, reaching €63 (closing price) in early May, the highest price since its initial listing. However, as the European debt crisis worsened, it proved impossible to sustain this positive performance. With the markets growing increasingly nervous, our stock also came under considerable pressure. The share price dropped significantly in the second half, especially in August and September. In August, for example, it dipped to less than €40 for the first time since September 2010 and remained at or near this level in the following weeks. It closed 2011 on €40, a decline of 32 percent on the year. Investor Information 61 Stock Performance since Listing % 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Jan. 31, 2005 Dec. 30, 2005 Dec. 29, 2006 Dec. 28, 2007 Dec. 30, 2008 Dec. 30, 2009 Dec. 30, 2010 Dec. 30, 2011 LANXESS DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM MDAX DAX Stock Performance 2011 % 150 125 100 75 50 Dec. 30, 2010 March 31, 2011 June 30, 2011 Sep. 30, 2011 Dec. 30, 2011 LANXESS DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM MDAX DAX 62 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Performance Data 2011 Q1 2011 Q2 2011 Q3 2011 Q4 2011 Year 2011 Capital stock/no. of shares 1) €/no. of shares 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 Market capitalization1) € billion 4.39 4.71 3.02 3.32 3.32 High/low for the period € 59.90/47.33 64.08/53.13 61.13/33.40 46.90/31.34 64.08/31.34 Closing price1) € 52.78 56.60 36.24 40.00 40.00 Volatility2) % – – – – 38.73 Trading volume million shares 35.983 33.361 50.792 33.753 153.890 Average daily trading volume shares 562,234 529,539 769,576 527,390 598,793 Earnings per share € 2.00 2.17 1.85 0.06 6.08 Price/earnings ratio1),3) – – – – 6.58 Price/cash flow ratio1),3),4) – – – – 4.95 1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2011, Q2: June 30, 2011, Q3: September 30, 2011, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2011 2) Source: Thomson Financial 3) Data, especially cash flow, are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly 4) Reference value: operating cash flow With the market characterized by high levels of uncertainty, companyIn the area of sustainability, LANXESS was included for the first time in specific news was unable to generate sustained momentum for our the globally recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World share price. For example, when we published very solid results for the in September. Overall, we raised our sustainability profile significantly in first quarter, we announced our guidance for the full year 2011, which the year under review, further increasing the attractiveness of our stock included the expectation that EBITDA pre exceptionals would exceed as a sustainable investment. €1 billion for the first time. We posted very good results in the subsequent quarters as well, and raised our growth forecast for the year Capital Market Information to 20 percent. We also confirmed our medium-term target for 2015. Share class No-par shares At our analyst roundtables in September, we presented the projects Listing code LXS and investments that are intended to ensure we attain this target. WKN (German securities 547040 identification number) ISIN DE0005470405 Other key capital market information related to the successful acquiReuters/Bloomberg codes LXSG.DE/LXS:GR sition of the Keltan EPDM business of Royal DSM N.V. at the beginning Market segment Prime Standard of May 2011 and its seamless integration into the Technical Rubber Trading venues XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, Products (TRP) business unit of our Performance Polymers segment. Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin We also announced another major capital expenditure project in SingaSelective indices MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, DAXsupersector Basic Materials, MSCI pore. Alongside our butyl rubber plant there, we will be building a new Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid neodymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) plant at a cost of around Cap, Dow Jones Sustainability Index World, FTSE4Good €200 million. This is scheduled to come on stream in 2015. Further Investment-grade ratings Standard & Poor’s: BBB (stable) significant investments in our future growth were made in all three Moody’s: Baa2 (stable) segments (for more information see page 15ff. in the Strategy section). Fitch: BBB (stable) Investor Information 63 LANXESS drove its growth forward last year and systematically attained Some of the investors in this group own a stake of at least three the goals communicated for 2011. We also firmed up our strategy and percent in LANXESS, which they are required to report in mandatory the individual steps with which we intend to achieve our medium-term notices regarding shareholdings in LANXESS. Since 2007, these inearnings target for 2015. Unlike in 2010, the company’s success and vestors have included U.S.-based Dodge & Cox. Fidelity and Norway’s best earnings to date were not reflected in our share price. They were Norges Bank also have reportable holdings. Of the institutional invesovershadowed by external factors, most notably Europe’s debt crisis. tors based in Germany, Allianz Global Investors last year reported Our stock was therefore unable to achieve a positive performance for holding more than three percent of LANXESS’s voting rights for the the full year or to end better than the DAX or LANXESS’s benchmark first time (see table on page 64). indices, the MDAX and DJ STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. In the second quarter and at the beginning of the third quarter, by contrast, our stock In addition to the stakes held by institutional investors, around had been significantly outperforming these indices. 11 percent of our shares are in the hands of private investors and LANXESS employees. This represents a slight decrease from 2010 (around 12 percent). As in the prior year, these investors were primarily Sustainability located in Germany. Exercising responsibility in our entrepreneurial activities is a key element The United States, United Kingdom and Germany remain the top of our corporate strategy. We continued to raise our sustainability profile countries in the regional breakdown of LANXESS’s investors. With a last year and pressed our claim to being a sustainable investment. share of about 36 percent (2010: roughly 42 percent), the United In June, LANXESS signed the United Nations Global Compact, the States has held the lead since our initial listing. The share held by world’s largest and fastest growing corporate social responsibility (CSR) investors in Germany remained stable in 2011, standing at around initiative. In September, the company was included in the renowned 27 percent as of December 31, 2011 (2010: roughly 27 percent). Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World. LANXESS also satisInvestors in the United Kingdom held around 17 percent of our stock fied the criteria for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index in 2011. In on the reporting date (2010: roughly 21 percent). Investors from addition, leading rating agency oekom research raised our corporate other European countries, including, in particular, France, Norway, responsibility rating to C+. Denmark, Switzerland and the Netherlands, increased their share significantly to 18 percent, from nine percent in 2010. Last year, we Strengthening our sustainability profile will remain a priority in the strengthened our investor communications and roadshow activities current fiscal year. Detailed information about sustainability is available to other European countries in addition to the major global financial from page 34 and on the Internet at http://corporate.lanxess.com/ centers (see Investor Relations Activities). en/sustainability-home. Stockholder Profile as of December 31, 2011 % ~1 Ownership structure ~10 As in previous years, the majority of LANXESS’s stockholders in 2011 were institutional investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. At December 31, 2011, these investors held roughly 89 percent of the stock, a slight increase on the previous year (2010: roughly 88 percent). Institutional investors Private investors ~89 Employees 64 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Geographical Breakdown as of December 31, 20111) On the whole, the analysts again evaluated our stock positively for % the most part in 2011. The number issuing a buy recommendation ~2 on LANXESS shares increased yet again to 69 percent (2010: 59 percent). 21 percent (2010: 31 percent) said to hold our shares, ~18 while 10 percent (2010: 10 percent) gave a sell recommendation. ~36 Summaries of analyst appraisals from an independent service provider U.S.A. ~17 Germany are available in the Investor Relations section of our website under the U.K. Shares menu item. Other Europe ~27 Other regions Recommendations as of February 15, 2012 % 1) Based on the stockholders identified 10 Reported Holdings of Three Percent or Above by Institutional Investors (up to and including February 15, 2012) 21 Dodge & Cox, San Francisco, U.S.A. 9.93% BlackRock, Inc. 5.10%1) 69 Norges Bank (central bank of Norway), Oslo, Norway 5.04% Buy Fidelity 3.13% 1) Hold Allianz Global Investors, Frankfurt, Germany 3.04% Sell 1) The reported shareholdings include the interests held by several companies, all of which have submitted voting rights notices. Analysts Annual Stockholders’ Meeting In fiscal 2011, numerous analysts issued reports on the current and With 56.21 percent of the voting capital present (2010: 61.09 percent), future performance of LANXESS. Around 30 sell-side analysts, most corresponding to 46,767,244 shares and the same number of votes, of them from Germany and the United Kingdom, regularly issued their the number of voting stockholders represented at LANXESS’s Annual appraisals of LANXESS. Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011 was once more very high. All the agenda items were passed by solid majorities. Detailed voting One focus of the broad dialogue with analysts was LANXESS’s growth results are available to our stockholders on the Internet: http:// in the current economic environment. Moreover, the sustainable stockholdersmeeting.lanxess.com. strategic alignment with which we intend to achieve our mediumterm earnings target for 2015 was an important aspect of this ongoing The next Annual Stockholders’ Meeting takes place on May 15, 2012, exchange. in the LANXESS arena at Willy-Brandt-Platz 1, Cologne. Investor Information 65 Dividend The successful placement of these bonds enabled us to greatly improve our financial flexibility and successfully extend the maturity In principle, LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. For the profile of our financial liabilities to 2018. year under review, our most successful ever, we plan to increase our dividend by a further 21 percent compared to 2010. The Board of The Euro Benchmark Bonds were issued by LANXESS Finance Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will propose to B.V. and are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The term the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2012, that a dividend sheets are available in the Investor Relations section of our website of €0.85 per share be declared for fiscal 2011. Relative to the price (http://corporate.lanxess.com/en/investor-relations) under the Bond at which LANXESS shares ended 2011, this equates to a dividend menu item. yield of 2.1 percent. Subject to approval of the corresponding resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, the dividend will be paid We also placed our first bond on the Asian market in February 2012. on May 16, 2012. This so-called Dim Sum Bond has a volume of CN¥500 million (around €60 million), a term of three years (February 16, 2012 to February 16, 2015) and an annual interest coupon of 3.95 percent. Bonds It also trades on the stock exchange in Luxembourg. LANXESS successfully placed one new Euro Benchmark Bond on Further information about our bonds can be found on page 94. the European capital market in fiscal 2011. The bond has a volume of €500 million, a term of seven years (May 23, 2011 to May 23, Overview of LANXESS’s Bonds 2018) and an annual interest coupon of 4.125 percent. ISIN/WKN Volume Term Coupon XS0222550880 €400 million June 21, 2005 – 4.125% This brings to four the total number of bonds we successfully issued June 21, 2012 through the end of 2011. The first Euro Benchmark Bond was placed XS0423036663 €500 million April 9, 2009 – 7.750% on the European capital market in fiscal 2005; two others were placed April 9, 2014 in 2009. XS0452802175 €200 million September 21, 2009 – 5.500% September 21, 2016 XS0629645531 €500 million May 23, 2011 – 4.125% Our first bond with a volume of €400 million runs from June 21, 2005 May 23, 2018 to June 21, 2012, and has an annual interest coupon of 4.125 perXS0746637296 CN¥500 million February 16, 2012 – 3.950% (around €60 million) February 16, 2015 cent. In April 2009, we issued a bond with a volume of €500 million and a term of five years, maturing on April 9, 2014. The annual interest Ratings coupon is 7.75 percent. The third bond was issued in September 2009. It has a volume of €200 million and features an annual interest The world’s three major rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s coupon of 5.5 percent. With a term of seven years, it will mature on Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, reconfirmed their existing investSeptember 21, 2016. We issued the 2009 bonds under our Debt ment-grade ratings with stable outlook for LANXESS in fiscal 2011. Issuance Program. 66 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 In their rating confirmations, the agencies highlighted LANXESS’s Major conferences used as an important forum leading market positions with key products such as rubber. They believe that LANXESS is in good shape and has strong liquidity which will In 2011, capital market conferences remained an important forum enable it to continue participating in growth trends in the future and for providing information to analysts and investors. LANXESS’s Board systematically pursue its growth strategy. of Management and Investor Relations team used major international conferences as a platform for communicating the company’s perforStandard & Poor’s and Moody’s have had LANXESS at a BBB and mance in 2011 and the important strategic measures being taken to a Baa2 rating, both with stable outlook, since 2007. Fitch has rated ensure its sustained growth. In addition to established capital market LANXESS a BBB with stable outlook since 2006. conferences held in Frankfurt, London and New York, conferences organized outside these major financial centers also provided key opportunities for exchanging views. For the first time, we introduced Investor relations activities our company to interested investors at conferences in Eastern Europe (Warsaw) and Asia (Singapore). In the current year, conferences will We continued to expand our investor relations activities in fiscal 2011. remain an extremely important communications platform for us in our Roadshows, conferences and analyst roundtables are important tools dialogue with both institutional and private investors. for maintaining an extensive and active dialogue with analysts and investors. LANXESS management representatives, including the Chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial Officer, 2011 analyst roundtables a platform for had a greater role in these activities. However, the Investor Relations strategy updates team also had a fuller schedule. The declared objective of our investor relations activities remained the same in the year under review. We After announcing new medium-term targets in 2010, LANXESS’s aim to provide analysts and investors with a broad and continuous Board of Management used the analyst roundtables held in Frankfurt flow of information about the LANXESS Group’s performance and and London in September 2011 as an opportunity to inform some 40 targets, sustain their confidence in our company and deepen their analysts about the company’s progress with its strategy for achieving understanding of how our individual businesses work. its announced growth target by 2015 (see page 13ff. in the Strategy section). The Chairman of the Board of Management and the Chief Financial Officer also talked with participants about raw materials, our Roadshow frequency increased again hedging strategy and the successful integration of the Keltan EPDM business acquired from Royal DSM N.V. In fiscal 2011, we continued to use roadshows as the central tool for our intensive personal contacts with institutional investors. The LANXESS will again host a capital markets and media conference in frequency of roadshows involving management was increased again September 2012. from the previous year’s already high level. Altogether, we hosted more than 70 roadshow days in 2011. As well as stopping in the major financial centers, we sought dialogue with investors in other European cities like Amsterdam, Brussels, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Geneva, Madrid, Milan and Oslo. We also stepped up our dialogue with capital market participants in Asia last year by holding roadshows in Singapore and Hong Kong. Our roadshow activities continued to focus on our shareholders, but we also sought to actively address external capital providers and, for the first time, initiate a dialogue with investors who are focused on sustainability (corporate responsibility). Investor Information 67 Additional IR activities to promote exchange We also retained our top place among MDAX companies in last year’s of information Capital Investor Relations Prize. Some 300 fund managers and analysts evaluated the capital market communications of listed German and Conference calls are another important means of providing capital European companies for this survey, which is conducted by the Germarket participants with timely and extensive information updates. In man Society of Investment Professionals (DVFA) and German business these calls, LANXESS’s Board of Management explains newly released magazine Capital. With a score of more than 400 points, we were results or current strategic events. Conference calls are streamed live among the few companies across all sectors that is considered to in the Investor Relations section of our website, and recorded versions perform very good investor relations work. are available for download for one year. The Investor Relations section of our website also contains the Investor Relations contacts presentations from roadshows and major conferences, which are made available on the date of the respective event. Publications like Head of Investor Relations the LANXESS Fact Book, financial reports, investor news, corporate Oliver Stratmann governance disclosures and information about our shares and bonds Tel. +49 214 30 49611 complete the range of information offered. E-mail: oliver.stratmann@lanxess.com Private Investors, Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Events LANXESS earns top marks for its capital market Tanja Satzer communications Tel. +49 214 30 43801 E-mail: tanja.satzer@lanxess.com Maintaining a broad, targeted, timely and transparent dialogue with the capital markets has been a priority for us from the beginning. That Institutional Investors, Analysts is why we are especially pleased to have again earned top marks for Constantin Fest our capital market communications in prestigious rankings last year. Tel. +49 214 30 71416 Among the most important criteria for the portfolio managers and E-mail: constantin.fest@lanxess.com analysts polled were the credibility and transparency of communications, the focus on target groups and access to top management. Joachim Kunz Tel. +49 214 30 42030 Our investor relations activities received three first-place honors from E-mail: joachim.kunz@lanxess.com the U.K.’s respected IR Magazine. In addition to ranking highest among German companies for our investor relations work, we also took top Ulrike Weihs place for the best analyst/investor event and best IR communications Tel. +49 214 30 50458 accompanying a corporate transaction (acquisition of DSM ElastoE-mail: ulrike.weihs@lanxess.com mers). These placings were the result of a telephone poll of around 500 portfolio managers and analysts in Europe conducted by IR Magazine. Additionally, our IR team was again recognized as the best in the European chemical industry in the annual survey by U.S. magazine Institutional Investor. We were also placed third behind two major DAX companies in the magazine’s cross-sector ranking of German industry. Some 2,000 investors and analysts were asked for their opinion by Institutional Investor. Our IR team had achieved the top ranking in the European chemical industry for the first time in 2010. Financial Information New dimensions The Durethan® oil pans fitted in the engines for the Mercedes Actros trucks are up to 120 centimeters long, 40 centimeters wide and 35 centimeters deep. Never before have such large truck oil pans been produced from polyamide 6 and 66. This record is proof of the potential of HiAnt®, our technical service offering for high-tech plastics. Using complex computer calculations and simulations, we were able to prove that the project was possible and contribute directly to producing a low-cost design that met the specifications. 70 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Group Management Report and Corporate Governance 71 Group Management Report 71 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy 74 Value management and control system 76 Legal environment 76 Business conditions 78 Key events influencing the company’s business 78 Comparison of forecast and actual business 79 Business performance of the LANXESS Group 82 Business trends by region 84 Segment information 87 Statement of financial position and financial condition 95 Management’s summary of the fiscal year 97 Employees 99 Compensation report 99 Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 102 Procurement and production 103 Sales organization and customers 104 Research and development 106 Corporate responsibility 107 Events after the reporting period 107 Report on risks and opportunities 120 Corporate Governance 120 Corporate governance statement 123 Compensation report 127 Directors’ dealings 128 Offices held by Board of Management members 128 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 130 Report of the Supervisory Board Group Management Report 71 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy in November 2011 of Verichem Inc., a U.S. biocide specialist based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, will significantly strengthen the position of Group structure the Material Protection Products business unit on the North American market. Legal structure LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS Group and functions largely as a management holding company. Our Rhein Chemie business unit, which is also part of the Performance LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS International Holding Chemicals segment, strengthened its product portfolio with three GmbH are wholly owned subsidiaries of LANXESS AG, and in turn measures. With the acquisition of the Argentina-based Darmex group control the other subsidiaries and affiliates both in Germany and in January 2011, Rhein Chemie has not only become one of the elsewhere. world’s leading suppliers of release agents for rubber products. It has also gained access to the market for vulcanization bladders, which The following are the principal companies wholly owned by LANXESS AG is worth an estimated €300 million. Bladders are used during the directly or indirectly: vulcanization phase of tire production to give the tires their final shape. The purchase in April 2011 of the Vocol and Santoweb product lines Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG from U.S. company Flexsys America L.P. systematically expanded our Company Name and Domicile Function Segments portfolio for rubber processors. In addition, the purchase of selected LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Production All assets from the tire release agents business of Wacker Chemie AG in Leverkusen, Germany and sales July 2011 cements our leading position on this market and gives us LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Production Performance Polymers access to new growth opportunities, especially in the United States. Singapore and sales LANXESS Corporation, Production All Pittsburgh, U.S.A. and sales We acquired U.S. company Unitex Chemical Corporation, which is LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Production Performance Polymers based in Greensboro, North Carolina, in October 2011. The busiHeerlen, Netherlands and sales ness, which has some 40 employees, was assigned to the Functional LANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Production Performance Polymers Lillebonne, France and sales Chemicals business unit of the Performance Chemicals segment. LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Production Performance Polymers Unitex primarily manufactures environmentally friendly phthalate-free Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and sales plasticizers and other specialty products, including flame retardants. In LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Holding All Barcelona, Spain company addition to acquiring the Unitex product portfolio, the transaction also LANXESS Inc., Production Performance Polymers gives us access to the company’s flexible production units. The global Sarnia, Canada and sales market for phthalate-free plasticizers is currently valued at €1.3 billion, LANXESS International SA, Sales All Granges-Paccot, Switzerland with annual growth rates of around 7%. LANXESS N.V., Production Performance Polymers, Antwerp, Belgium and sales Performance Chemicals When U.S. biofuel and biochemical manufacturer Gevo Inc. of LANXESS Rubber N.V., Production Performance Polymers Zwijndrecht, Belgium and sales Englewood, Colorado, was listed on the stock exchange in February Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Production Performance Chemicals 2011, we raised the minority stake we have held in the company Mannheim, Germany and sales since 2010 to 9.1%. In cooperation with Gevo, we are seeking to Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld, Production Advanced Germany and sales Intermediates manufacture isobutene from renewable resources. Isobutene is a key precursor for the manufacture of butyl rubber. Key additions to the Group portfolio At the beginning of May 2011 we Management and control organization LANXESS AG has a dual successfully completed the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business management structure consisting of the Board of Management, which of Dutch company Royal DSM N.V. Assigned to the Performance manages the company, and the Supervisory Board, which oversees Polymers segment, the acquisition strengthens the position of our the Board of Management with the assistance of an Audit Committee Technical Rubber Products business unit in the steadily expanding formed from among its members to advise on financial matters. The EPDM synthetic rubber business. Board of Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management Through the acquisition of the material protection business of Swiss company, LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for communicompany Syngenta AG, the Material Protection Products business cation with the company’s key stakeholders. unit of our Performance Chemicals segment is becoming one of the leading suppliers of biocides for protecting construction materials. The For additional information, please see the Corporate Governance purchase in April 2011 largely covers patents, customer lists, supply section of this Annual Report. agreements and registrations for Syngenta products. The acquisition 72 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Compensation system and long-term incentive programs CompenThe business activities that LANXESS combines in its Advanced sation for the members of the Board of Management and SuperIntermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading suppliers of visory Board comprises both fixed and variable components. The industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in the production Board of Management, selected subordinate management levels and of chemical precursors and specialty active ingredients for individual certain other employee groups are entitled to participate in long-term, customers (custom synthesis and manufacturing). stock-based incentive programs. Advanced Intermediates Further details are given in the Compensation Report, which forms Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates part of this Management Report. Saltigo Sites Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Leverkusen, Germany Baytown, U.S.A. Business Liyang, China Nagda, India Business organization We made no changes to our business organiApplications Agrochemicals zation in fiscal 2011. The LANXESS Group is structured in three Automotive Construction segments with 13 business units, each of which conducts its own Dyestuffs operations and has global profit responsibility. Group functions and Coatings service companies assigned to them support the business units by Pharmaceuticals providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units and group functions, the country organizations ensure the necessary proximity We have consolidated our application-oriented specialty chemicals to markets and provide the organizational infrastructure required. operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. At the present time, we do not plan to make any material changes to Performance Chemicals the legal or organizational structures described above in fiscal 2012. Business units Material Protection Products Inorganic Pigments The segments in brief We have combined our synthetic rubber and Functional Chemicals Leather high-tech plastics manufacturing activities in the Performance Polymers Rhein Chemie segment. Rubber Chemicals Ion Exchange Resins Performance Polymers Sites Bitterfeld, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, KrefeldBusiness units Butyl Rubber Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany Performance Butadiene Rubbers Antwerp, Belgium Technical Rubber Products Filago, Italy Semi-Crystalline Products Vilassar de Mar, Spain Sites Dormagen, Hamm-Uentrop, Krefeld-Uerdingen, Branston, United Kingdom Leverkusen and Marl, Germany Isithebe, Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, Antwerp and Zwijndrecht, Belgium South Africa La Wantzenau and Port Jérôme, France Burgettstown, Bushy Park, Chardon, Greensboro and Pittsburgh, U.S.A. Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina Sarnia, Canada Porto Feliz, Brazil Orange, U.S.A. Colonia, Uruguay Cabo, Duque de Caxias and Triunfo, Brazil Qingdao, Shanghai, Tongling and Wuxi, China Wuxi, China Jhagadia, India Applications Tires Toyohashi, Japan Automotive Sydney, Australia Electronics Applications Disinfection Electrical engineering Protection and preservation of wood, Medical equipment construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs Color pigments Leather processing products Tire chemicals Water treatment Group Management Report 73 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Europe Northand Central America Asia South America Australia Africa Strategy The LANXESS Group is a globally operating chemicals enterprise Sustained megatrends offer potential for future success The future with a portfolio ranging from polymers to industrial, specialty and fine development we anticipate is shaped by four sustained megatrends: chemicals. All of the conditions are in place for long-term success in our core businesses. These include a flexible asset structure, a • The growing demand for mobility, particularly in China, India and diversified customer base, a global presence with regional flexibility other large emerging markets, and the simultaneous need to and an entrepreneurial management structure. make mobility more environmentally friendly. • The sharp increase in global food requirements due to a rapidly Through innovations and selective additions to our product portgrowing world population. folio, we have positioned ourselves as a reliable high-tech supplier • Urbanization resulting worldwide in the migration of people from of premium products that actively supports its customers’ innovation rural areas to cities. According to current forecasts, the number of processes and thereby adds measurable value. This enables us to city-dwellers will jump by 40% this decade. All these people will strengthen customer loyalty, set ourselves apart from our competitors, need living space, offices and a robust infrastructure. and remain highly competitive even in economically challenging times. • The rising demand for water due to population growth and climate change will result in water becoming a commodity as valuable as oil in the not-too-distant future. 74 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 With the customized products and services offered by their business Our company is able to grow as a result of its business operations units, our segments make a valuable social and economic contribuand by means of specific financing measures. Our goal is to generate tion to mastering the challenges presented by these megatrends in positive cash flow along with a positive contribution to earnings. everyday life. Earnings strategy Against this backdrop, we are consistently aligning Value management and control system our product portfolio with markets that promise steady, above-average growth in the coming years. Accordingly, our regional focus is mainly Value Management and Control System on expanding our businesses and production capacities in the faster2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 growing BRICS countries, especially Brazil, India and China. To safeEBITDA pre guard our profitability, part of our approach right from the start has been exceptionals € million 719 722 465 918 1,146 to establish our price-before-volume strategy, which involves passing EBITDA margin pre exceptionals % 10.9 11.0 9.2 12.9 13.1 the volatility in raw materials prices on to the market. Capital employed € million 2,660 2,989 3,475 3,750 4,784 ROCE % 17.7 15.4 5.9 17.0 17.2 Our primary mid-term corporate goal is to increase EBITDA pre excepDays of sales in tionals to €1.4 billion in 2015. The investment projects already uninventories (DSI) Days 54.5 66.9 55.1 53.7 60.1 Days of sales der way are expected to make a sustained contribution to increasing outstanding EBITDA pre exceptionals to around €1.3 billion (see Opportunity (DSO) Days 49.3 44.6 47.0 46.3 49.9 Report). We intend to generate the remaining amount from organic Net financial liabilities € million 460 864 794 913 1,515 growth as well as from targeted acquisitions, with our focus on organic Net debt ratio 0.6x 1.2x 1.7x 1.0x 1.3x growth. Investment ratio % 4.3 5.4 6.8 7.4 8.0 Capital expenditure strategy We make targeted capital expenditures to increase our international competitiveness, focusing on attractive To achieve our strategic goals, we need specific controlling parameters growth opportunities in profitable markets. The following principles against which we can measure the success of our efforts. Such assessguide our capital expenditure policy: ments are founded on a reliable, readily understandable financial and controlling information system. We are constantly working to further • The focus is on building our portfolio of premium products that set improve the information provided by the Accounting and Controlling us apart from our competitors. group functions through consistent reporting of budget, forecast and • We invest in sustainably growing markets that are the strategic actual data. focus for our operating segments. • Capital expenditures must satisfy clear financial criteria that improve our company’s average return on capital and Financial performance incorporate an adequate risk premium. • Most capital expenditures are financed out of the cash flow from The key controlling parameter for the LANXESS Group and the operating activities or, if that is insufficient, from other available individual segments at present is EBITDA (earnings before interest, liquidity or credit lines. income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding back operational depreciation and Financing strategy Our conservative, sustainability-based financing amortization and any exceptional items. Every operational decision or policy prepares the ground for long-term dynamic business activity. achievement is judged by its sustainable impact on EBITDA. As part The cornerstones of this policy are accessing international financial of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for this markets and thus securing future financial flexibility. benchmark of our company’s success, which are then incorporated into the assessment of employees’ variable income components (see In respect of capital requirements and capital coverage, we work to the Employees section in this Management Report). optimally reconcile competing requirements for profitability, liquidity, security and autonomy. The debt level is aligned to the ratio systems used by the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. Group Management Report 75 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy | Value management and control system Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the Group’s conCost of capital trolling parameters because they do not permit any direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark of our Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our case, industry. When raw material prices fluctuate throughout the year, we from the return on a long-term German government bond plus a adjust our selling prices in line with our price-before-volume strategy. risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category as This has an effect on sales, but almost none on the margins that are LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return expected by investors significant to our profitability. We therefore give no guidance on sales. from an investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand a risk premium due to the greater risk involved in acquiring shares than in buying risk-free government bonds. This is known as a market risk Company-specific lead indicators premium and is calculated using the long-term excess return generated by a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government bonds Lead indicators support the timely identification of material changes and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an investin assets and liabilities, financial condition and earnings performance. ment in LANXESS stock compared to that of the market as a whole. Our annual budget and planning process provides the starting point for measuring the Group’s profitability and our ability to finance operations At 17.2%, ROCE in 2011 (2010: 17.0%) was well above our weighted from our own funds. This information is used, for example, to make average cost of capital (WACC), which was adjusted for comparafinancing decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in market bility. After tax, the WACC amounted to 8.4% in fiscal 2011 (2010: conditions and the competitive environment, operational forecasts are 8.4%). The net debt ratio (ratio of net financial debt to EBITDA pre prepared three times each year as the basis for updating the full-year exceptionals) rose only slightly, from 1.0 in the prior year to 1.3 as of budget and the associated key values we use to control the Group. December 31, 2011, resulting from the implementation of our growth strategy and the associated increase in investment activity last year. Profitability Capital employment Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented as a controlling parameter at Group level. ROCE is a profitability ratio To control our working capital, we use two key performance indicators: that indicates how efficiently we utilize our capital. This makes it an DSI (days of sales in inventories) and DSO (days of sales outstanding). important criterion in investment decisions, for example. All new investThese represent inventories and receivables, respectively, in relation ment projects must exceed the Group’s ROCE. to sales. Another important performance indicator is business free cash flow, which indicates how much cash our business units are EBIT pre exceptionals generating directly. It is calculated for the operating units using a ROCE = simplified cash flow method. Capital employed Capital employed = Total assets Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous Less deferred tax assets Less interest-free liabilities capital discipline and are aligned systematically with those product areas with the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment projects on the basis of financial indicators such as the pay-off period, Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for pensions), net present value and ROCE. income tax liabilities, trade payables, and items included under “other liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called “business ROCE,” to manage our business units. EVA (economic value added) is also used as a parameter for value management in the context of strategic planning and decisions about the long-term alignment of the business units. 76 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Debt The economic environment The net debt ratio, which we use solely at Group level, is defined as net 2011 was characterized by economic expansion. However, its pace financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre exceptionals. Net financial slowed as the year progressed to yield an overall growth rate of 2.7%. liabilities are the total of current and non-current financial liabilities, less One of the main reasons for this slowdown was the less robust growth cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. The financial liabilities in the industrialized countries. The Japanese economy in particular reflected in the statement of financial position are adjusted here for suffered from the direct and indirect consequences of the March 2011 liabilities for accrued interest. earthquake disaster. In the United States, the rising public debt, high unemployment and ongoing difficulties in the real estate sector Net Financial Liabilities dampened growth to 1.8%. In addition, the financial markets grew € million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 increasingly nervous in the face of the European debt crisis and the Non-current financial debate about possible solutions. Growth in Western Europe was slow liabilities 601 9591) 1,462 1,302 1,465 at 1.5%, although Germany stood out with expansion of 3.0%. The Current financial liabilities 59 168 94 176 633 market uncertainty described above was also reflected in a cooling Less of the economy in the emerging markets. Nevertheless, China and Liabilities for accrued interest (11) (14) (47) (41) ( 55) India still posted high growth rates of 8.5% and 6.8%, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents (189) (249) (313) (160) (178) Near-cash assets 0 0 (402) (364) (350) The subdued performance of the global economy also affected the 460 864 794 913 1,515 world’s capital markets, which showed mixed trends over the course of 1) After deduction of €27 million in specific exchange hedging of financial liabilities the year and regionally. The first half of the year was dominated by share price gains, but then a downturn took hold from the third quarter that saw key indices post a loss for 2011 overall. Impacted by the public Legal environment debt crisis in Europe, the DAX shed 15% while the FTSE 100 dropped around 6%. The Nikkei Index lost around 18% following the natural There were no changes in the legal environment in 2011 that would disaster in March 2011. The U.S. Dow Jones was the only index to go have had a material impact on the cash flows, financial condition or against the trend, with gains of around 6% for 2011. In this environresults of operations of the LANXESS Group. ment, central banks worldwide continued to pursue their low-interest policy. LANXESS shares were also unable to evade the developments on Europe’s stock markets and ended the year down 32%. Business conditions The exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar was again GDP and Chemical Production in 2011 very volatile during 2011. The value of the dollar dropped significantly Change vs. prior year in real terms (%), projected against the euro up to the middle of the year. In the second half, howNorth America ever, a steady recovery began, in the course of which the U.S. dollar 1.9 more than recouped its losses, trading at a lower rate than at the start 4.1 Latin America of the year. At the end of the year, the euro was worth US$1.29, which 4.2 represented an increase in the value of the U.S. currency of about 3.7% 2.5 over the course of 2011. Its average price for the year was US$1.39, EMEA 2.3 which was weaker than the prior-year price of US$1.33. Due to the 2.6 positioning of our business, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a Asia-Pacific 4.3 positive effect on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit 6.7 any impact that cannot be neutralized by ensuring that production 0 2 4 6 8 and sales take place in the same currency area. Gross domestic product Chemical production Group Management Report 77 Value management and control system | Legal environment | Business conditions Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro Tire industry production expanded by a robust 4.2% in 2011, driven mainly by 10.2% growth in Central and Eastern Europe. Asia also 1.60 performed well with overall growth of 3.7%, led by the ASEAN region with 5.6% and China with 5.3%. Supported by the upswing in the 1.50 automotive industry, the original equipment business proved to be a key driver of this positive performance. The replacement tire business 1.40 was slightly weaker than anticipated on account of the strong demand 1.30 in the prior year. Truck tires, especially in the OEM segment, posted substantial growth, above all in Europe and the NAFTA region. By 1.20 contrast, the performance of the replacement tire business was below average overall. OEM car tires saw very positive development across 1.10 Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. all regions. The replacement tire market was weak in North America, but grew in Europe. 2011 Average 2011 2010 Average 2010 The automotive industry continued to grow. The large backlog in demand in the United States and Russia led to strong expansion in Despite the global economy’s rather restrained performance, raw the NAFTA region (9.7%) and Central and Eastern Europe (12.4%). material prices continued the upward trend begun in 2010 in the By contrast, automobile production in China fell by 0.5% although it reporting period. As a purchaser primarily of petrochemical raw remained at a high level. This decline was caused by expiring incenmaterials, particularly butadiene, LANXESS is impacted by this trend, tive programs that had been launched in 2010 to encourage the as it leads to higher production costs. purchase of smaller commercial vehicles. After the previous year’s steep increase, production in this vehicle category decreased significantly in 2011 due to lower demand and a high baseline figure. The The chemical industry natural disasters in Japan pushed production down by 9.2% over the course of the year. Overall, production in the Asia-Pacific region The trend observed in the chemical industry was positive overall, decreased by 0.5%. In Western Europe, the automotive sector grew with production expanding by 4.6% in 2011, somewhat less than by 3.1%. Expansion in Germany was particularly robust at 6.2%, due the 5.5% we had forecast. Following a very robust first half, growth in in large part to higher exports. Production in South America was also chemical production slowed as the year progressed, triggered by the very strong, with a gain of 6.1%. increasing market uncertainty. The NAFTA region performed better than we expected with growth of 4.1%. By contrast, Western Europe’s The production of chemicals for the agricultural industry grew by a expansion of 1.3% lagged behind our expectations. Growth in the significant 6.9%. This very positive trend was driven by the high prices Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions was also slower than we had for agricultural products. The growth in production was particularly anticipated at 6.7% and 2.5%, respectively. high in the NAFTA region at 8.0% and in Central and Eastern Europe at 10.3%. Evolution of major user industries The construction sector in the industrialized countries finally stabilized at a low level after having contracted sharply since the start of the Evolution of Major User Industries in 2011 global economic crisis in 2008/2009. Construction in the NAFTA Change vs. prior year Tires AutoAgroConregion actually showed a slight upward trend in 2011 with growth of in real terms (%) motive chemicals struction 2.4%, whereas Western Europe saw only marginal improvement of (projected) 1.0%. Germany was a positive exception, posting healthy growth of Americas 2.1 8.8 6.6 2.7 6.4%. The Asia-Pacific region remained the construction industry’s NAFTA 1.7 9.7 8.0 2.4 growth engine with expansion of 6.0%. Latin America 3.4 6.1 4.1 4.5 EMEA 6.9 6.5 6.0 2.0 Germany 2.3 6.2 7.4 6.4 Western Europe 2.2 3.1 4.7 1.0 Central and Eastern Europe 10.7 12.4 10.3 3.9 Asia-Pacific 3.7 (0.5) 7.8 6.0 World 4.2 3.4 6.9 3.9 78 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Key events influencing the company’s business Taking into account the market developments at the time, we projected a year-on-year increase in EBITDA pre exceptionals of between 10% Our business in 2011 was shaped mainly by the performance of and 15% when we reported our results for the first quarter of 2011. our Performance Polymers segment and, in geographical terms, the In view of subsequent economic forecasts, our results for the first half markets in our EMEA (excluding Germany) and Latin America regions. of the year, and the successfully completed acquisition of the Keltan The sharp rise in raw material prices across all our segments did EPDM business of Royal DSM N.V., we later raised our guidance to not have a sustained impact on our business due to the systematic an increase of 20%. Our EBITDA pre exceptionals for 2011 came to implementation of our price-before-volume strategy. €1,146 million, representing an increase of 24.8%, which exceeded our forecast and is mainly attributable to the positive performance of The Performance Polymers segment posted the strongest year-on-year our polymers business. growth rates in terms of both sales and EBITDA pre exceptionals and was therefore the main engine of our business success. This positive As generally expected, the price of the raw materials used by the trend was based on brisk demand from the tire industry for high-quality Group increased by around 27%. In line with our price-before-volume synthetic rubber and from the automotive industry for high-tech plastics, strategy, these higher costs were passed on to the market and did not which are used in car bodies and other components. It was additionally have an adverse effect on the results of operations. supported by the acquisition in early May 2011 of the Keltan EPDM business from Royal DSM N.V., since demand from car makers for In connection with the ongoing LANXESS Technology Initiative, these products was also strong. our research and development spending increased by 24.1% to €144 million in 2011. Our investment in the company’s future potenDriven by the demand for agricultural products, sales of the Advanced tial was therefore higher than originally planned. The focus was on the Intermediates segment’s agrochemicals also increased. Performance Polymers segment, with a share of 50%. Sales grew significantly in all reporting regions. Adjusted for currency In the year under review, the cash outflow for capital expenditures and portfolio effects, the most marked business expansion was seen in totaled €679 million, around 13.2% more than the figure forecast Latin America. Demand from the tire and automotive-related industries during the course of the year. This was mainly due to our completion was the driving force here. ahead of schedule of the capacity expansion at the existing butyl rubber plant in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, early expenditures for the butyl rubber plant in Singapore, and extensive maintenance measures undertaken Comparison of forecast and actual business in the fourth quarter of 2011. Fiscal 2011 was dominated by the mobility and agriculture megatrends. In light of the maturity structure of our financial liabilities, there was no need for substantial refinancing in 2011. As a replacement for the At the end of 2010, we anticipated continued healthy business bond that is maturing in 2012, we took advantage of the favorable interperformance in view of the excellent global positioning of our segments. est rates in May 2011 to issue a €500 million Euro Benchmark Bond. We assumed that our key customer industries would continue to perform well, albeit with regional differences, and anticipated higher sales and improved earnings compared to the prior year. Key industries, particularly the tire and automotive sectors but also agrochemicals, exceeded our expectations, in some cases by a wide margin, and enabled us to achieve excellent results, primarily in the Performance Polymers segment. The regional performance of our businesses was more homogeneous than we had originally anticipated, with growth rates of more than 20%. Only Germany lagged slightly behind this trend. Group Management Report 79 Key events influencing the company’s business | Comparison of forecast and actual business | Business performance of the LANXESS Group Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business Forecast for 2011 in Forecast for 2011 in Forecast for 2011 in Actual 2011 Annual Report 2010 & H1 Interim Report Q3 Interim Report Q1 Interim Report Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals 10% to 15% increase 20% increase 20% increase 24.8% increase Seasonality of sales H1 > H2 H1 > H2 H1 > H2 H1 > H2 1) Business development: segments Performance Polymers Increasing demand Increasing demand Increasing demand Sales +37% Advanced Intermediates Increasing demand Increasing demand Increasing demand Sales +10% Performance Chemicals Increasing demand Increasing demand Increasing demand Sales +8% Raw material prices Further increase Further increase Further increase Significant increase Research and development Research and development expenses +15% +15% +15% +24% Financial condition: Group Cash outflows for capital expenditures €550 – 600 million €550 – 600 million Approx. €600 million €679 million 1) Portfolio-adjusted Business performance of the LANXESS Group Sales and earnings • Sales up 23.2%, largely due to price effects, supported by Group Sales portfolio additions € million • Positive demand trend, particularly in automotive and tire 2011 8,775 industries • Significant sales growth in all reporting regions 2010 7,120 • EBITDA pre exceptionals up 24.8% to €1,146 million • EBITDA margin pre exceptionals of 13.1% tops strong 2009 5,057 prior-year 12.9% • Net income rises to €506 million after €379 million 2008 6,576 in previous year • Earnings per share of €6.08, up from €4.56 2007 6,608 • Solid statement of financial position and financing structure • Net debt ratio up only moderately, from 1.0 to 1.3, 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 despite extensive acquisition and investment activities LANXESS Group sales rose by a robust 23.2% from €7,120 million in the prior year to €8,775 million. Adjustments to selling prices beKey Financial Data cause of significantly higher raw material costs characterized 2011. € million 2010 2011 Change Sales volumes were up 2.7% over the strong prior-year period. With % positive portfolio and currency effects of 3.3% on balance, operational Sales 7,120 8,775 23.2 sales improved by 19.9%. Volumes expanded in all segments. Due Gross profit 1,739 2,010 15.6 to higher raw material prices, selling prices also increased in all EBITDA pre exceptionals 918 1,146 24.8 segments. In some cases, particularly in the Performance Polymers EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 12.9% 13.1% — segment, these increases were substantial. Sales contributed by EBITDA 890 1,101 23.7 Operating result (EBIT) the businesses acquired in 2011 generated a positive portfolio pre exceptionals 635 826 30.1 effect of 6.1%. Operating result (EBIT) 607 776 27.8 EBIT margin 8.5% 8.8% — Financial result (114) (121) (6.1) Income before income taxes 493 655 32.9 Net income 379 506 33.5 Earnings per share (€) 4.56 6.08 33.5 80 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Effects on Sales Sales by Segment € million/% € million 2010 2011 Change Proportion % of Group +2.7% +6.1% 8,775 sales +17.2% % 7,120 (2.8)% Performance Polymers 3,692 5,059 37.0 57.7 Advanced Intermediates 1,411 1,545 9.5 17.6 Performance Chemicals 1,978 2,130 7.7 24.2 Reconciliation 39 41 5.1 0.5 7,120 8,775 23.2 100.0 2010 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2011 2010 figures restated Our Performance Polymers segment performed very positively Order book status throughout the reporting year, increasing sales by a substantial 37.0% compared to the previous year. The effects of strong demand in the Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on fixed first nine months were dampened by a decline in volumes in the fourth volumes and prices. Instead, our business is characterized by longquarter, resulting in a mid single-digit percentage increase in volumes standing relationships with customers and revolving master agreefor the year as a whole. A sharp rise in raw material prices against ments. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relathe prior year led to a significant increase in selling prices, despite a tively short lead times which do not provide a basis for forward-looking temporary and in some cases considerable drop in the price of certain statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. Our business strategic raw materials that was observed before the end of the year. is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts The gratifying operational performance was supported by the posiof Group operating targets. For additional information, please see tive portfolio effect from acquiring the Keltan EPDM business, offset “Company-specific lead indicators.” slightly by currency effects. Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given reportSales by the Advanced Intermediates segment expanded by 9.5%. ing date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s shortor Increased raw material costs resulted in higher selling prices in this medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is segment as well. Volumes grew rapidly during the first half of the year, made in this report. but demand then began to wane, especially in the fourth quarter. This resulted in a low single-digit percentage increase in volumes for the year. Currency effects had a slightly negative impact on sales growth. Gross profit In our Performance Chemicals segment, sales were up 7.7%. We The cost of sales rose slightly more than sales, increasing by 25.7% raised prices here, too, because of rising raw material costs. Business from the prior year to €6,765 million. As a result, the gross profit expansion was also supported by acquisitions made in 2011. These margin decreased, from 24.4% to 22.9%. Among the reasons for this activities were assigned to the Rhein Chemie, Material Protection development were write-downs on inventories that became necessary Products and Functional Chemicals business units. A slight increase when prices for certain strategic raw materials began to fall in the secin volumes compared to the previous year had a positive effect on ond half of the year. Until then, the prices for strategic raw materials had sales, while currency effects had a mildly negative impact. been much higher than the year before, with a significant inflationary effect observed for butadiene and isobutylene, but also cyclohexane We grew sales in all regions, in most cases by well over 20%. The and toluene. At Group level, the higher prices were passed on in full Performance Polymers segment proved to be a major growth driver to the market, so our price-before-volume strategy remained intact. in all regions. This positive regional performance is representative of Capacity utilization was just above the prior-year level at around 86%. the stable demand worldwide in nearly all our customer industries in Maintenance shutdowns and the adjustment of production to declinfiscal 2011 and of LANXESS’s sustained successful positioning in ing demand toward the end of the year kept capacity utilization in the the growth markets. fourth quarter below the level for the year as a whole. The resulting costs for idle capacities and maintenance projects as well as energy Group Management Report 81 Business performance of the LANXESS Group costs, which rose over the course of the year, increased manufacturWe significantly increased our operating result before depreciation and ing costs. Currency effects, which were negative on a full-year basis, amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals to €1,146 million in 2011 from also had an adverse effect on the gross margin. The resulting charge €918 million the year before. This improvement was primarily due to to gross profit contrasted with positive hedging results reported in increased raw material costs being passed quickly on to the market, the other operating income. The acquisitions made during the reporting continual optimization of the Group’s product mix, increased volumes, year yielded a positive portfolio effect on the gross profit despite the and the portfolio effect from the acquisitions made in the reporting year, negative effects of the purchase price allocations. particularly the Keltan EPDM business. Currency changes resulting from the appreciation in the value of the euro compared to the prioryear period had the opposite effect. The Group’s EBITDA margin pre EBITDA and operating result (EBIT) exceptionals improved from 12.9% to 13.1%. Selling expenses rose by €86 million to €732 million in 2011, mainly EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals due to volumeand price-related increases in freight charges and to € million portfolio effects. However, the ratio of selling expenses to sales receded 2011 1,146 13.1% from 9.1% to 8.3%. 2010 918 12.9% Research and development costs increased by 24.1% to €144 million, underscoring the continued expansion of research activities as part 2009 465 9.2% of the LANXESS Technology Initiative. As a percentage of sales, they were level with the prior year at 1.6%. The number of employees in 2008 722 11.1% R&D grew to 731 as of December 31, 2011, up substantially from 519 on December 31, 2010. 2007 719 10.9% General administrative expenses climbed from €298 million to 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 €325 million in 2011. Reasons for this included portfolio effects as well as an increase in employees’ variable compensation due to the company’s positive performance in 2011. These expenses accounted EBITDA pre exceptionals of the Performance Polymers segment grew for 3.7% of sales, down from 4.2% in the previous year. by approximately 40% against the previous year. Higher raw material costs were passed on in full to the market. The increase in volumes and Other operating expenses, net of other operating income, decreased by a significant portfolio effect from the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM €39 million to €33 million. Positive results from hedging transactions business contributed substantially to the earnings improvement. In and the absence of one-off expenses from the previous year had a the Advanced Intermediates segment, selling prices were raised to favorable impact. The exceptional charges of €50 million included in compensate for the higher raw material costs. An increase in energy this figure, €45 million of which impacted EBITDA, related mainly to costs and negative currency effects were mitigated by the expansion various reorganization projects and portfolio measures. In 2010, net of volumes, which resulted in earnings being slightly higher than exceptional charges amounted to €28 million, all of which impacted in the previous year. EBITDA pre exceptionals of the Performance EBITDA. These were also associated primarily with restructuring and Chemicals segment also improved during the reporting period. By portfolio measures. quickly passing higher raw material costs on to the market, we were able to offset higher costs in other areas, including energy and freight. EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment Volumes remained at or near the prior-year level. The slight decline in € million 2010 2011 Change EBITDA pre exceptionals reported in the reconciliation was due in part % to an increase in research expenditure, performance-related, one-time Performance Polymers 548 768 40.1 payments at the end of the fiscal year, expenses for portfolio measures, Advanced Intermediates 259 264 1.9 and the design and implementation of IT projects. Performance Chemicals 281 289 2.8 Reconciliation (170) (175) (2.9) 918 1,146 24.8 2010 figures restated 82 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The operating result (EBIT) improved very substantially from €607 milIncome taxes lion to €776 million in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2011, the Group had tax expense of €148 million, compared Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income to €112 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate was 22.6%, after € million 2010 2011 Change 22.7% in the previous year. % Operating result (EBIT) 607 776 27.8 Income from investments Net income, earnings per share accounted for using the equity method 16 7 (56.3) Net interest expense (83) (93) (12.0) The LANXESS Group’s net income increased significantly by Other financial income and €127 million year on year to €506 million. €1 million (2010: expenses – net (47) (35) 25.5 €2 million) was attributable to non-controlling interests. Financial result (114) (121) (6.1) Income before income taxes 493 655 32.9 Income taxes (112) (148) (32.1) With the number of LANXESS shares in circulation unchanged, Income after income taxes 381 507 33.1 earnings per share improved substantially year on year, from €4.56 of which: to €6.08, due to the high level of net income. attributable to non-controlling interests 2 1 (50.0) attributable to LANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 379 506 33.5 Business trends by region Sales by Market Financial result % The financial result came in at minus €121 million in fiscal 2011, Asia-Pacific 23.0 22.8 compared to minus €114 million for the prior year. The pro-rated income from investments accounted for using the equity method, Latin America 13.4 13.7 primarily Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, came to €7 million, against North America 16.5 16.6 €16 million in 2010. Interest expense rose considerably, while interest income remained constant. This was due mainly to the increase Germany 18.5 17.9 in net financial liabilities by €602 million from the previous year, to €1,515 million, as a result of investments and acquisitions as well as EMEA (excluding Germany) 28.6 29.0 the business-related increase in working capital. The capitalization of a portion of borrowing costs, mainly relating to the construction of the 2010 2011 new butyl rubber plant in Singapore, had the opposite effect. In total, net interest expense was €10 million higher than in the previous year at €93 million. The improvement in the other financial income and Sales by Market expense items was due to a significantly better net exchange position 2010 2011 Change compared to the prior-year period. This contrasted with a slight year€ million % € million % % on-year increase in the interest portion of interest-bearing provisions, EMEA (excluding mainly because of interest rate adjustments. Germany) 2,038 28.6 2,546 29.0 24.9 Germany 1,320 18.5 1,569 17.9 18.9 North America 1,174 16.5 1,458 16.6 24.2 Income before income taxes Latin America 955 13.4 1,201 13.7 25.8 Asia-Pacific 1,633 23.0 2,001 22.8 22.5 7,120 100.0 8,775 100.0 23.2 Due to the positive EBIT trend, income before income taxes rose by €162 million to €655 million. Group Management Report 83 Business performance of the LANXESS Group | Business trends by region EMEA (excluding Germany) development with a growth rate of around 40%, followed by the Performance Chemicals segment, where growth neared the double-digit In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), we recorded sales of percentage range. Advanced Intermediates saw sales growth in the €2,546 million, €508 million or 24.9% more than in 2010. Adjusted low single digits. for portfolio and currency effects, sales grew by 17.9%. Please see “Key additions to the Group portfolio” in this Management Report for At 16.6%, the North American share of Group sales remained close detailed information about the portfolio changes. The Performance to the prior-year level of 16.5%. Polymers and Advanced Intermediates segments drove operational sales expansion with nearly identical mid double-digit growth rates. Growth in the Performance Chemicals segment was slightly lower with Latin America a high single-digit percentage increase. In Eastern Europe and the Middle East, sales grew by high double-digit percentages. Western As in the previous year, we posted our largest percentage sales Europe posted lower growth rates, but dominated operating perforincreases in Latin America. Sales there advanced by €246 million, or mance in absolute figures. The individual countries where growth was 25.8%, to €1,201 million in 2011. Adjusted for negative currency and very gratifying included Hungary, Russia, Turkey, Switzerland and the positive portfolio effects, operational sales growth was nearly identical United Kingdom. at 25.6%. This growth was driven by the Performance Polymers segment, which expanded sales by a high double-digit percentage. The EMEA region (excluding Germany) accounted for 29.0% of Group The Advanced Intermediates segment held steady with low single-digit sales, up 0.4 percentage points on the prior-year level. growth compared to the previous year, while sales in the Performance Chemicals segment came in slightly below the prior-year figure. Brazil contributed significantly to the expansion of sales in this region. Germany Latin America’s share of Group sales edged up from 13.4% to 13.7%. In Germany, our sales came to €1,569 million in 2011, up €249 million, or 18.9%, over the previous year. Adjusted for portfolio effects from the acquisitions made in the reporting year, growth was 15.9%. The PerforAsia-Pacific mance Polymers segment, where business increased by a double-digit percentage, accounted for a significant share of this growth. The PerforSales in this region increased by €368 million, or 22.5%, to mance Chemicals and Advanced Intermediates segments reported €2,001 million in 2011. After adjustment for currency and portsales increases in the high single-digit percentage range. folio effects, sales grew by 19.0%. The strongest expansion was in the Performance Polymers segment, which raised sales by a mid Germany’s share of Group sales fell slightly from 18.5% to 17.9%. double-digit percentage, followed at a considerable distance by Advanced Intermediates with a growth rate just below double digits. Operational sales in the Performance Chemicals segment rose by a North America mid single-digit percentage. We saw very positive sales momentum in China (including Hong Kong), India and South Korea. In this region, we generated sales of €1,458 million in 2011, up €284 million, or 24.2%, from the previous year. Adjusted for positive Asia-Pacific’s share of Group sales declined slightly year on year, portfolio and negative currency effects that nearly canceled each from 23.0% to 22.8%. However, it remained the Group’s secondother out, operational sales growth was almost identical at 24.4%. strongest region in terms of sales. The Performance Polymers segment was the primary driver of this 84 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Segment information particularly butadiene and isobutylene, was offset by timely selling price increases, giving a positive price effect on sales of 26.7%. Volumes • Performance Polymers: positive price and portfolio effects rose 3.5% on account of the robust demand situation compared to increase sales and earnings considerably the prior year. Negative currency effects of 3.8% were more than • Advanced Intermediates: strong earnings driven by agricultural compensated by the positive portfolio effect of 10.6%. This was due business with slight decline in other customer industries at to inclusion in the Group’s results of the sales of the Keltan EPDM year end business, which we acquired in early May 2011 and assigned to the • Performance Chemicals: prices lift earnings on specialty Technical Rubber Products business unit. The integration of this busichemicals ness is proceeding according to plan. Sales by Segment All of the segment’s business units recorded an increase in demand % from all principal customer industries through most of 2011. In the Reconciliation 0.5 0.5 fourth quarter, volumes fell slightly due to maintenance shutdowns and some inventory reductions at our customers. The Butyl Rubber Performance Chemicals 27.8 24.2 and Performance Butadiene Rubbers business units, which have close 17.6 ties with the tire industry, benefited from the strong demand in the Advanced Intermediates 19.8 markets for OEM and replacement tires, and were able to raise volumes compared to the prior year. In the Technical Rubber Products and Semi-Crystalline Products business units, sales increased because of Performance Polymers 51.9 57.7 rising demand from automobile manufacturers. The Technical Rubber Products business unit saw the largest year-on-year increase in sales and benefited especially from the portfolio effect from the acquisition 2010 2011 of the Keltan EPDM business. North America was the region with the strongest percentage growth, although absolute increases were very high overall. Performance Polymers EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals Overview of Key Data € million 2010 2011 Change 2011 768 15.2% € million Margin € million Margin % % % 2010 548 14.8% Sales 3,692 5,059 37.0 EBITDA pre exceptionals 548 14.8 768 15.2 40.1 2009 250 10.5% EBITDA 549 14.9 759 15.0 38.3 Operating 2008 413 12.6% result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 407 11.0 607 12.0 49.1 2007 376 14.0% Operating result (EBIT) 408 11.1 598 11.8 46.6 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 Cash outflows for capital expenditures1) 298 437 46.6 Depreciation and amortization 141 161 14.2 Employees as of EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment rose Dec. 31 4,281 4,977 16.3 by €220 million, or 40.1%, to €768 million. Raw material costs were 2010 figures restated up year on year, but all business units passed these increases on to 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment the market in the form of higher selling prices. Earnings also improved In fiscal 2011, our Performance Polymers segment posted an excellent performance, with sales increasing 37.0% from the prior year to €5,059 million. High year-on-year inflation in the cost of raw materials, Group Management Report 85 Segment information as the result of product mix effects and volume growth due to stable Industrial Intermediates (formerly Basic Chemicals) business unit demand. Despite scheduled expansion and maintenance shutdowns posted year-on-year volume growth, especially with products from at the end of the year and destocking by customers, capacity utilizathe aromatics network for the agrochemical and automotive-related tion for the segment surpassed prior-year levels. Valuation effects on industries. By contrast, volumes with products for the construction inventories due to deflationary trends for some key raw materials in industry declined. Higher prices for raw materials, including toluene, the fourth quarter adversely affected earnings. The consolidation of were offset by selling price adjustments. Growth was strongest in the the Keltan EPDM business we acquired more than compensated for EMEA region (excluding Germany) in both absolute and relative terms. the adverse exchange rate developments which negatively impacted earnings. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals improved from 14.8% EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals to 15.2%. € million 2011 264 17.1% The exceptional charges of €9 million that impacted the segment’s EBITDA related to expenses in connection with corporate transactions 2010 259 18.4% and remediation measures at our site in Canada. The exceptional income of €1 million that positively affected EBITDA in fiscal 2010 2009 154 13.9% was related to past efficiency improvement measures. 2008 186 14.2% Advanced Intermediates 2007 174 14.5% Overview of Key Data 0 100 200 300 400 2010 2011 Change € million Margin € million Margin % % % EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segment inSales 1,411 1,545 9.5 creased by €5 million to €264 million. Higher prices for raw materials EBITDA were passed on in full to the market. Stable growth in the agricultural pre exceptionals 259 18.4 264 17.1 1.9 sector led to a positive volume effect in both business units. The EBITDA 259 18.4 245 15.9 (5.4) segment’s capacity utilization exceeded the prior-year level overall. Operating result (EBIT) In the fourth quarter, however, it dropped from the previous quarters’ pre exceptionals 201 14.2 198 12.8 (1.5) high level due to shutdowns for expansion and maintenance. Adverse Operating result (EBIT) 201 14.2 175 11.3 (12.9) exchange rate effects had a negative impact on earnings, causing Cash outflows for the EBITDA margin pre exceptionals to dip from 18.4% to 17.1%. capital expenditures1) 73 107 46.6 Depreciation and amortization 58 70 20.7 In 2011, exceptional items amounted to €23 million, €19 million of Employees as of which impacted EBITDA. These charges relate to the Saltigo business Dec. 31 2,903 2,883 (0.7) unit. Saltigo is anticipating a continued downturn in demand in the 2010 figures restated pharmaceuticals custom manufacturing business. By contrast, the 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment growth trend in the agrochemicals custom manufacturing business remains intact. Saltigo is addressing this development proactively Sales in the Advanced Intermediates segment grew by €134 million, and will therefore be focusing more strongly on the successful agroor 9.5%, to €1,545 million in 2011. Price increases implemented to chemicals business. Existing infrastructure and resources from the compensate for higher raw material prices yielded a 7.7% price effect. pharmaceuticals area will be gradually converted for use by the Volumes rose by 3.4% due to improved demand, while exchange rates growing agrochemicals business or taken off stream. The Group had a slightly negative impact on sales of 1.6%. has recognized provisions accordingly. Demand for agrochemicals remained strong throughout the year. Both of the segment’s business units profited from this development. In the Saltigo business unit, volumes for fungicide precursors increased, while volumes for pharmaceutical precursors declined. The Advanced 86 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Performance Chemicals EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals € million Overview of Key Data 2011 289 13.6% 2010 2011 Change € million Margin € million Margin % 2010 281 14.2% % % Sales 1,978 2,130 7.7 2009 182 11.9% EBITDA pre exceptionals 281 14.2 289 13.6 2.8 EBITDA 276 14.0 289 13.6 4.7 2008 241 12.5% Operating result (EBIT) 2007 285 14.5% pre exceptionals 214 10.8 211 9.9 (1.4) Operating result 0 100 200 300 400 (EBIT) 209 10.6 211 9.9 1.0 Cash outflows for capital expenditures1) 114 112 (1.8) Depreciation and amortization 67 78 16.4 EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals segment Employees as of improved by €8 million over the prior year to €289 million. This growth Dec. 31 4,907 5,819 18.6 was largely attributable to positive selling price effects. The segment’s 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment higher raw material costs were passed along in full to the market. However, earnings were slightly dented because capacity utilization Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment rose 7.7% in fiscal fell below the high prior-year level, resulting primarily from scheduled 2011, from €1,978 million to €2,130 million. This growth was primaintenance shutdowns in the fourth quarter and a seasonal drop in marily attributable to the 6.8% increase in selling prices, but volumes demand amplified by destocking by customers. The positive portfolio also increased by a modest 0.4%. Negative exchange rate effects contribution from acquisitions made during the year partly offset negaof 1.9% were more than compensated by positive portfolio effects tive currency effects. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals fell from of 2.4% resulting from acquisitions assigned to the Rhein Chemie, 14.2% to 13.6%, in part because of the negative margin effect and Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals business units. despite passing on higher raw material prices to customers in full. Volumes in the segment were just above the prior-year level, but the In the reporting year, the segment had no exceptional items that impicture across the business units was mixed. The Rubber Chemicals pacted EBITDA. The exceptional items of €5 million in the prior year and Rhein Chemie business units, which generate a significant prorelated to restructuring expenses in the Functional Chemicals busiportion of their revenues from customers in the automotive industry, ness unit. posted substantial year-on-year volume growth. However, both business units saw a negative trend in the second half of the year due to destocking by customers. The Ion Exchange Resins business unit Reconciliation benefited from the commissioning of a new production facility in India and increased volumes, both in the fourth quarter and year on year. Overview of Key Data Volumes in the Leather business unit were adversely affected by a € million 2010 2011 Change lack of feedstock related to a supplier’s plant shutdowns. A decline in % orders from the construction industry at the end of the year caused Sales 39 41 5.1 a decline in volumes in the Inorganic Pigments business unit as well. EBITDA pre exceptionals (170) (175) (2.9) The EMEA region (excluding Germany) posted the highest growth EBITDA (194) (192) 1.0 Operating result (EBIT) in both absolute and relative terms. pre exceptionals (187) (190) (1.6) Operating result (EBIT) (211) (208) 1.4 Cash outflows for capital expenditures1) 16 23 43.8 Depreciation and amortization 17 16 (5.9) Employees as of Dec. 31 2,557 2,711 6.0 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Group Management Report 87 Segment information | Statement of financial position and financial condition The EBITDA pre exceptionals of minus €175 million reported in the Structure of the statement of financial position Total assets of the Reconciliation (against minus €170 million in the prior year) was LANXESS Group amounted to €6,878 million as of December 31, influenced in part by a planned expansion of central research activi2011, an increase of €1,212 million, or 21.4%, on the prior-year ties. The exceptional charges of €18 million, of which €17 million figure. This was primarily due to acquisitions made during the year impacted EBITDA, primarily related to expenses for the design and and the increase in working capital. The latter resulted from higher implementation of IT projects and for portfolio adjustments. Such raw material prices against the prior year and high demand, as well as expenses included personnel adjustment costs, expenses for the portfolio effects. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets rose from closure or partial closure of facilities, and costs for the preparation and 48.3% to 50.7%. On the equity and liabilities side, current liabilities execution of corporate transactions, to the extent that these expenses especially were higher due to the reclassification from non-current to could not be allocated accurately to the segments or business units. current financial liabilities of the 2005 Euro Benchmark Bond that is The exceptional charges of €24 million reported in the Reconciliation maturing in 2012. At the end of 2011, the equity ratio was 30.2% in 2010, all of which impacted EBITDA, primarily related to expenses after 31.1% in the previous year. for restructuring activities and portfolio adjustments. Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets € million Statement of financial position and financial condition 6,878 329 5,666 528 Statement of financial position Other current assets 368 Cash and cash equivalents 524 2,532 • Solid statement of financial position provides basis for further growth Inventories and receivables 2,036 437 • Total assets increase, mainly due to acquisitions Other non-current assets 381 • Higher working capital as a result of sharp rise in raw Intangible assets and property, material prices and strong demand plant and equipment 2,357 3,052 • Equity ratio remains close to prior-year level • External financing of pensions through further allocations 2010 2011 under CTA • Net financial liabilities rise to €1,515 million due to capital expenditures and acquisitions Non-current assets rose by €751 million, or 27.4%, to €3,489 million. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increased by Structure of the Statement of Financial Position €695 million to €3,052 million, largely due to capital expenditures and Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 Change acquisitions. Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets, at €679 million, were very significantly above the € million % € million % % Assets prior-year figure of €501 million because of the planned expansion of Non-current assets 2,738 48.3 3,489 50.7 27.4 investment projects. Depreciation and amortization totaled €325 milCurrent assets 2,928 51.7 3,389 49.3 15.7 lion, against €283 million in the previous year. The nearly unchanged Total assets 5,666 100.0 6,878 100.0 21.4 carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method was chiefly attributable to the positive earnings of Currenta GmbH Equity and liabilities & Co. OHG during the reporting period and the offsetting effects Equity (including from adjusting the interest rates relevant to the measurement of this non-controlling interests) 1,761 31.1 2,074 30.2 17.8 affiliate’s pension provisions. In addition, LANXESS raised its capital Non-current contribution to the joint venture company LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) liabilities 2,454 43.3 2,715 39.5 10.6 Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd. in China. The change in investments in Current liabilities 1,451 25.6 2,089 30.3 44.0 other affiliated companies was influenced by the stock market listing of Total equity and liabilities 5,666 100.0 6,878 100.0 21.4 U.S. company Gevo Inc., in conjunction with which LANXESS raised its holding in the company, and the recognition in other comprehensive income of the difference resulting from the fair-value measurement of the investment following the recent decline in the share price. 88 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Current assets increased by €461 million against the prior year, to Equity, including non-controlling interests, amounted to €2,074 mil€3,389 million. The ratio of current assets to total assets declined to lion, up from €1,761 million in the previous year. At the end of 2011, 49.3% from 51.7% in the previous year. Inventories grew by €292 milthe equity ratio was 30.2% after 31.1% at the end of 2010. A promilion to €1,386 million, chiefly because of higher raw material prices and nent factor in the equity increase was the high net income for the the portfolio effect from the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business. year. This was offset by negative currency translation adjustments in In addition, inventory levels were increased to support the positive other equity components and by the dividend payout of €58 million business performance. Days of sales in inventories (DSI) increased to LANXESS AG stockholders in May 2011. to 60.1 from 53.7 in 2010. Trade receivables rose by a substantial €204 million against the previous year to €1,146 million, mainly due Non-current liabilities rose by €261 million to €2,715 million as of to the strong expansion in business and to portfolio effects. There December 31, 2011.This resulted mainly from the €163 million inwere no material defaults. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) came in crease in other non-current financial liabilities to €1,465 million, due at 49.9 compared to 46.3 in the previous year. The total of cash, cash largely to the issue in May 2011 of a €500 million Euro Benchmark equivalents and near-cash assets increased by €4 million against the Bond that will mature in 2018. The Euro Benchmark Bond issued in end of 2010, to €528 million. 2005 and maturing in 2012 was reclassified to other current financial liabilities. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment Because of accounting rules, the statement of financial position of the benefits increased by €74 million as against the end of 2010, mainly LANXESS Group does not contain significant internally generated on account of an adjustment in the interest rates used to measure the assets. These include LANXESS’s brand equity and the value of the provisions. The allocation of €30 million (2010: €75 million) under company’s other brands. A variety of measures was deployed in the the contractual trust arrangement (CTA) offset this increase. The ratio reporting period to continually enhance these assets, which contributed of non-current liabilities to total assets was 39.5%, down from 43.3% to our ongoing success in positioning our business units in the market. at the end of 2010. Our established relationships with customers and suppliers also conCurrent liabilities increased by €638 million to €2,089 million against stitute a significant intangible asset. These long-standing, trust-based the end of 2010. This was due primarily to the increase in other current partnerships with customers and suppliers, underpinned by consistent financial liabilities, which reflects the aforementioned reclassification of service quality, have made it possible for us to systematically apply our the 2005 Euro Benchmark Bond that matures in 2012. Trade payables price-before-volume strategy. Our specific competence in technology grew by €102 million to €766 million as a result of higher raw material and innovation, also a valuable asset, is rooted in our expertise in the prices, portfolio effects and increases in purchasing volumes linked areas of research and development and custom manufacturing. It to business growth. The ratio of current liabilities to total assets was enables us to generate added value for our customers. 30.3% as of December 31, 2011, up from 25.6% at year end 2010. The know-how and experience of our employees are also central pillars Net financial liabilities increased by €602 million from the previous of our corporate success. In addition, our sophisticated production year to €1,515 million. The reasons for this development included and business processes create competitive advantages for us in the our extensive capital expenditures and company acquisitions made markets in which we operate. in fiscal 2011. Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities € million 6,878 650 5,666 Other current liabilities 588 1,439 Current financial liabilities 863 1,237 Other non-current liabilities 1,141 1,478 Non-current financial liabilities 1,313 Equity 1,761 2,074 2010 2011 Group Management Report 89 Statement of financial position and financial condition The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: Ratios % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Equity ratio Equity1) Total assets 37.7 29.2 28.5 31.1 30.2 Non-current asset ratio Non-current assets Total assets 44.6 47.2 47.0 48.3 50.7 Asset coverage I Equity1) Non-current assets 84.4 61.7 60.7 64.3 59.4 Asset coverage II Equity1) and non-current liabilities Non-current assets 165.1 151.8 165.8 153.9 137.3 Funding structure Current liabilities Total liabilities 42.3 40.0 30.9 37.2 43.5 1) Including non-controlling interests Capital expenditures In 2011, capital expenditures for property, 71% of the capital expenditures in 2011 went toward expansion or plant and equipment and intangible assets came to €700 million, efficiency improvement measures, while the rest went to replace existcompared to €529 million the year before, and led to cash outflows ing facilities. This underlines our goal of generating further organic of €679 million (2010: €501 million). Depreciation and amortization growth through investments, as described under “Earnings strategy” totaled €325 million in the same period (2010: €283 million). This in the “Strategy” section of this Management Report. figure included €5 million in impairments reported as exceptional items (2010: €0 million). Adjusted for these impairments, capital In regional terms, 32% of capital expenditures in 2011 were made expenditures in support of our growth strategy exceeded depreciation in Germany, 24% in the EMEA region (excluding Germany), 7% in and amortization by a substantial 118% (2010: 87%). North America, 6% in Latin America and 31% in Asia-Pacific. Major capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised our investments Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization to increase capacities and modernize facilities in all segments, to € million complete construction of a new plant for the Ion Exchange Resins 2011 business unit and to expand facilities for the Advanced Industrial 679 Intermediates business unit. The large share of capital expenditures 325 2010 made in the Asia-Pacific region is due primarily to the construction 501 of a new butyl rubber plant for the Butyl Rubber business unit in 283 Singapore, the largest investment project in our company’s history. 2009 275 273 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 2008 342 € million 279 2007 2011 284 437 107 112 23 679 298 2010 0 200 400 600 800 298 73 114 16 501 Cash outflows for capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization Performance Polymers Advanced Intermediates In 2011, capital expenditures focused on the following areas: Performance Chemicals Reconciliation • construction of new facilities, expansion and maintenance of existing facilities; • measures to increase plant availability; • projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply with environmental protection requirements. 90 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 In the Performance Polymers segment, capital expenditures were and expansion of menthol production in Krefeld-Uerdingen. In the €447 million (2010: €298 million), €437 million (2010: €298 milPerformance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures came to lion) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization €113 million (2010: €114 million), €112 million (2010: €114 milamounted to €161 million (2010: €141 million). The major capilion) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization tal expenditures in this segment were made in the Butyl Rubber stood at €78 million (2010: €67 million). Key capital expenditures business unit. Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates were the completion of a plant for water treatment products for the segment amounted to €117 million (2010: €101 million). Cash Ion Exchange Resins business unit in Bitterfeld, Germany, and the outflows came to €107 million (2010: €73 million), exceeding the start of construction of a production facility for leather chemicals for depreciation and amortization of €70 million (2010: €58 million). the Leather business unit in Changzhou, China. This figure includes capital expenditures in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit for construction of a new formalin plant The following table shows major capital expenditure projects in the LANXESS Group. Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2011 Segment Site Description Performance Polymers Butyl Rubber Singapore Construction of a new butyl rubber plant, start-up in the first quarter of 2013 Butyl Rubber Zwijndrecht, Belgium Expansion of butyl rubber capacities Performance Butadiene Rubbers Orange, U.S.A. Expansion of neodymium polybutadiene rubber capacities Performance Butadiene Rubbers Singapore Construction of a new neodymium polybutadiene rubber plant, start-up in the first half of 2015 Technical Rubber Products Leverkusen, Germany; Orange, U.S.A. Expansion of synthetic rubber capacities Technical Rubber Products Geleen, Netherlands Conversion of EPDM rubber production to innovative Keltan ACE technology Semi-Crystalline Products Jhagadia, India; Gastonia, U.S.A.; Construction of three new compounding plants for Porto Feliz, Brazil high-tech engineering plastics Semi-Crystalline Products Antwerp, Belgium Expansion of glass fiber capacities Semi-Crystalline Products Hamm-Uentrop, Germany Doubling of high-tech plastics capacities at plant operated jointly with U.S. company DuPont Advanced Intermediates Advanced Industrial Intermediates Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Construction of a new formalin plant Advanced Industrial Intermediates Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Expansion of menthol production, completion in the first half of 2012 Performance Chemicals Ion Exchange Resins Bitterfeld, Germany; Jhagadia, India Completion of facilities for membrane filtration technology and ion exchange resins Rhein Chemie Burzaco, Argentina Expansion of vulcanization bladder capacities Leather Changzhou, China Construction of a new plant for leather chemicals Expansion of investment portfolio Please see the “Key additions to the Group portfolio” section of this Management Report for more information on the subsidiaries and affiliates added to our portfolio in fiscal 2011, including the acquisition of DSM’s Keltan EPDM business, the Darmex group, Unitex and Verichem. Group Management Report 91 Statement of financial position and financial condition Financial condition LANXESS’s investing activities in fiscal 2011 resulted in a cash outflow of €923 million, up from €375 million in the previous year. Disburse• High operating cash flow thanks to strong business performance ments for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment totaled • Cash tied up in working capital increases due to raw material €679 million, which was €178 million more than in fiscal 2010. The prices cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, • Cash used for investing activities reflects acquisitions and net of acquired cash and subsequent purchase price adjustments, extensive capital expenditures for growth projects amounted to €285 million. Cash inflows from financial assets came to • Liquidity reserve for continued implementation of growth strategy €24 million and mainly comprised the proceeds from the sale of shortterm money market investments, which offset the cash outflows for The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash and cash the purchase of additional shares of Gevo Inc. in the United States and equivalents by type of business operation. the capital increase at LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd. in China, which is accounted for using the equity method in Cash Flow Statement the consolidated financial statements. € million 2010 2011 Change Income before income taxes Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from oper493 655 162 Depreciation and amortization 283 325 42 ating activities and the cash used in investing activities – decreased Other items (126) (52) 74 by €306 million from €55 million in 2010 to minus €251 million, a Net cash provided by development attributable to the extensive investments and acquisitions operating activities before change in working capital 650 928 278 we carried out in the year under review in pursuit of our growth strategy. Change in working capital (220) (256) (36) Net cash provided by Net cash provided by financing activities came to €276 million, against operating activities 430 672 242 a net outflow of €214 million the year before. Borrowing resulted in Net cash used in investing activities (375) (923) (548) cash inflows of €655 million, mainly from the issue of a €500 milNet cash provided by (used in) lion Euro Benchmark Bond in May and from an installment loan of financing activities (214) 276 490 €120 million granted by the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW). Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities (159) 25 184 Principal and interest payments were comparable to the previous year’s Cash and cash equivalents amounts. A €58 million outflow was accounted for by the dividend as of December 31 160 178 18 paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG in May (2010: €42 million). 2010 figures restated The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in working in fiscal 2011 was €25 million (2010: minus €159 million). After capital, increased by a significant €278 million to €928 million in taking into account other changes in cash of minus €7 million, cash fiscal 2011 compared to the year before. This was mainly due to inand cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to €178 million come before income taxes, which grew by €162 million over the prior (2010: €160 million). Taken together with near-cash assets (short-term year to €655 million. The LANXESS Group’s asset base expanded investment of liquid assets in money market funds) of €350 million due to our extensive investment and acquisition activities, and de(2010: €364 million), the Group retained a sound liquidity position preciation and amortization increased as a result from €283 million of €528 million as of December 31, 2011 (2010: €524 million). to €325 million. The change in other items is primarily due to lower income tax payments in the year under review. A further €30 million (2010: €75 million) was paid into LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. (CTA) during the reporting year for the external financing of the company’s pension obligations. The increase in working capital compared to December 31, 2010 resulted in a cash outflow of €256 million. The outflow from the change in working capital in 2010 was €220 million. The increase in operating cash flow in 2011 is mainly attributable to higher prices for raw materials as well as to the strong operating business and the associated replenishment of inventories and increase in receivables. This was financed from the high cash inflows yielded by operating activities. 92 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Principles and objectives of financial management LANXESS pursues was confirmed in fiscal 2011, as in previous years. Our sound financial a conservative financial policy characterized by secured long-term position and our rating were not adversely affected by the volatility of financing and the forward-looking management of financial risks. Our the capital markets. This stable financial condition enabled us to sucaim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our business operations cessfully pursue our growth strategy and attain our operational targets. at all times, regardless of cyclical fluctuations in the real economy or financial markets. The debt level is largely aligned to the ratio systems LANXESS Group ratings Access to the capital markets and good relaof the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. In adtions with German and international commercial banks are essential for dition to liquidity risk, financial management also covers other financial achieving our financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing risks, such as interest and foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to dialogue and communication with banks, investors and rating agenmitigate the financial risks that arise and increase planning reliability, cies are of crucial importance. In fiscal 2011, the latter continued to partly by using derivative financial instruments. Detailed information assess LANXESS’s creditworthiness with ratings of BBB and Baa2 with about the management of these risks is contained in the Risk Report stable outlook. They also emphasized that our conservative financial and in Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial policy coupled with the aforementioned objectives is a very important Statements. The success and accuracy of our financial management factor in the retention of these ratings. Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2007 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Standard & Poor’s BBB /stable BBB /stable BBB /stable BBB/stable BBB/stable July 31, 2007 May 16, 2008 May 28, 2009 Sept. 1, 2010 Aug. 23, 2011 Moody’s Investors Service Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable July 17, 2007 July 25, 2008 May 26, 2009 May 19, 2010 Nov. 23, 2011 Fitch Ratings BBB /stable BBB /stable BBB /stable BBB/stable BBB/stable May 31, 2007 Dec. 4, 2008 July 20, 2009 Dec. 17, 2010 Nov. 22, 2011 Financing analysis LANXESS started fiscal 2011 with a very sound a term of seven years. This helped us strengthen our liquidity position financial and liquidity position thanks largely to our ongoing commitat favorable terms and created financial reserves for redemption of the ment to our conservative financial policy and to the increase in our €402 million bond that matures in 2012. Accordingly, the cash and operating income in fiscal 2010. Particularly notable in this regard is cash equivalents and near-cash assets items in the statement of finanthe elimination of the financial covenant from our syndicated credit cial position were close to the prior-year levels at €178 million (2010: facility in the amount of €1.408 billion and the conclusion of new loan €160 million) and €350 million (2010: €364 million), respectively. agreements for €450 million without financial covenants. Additional information is provided in the “Liquidity analysis” section. LANXESS launched a €2.5 billion debt issuance program in March 2009. Using this documentation base, aligned with the prevailing There was no material change in our solid financial situation in fiscal market conditions, bonds can be placed very flexibly on the capital 2011. The improvement in earnings from business operations financed market. The €500 million bond placed in May 2011 was based on the growth in current assets and the increase in capital expenditures this documentation. As of December 31, 2011, just under half of the in property, plant and equipment. We succeeded in financing ad€2.5 billion financing facility had been utilized since 2009 to issue ditional growth from acquisitions using existing liquidity and credit three bonds with a total volume of €1.2 billion. lines, which resulted in higher net financial liabilities compared to the previous year. Initially, this led to a reduction in the liquidity reserves available at the start of the year. In May 2011, we took advantage of the favorable market environment to place a €500 million bond with Group Management Report 93 Statement of financial position and financial condition The other financing measures implemented in the year under review The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing structure as of served primarily to finance internal and external growth projects, imDecember 31, 2011 in detail, including its principal liquidity reserves. prove the maturity structure of our financial liabilities, and make timely preparations ahead of the aforementioned bond redemption in 2012. Financing Structure In spring 2011, new long-term credit facilities amounting to around Instrument Amount Maturity Interest Financial €330 million were arranged. An additional credit facility for €120 mil€ million rate covenant 1) % lion with a term of up to seven years was obtained in September Eurobond 2005/2012 401 June 4.125 no 2011 and utilized in October. In total, we successfully obtained new (€402 million) 2012 financing amounting to some €950 million in 2011. These transacEurobond 2009/2014 497 April 7.750 no tions were the main reason for the increase in long-term borrowings (€500 million) 2014 Eurobond 2009/2016 199 September 5.500 no from €1,302 million to €1,465 million. (€200 million) 2016 Eurobond 2011/2018 496 May 4.125 no Current financial liabilities increased from €176 million to €633 mil(€500 million) 2018 Investment loan 80 December no lion, primarily because the €402 million bond which matures in 2012 2017 was reclassified from non-current to current financial liabilities. Development bank loan 120 September no 2018 Other loans 166 n/a no We also used finance leases to further diversify financing sources. Finance lease 84 n/a no These are reported accordingly as financial liabilities in the statement Total financial 2,043 of financial position. As of December 31, 2011, this item amounted liabilities to €84 million, against €90 million in the previous year. Minimum Cash 178 < = 90 days future payments relating to lease agreements and operating leases Near-cash assets 350 < = 90 days Total liquidity 528 totaled €418 million (2010: €235 million). The increase over the Net financial liabilities 1,515 prior year is principally due to the construction of the new production 1) Ratio of net financial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals facility in Singapore and conclusion of the lease for the new Group headquarters in Cologne. Thanks to extensive financing measures taken in past fiscal years, As of December 31, 2011, LANXESS had no material financing we have continually improved the maturity profile of our financial liitems not reported in the statement of financial position in the form abilities. At the time this Group Management Report was finalized, of factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. LANXESS therefore had no need for substantial refinancing other than for the €402 million Euro Benchmark Bond that matures in June LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, i.e. net of accrued interest, climbed 2012. The other loans relate mainly to shortand medium-term use from €1,437 million in 2010 to €2,043 million as of December 31, of credit facilities by subsidiaries in Brazil, China, India and Argentina, 2011. Net financial liabilities – the total financial liabilities net of cash some of which mature in 2012. Because these facilities are regularly and near-cash assets – rose by €602 million, from €913 million to extended – annually, for example – we do not expect any need for €1,515 million. substantial refinancing. Of the total financial liabilities, some 98% bear a fixed interest rate Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011 over the term of the financing, which is comparable to the previous € million year. Interest rate changes therefore do not have a material effect 700 on LANXESS’s financial condition considering the current financing 600 structure. The average proportion of loans and bonds denominated 500 in euros was 97% (2010: 94%). The weighted average interest rate 400 for our financial liabilities was 5.3% at year end 2011 (2010: 5.9%). 300 200 100 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 after 2016 94 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Liquidity analysis In addition to cash of €178 million and various Bond performance – evolution of credit spread in 2011 An imporinvestments in highly liquid AAA money market funds of €350 miltant indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change lion, LANXESS has additional sizeable liquidity reserves in the form of in price, is the relative valuation of the risk specific to the issuer in undrawn credit facilities. The investments in money market funds are comparison to a reference interest rate. This credit risk premium is undertaken only at European Group companies that are not subject to expressed in what is known as the credit spread. Due to the higher restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. We can therefore default risk associated with longer bond maturity, long-term bonds freely dispose of the funds. Around 85% of our cash is held in Group generally feature a wider credit spread. This, and factors such as companies in countries with no restrictions on foreign exchange and liquidity and trading volume, also apply to the various LANXESS capital transfers. Only about 15% of our cash is held in companies in bonds. The chart below shows the evolution of the credit spreads regulated capital markets where cash transfers are restricted. of our bonds and the average credit spread of corporate bonds with a BBB rating and a five-year maturity in comparison to the interest Thanks to our strong liquidity position, our solvency was assured at rate swap curve. all times in fiscal 2011. This is an aspect that was assessed positively by the rating agencies in their credit ratings in 2011. LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index Basis points By far the most important of our credit lines is the syndicated credit 250 facility of €1.4 billion that is valid until November 2014 and was undrawn at the end of 2011. This credit facility is designed as an 200 operating line of credit and to provide funds for capital investment. It 150 corresponds to market requirements in the European syndicated loan 100 market for investment-grade companies with a BBB rating. In April 2011, the financial covenant made for this credit line, which existed 50 in addition to the standard rights and obligations of the parties to syn0 dicated loan contracts, was eliminated for the remaining duration of the credit facility by arrangement with the lending banks. The essence (50) Jan. 3, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 of the covenant was that the net financial liabilities excluding pension obligations could not exceed 3.5 times EBITDA pre exceptionals. LANXESS Eurobond 2012 LANXESS Eurobond 2018 As of December 31, 2011, this ratio was 1.3 (1.0 in the previous LANXESS Eurobond 2014 BBB Corporates, 5 years year). Just like the stable ratings issued by the rating agencies, this LANXESS Eurobond 2016 is a good indicator of LANXESS’s very sound financial management. At this time, therefore, none of our major loan agreements contains a As in 2010, credit spreads for corporate bonds continued to be strongly financial covenant. LANXESS had unused credit lines totaling around influenced by financial market uncertainties throughout 2011. Spreads €1.8 billion as of December 31, 2011. were still relatively stable in the first half of the year, but then started to widen from the second quarter of 2011 in response to the European The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us a liquidity debt crisis. scope of more than €2.3 billion. Given the ongoing volatility of the capital markets, the capital market liabilities maturing in 2012 and our growth targets, this liquidity reserve is an expression of our forwardlooking and conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the short and long term, and we also do not expect any liquidity bottlenecks going forward. Group Management Report 95 Statement of financial position and financial condition | Management’s summary of the fiscal year Credit spreads in the BBB-rated reference group were relatively constant the previous year. For further information, please see the explanations in the first half of 2011, when market conditions were favorable. Our in the “Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion” section in spreads increasingly improved, particularly in the second quarter, and the Notes. therefore outperformed the BBB reference index. In the second six months, the market for government and corporate bonds was dominated Our liquidity position is solid, as shown by the statement of financial by growing uncertainty about the escalating debt crises in Greece and position, and additional substantial liquidity reserves are also available. other peripheral eurozone countries, causing credit risk premiums to Of the total financial liabilities, some 98% bear a fixed interest rate rise sharply. As a result of this development, the spreads on our bonds over the term of the financing, which is comparable to the previous widened by up to 140 basis points, drawing much closer to the BBB year. Interest rate changes therefore do not have a material effect on reference index in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, our spreads the LANXESS Group’s financial condition considering the current improved significantly compared to the BBB-rated reference group and financing structure. As a result of successful negotiations last year, thus ended the year only slightly higher than at the start of the year. The our financial liabilities are now free of financial covenants. substantially improved spread of our bond that matures in June 2012 was due particularly to the short remaining term. Net financial liabilities stand at €1,515 million, which is 1.3 times EBITDA pre exceptionals. In fiscal 2011, the rating agencies reconfirmed the LANXESS Group’s creditworthiness with ratings of BBB Management’s summary of the fiscal year and Baa2 with stable outlook. Fiscal 2011 was characterized by the economic upturn carried over Through the acquisitions made in the reporting year, we have placed from 2010, which varied by region and lost momentum in the second our business on a broader base and unlocked additional growth pohalf of the year. tential. In particular, the purchase of the Keltan EPDM business of Royal DSM N.V. has enabled us to acquire a leading technology for We succeeded in boosting sales by 23.2% year on year. Adjusted for our Performance Polymers segment that provides the prospect of currency and portfolio effects, operational sales rose by 19.9%, largely attractive profits. The transactions completed for our Performance due to higher prices. Driven mainly by business in the Performance Chemicals segment strengthen the core competencies of the affected Polymers segment, all regions contributed significant double-digit business units and open up new business opportunities, especially percentage growth to this result. with Darmex’s vulcanization bladder technology. Our price-before-volume strategy remained intact in 2011. Year on In view of this business performance and our sound liquidity and year, EBITDA pre exceptionals increased substantially, exceeding the financing positions, we believe that our company’s business situation €1 billion mark for the first time in the course of the year. The EBITDA is positive overall and provides a suitable foundation for attaining the margin also improved further. Earnings per share rose significantly profitable growth targets we have set. The first two months of fiscal compared to the prior year due to the high after-tax income. 2012 have gone well and have been characterized by solid demand resulting from the careful inventory management undertaken by our Based on our conservative accounting and financing policies, our customers at the end of the previous year. statement of financial position is solid. Of special note is the equity ratio of 30.2%. Total assets increased, mainly due to acquisitions, and working capital rose substantially compared to the previous year because of our very positive business performance in the reporting year. In accordance with the consistency principle, we applied the same measurement methods and exercised the same discretion as in 96 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Business Ratios – Multi-Period Overview € million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Earnings performance Sales 6,608 6,576 5,057 7,120 8,775 EBITDA pre exceptionals 719 722 465 918 1,146 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 10.9% 11.0% 9.2% 12.9% 13.1% EBITDA 513 602 422 890 1,101 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 472 462 204 635 826 Operating result (EBIT) 215 323 149 607 776 EBIT margin 3.3% 4.9% 2.9% 8.5% 8.8% Net income 112 183 40 379 506 Earnings per share (€) 1.32 2.20 0.48 4.56 6.08 Liquidity Cash flow from operating activities 470 492 565 430 672 Depreciation and amortization 298 279 273 283 325 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 284 342 275 501 679 Net financial liabilities 460 864 794 913 1,515 Assets and liabilities Total assets 4,049 4,592 5,068 5,666 6,878 Non-current assets 1,806 2,169 2,382 2,738 3,489 Current assets 2,243 2,423 2,686 2,928 3,389 Net working capital 1,217 1,289 1,096 1,372 1,766 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,525 1,339 1,445 1,761 2,074 Pension provisions 470 498 569 605 679 Key data ROCE 17.7% 15.4% 5.9% 17.0% 17.2% Equity ratio 37.7% 29.2% 28.5% 31.1% 30.2% Gearing 30.2% 64.5% 54.9% 51.8% 73.0% Non-current asset ratio 44.6 47.2 47.0 48.3 50.7 Asset coverage I 84.4 61.7 60.7 64.3 59.4 Net working capital/sales 18.4% 19.6% 21.7% 19.3% 20.1% Employees (as of December 31) 14,610 14,797 14,338 14,648 16,390 2008 figures restated Group Management Report 97 Management’s summary of the fiscal year | Employees Employees Employees by Segment % As of December 31, 2011, the LANXESS Group had a total of 16,390 employees, 2,895 of whom were women and 8,472 of whom 16.5 were non-German nationals. This was 1,742 more than a year earlier, 30.4 including 301 women and 1,517 non-German nationals. In addition, we had 416 employees working on temporary employment contracts. The number of employees increased primarily as a result of acquisitions Performance Polymers 35.5 plus additional new hires within the framework of LANXESS’s growth Advanced Intermediates 17.6 strategy. Part-time employees currently account for 10.5% of the workPerformance Chemicals Other force at our German core companies. In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees as Employees by Functional Area of December 31, 2011 was 3,357, up from 2,638 in the previous year. % In Germany, the headcount grew from 7,590 to 7,846. The number 4.4 of employees in North America rose from 1,309 as of December 31, 11.1 2010 to 1,427, while Latin America saw its workforce expand from 1,215 in the previous year to 1,585. At the reporting date, we also had 12.5 a higher headcount in Asia-Pacific, where the increase from 1,896 to 2,175 reflected our expansion through acquisitions and organic growth. Production 72.0 Marketing Administration Personnel expenses totaled €1,244 million in fiscal 2011 (2010: Research €1,141 million). Wages and salaries, at €985 million (2010: €912 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social security contributions were €174 million (2010: €160 million), while pension plan expenses totaled €77 million (2010: €61 million), and social assistance Working conditions and HR policy benefits came to €8 million (2010: €8 million). Our success is fundamentally based on the performance and comEmployees by Region mitment of our employees. The only way to reach our corporate goals % and ensure our competitiveness is through focused and sustainable training and development of our workforce. By actively exercising social 13.2 20.5 responsibility, providing attractive jobs in an international environ9.7 ment with flat hierarchies, offering performance-based, market-rate compensation, and promoting a culture that inspires leadership and 8.7 trust, we give our employees access to remarkable career developEMEA (excluding Germany) Germany ment opportunities. North America Latin America 47.9 Asia-Pacific In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for mastering the challenges resulting from demographic change, the top long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate talented employees, regardless of their national origin or gender. To this end, we are also working to continually expand our tools for building a comprehensive employer brand that enables us to recruit, integrate and retain talented young people and professionals for LANXESS worldwide. We involve our existing employees at numerous internal and external events to provide an authentic picture of LANXESS as an employer. Working together with our specialist departments, we have systematically expanded our network of contacts with research institutes, colleges and universities worldwide. 98 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 A major focus in the year under review was support for internal and on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange at an average price of €57.54. The external growth. In this context, we exercised special care in integratparticipation rate was 75%. At the reporting date, our employees and ing new employees into the Group, particularly when they joined us Board of Management members held around 1% of the company’s as the result of acquisitions. shares through stock plans. One of the pillars of our human resources policy is close cooperaThe Board of Management launched a plan to succeed the LANXESS tion between employee representatives and management, including Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for the years 2010 to 2013. The labor unions and employer associations, in line with the principle of Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 2010 – 2013 (LTSP) comprises active codetermination. Nearly 70% of our employees worldwide are four tranches, one commencing each year. This plan compares the covered by the terms of collective agreements; in Germany this figure company’s value against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM is more than 90%. index over a period of four years. The participation rate is 89.7%. We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our Vocational training corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change processes at an early stage. In the crisis year 2009, for example, as Providing vocational training for young people has always been a high part of the Challenge09-12 program in Germany, we implemented priority at LANXESS. It helps to safeguard the company’s future and QUEST in response to declines in production. This is a training, deis an element of our social responsibility. In 2011, we strengthened ployment and job management center that serves as an internal job the marketing activities for our vocational training programs in various placement office for employees affected by capacity reductions. An media, attended all major regional career fairs and visited schools. internal team of consultants supports the affected employees in qualifyWe also address interested young people directly at our own events, ing for new tasks and finding jobs inside or outside the company. As of such as “neXt Azubi” (neXt Apprentice), where we give them valuable December 31, 2011, a permanent solution or a new challenge had guidance about their subsequent career choices. been found for more than 87% of the employees affected. The placement phase was accompanied by the offer of temporary assignments In Germany, young people can opt to combine vocational training at inside and outside the LANXESS Group. This innovative instrument LANXESS with university studies, or they can complete a traditional has already proved its value as a means of preventing job reductions. scientific, technical or commercial training program in our plants and departments. In addition to the combined IT vocational training and study program, we will strengthen our natural sciences offering in the Compensation and stock plan future with a combined program of university studies and vocational training in the fields of technical chemistry and business administration. Following our excellent business performance in 2011, we made With a view to leveraging expertise and synergies, we are supported a total of €100 million available to give our employees worldwide a by the Training Department of our affiliate Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG share in the company’s success. Much of this amount was paid out for some aspects of theoretical training and for organizational and in the form of an additional bonus. Our managers are able to reward administrative functions. outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically. In fiscal 2011, this resulted in payments of €8.7 million worldwide Across Germany, 317 young people were being trained in 14 differ(€6.4 million in Germany) for outstanding individual performance. ent career paths as of the December 31, 2011 reporting date. This means we are providing solid training opportunities for significantly We strive for a merit-based compensation system linked to our commore young people than we need to meet our own requirements. pany’s success and employees’ individual performance. Compensation Despite fluctuating employee numbers and the economic crisis, we systems that include variable compensation components in addition have directly or indirectly hired 253 trainees for temporary and permato fixed remuneration have been implemented for more than 85% of nent positions in recent years. We expressly seek out the opportunity our employees. to promote the concept of combined vocational training and studies outside Germany as well. In China, for instance, we have entered into We again offered an employee stock plan in 2011. All LANXESS a partnership with Changzhou Institute of Engineering Technology to Group employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy attract larger numbers of technically skilled employees, bringing our LANXESS shares at a 50% discount. The shares were purchased diverse experience and practical focus to the program. Group Management Report 99 Employees | Compensation report | Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code Each year, under the motto “Prepare for the Future,” we attract parOccupational safety ticularly highly skilled university graduates for our LANXESS corporate trainee programs. Through the end of 2011, 51 highly qualified The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries university graduates had taken part in various intakes of our trainee for every million hours worked) in Germany, is the key indicator we program. Our aim is to prepare the participants for an international use to assess occupational safety. The LTIFR in 2011 was 2.7, a slight career within the LANXESS Group and establish a global pool of young deterioration on the previous year (2.3). This resulted primarily from a managers with an international perspective. number of accidents at just one site – our chrome ore mine in South Africa. The site has gained statistical relevance through the international In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program specifiharmonization of our reporting structures and the employee situation cally for the Chinese market. This two-year program aims to prepare there. A special program aimed at significantly reducing the number highly qualified business and technology graduates for management of accidents is already being implemented. roles and create a pool of local talent. In China, we were again honored as “China’s Top Employer” by the CRF Institute. In the United States, we received two prestigious “Best Places to Work” awards: in Idea management Pennsylvania and in Ohio. At our Pittsburgh site, we were also named “Manufacturer of the Year” by the Pittsburgh Business Times. When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work procedures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. An idea management system fosters the development, processing and implementation of Employee development suggestions for improvements to ensure that we will continually receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety We assign great importance to motivating employees throughout their and environmental protection. In 2011, employees at our German entire career to undertake continuing professional development and companies submitted 3,191 new suggestions, a rate of 445 per accept new challenges within the Group regardless of their age. To thousand employees. In the same period, 1,199 ideas were implepromote the talents of individual employees, LANXESS has established mented, yielding total savings of €2.2 million. 759 of these ideas led a systematic, multi-stage process of global employee development to improvements in occupational safety and environmental protection. conferences where future managerial employees from around the world are regularly evaluated with regard to their potential. In 2011, the LANXESS Academy continued promoting leadership and manageCompensation report ment skills with nearly all managers from around the world attending its modular programs as part of the uniform leadership system that A description of the compensation system and details of the compensais in effect throughout the LANXESS Group. In addition, we provided tion paid to the individual members of the Board of Management and extensive support to our young managers through focused coaching the Supervisory Board are contained in the “Compensation report” and modular leadership seminars. starting on page 123, which is equally a part of this Group Management Report. In view of our ambitious growth targets, one focus of our human resources development activities in 2011 was the creation of the International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA), which offers a tailored Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 and practical training program to all sales employees worldwide. The of the German Commercial Code one-year modular program aims to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft skills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements Pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 Nos. 1 to 9 of the German the programs already in place in the business units and countries by Commercial Code, we hereby make the following declarations: facilitating communication and the sharing of best practices across business units and national borders. We believe that the broad quali1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €83,202,670 as fication of our global sales team gives us an important lever for further of December 31, 2011 and is composed of 83,202,670 no-par improving our customer relationships. It also gives LANXESS a crucial bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. competitive edge in today’s global markets. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. The rights and obligations arising from the shares are governed by the German Stock Corporation Act. 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the capital stock for any legally permissible purpose. The company’s transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under employee stock affiliates as well as any third parties acting on the company’s or its plans are subject to a lock-up period before they may be sold. affiliates’ behalf may also exercise this authority. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be acquired on 3. We received no reports of direct or indirect equity investments in the stock exchange or via a public purchase offer. The Board of the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total voting rights. Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than 4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG companies, parts of companies or equity interests in companies through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions on or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized to use them directly exercising the control rights arising from these shares. to satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant bonds and/ or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or any combination 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act and of these instruments) issued by the company and to grant holders Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply to the apof convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights pointment and dismissal of Board of Management members. Under or income bonds (or any combination of these instruments) isthe provisions of these sections, Board of Management members sued by the company or its direct and indirect affiliates that grant are appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceeding a conversion or option right or stipulate a conversion or warrant five years. Such appointment may be renewed or the term of office obligation the number of shares for which such parties would be may be extended, provided that the term of each such renewal or entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or option extension shall not exceed five years. Appointments require a majorrights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. Except ity of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes. when shares are retired, the subscription right of stockholders shall Section 6 Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that the be excluded in the aforementioned cases. Board of Management must consist of at least two members. Over and above this, the number of members of the Board of ManageConditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS ment is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until Board may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and May 17, 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue a vice chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative members – in one or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible of the Board of Management may be appointed. The Supervisory bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combinaBoard may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board of tion of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – either Management or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the as registered or as bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up Board of Management for cause (Section 84 Paragraph 3 of the to €2,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and to grant German Stock Corporation Act). option rights to, or impose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides that a or income bonds with warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for any amendto, or impose conversion obligations on, the holders or creditors ment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Section 17 Paraof convertible bonds, convertible profit-participation rights or congraph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of the Stockholdvertible income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the company ers’ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes cast and, if a representing a total pro-rata increase of up to €16,640,543 in the capital majority is required, a simple majority of the capital stock, company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for these bonds. unless otherwise required by law or provided by the articles of asPursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 4 of the articles of association, sociation. The articles of association contain no further provisions the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased in this regard. Section 10 Paragraph 9 of the articles of association by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). of LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to resolve on amendments relating solely to the form of the articles of association. The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exer7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authorized cise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the to issue or repurchase shares as follows: company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company Repurchase of own shares On May 18, 2011, the Annual Stockor a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of holders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG issued an authorization, valid through May 17, 2016, to the Board of Management to purchase shares of the company up to a total of 10% of the company’s Group Management Report 101 Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Annual the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further details are given in in the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for Section 4 Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. payment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, In addition, pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s arshares issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed ticles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, company are used to service the option or conversion rights. 2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the comWhen issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with pany’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total in the following cases: amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company number of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for as stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise or fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations; of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when price is not significantly below the theoretical market value of the the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory by application of Section 186 Paragraph 3 Sentence 4 of the Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds German Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued shares issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either at the their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with time this authorization takes effect or at the time it is utilized; the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with bondtime the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed like characteristics. 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 2 of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ 8. The service contracts between the company and the members Meeting on May 7, 2009 authorized the Board of Management of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions until May 6, 2014, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to regarding the potential departure of the members of the Board increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new of Management in the context of a change of control. These are no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total outlined in the compensation report in this Management Report. amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also exist between generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is the company and members of the first and second levels of uputilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription per management. In addition, the terms of the €500 million Euro rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant Benchmark Bond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in 2005 conholders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company tain a change-of-control clause which gives bondholders the right and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for to redeem the bond should certain events occur that affect its ratwhich such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise ing. The bond was guaranteed by LANXESS AG. The same applies of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights to the terms of the €500 million and €200 million Euro Benchmark can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when Bonds issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in the 2009 fiscal year, the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in the €500 million Euro Benchmark Bond issued by LANXESS kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription Finance B.V. in the 2011 fiscal year as well as the CN¥500 million rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory bond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in February 2012, which Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with 102 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 are all guaranteed by LANXESS AG. The company has signed an Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials and agreement with one major bank for a loan of €93 million. This services are procured. We expect our suppliers to comply with all apagreement may be terminated without notice or repayment of the plicable national and other laws and regulations on safeguarding the outstanding loan may be required if another company or person environment, ensuring health and safety in the workplace and using gains control of more than 50% of LANXESS AG. The same applies appropriate labor and hiring practices. These criteria play an important to two additional loan agreements for €200 million and €120 milrole in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. Regular supplier audits lion that LANXESS Finance B.V. signed with investment banks in conducted in Germany and abroad help verify compliance with these fiscal 2011. The company also entered into an agreement with a regulations. Internally, a global procurement directive defines how our syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility that is currently at staff should behave toward suppliers and their employees. €1,408 million. This agreement can also be terminated without notice if another company or person takes control over more than Procuring chemical raw materials is a significant priority at LANXESS. 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to agreements beThe biggest suppliers here in 2011 included BASF, Bayer, BP, tween the company and LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., the company Braskem, Chevron Phillips, Enterprise, Evonik, Exxon Mobil, INEOS, is obligated to make considerable payments to LANXESS Pension LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic, Shell Chemicals, Texas PetroTrust e.V. in the event of a change of control. chemicals and Total/Petrofina. 9. The service contracts between the company and the members of Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our prothe Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as between duction operations in 2011 were ammonia, 1,3-butadiene, caustic the company and members of the first and second levels of upper soda, crude butadiene, cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene, propylene, management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements toluene and styrene. In all, strategic raw materials accounted for a applicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is purchasing volume of about €3.9 billion in fiscal 2011 (2010: approx. more particularly described in the respective contracts. €2.6 billion), or around 85% of the LANXESS Group’s total expenditure for raw materials and goods in 2011, which amounted to approximately €4.6 billion (2010: approx. €3.5 billion). Our total procurement Procurement and production volume in 2011 was around €6.8 billion (2010: about €4.8 billion). Procurement We are still not dependent on individual suppliers. Furthermore, no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks occurred in the reporting period that LANXESS uses a centrally managed global procurement organization had a material effect on our business development. to ensure a reliable supply of materials and services. Global Categories coordinate with our business units to pool requirements. Our worldwide procurement network helps them leverage purchasing synergies, so Production that we can move efficiently in the market and exploit price advantages. We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers using LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of chemical and techniques like multiple sourcing. We systematically apply best-practice polymer products. Our production facilities make anywhere from very processes. These include e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and and electronic marketplaces, many of which are integrated into our fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten thousand tons. internal IT systems. In 2011, about 55% of all items ordered (2010: around 48%) were handled through e-procurement. Each of our production facilities is organizationally assigned to an individual business unit. The most important production sites are at Leverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; Antwerp, Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia, Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; and Wuxi, China. LANXESS also has other production sites in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States and Uruguay. For a complete breakdown of our production sites by segment, please see “The segments in brief” in this Management Report. Group Management Report 103 Report pursuant to Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code | Procurement and production | Sales organization and customers The following significant changes occurred in our global production Sales organization and customers network in 2011: Sales organization • At the site in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, we completed work to add 14,000 tons to the annual production capacity of our Butyl Rubber We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand customers business unit ahead of schedule. in more than 150 countries across all continents. LANXESS’s long• Our Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit completed an standing customer base includes leaders in each of its user industries. expansion in Orange, United States, that raised annual production We have well-established customer relationships in all sales regions. capacity for Nd-PBR rubber by 15,000 tons. To meet our customers’ needs, we have set up very flexible market• With the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business of the Dutch ing and sales structures. We manage our sales throughout the world company Royal DSM N.V., our Technical Rubber Products business through 49 companies owned by LANXESS itself. We are continuing unit took over two EPDM sites: one in Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands, to extend our global presence so we are closer to our customers and and the other in Triunfo, Brazil. can better evaluate strategic potential. Growth regions are where we • In Wuxi, China, our Semi-Crystalline Products business unit started too are growing. up the second expansion phase of its state-of-the-art compounding facility. We have responded quickly in recent years to the sharp rise in demand • This business unit also completed the expansion of caprolactam in Central and Eastern Europe and have established our own sales comproduction in Antwerp, Belgium, as scheduled. panies – LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o. and OOO LANXESS – • Our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit commissioned a in Bratislava and Moscow, respectively. LANXESS controls all its businew formalin plant at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site at the end of 2011. ness activities in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Russia • In India, we relocated all the production facilities previously operated and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) from these locaat the Madurai site to our new site in Jhagadia. The move affected tions. This proximity allows us to take direct advantage of interesting our Material Protection Products, Leather and Rhein Chemie busiopportunities with respect to raw material sourcing and the growing ness units. demand for quality products. The most recent of our sales organiza• The takeover by our Functional Chemicals business unit of Unitex tions is the representative office established in Dubai in 2011, which Chemical Corporation based in Greensboro, United States, marked is managed by LANXESS Middle East GmbH. In countries where we our first acquisition of a U.S. production facility. do not yet have our own company, we work with local sales partners. • With the purchase of Verichem Inc., based in Pittsburgh, United States, our Material Protection Products business unit added another To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive site to its global biocide production network. individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales • Our Rhein Chemie business unit took over the Darmex group with its organization. Another competitive advantage is provided by our 47 production facilities in Burzaco and Merlo, Argentina, and Colonia, production sites in 17 countries. Wherever possible, customers are Uruguay. supplied from production sites in the same region, which saves them • Following a successful start of the pilot and development phase, we both time and money. officially commissioned a new plant for membrane filtration technology at our Bitterfeld site for the Ion Exchange Resins business unit. Orders worth €1,583 million, or 18.0% of total sales, were processed via e-business in fiscal 2011. This capability is provided by the Including the above-mentioned measures, our cash outflows for capital LANXESS one Internet portal and the system-to-system connections expenditures came to €679 million in the past fiscal year. Additional via ELEMICA. Compared to the previous year, the net sales invoice information is given under “Capital expenditures” in the Financial values accounted for by e-business continued to increase in euro terms. Condition section of this Management Report. Altogether, around 300,000 orders and the respective automated follow-up notices in the areas of purchasing, sales and logistics were handled as e-business. We will continue to expand this process, which provides benefits for all involved, by adding additional partners and technical services. Selling costs for fiscal 2011 came to 8.3% of LANXESS Group sales, down 0.8 percentage points on the prior-year level of 9.1%. 104 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The table below shows selling costs by segment over the last five years. The number of customers in each segment varied widely. The Performance Polymers segment had some 3,100 customers in 2011 (2010: Selling Costs 3,100), while Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 had about 2,900 (2010: 2,900) and 12,000 (2010: 12,400), reSelling costs (€ million) spectively. This information is based on the customer numbers issued 659 658 530 646 732 % of sales 10.0 10.0 10.5 9.1 8.3 in each segment. Each segment includes all customer groups and Breakdown by segment sales categories. However, one customer may do business with more Performance Polymers 190 228 178 216 262 than one segment. Advanced Intermediates 99 110 92 122 127 Performance Chemicals 305 307 253 300 320 The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance ChemiReconciliation 65 13 7 8 23 cals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect the way in which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty chemicals. The substantially lower number of customers in the PerCustomers formance Polymers segment, which generates relatively high sales, is likewise typical of the synthetic rubber products business. This Because of our many products and lines of business, we have business extensive customer base means that no segment can be considered relationships with a vast range of customers all over the world. These dependent on just a few customers. customers need an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are able to provide because our sales organizations are managed through the business units. Individual marketing strategies are reviewed on the Research and development basis of regular customer satisfaction surveys. We continued to systematically broaden our research and developLANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, chemicals, ment activities in 2011. Existing products and processes were refined automotive supply, plastics, electronics, agrochemicals, pharmaceutiand optimized with a shortto medium-term time horizon. We also cals, food, water treatment, construction and furniture. expanded our Innovation & Technology Group Function which initiated additional mediumto long-term research projects to ensure success Shares of Sales by Industry Sector in the high-growth areas of the future and thus safeguard the Group’s % 2011 sustainable performance. Tires ~ 25 Chemicals ~ 15 Automotive ~ 15 Cost trend and employees Construction, electrical/electronics, in each case agrochemicals, leather/footwear 3 – 10 Our total research and development expenditures in 2011 increased Others (cumulative share) ~ 15 by 24.1% on the prior year to €144 million, or 1.6% of sales (2010: €116 million or 1.6% of sales). The Technical Rubber Products, Butyl In fiscal 2011, our top ten customers accounted for about 28% of Rubber, Saltigo and Semi-Crystalline Products business units actotal sales (2010: 25%). None of our customers accounted for more counted for the largest share of these expenditures at 54% (2010: than 10% of Group sales. 53 (2010: 40) customers accounted for 53%). Saltigo, Material Protection Products, Ion Exchange Resins annual sales in excess of €20 million. The increase is due to the strong and Butyl Rubber were the business units most active in research in level of demand and the resulting high purchasing volumes by key terms of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales. accounts. In addition, our customers benefited from the expansion of our product range in the area of high-performance rubbers following our acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business from DSM in May. Sales per customer were also impacted by the considerable increase in raw material prices during the year as a result of our price-beforevolume strategy. Group Management Report 105 Sales organization and customers | Research and development The table below shows research and development expenditures in The results of our research and development work are protected by the last five years. patents, where this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2011, we submitted 84 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, Research and Development Expenditures 2011, the full patent portfolio included approximately 1,100 patent 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 families covering around 7,200 property rights. As part of the purchase Research and development of the Keltan business, we acquired the intellectual property rights to expenditures (€ million) 88 97 101 116 144 the Keltan ACE technology, which has also strengthened our propri% of sales 1.3 1.5 2.0 1.6 1.6 etary technology base. A commitment for long-term financing from the European Investment Bank (EIB), the E.U.’s Luxembourg-based development bank, will Organizational focus increase our scope for funding research and development activities over the next seven years. It covers a €200 million credit facility that Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs carries attractive conditions. We see the partnership as affirmation of of the market and our customers. Organizationally, the LANXESS our innovative potential and recognition of our clear focus on developGroup’s research and development units are assigned to the individual ing sustainable products and production processes. business units. For example, business units with a substantial proportion of products in very mature markets, such as Advanced Industrial At the end of 2011, we employed 731 people (2010: 519) in our Intermediates, concentrate on constantly improving their production research and development laboratories worldwide. facilities and processes (process optimization). Other business units focus their research and development activities more on optimizing Number of Employees in Research and Development their products and product quality and on developing new products to 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 meet market requirements and customers’ special needs. We have set Year end ourselves the goal of aligning our research programs in the future more 408 453 489 519 731 % of Group employees 2.8 3.1 3.4 3.5 4.5 directly and more systematically with the major global megatrends: the expanding need for mobility, sharply rising global food requirements, increasing urbanization and the growing demand for water. Our largest research and development units are at the sites in Leverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada; Our basic research is conducted mainly via alliances with universities and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. The development and testing of highand research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way is subperformance rubber products for energy-saving green tires and highstantially more efficient and cost-effective than if we were to maintain tech plastics for lightweight construction applications in the automotive our own resources for this purpose. In 2011, we had a total of 145 industry are examples of the work we perform there. By consolidating (2010: 143) major research and development alliances, 50 (2010: our research and development activities for nitrile-butadiene rubber 53) of which were with universities, 55 (2010: 53) with suppliers or (NBR) at our site in La Wantzenau, France, in 2010, we are now in an customers, and 40 (2010: 37) with research institutes. even better position to develop innovative, high-quality, sophisticated products that are tailored to our customers’ specific requirements. Innovation & Technology Group Function Fields of activity and patent strategy As a central unit, the Innovation & Technology Group Function complements our business units’ research work with new, longer-term, crossIn 2011, we conducted around 210 research and development projbusiness unit projects to ensure that potential synergies are exploited to ects (2010: 170), around 125 of which (2010: 100) aimed to develop the full and innovations can be applied in various LANXESS units. We new products and applications or improve existing ones. Some 85 further expanded this group function in 2011 so that it now consoliprojects (2010: around 70) concerned process technology issues with dates our expertise in both chemistry and technology. The Innovation a view to reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity. We & Technology Group Function’s research concentrates on process and plan to have roughly 20% of the research and development projects product innovation. An additional focus is supporting the business we started in 2011 in the market or technical implementation stages units in all issues relating to energy technology within the context of by the end of 2012 (previous year: about 20%). the newly established LANXESS energy efficiency program. 106 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 In the area of process innovation, we direct our efforts toward develCorporate responsibility oping new processes and integrating new technologies into existing production processes with the aim of achieving cost and technology In our business activities we are committed to taking account of the leadership. One focus is on reviewing current production processes demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. With using mathematical methods in order to pinpoint optimization potential. our products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development In this way, we have already identified and in some cases achieved we can make a significant contribution to supporting our customers, considerable savings on raw materials and energy. We made further protecting the environment and improving the quality of life of people savings in operating costs by implementing our process control coneverywhere. All our corporate responsibility activities must be linked cepts in a number of facilities. These newly implemented concepts to our core business or to our available expertise. – including online analytics – enable us to run plants even closer to the optimum operating point, which, in addition to reducing costs, in We have been supporting the Responsible Care® initiative since 2006, some cases even increases their capacity. Against the backdrop of when we became a signatory to the Global Charter initiated by the our strategic growth initiative, we are also stepping up our efforts to International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Amended in refine the technological aspects of our processes for growth projects. February 2011, our corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are integrated into our management principles and corpoProduct innovation is focused on the development of new products and rate strategy. We once again raised our sustainability profile during the new applications for existing products as well as on product modificareporting period by signing up to the U.N. Global Compact, the world’s tions. The search for new products is more broadly based than in the largest and fastest growing corporate social responsibility initiative. business units, the main topics are generally applicable to multiple business units, and there is a mediumto long-term time horizon. Our Corporate Compliance Guideline is a code of legal compliance and Here, too, our research goals are derived from the global megatrends. responsible conduct that is binding on all LANXESS employees and By launching an ideas platform on the company’s intranet, we have commits them to act in accordance with the law, apply the principles created a Group-wide forum for developing ideas and solutions for of Responsible Care® and demonstrate ethical conduct. future-oriented innovations. We have already transformed a large number of ideas into concrete projects with the help of standardized processes. These projects are regularly evaluated with regard to their Environmental management technological and financial attractiveness. We have further expanded our broad network of external partners through the establishment of Our central management system enables us to steer our activities new alliances with universities, institutes and leading companies in worldwide in accordance with internal directives and operating provarious fields such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, microtechnology cedures as well as strict quality and environmental standards in line and membrane technology. with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Our research collaboration with the Russian Academy of Sciences In 2007, we started integrating all our sites worldwide into a single (RAS), which we started in 2010, was strengthened in the year under management system covered by one global matrix certificate. We review. RAS numbers among the world’s most distinguished scientific regularly commission external, independent experts to audit and verify institutions and has a history dating back over 285 years. We initiated the implementation status of this process. In 2011, the sales office in additional cooperation projects with some of the Academy’s renowned Moscow, Russia, was included for the first time. By the end of 2011, research institutes, for example, in the area of catalysis research. a total of 81 sites had been integrated into the matrix certificate. For our sites in the United States, we have also received certification to Overall, research and development plays a significant role in increasRC 14001. ing our competitiveness and further expanding our business through the development of innovative, original processes and products as In addition, we decided in 2010 to introduce a global energy managewell as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. ment system based on ISO 50001. We aim to complete implementation in Germany by the end of 2012. Group Management Report 107 Research and development | Corporate responsibility | Events after the reporting period | Report on risks and opportunities Environment data LANXESS is one of the world’s leading suppliers of products for the purification and treatment of water. The expertise acquired by our Ion We have developed a proprietary electronic system for the systematic Exchange Resins and Inorganic Pigments business units over the global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of decades enables them to play a key role in solving the global water safety and environmental protection. Data for all indicators except the problem. Using this expertise for charitable purposes is a further focus lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) are gathered only at those proof our corporate social commitment. duction sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. In the year under review, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft assessed our data recording processes and system in the course of a Events after the reporting period business audit. Most of our HSE indicators for 2010 and 2011 were tested with a view to achieving a “reasonable assurance” rating. The No other events of particular significance took place after Decemcertificate can be viewed at www.lanxess.com. ber 31, 2011 that could be expected to have a material effect on the cash flows, financial condition and results of operations of the LANXESS Group. Product responsibility We expressly support the protection goals of European chemicals Report on risks and opportunities policy. During the first registration phase stipulated by the REACH regulation, we submitted the dossiers for all 193 of our substances Expected changes in business conditions that are affected to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) by the deadline of November 30, 2010. A further 250 substances from our Expected Growth in GDP portfolio will be registered during the second phase, which runs until Change vs. prior year in Gross domestic product the end of May 2013. To date, these activities are going to schedule. real terms (%)1) 2012 2013 2014 –2016 We expect to have to complete a total of some 750 dossiers over all three phases through 2018. Americas 2.0 3.0 3.5 NAFTA 2.0 2.5 3.0 Latin America 3.5 5.0 5.0 EMEA 0.5 2.0 2.5 Social commitment Germany 0.5 1.0 1.5 Western Europe (0.5) 1.0 2.0 Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science Central and Eastern Europe 2.5 3.5 4.0 education in schools. To this end, we launched the extensive LANXESS Asia-Pacific 5.0 5.5 5.0 World 2.5 3.0 3.5 education initiative in 2008 that underscores our clear commitment 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% to Germany as a business location and as a base for the chemical Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in February 2012 industry. Over the past four years, we have invested around €3.5 million in this initiative. In recognition of its valuable contribution to Germany’s position as a business and industry location, our program was among General business conditions We expect the global economy to be the winners in 2011 of the country’s “365 Landmarks in the Land volatile overall in 2012. The ongoing problems in the financial sector of Ideas” contest. triggered by the public debt crisis and additional geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and Africa are likely to increase market uncertainty. We have also initiated projects focusing particularly on the promotion As a result, there is a growing risk that economic momentum will of science education at almost all LANXESS sites across the globe. slow, especially in the industrialized nations. We expect this to be felt In the BRICS countries especially, we are involved in a wide range of especially strongly in Europe, in particular in its peripheral states. The projects and initiatives. emerging markets, by contrast, are likely to continue growing, despite the first signs that their economic expansion is slowing. Overall, we consider the risk of a global recession to be very low, but still anticipate increased economic volatility. 108 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 On account of the higher risks, we expect the world economy to grow Expected Growth in Chemical Production by 2.5%, around the same level as in 2011. In all likelihood, the emergChange vs. prior year in Chemical production ing markets will remain the focal point of expansion, but we believe real terms (%)1) 2012 2013 2014 –2016 that the Chinese economy will grow more slowly than last year at Americas 1.5 2.0 3.0 7.5%. For India, we predict growth of 7.0%. Among the industrialized NAFTA 1.0 1.5 2.5 economies, we expect Western Europe to be the only region to post Latin America 3.5 4.5 4.5 an overall negative trend of minus 0.5%, while the expectation for the EMEA 1.0 2.5 2.5 United States is growth of around 2.0%. In Japan, the economy is Germany 0.0 1.0 1.0 expected to recover and expand by 3.0%. We believe that the regional Western Europe 0.0 2.0 2.0 disparities in growth will continue in the years to come. Central and Eastern Europe 3.5 4.0 4.0 Asia-Pacific 7.0 7.5 6.5 World 3.5 4.5 4.5 On account of the fluctuations in the economic environment, we expect 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% volatility in the raw materials markets in 2012. According to forecasts Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in February 2012 by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the rate of inflation in raw material prices will decline overall in 2012. Early IMF projections for Future evolution of selling markets In 2012, we expect the selling 2012 put oil prices at or near the same level as at the end of 2011. markets that are most important to LANXESS to trend in line with the These forecasts took into account geopolitical risks and the uncertain global economy. prospects for economic development. It can be assumed that energy prices will continue to increase in the coming years. According to our forecasts, the tire industry is expected to expand by 2.5% overall. High growth rates are anticipated for Brazil (7.0%), In 2012, we expect the U.S. dollar to weaken slightly from the exchange China (8.0%) and India (12.0%). In Europe, we believe production will rate of US$1.29 to the euro on December 31, 2011. return to a normal growth trend following the recent catch-up phase. However, it could decline by 2.5% in total given the outlook for the Future performance of the chemical industry On the basis of the automotive industry. In North America, tire production is expected to macroeconomic environment described above, we predict that the be at or near the previous year’s level. global chemical industry will expand by 3.5% in 2012. The growth of chemical production in the industrialized countries is likely to be Growth in the automotive industry is predicted to remain at a high below average. Only Japan, supported by the overall recovery of its 7.5%. North America and Asia are likely to drive this development. We economy following the disasters in March 2011, is poised to be the anticipate an increase of 8.0% in production in North America, but that exception with projected growth of 3.0%. Chemical production in remains well below pre-crisis levels. We expect considerable growth of Europe is expected to be at or near the prior-year level. We expect the 18.0% in Japan as well, but this would be attributable to the recovery chemical industry in North America to post slight growth of around effect described earlier. For the Indian market, we forecast production 1.0%. The emerging economies are likely to display above-average expansion of a robust 14.5%. In Europe, Central and Eastern Europe growth again, with chemical production in India increasing by 8.0% are likely to show positive growth of 3.5%, but we believe production and in China by 7.5%. We forecast expansion of 3.5% for the chemical in Western Europe will decline by 6.5%. industry in Latin America and in Central/Eastern Europe. The growth drivers in agrochemicals – high demand and the associIncreasing capacities in the growth regions will raise the pressure on ated high prices for agricultural products – will remain in place, yielding the traditional industrialized nations – which are additionally suffering expansion of 3.0% by our estimates. In Asia, growth in China and India from relatively weak domestic demand. For this reason we expect will stay stable, at 3.0% and 4.0%, respectively. Steady growth is also production in these countries to grow at a slower pace than the global expected in South America and in Central/Eastern Europe, where we average. predict expansion of 4.5% and 3.0%, respectively. Still impacted by the debt crisis, Western Europe’s construction industry may very well bottom out in 2012. We expect a slight decrease of 1.0% for the region. In North America, we project a modest increase of 2.0% for 2012. Asia is likely to remain the industry’s global engine with Japan posting 9.0% growth on rebuilding efforts, while construction in China is expected to advance 9.5%. Group Management Report 109 Report on risks and opportunities Expected Evolution of Major User Industries Change vs. prior year in Tires Automotive Agrochemicals Construction real terms (%)1) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 – 2016 – 2016 – 2016 – 2016 Americas (0.5) 1.5 1.5 8.0 7.5 3.5 3.5 2.0 2.0 3.0 9.0 8.0 NAFTA (2.0) (0.5) (0.5) 8.0 6.5 3.5 2.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 9.0 8.5 Latin America 4.5 7.5 5.5 8.0 9.0 4.0 4.5 3.5 3.5 5.5 7.0 5.5 EMEA 2.0 3.0 2.5 0.0 6.0 5.5 1.5 2.5 3.0 0.5 2.0 2.5 Germany (3.5) (4.5) (2.5) (4.0) (0.5) 3.5 (1.0) 1.5 2.5 0.5 0.5 1.0 Western Europe (2.5) (0.5) (0.5) (6.5) 1.0 5.0 0.0 2.0 2.5 (1.0) 1.0 1.5 Central and Eastern Europe 6.0 6.5 4.5 3.5 17.0 6.0 3.0 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.0 5.0 Asia-Pacific 4.0 7.5 7.5 11.0 10.5 7.0 3.5 5.5 6.0 8.0 6.5 5.5 World 2.5 5.0 5.5 7.5 8.5 6.0 3.0 3.5 4.5 4.0 5.5 5.0 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight, LMC and other sources in February 2012 Risk report The risk management system comprises many different elements that are embedded in the overall structural and process organization. The Opportunity and risk management system Our success is significantly management of opportunities and risks is a primary duty of the heads of dependent on identifying the opportunities and risks in our business all business units, as well as of those people in Group companies who activities and on actively managing them. Effective risk management hold process and project responsibility. It is incorporated into business is a core element in safeguarding the company’s existence for the processes primarily through the company’s organizational structure, its long term and ensuring its successful future development. Risks and planning, reporting and communication systems, and a set of detailed opportunities are understood as negative or positive deviations from management policies and technical standards. Various committees planned results. and other bodies discuss and monitor our opportunities and risks. Our management activities are based both on internal organizational Roles of key organizational units At LANXESS, the business units workflows, which are managed by way of control and monitoring each conduct their own operations, for which they have global profit mechanisms, and on early warning systems that are used to closely responsibility. Group functions and service companies support the busiobserve changes in external conditions and systematically implement ness units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized the appropriate measures. This approach applies equally to risks and services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units opportunities. and group functions, the country organizations ensure the required proximity to the markets and the necessary organizational infrastructure. Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this system does not offer absolute protection. However, it does serve to prevent In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility, i.e. business risks from having a material impact on the company with a defined the risk owners, for the following: sufficient degree of certainty. • identification and analysis of risks and opportunities, Structural basis Our opportunity and risk management is based on • risk prevention (measures taken to avoid, minimize clearly defined business processes, the precise assignment of responor diversify risk), sibilities throughout the Group, and reporting systems that ensure the • risk monitoring (e.g. on the basis of performance indicators and, timely provision of the information required for decision-making to the perhaps also, early warning indicators), Board of Management or other management levels. The principles • risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon are set forth in a Group directive. Our management system is based occurrence of a risk event) and on an integration concept, i.e. the early identification of opportunities • communication of the key risks and opportunities to the manageand risks is an integral part of the management system and not the ment committees of the business units and group functions. object of a separate organizational structure. 110 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for collecting ing as well as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for action and aggregating key information across the Group at the following are steered by the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which works intervals: closely in this regard with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate • three times per year during the intrayear forecasting process planning outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. • one time per year as part of the budget and planning process for We monitor the annual budget in any given fiscal year by regularly the subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon updating our expectations for business development. The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central database There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on specific risk and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management and Supervisory issues such as significant corporate compliance violations. In 2011, Board. This ensures that when new risks and opportunities arise or there was no cause for immediate reporting of this kind. when existing ones change substantially, the necessary information can be communicated in a timely manner all the way to the Board Compliance as an integral component Risk management also inof Management and therefore also be specifically integrated into the cludes preventing illegal conduct by our employees. To this end, we general management of the company. obtain extensive legal advice concerning business transactions and obligate employees by means of our compliance code to observe The reporting threshold for opportunities and risks is an effect of the law and to act responsibly. A Compliance Committee promotes €1 million on the Group’s net income or EBITDA, taking into account and monitors adherence to our compliance guidelines. Its work is a minimum probability of occurrence. This low reporting threshold supported by compliance officers who have been appointed for each guarantees that the information gathered about opportunities and country in which we have a subsidiary. The Compliance Committee risks is comprehensive and that the collection of information is not is chaired by a compliance officer, who reports directly and regularly just limited to material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future of to the Board of Management. the company as a going concern. The Corporate Controlling Group Function centrally determines the top opportunities and risks only Accounting aspects of the internal control and risk management sysafter the information has been gathered. The threshold for material tem The aspects of the internal control and risk management system risks has been defined at €10 million for the Group. relating to the accounting process include the principles, procedures and measures required to ensure the effectiveness, efficiency and The Corporate Development Group Function systematically analyzes propriety of the company’s accounting, and compliance with appliand measures significant and strategic opportunities and risks with cable legal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, control and the goal of ensuring that the Group is pursuing the correct long-term monitoring structures have been established. The distinctive features strategy. of the chemical industry and the risk management tools used regularly by LANXESS in this regard are taken into account. In addition Transactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also operating to the accounting process in its narrower sense, this also includes risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed centrally by the the aforementioned structured budget and forecasting process, and Treasury Group Function. This is explained in more detail in the “Risks extensive contract management. However, the effectiveness and reliof future development” section. ability of the internal control and risk management system can be restricted by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business processes, other circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of accounting business units and group functions who deal with issues concerning issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. the Group’s risks and opportunities. This enables us to react quickly and flexibly to changing situations and their influence on the company. The Accounting Group Function, which reports to the CFO, is responsible for the accounting process and therefore for preparing the consoliSignificance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning dated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the single-entity is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. Opportunifinancial statements of the companies. Consolidated interim financial ties and risks with a likelihood of occurrence greater than the specified statements are prepared each quarter. The condensed consolidated minimum probability flow directly into the planning process. Key budget half-yearly financial statements are reviewed, while the consolidated values are calculated and those risks and opportunities considered relatively likely to materialize are presented as worst-case/best-case scenarios. The processes for corporate planning and intrayear forecastGroup Management Report 111 Report on risks and opportunities annual financial statements are subjected to a full audit by the audiRegular coordination with other financial group functions, particularly tor of the Group’s financial statements. The foundation for uniform the Treasury, Tax and Controlling group functions, assists the financial and IFRS-compliant consolidated financial reporting at LANXESS is reporting process. A continual exchange of information with the opthe Group Financial Statements Guideline. This governs the way the erating business units and other group functions makes it possible provisions of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues applicable to the Group are applied by the subsidiaries as reporting arising outside of accounting processes. These include litigation risks, entities. Moreover, the guideline also defines charts of accounts that projections for impairment testing and special contractual agreements are binding throughout the Group. On the IT side, the guideline is with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service providers supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation are consulted on special issues, particularly relating to the valuation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected of pensions and other post-employment benefits. by security measures against unauthorized access. Monitoring of risk management and the internal control system Within By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s group accounting prothe Group, the Internal Auditing Group Function is tasked with overseecesses, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in ing whether the internal control and monitoring system is functioning line with the applicable laws and standards, particularly the IFRS, are properly and whether organizational safeguards are being observed. applied and guarantee the reliability of our financial reporting. The The planning of audits (selection of audit subjects) and audit methods accounting-related internal control system we use is based on generally applied by this group function are correspondingly aligned with risks. accepted standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual self-assessment is this system during the period under review. Corresponding standards also carried out in major Group companies, operating units and group also apply to the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries. functions. In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the auditor as part of the audit of the annual financial statements. The Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based on a Supervisory Board also exercises control functions, including regular very detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement monitoring of the efficiency of the management systems described calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. A further above by the full Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The component is the regular review of the correctness and completeness Audit Committee reviews reports about the Compliance Committee’s of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of activities and findings, the work of the Internal Auditing Group Function, duties as expressed in structured authorization and approval proceand the status of the risk management and internal control system. dures and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility testing on data is applied end-to-end throughout the preparation and Risks of future development The main sources of risk are shown in consolidation process. the table below: For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries subject to Main Sources of Risk reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting data using the Macroeconomic Regional differences in performance above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated into Long-term exchange-rate parities the system ensure that the data reported by the subsidiaries are consisDemographic trends Strategic Corporate strategy tent at the time of delivery. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring the Investments correctness of the reported data content lies with the accounting deInformation technology partments of the subsidiaries. The Corporate Accounting Department Human resources within the Accounting Group Function conducts more detailed testing Operational Sales markets of the correctness of the data content. To this end, the department Plant operations evaluates standardized reports in which the companies explain material Environmental risks facts relevant to financial reporting. After the process-based controls Procurement markets Financial risks have been applied, Group consolidation including currency translaRegulatory Legal aspects tion is carried out in the same system, without additional interfaces, Regulatory measures utilizing both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of Taxes the automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information that must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to the extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented by validation rules that are integrated into the system. 112 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Regional differences in economic trends LANXESS is inherently exThe success of the decisions associated with these efforts is naturally posed to the general economic and political opportunities and risks subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future (market) deof the countries and regions in which the LANXESS Group operates. velopments and making assumptions about the feasibility of planned Regional differences in economic performance and the associated measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment demand trends can affect the Group’s pricing and sales potential could be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to in its various geographical markets, with corresponding effects on be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systemits earnings. We address these issues with our broad regional presatically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making. ence and by expanding our profile in selected growth regions. This During this process, the business units affected and the Board of approach is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this Management receive support from departments with the requisite Management Report. expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants. Long-term exchange rate trends Shifts in exchange rate parities can When gathering information about potential M&A candidates, it is affect sales revenues as reported in the Group’s currency and the possible that certain facts required to assess a candidate’s future gross profit margins on sales as they relate to the production costs of performance or to determine the purchase price are not available or products, depending on the country of production. In addition to the are not correctly interpreted. We reduce this risk by conducting wellhedging we perform as described in the “Financial risks” section, we structured due diligence analyses and, where possible, by concluding also make a point of expanding our production sites in the key growth appropriate agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of regions in order to build a natural hedge position by matching producacquired companies or businesses can result in expected develoption and sales in the regional markets. ments not materializing. For this reason, we have processes in place with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. Demographic trends LANXESS takes an active approach to managing the risk of demographic trends as well. To ensure continued Investment risks The preparatory work for investments that exceed access to a highly skilled workforce, we launched a comprehensive a specified significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant package of measures known as XCare in 2009, starting in Germany. business units. After review by an Investment Committee set up for this Interdisciplinary working groups are cooperating closely with empurpose, the information is presented to the Board of Management for ployee representatives at LANXESS to develop innovative concepts a decision. By following this procedure, we ensure that investments to preempt and actively address shifts resulting from demographic are in line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and change – ranging from increasing the number of trainee positions security requirements. to measures allowing older employees to enjoy a longer working life. The successive introduction of a long-term worktime account is also IT risks Our IT systems support our business activities worldwide, part of these efforts. This will enable employees in Germany to flexibly including the essential processes from receiving an order to receiving tailor their transition to retirement by building up credit from various payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. It is importime and income components over an extended period. Another area tant in this regard to give the relevant parties correct and meaningful of activity is health. The goal is to increase productivity, while continuinformation at an appropriate time. To accomplish this, we invest in ing to reduce the risk of lost workdays. Measures aimed at prevention expanding and improving the software, hardware and networks we and reintegration have been successfully expanded. In 2011, we also use worldwide, which also enhances integration and facilitates the worked closely with our employee representatives to reach agreeuse of uniform system platforms. The inherent risk with IT is that netment on a multi-stage concept that will make it easier for employees works will fail or that systems and their data will be compromised or to care for family members while continuing their jobs. One feature destroyed because of operating and programming errors or external of the concept is individually agreed part-time working for caregivers. factors. This can cause serious business interruptions. To mitigate this risk, LANXESS has increased its investment in suitable data protection Corporate strategy risks We are consistently pursuing the strategic systems and mirror databases designed to prevent the loss of data. optimization of the enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing efficiency Methods for safeguarding against malicious software attacks, access enhancement, strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio manrestriction and authorization systems along with other security and agement, and proactive participation in industry consolidation through monitoring tools are used to ensure data integrity, the trouble-free partnerships, divestments and acquisitions. operation of software and user-oriented data security. The management of IT risks complies with recognized standards. Additionally, we have reduced our reliance on critical suppliers. Group Management Report 113 Report on risks and opportunities HR policy risks Our activities depend on our employees. The risk of Risks in sales markets The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of industrial actions in some countries resulting from disputes in conthe global chemical and polymer markets and their dependence on nection with negotiations concerning future collective pay agreements developments in customer industries harbor risks to LANXESS’s busior associated with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We ness. In addition to being subject to these demand-side market risks, counter this risk by fostering open communication with our employees LANXESS’s risk profile is influenced, and its earnings power can be and their representatives in a culture of active labor relations. QUEST, impaired, by structural changes in markets, such as the entry of new our training, deployment and job management center, is part of these suppliers, the migration of customers to countries with lower costs, efforts. Formed in 2009 and firmly anchored in our German organizaand product substitution or market consolidation trends in some sections, this internal job placement unit enables us to redeploy surplus tors. We counter such trends by systematically managing costs and headcount and keep expertise within the company. by taking comprehensive measures designed to achieve a sharper focus and arrive at a product portfolio with which we can operate Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and issues successfully for the long term. relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in the efficiency of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigate the Risks in plant operations A lack of plant availability and disruptions of risk of losing this expertise and to increase our employees’ loyalty to plant and process safety can make it impossible for us to meet producthe company, including attractive compensation models, challenging tion targets and adequately satisfy existing demand, resulting in a loss jobs and international career options. Additionally, we use personof marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures to nel conferences and development centers as a means of identifying counter this scenario. These include regular compliance checks, the particularly well-qualified employees for subsequent appointment to preparation of risk assessments and systematic training of employees key functions and management positions. This allows us to further to improve standards and safety. develop the expertise already available within the company and avoid the loss of expertise. One indicator of our success so far in limiting the Environmental risks from production processes Although LANXESS loss of know-how is the low employee fluctuation rates in all regions. applies high technical and safety standards to the construction, operaOverall, we estimate as low the risk of our business being impaired tion and maintenance of production facilities, interruptions in operaby a loss of knowledge. tions, including those due to external factors, such as natural disasters or terrorism, cannot be ruled out. These can lead to explosions, the To further increase productivity at LANXESS, we developed and release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents in which people, launched the International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) for our property or the environment are harmed. In addition to systematically global sales organization within the context of our strategic growth monitoring compliance with quality standards in order to avoid such program. stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against the resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry. Thus far, there has not been a major shortage of labor in our global markets. However, in the interests of a forward-thinking, sustainable LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which chemhuman resources policy, we considerably strengthened our cooperaicals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed tions with research institutes, colleges and universities in Germany 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities. and other important target markets in 2011. We were also able to The possibility cannot be ruled out that pollution occurred during position the company as an attractive employer through participation this time that has not been discovered to date. We are committed at numerous events around the world. Active involvement in educato the Responsible Care initiative and actively pursue environmental tion plays an important role in our efforts, as demonstrated by our management. This includes constant monitoring and testing of the cooperation with the not-for-profit Teach First organization. Through soil, groundwater and air. We have set up sufficient provisions within this collaboration, we hope to access additional channels for recruitthe scope permitted by law for necessary containment or remediation ing qualified personnel. For more detailed information, please see the measures in areas with identified contamination. “Employees” and “Corporate Responsibility” sections. LANXESS’s product portfolio includes substances that are classified as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health, we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use. We also carry product liability insurance that is customary in our industry. 114 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Risks in procurement markets On the procurement side, the principal Detailed information about our financial risks and how we manage risk lies in the volatility of raw material and energy prices. If the price them is contained in Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the Conof the materials we use increases, our production costs increase. If solidated Financial Statements. the price of the materials we use decreases, write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. We mitigate this risk by following a Legal risks Companies in the LANXESS Group are parties to various sensible inventory and procurement policy. Most of the company’s litigations. The outcome of individual proceedings cannot be predicted raw material needs are met by long-term supply contracts that have with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal price escalation clauses, and many agreements with customers also disputes. To the extent necessary in light of the known circumstances contain price escalation clauses. We also hedge this risk in some in each case, we have set up risk provisions for the event of an unfacases via derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are available vorable outcome of such proceedings. Taking into account existing for hedging raw material and energy price risks (see also “Financial provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached with third risks”). Detailed information is contained in the section headed “Raw parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal disputes, it is curmaterial price risks” under Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the rently estimated that none of these proceedings will materially affect Consolidated Financial Statements. To guard against possible supply our future financial condition or earnings. bottlenecks due to factors such as the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a networked site, we pursue an appropriate In our reporting in previous years, we referred to heightened risks relatinventory strategy and line up alternative sources of supply. We also ing to certain antitrust proceedings brought by regulatory authorities face increases in our personnel expenses because of future wage or civil courts in the United States, Canada and Europe concerning increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can be certain products of the former Rubber Business Group, which was just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material prices, as transferred to the LANXESS Group in the course of the spin-off from described above, but in the case of personnel we cannot hedge the risk Bayer AG. LANXESS AG and Bayer AG agreed on specific rules govin futures markets or pass it on to the customer. In order to cushion the erning their respective share of the liabilities in connection with these impact of such negative developments on our cost base, we pursue a proceedings. The rules provide that LANXESS will bear 30% and market-oriented pricing policy that is in line with the premium nature Bayer AG 70% of such liabilities. LANXESS’s total liability was limited of our products. Additionally, we are constantly looking for ways to to an amount that has now been exhausted by the payments which use our resources more efficiently so that we can offset higher costs have since been made. In addition to this maximum amount, it is liable by raising productivity. for the reimbursement of income tax payable as a result of limited tax deductibility and the proportionate costs of external legal counsel, Financial risks The Treasury Group Function centrally manages finanwhich are also split between LANXESS and Bayer at a ratio of 30:70. cial risks. The chief financial risks are: Additional information on legal risks can be found in Note [14], “Other Financial Risks current and non-current provisions,” to the Consolidated Financial Price risks Liquidity and Default risks Investment risks Statements. refinancing risks Interest Availability of cash Banks Investments in Risks from regulatory measures Possible tightening of safety, quality pension assets and environmental regulations or standards can lead to additional Currencies Access to multiCustomers and bilateral capital costs and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the markets implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, Raw materials Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). In Energy addition to direct costs that could arise due to additional measures necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could Price risks are managed using derivative financial instruments within change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and approved limits for hedging. We ensure our access to the capital marcustomers to regions outside Europe. kets and our solvency through a conservative financing policy and a target capital structure that is largely based on the ratio systems used by leading rating agencies. We mitigate default risks by setting sensible credit limits. The Pension Committee, which is made up of the CFO and representatives from the Treasury, Accounting and Human Resources group functions, limits investment risk by making decisions about the allocation of the pension fund’s investments, insofar as LANXESS is able to exercise its influence in this regard. Group Management Report 115 Report on risks and opportunities Tax risks Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms The composition of our product portfolio, our regional focus, acquisiof their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other countions, targeted research and development, and a variety of strategic tries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been reported initiatives will be instrumental in helping us achieve this objective. correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility cannot be ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different conclusion Product portfolio aligned to four global megatrends With its extenin individual cases. sive product portfolio, LANXESS has a presence in all key customer industries. Our broad diversification of this portfolio makes us indeSummary of LANXESS’s overall risk exposure Our risk exposure dependent of any one product or process. In that regard, no product creased in the reporting year due to the recovery of the economic enor process innovations are expected in 2012 that would individually vironment compared to the previous year. Nonetheless, all planning is have a significant influence on the LANXESS Group’s performance. subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate In spite of this, there are product segments in our portfolio that we flexible adjustments to rapidly changing business conditions. This is are focusing on strengthening with optimized production processes particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in genand methods, continual innovation, capacity expansion measures, eral have become somewhat less reliable due to the drastic changes new production facilities or acquisitions. We are aligning these to observed recently in our global procurement and customer markets. four of the most important global megatrends: Because of the management flexibility we have already demonstrated Mobility: The increasing demand for vehicles, especially in the in prior years and our improved financial structures, we are confident emerging economies, and the need to improve the environmenthat we can successfully master the risks that are materializing. tal compatibility of mobility throughout the world are providing the key impulses for growth in the tire and automotive sectors, both Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, the of which are important user industries for LANXESS. At European Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any sufand international level, legislation is being implemented to improve ficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the quality standards by requiring the classification of vehicle tires on continued existence of LANXESS. the basis of their rolling resistance, grip, noise emissions and mileage. In Europe, for example, the new law on tire labeling will enter into force in November 2012. The desirable ratings can only be Opportunity report achieved using high-performance rubbers. In automotive engineering, it is above all the increasing efforts to achieve substantial weight Strategic opportunities LANXESS’s strategic alignment proved to reductions using high-performance plastics that are providing us be successful in fiscal 2011. We systematically aligned our product with opportunities for growth. portfolio to those markets that promise continued growth in the future. The BRICS countries – especially Brazil, China and India – will retain Agriculture: The demand for agricultural products driven by the a central role in this regard. growing world population and the associated urgent need to improve efficiency in agriculture are crucial issues for our customers in the In the future too, we will be positioning ourselves as a flexible, marketchemical and agrochemical industries in particular. Our products will facing premium supplier at the core of the chemical industry that is help increase future agricultural yields and protect crops. applying its great innovative capability to generate measurable added value for its customers. Our medium-term corporate objective is to increase our key controlling parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, to €1.4 billion in 2015. Based on our earnings in 2011, the investment projects already under way are expected to make a sustained contribution to increasing EBITDA pre exceptionals to around €1.3 billion. We aim to pursue our goal on the basis of organic growth and selective acquisitions, with the focus on organic growth. 116 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Urbanization: Urban expansion and the emergence of new megacities The importance of research and development is also reflected in the can be observed especially in the fast-growing newly industrialized fact that our R&D budget for fiscal 2012 exceeds the 2011 budget nations such as Brazil, China and India. The need for new buildings by nearly 40%. Roughly 20% of our research and development projand an efficient infrastructure is correspondingly large. Moreover, ects started in 2011 are scheduled to reach the market or technical demand for better consumer goods and a higher standard of living implementation stages by the end of 2012. is evolving with the growing middle class in these countries. This trend is benefiting our customers in the construction and consumer Operational opportunities Unlocking and exploiting operational opporgoods industries in particular. tunities is an important aspect of LANXESS’s entrepreneurial activities. We are making selective investments that enable us to exploit the opWater: Given the steady rise in water consumption because of onportunity to systematically drive forward our future organic growth and going population growth, escalating environmental pollution and sustainably strengthen our position in the global growth markets. The industrial requirements, the demand for clean water will far exceed focus is on capital expenditure projects which generate organic growth. the current supply in around 20 years. With our innovative solutions In the paragraphs below the projects are described. By also investing for purifying and treating drinking water, wastewater and industrial in external growth, LANXESS is advancing the future development process water, we are therefore serving a high-growth niche market. of its segments. Significant projects in this area are described below. Again, the most important growth regions for water products are AsiaPacific – especially India and China – and Latin America with Brazil. Performance Polymers segment In recent years, LANXESS laid the foundations for this segment’s future growth with selective investments Sustainable expansion in the BRICS countries In recent years, we in existing, profitable businesses and we continued this policy in the have substantially strengthened our business activities in Asia, Central year under review. and Eastern Europe and Latin America and will continue to expand our market position there. Our growing presence in these key ecoIn the Butyl Rubber business unit, construction of our new butyl rubber nomic regions will enable us to participate in their dynamic economic facility in Singapore, which was started in May 2010, is proceeding development. Last year, we laid the foundation for further growth by according to schedule. With an annual capacity of up to 100,000 tons, making new and selective investments in Brazil, India, China and the new facility is expected to start production in the first quarter of Singapore in particular. 2013. This new capacity will enable us to meet the steady mediumand long-term growth in demand for butyl rubber for tires, particularly An overview of our ongoing investment projects in the BRICS countries from the BRICS countries. Costing some €400 million, this is the is given in the “Operational opportunities” section of this report on largest single investment project in the history of LANXESS. risks and opportunities. In addition, we expanded the capacity of the Butyl Rubber business Strengthening the Group through acquisitions We are not planning unit in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, by approximately 14,000 tons per year. to make any fundamental changes to our corporate structure and We finished this expansion in the fourth quarter of last year, ahead business policy in the coming years. However, strengthening our segof the originally scheduled completion date of mid-2012. The total ments through selective acquisitions will remain a fixed element of investment was €20 million. our strategy. We expect these two investments in the Butyl Rubber business unit Focused research and development activities We intend for own custo contribute around €330 million to annual sales. tomerand market-oriented innovations to continue playing a large role in generating organic growth and cementing our competitive positions In the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, LANXESS is as a premium supplier. Process and product innovations will remain planning to build a new production facility for high-performance neothe focus of our research and development activities. dymium polybutadiene rubber (Nd-PBR), also in Singapore. Investment in the new plant on Jurong Island will total around €200 million. The facility, which is due to come on stream in the first half of 2015, will be the largest of its kind in the world, with an annual capacity of 140,000 tons. Construction is scheduled to begin in September 2012. Group Management Report 117 Report on risks and opportunities In the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, we are also The Semi-Crystalline Products business unit successfully completed adding about 35,000 tons to annual capacities for Nd-PBR at our sites the expansion of its production capacities for caprolactam and KA oil in in Dormagen, Germany, and Cabo, Brazil. The additional expansion Antwerp, Belgium, in 2011. Caprolactam is an important precursor in of 15,000 tons per year in Orange, United States, was successfully the manufacture of our high-tech plastics. This investment will secure completed in 2011. The total investment in these projects is about our backward integration, giving us a competitive edge in this market. €20 million. We expect to generate additional annual sales of around €70 million from these expanded capacities. Advanced Intermediates segment LANXESS is making investments in the Advanced Intermediates segment to strengthen its ability to Together with Taiwan-based TSRC Corporation, the Technical Rubber benefit from the agriculture megatrend, but also to participate in other Products business unit is building a new facility for technical rubber megatrends. (NBR) in Nantong, China. With an annual capacity of around 30,000 tons, this facility is due to come on stream in the first half of 2012. It The Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit commissioned will serve the automotive industry in particular and enable us to bena new formalin production facility at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site at the efit from the mobility megatrend in one of the most important growth end of 2011, which means it is no longer dependent on buying in markets. The two companies are jointly investing a total of around this feedstock. This will also generate substantial cost advantages. €36 million (equivalent to around US$50 million) in the new facility. Formalin, which is used in the production of trimethylolpropane, can be found in many products for the automotive, furniture and conAdditionally, our Technical Rubber Products business unit is boosting struction industries. The new plant has an annual capacity of about production capacities for some of its special elastomers like EVM in 150,000 tons. Dormagen, Germany, and adding 40% to capacities for hydrogenated acrylonitrile butadiene rubber (HNBR) at the sites in Leverkusen, Another highlight for our Advanced Industrial Intermediates business Germany, and Orange, United States. A high-performance synthetic unit last year was the start of construction on an enlargement of our rubber, HNBR is marketed under the brand name Therban®. The menthol plant at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site. Given the significant expansion projects in Germany and the United States have already global demand for menthol, we plan to double this plant’s capacity. begun. The work in Leverkusen is expected to be finished in April The project is expected to be completed in the first half of 2012. 2012, while the measures in Orange are scheduled for completion in December 2012. Performance Chemicals segment LANXESS is also making selective investments in the Performance Chemicals segment, primarily with We were quick to respond to the increase in demand for products from the goal of participating in the growth generated by the water and the Semi-Crystalline Products business unit – due mainly to the trend urbanization megatrends. toward lightweight construction in vehicle production – by investing in the expansion of our capacities in the BRICS countries and building Last year, we completed important projects for the Ion Exchange up our presence in these important growth regions. After completing Resins business unit, whose ion exchange resins are used to purify the expansion at our production facility for high-tech plastics in Wuxi, and treat water, and will press ahead with ongoing projects this year. China, in 2011, which has raised production by around 20,000 tons per year to a total of approximately 60,000 tons, we are building adAt our Bitterfeld site, for example, we inaugurated a new plant for ditional new plants for the production of high-tech plastics in Jhagadia, innovative water treatment technology. Membrane technology compleIndia; Gastonia, United States; and Porto Feliz, Brazil. The new facilities ments the filtration process using ion exchange resins. On the basis in the United States and India will be commissioned in 2012. The of this technology, which is new for LANXESS, we will be accessing start-up of production in Brazil is set for 2013. All the new facilities an application with an estimated global market volume of around will have an initial annual capacity of about 20,000 tons. €1 billion. Following a successful pilot and development phase, membrane filtration technology will be available to the market in the course of this year. The total investment in the new plant comes to around €30 million. 118 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 In the Leather business unit we began construction of a new leather In the Performance Chemicals segment, we believe demand from chemicals facility in Changzhou, China. This plant will have an annual the construction industry will rebound on the whole, following the capacity of up to 50,000 tons and is scheduled to start up in the first weak trend that dominated the second half of last year. We anticipate half of 2013, producing LANXESS’s premium leather chemicals for continued stable demand from the automotive industry for the Rubthe growing Chinese market. These chemicals are used for various ber Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units. In this respect, the applications like leather tanning, dyeing and finishing. The investment Rhein Chemie business unit will also benefit from the acquisition of volume for the new plant totals around €30 million. the Darmex group. In the Ion Exchange Resins business unit, the focus of our activities for the water megatrend, we stand to benefit this year Expected results of operations LANXESS has defined clear mediumfrom the strong demand for ion exchangers and the market launch term targets for future earnings performance. We aim to increase of our membrane technology. the Group’s key controlling parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, to €1.4 billion in fiscal 2015. Expected cost development Despite the increasingly difficult economic conditions we may face, LANXESS expects its business to continue to Given the heightened macroeconomic uncertainty related to the Eurodevelop favorably in 2012 and is not planning any further extensive pean financial crisis, our ability to make concrete earnings projections cost-cutting programs for 2012 or 2013 at this time. In the course for the current year is limited. However, we believe that our key earnof the last few years, against the backdrop of the global economic ings parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, will continue to increase in and financial crisis, we have further flexibilized our cost base and, if the coming years and that achievement of our medium-term EBITDA necessary, are able to adapt our costs to the economic environment target of €1.4 billion is realistic. at an early stage. For the Performance Polymers segment, we expect the solid demand We believe that our cost base will be higher in 2012 than in 2011, for tires to continue in 2012. Europe’s new tire labeling law, which mainly as a result of the pending collective bargaining agreement and enters into force in November 2012, will support this trend. Thanks to the associated increase in salaries. the early completion of expansion projects at our butyl rubber facility in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, we will have additional capacities from the On the whole, we expect volatility in raw material prices in 2012. As beginning of 2012 to meet this demand. We will support this segin previous years, we will seek to pass on rising costs to the market ment’s growth with the completion of other expansion projects as by raising our product prices. Since some raw material prices are described in this Group Management Report. In our Technical Rubextremely volatile, we are very limited in our ability to make a mediumber Products business unit, we will continue to benefit this year from term forecast for our raw material costs. However, we are generally the successful integration of the Keltan EPDM business we acquired assuming that the trend toward higher procurement costs, particularly in May 2011. Because of the ongoing trend to substantially reduce for petrochemical raw materials, could continue beyond 2012. We also vehicle weight, we see further growth opportunities for our high-tech anticipate sustained increases in energy prices in the coming years. plastics. Looking at raw material cost trends, we expect moderate increases in raw material prices in the first half of the year, which we We project depreciation and amortization of between €330 and will offset by raising the prices of our products. €350 million in fiscal 2012. In the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect good demand Possible exchange rate fluctuations may also impact earnings. We overall for our products for agrochemicals in 2012. As mentioned, we have already entered into hedging transactions to ward off the effects will be realigning our portfolio for the pharmaceutical industry this year. of such developments in the current year as well as 2013. We estimate that the effective tax rate for the LANXESS Group in 2012 will be around 22.0%, which would be a slight reduction on last year’s rate of 22.6%. Group Management Report 119 Report on risks and opportunities Expected financial condition Summary of Group’s projected performance In recent years, the LANXESS Group has successfully positioned itself and its product Liquidity situation LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking portfolio in key customer industries and established itself in the world’s and conservative financial policy in the future. With more than €2.3 bilgrowth regions. It will strengthen this position further in the coming lion in cash and undrawn credit lines, as described in the section on years. our financial condition, we have a very good liquidity and financing position which will enable us to continue funding our growth strategy. We have set a clear medium-term earnings target for future performance. We aim to raise the Group’s key controlling parameter, EBITDA Capital expenditures We will continue to pursue our selective investpre exceptionals, to €1.4 billion in fiscal 2015. In order to achieve this ment and growth strategy in fiscal 2012. Around 70% of cash outflows objective, we have defined clear growth opportunities arising from the for capital expenditures will relate to the expansion of existing plants or four megatrends of mobility, urbanization, water supply and agriculture, the construction of new production facilities. The remaining 30% will and adapted our strategic alignment accordingly. be used for the maintenance of existing LANXESS production facilities. The investments in future organic growth that we have already sucWe are currently projecting cash outflows for capital expenditures cessfully completed and those we have initiated will contribute subof about €600 million for 2012. Some €100 million of this amount stantially to the earnings target we have defined. Moreover, we will will be attributable to the investment in our new butyl rubber plant in generate additional growth from recent acquisitions, our successful Singapore. In the second half of 2012, we will be starting construction price-before-volume strategy, the focus on premium products, and of the new facility for high-performance Nd-PBR, also in Singapore. The product and process innovations. investment volume in 2012 for this project will be about €35 million. There are certain factors that can influence LANXESS’s future busiFinancing measures The financing for the planned capital expenditures ness performance. The principal company-specific factors include the and the expected dividend payment is ensured by future cash flows, development of raw material and energy costs. We expect these costs available liquidity and existing lines of credit. LANXESS is in a strong to be largely volatile in 2012 and are preparing for the possibility that position due to the consistent realignment implemented in recent this trend may continue thereafter. As in previous years, we will seek years, the investment in new and more efficient production processes to pass on rising costs to the market by raising our product prices. and the long-term nature of its financing. On account of the extensive measures we have adopted to date to improve our financial position, We expect the U.S. dollar, the key currency for LANXESS’s business, there is no significant need for refinancing this year. This also applies to weaken slightly from the exchange rate of US$1.29 to the euro on to the Euro Benchmark Bond that we issued in 2005 and will redeem December 31, 2011. later this year for €402 million. In addition, LANXESS will continue its efforts to secure long-term funding as part of a conservative financing Overall, LANXESS has started 2012 optimistically. We envisage a policy by further diversifying its financing sources and implementing solid business performance in our three segments this year, despite forward-looking financing measures. growing economic uncertainty and more cautious customer behavior. Our key customer industries will also continue to develop positively, Dividend policy LANXESS will continue to follow a consistent dividend though with regional variations. We are extremely well-positioned in policy in principle. As in the past, future dividend proposals will take all our segments worldwide to benefit from this growth again this year. into account the business performance of the relevant fiscal year, the Group’s financing goals and development trends in the new fiscal year. Against this backdrop, we are confident overall for 2012 and the following year. We therefore remain well on our way to achieving our medium-term target EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.4 billion in fiscal 2015. 120 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Corporate shall be compensated. The Supervisory Board does not consider it appropriate to base the absolute amount of any severance payGovernance ment on the date of termination. 2. Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2 Members of the Management Board of a listed company shall not accept more than a total of three Supervisory Board mandates in non-group listed companies or in the supervisory bodies of companies with comparable requirements. In this section, the Board of Management reports – also on behalf of the Supervisory Board – on corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Supervisory Board member Robert J. Koehler, Chairman of the Section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. This section Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, is a member of the sualso contains the corporate governance statement pursuant to Section pervisory boards of three listed companies outside the SGL Group 289a of the German Commercial Code and the compensation report. and holds one supervisory board mandate in a non-listed company with comparable requirements. However, we do not believe that this detracts from Mr. Koehler’s ability to diligently perform his duties Corporate governance statement as a member of the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board. Declaration by the Board of Management and the In addition to its recommendations, the Code also contains a number Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG pursuant to Section of suggestions for efficient, responsible corporate governance, compli161 of the German Stock Corporation Act regarding ance with which is not required to be disclosed under the statutory the German Corporate Governance Code provisions. LANXESS currently complies with these suggestions as well, with only a few exceptions. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate In accordance with Section 3.10 Sentence 3 of the German Corporate governance and control. They place high value on the standards of Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory good corporate governance. The Board of Management and SuperBoard therefore voluntarily issue the following declaration: visory Board have issued the following joint declaration pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act: Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance in March 2011, LANXESS AG has complied with, and will continue to comply “Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance in March with, the suggestions of the Government Commission on the German 2011, LANXESS AG has complied with, and will continue to comply Corporate Governance Code as amended on May 26, 2010, which with, the recommendations of the Government Commission on the was published on July 2, 2010 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in German Corporate Governance Code as amended on May 26, 2010, the official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, which was published on July 2, 2010 by the Federal Ministry of Justice with the following exceptions: in the official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, with the following exceptions: 1. Section 2.3.3, Sentence 3, 2nd Half-Sentence The Management Board shall arrange for the appointment of a 1. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1 representative to exercise shareholders’ voting rights in accordance In concluding Management Board contracts, care shall be taken with instructions; this representative should also be reachable durto ensure that payments made to a Management Board member ing the General Meeting. on premature termination of his contract without serious cause, including fringe benefits, do not exceed the value of two years’ The representatives appointed by LANXESS AG to exercise compensation (severance pay cap) and compensate no more than stockholders’ voting rights in accordance with instructions can the remaining term of the contract. be reached at the Stockholders’ Meeting until the voting is held. Stockholders not attending the meeting can reach the representaThe employment contracts for Board of Management members tives up to the previous evening. limit payments to a Board of Management member on premature termination of his contract without serious cause, including 2. Section 2.3.4 fringe benefits, to two years’ compensation, except in the event of The company should make it possible for stockholders to follow a change of control. However, they do not contain the additional the General Meeting using modern communication media (e.g. limitation that no more than the remaining term of the contract Internet). Corporate Governance 121 1210 The speech by the Chairman of the Board of Management to the the Responsible Care® Global Charter adopted by the International Stockholders’ Meeting is broadcast on the Internet. Continued Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) since 2006. Additional broadcasting of the proceedings thereafter, particularly of contriinformation can be found on our website (http://www.lanxess.com) butions made by stockholders, could be seen as a violation of the under Sustainability/Responsibility. stockholders’ rights to privacy. For this reason, LANXESS does not plan to broadcast the further proceedings.” Work of the Board of Management Shareholders can download the declaration of compliance from the and Supervisory Board company’s website at any time. LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of Germany. One of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law Management practices above and beyond is the dual management system with the governing bodies of manthe legal requirements agement board and supervisory board. This system is characterized by a clear separation between the management board as the body LANXESS views compliance with laws and ethical principles as the that manages a company and the supervisory board as the body that basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our employees’ integrity advises and oversees management. Concurrent membership on both and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success boards is strictly prohibited. The management board and the superof our company. Compliance with laws, social responsibility, sustainvisory board work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for able environmental protection, and occupational, plant and product the benefit of the company. safety are an essential part of our corporate culture. The Code for Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which The management board is appointed to manage and represent the is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards company. It is responsible for conducting business in the company’s and gives employees advice and guidance on complying with these interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The principal standards. This code can be viewed on our website at http://www. tasks of the management board include defining the company’s goals lanxess.com under the menu item About LANXESS/Values & Visions. and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing the operating units, human resources policy, arranging the company’s financing, An effective compliance management system has been established and establishing an effective risk management system. The Board of to implement the compliance code. Components of this system are a Management of LANXESS AG currently comprises four members, compliance organization that is integrated into the overall LANXESS with the Chairman coordinating the work of the Board of ManageGroup organization, risk identification and assessment, a compliance ment. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with program (comprising directives, hotlines, training, knowledge shara simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting ing, compliance reporting and guidance on responding to observed vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed breaches of compliance), and measures for monitoring the overall at regularly held meetings. compliance situation within the LANXESS Group. The objective is to prevent breaches of compliance and to create and foster a culture The rules of procedure for the Board of Management that are enacted of compliance. LANXESS does not tolerate breaches of compliance by the Supervisory Board contain further regulations concerning the and enforces observance of the provisions of its compliance code. form of cooperation within the Board of Management, the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resolution by the full Board of ManAs an international specialty chemicals enterprise, LANXESS bears agement. In deciding the composition of the Board of Management, a large degree of responsibility toward people and the environment. the Supervisory Board gives consideration to professional suitability, Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility. Safety, leadership qualities and diversity. environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and economic efficiency are all key corporate goals at LANXESS. The company’s The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Management objective is sustainable, forward-looking development which meets in its management of the company and to monitor its conduct of the the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. business. Its responsibilities also include appointing the members of The concept of Responsible Care® is firmly anchored in the LANXESS the Board of Management as well as reviewing the annual financial organization, requiring all employees to act responsibly when dealing statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements with people, the environment and capital. An overview of the impleof the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory Board reaches its decisions mentation of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can be downloaded with a majority of the votes cast unless a different majority is stipulated from the Sustainability pages of our website (http://www.lanxess.com). by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has Additionally, LANXESS joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative in July 2011 and has supported and consistently applied 122 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 two votes in a second ballot on the resolution, even if this also results Goals for the composition of the Supervisory Board in a tie. The German Codetermination Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board Section 5.4.1 Sentence 5 of the German Corporate Governance Code coordinates the work in the Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board regarding and represents the concerns of the body externally. Supervisory Board its composition and the status of the implementation of these objectives resolutions are usually adopted at regularly held meetings. are to be published in the Corporate Governance Report The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on a The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG possess the timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and necessary expertise, skills and professional experience to perform the situation of the Group, including potential risks and relevant issues their duties. The members of the Supervisory Board autonomously relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Board has laid down undertake the necessary training required for their tasks and are supthe Board of Management’s notification and reporting requirements ported in their efforts by the company. In making nominations, the in detail in its rules of procedure for the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board applies only legally permissible and fair selection Chairman of the Board of Management regularly exchanges information criteria, acts in the company’s best interests, and gives consideration to with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Certain transactions and the nominated candidates’ integrity, commitment and independence. measures of major or long-term importance require the Supervisory Board’s approval. Measures requiring approval include, but are not All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent. There limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; the acquisition, sale are no material conflicts of interest, and no former member of the Board or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings or other assets; borof Management of LANXESS AG is a member of the Supervisory Board. rowings and certain other types of financial transactions. Thresholds An age threshold for members of the Supervisory Board was specified have been set for some of these transactions. in the rules of procedure of the Supervisory Board when the company was established. The rules of procedure have been amended and now state that members of the Supervisory Board should not serve Composition of the Supervisory Board past the end of the first Annual Stockholders’ Meeting following their seventy-fifth birthday. The company’s Supervisory Board is composed of equal numbers of stockholder representatives and employee representatives in acIn general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the principles cordance with the provisions of the German Codetermination Act of of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their various personal 1976. The stockholder representatives are elected by the Annual and professional backgrounds, the members of the Supervisory Board Stockholders’ Meeting, whereas the employee representatives are contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach elected in accordance with the provisions of the Codetermination Act of LANXESS AG has been reflected in the composition of the Superand its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board members normally visory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates serve for a five-year term. to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the The composition of the Supervisory Board changed during fiscal 2011. members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working Employee representative Wolfgang Blossey stepped down from the abroad for a long period or in an international field. One member of Supervisory Board effective May 31, 2011 for professional reasons. the Supervisory Board is not a German citizen. Other members of the The Local Court of Cologne appointed Thomas Meiers, District SecSupervisory Board have professional knowledge of the chemical indusretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, try and other sectors that are important for the company’s business. Cologne, to serve as an employee representative on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG with effect from June 1, 2011. Gisela Seidel, With the election of stockholder and employee representatives in Axel Berndt, Dr. Rudolf Fauss, Ulrich Freese, Thomas Meiers and Hansfiscal 2010, the composition of the Supervisory Board is essentially Jürgen Schicker serve as the employee representatives on the Superfixed for the current term ending in 2015. One of the twelve members visory Board. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG held currently serving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board is a woman. on May 28, 2010, elected Dr. Friedrich Janssen, Robert J. Koehler, With a view to ensuring appropriate representation of women, the Rainer Laufs, Dr. Ulrich Middelmann, Dr. Rolf Stomberg and Theo number of women on the Supervisory Board is to be increased. The H. Walthie as the stockholder representatives to the company’s SuSupervisory Board aims to have at least three women members of pervisory Board. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Rolf the Supervisory Board from the start of the next term. Stockholder Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ulrich Freese. and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board view it as their joint responsibility to ensure the appropriate representation of women. They aim to work together in fulfilling this responsibility. Future Corporate Governance 1230 123 nominations to the relevant bodies of candidates for membership of The Committee pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codeterthe Supervisory Board should support the attainment of this goal. mination Act performs the tasks described in Section 31 (3) of the In setting this goal, the Supervisory Board is assuming that it will be German Codetermination Act. The members of this committee are able to identify women candidates with the requisite professional and Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Mr. Schicker and Dr. Middelmann. personal qualifications for election. The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory Board to Composition and work of the Supervisory Board nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by committees the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members of this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Dr. Janssen and Dr. Middelmann. The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German CodeThe respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory termination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from among Board on the work of the committees. its members. The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meetStockholders and stockholders’ meetings ings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Annual company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also reStockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submitsolve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32 ted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on all matters reserved of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the approval that cannot be deferred. It consults regularly about long-term company. Each share confers one vote. succession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, the Committee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include Supervisory Board and resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regardappropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the actions taken ing the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory place of the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves Board, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder on the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders’ the members of the Board of Management and all other contractual Meeting also resolves on amendments to the articles of association, matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the Presidial measures affecting the company’s capital and the approval of interCommittee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Seidel, company agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’ Mr. Schicker, Mr. Koehler and Dr. Middelmann. Meeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board give an account of the last fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in overseeing the Act requires the convening of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting conduct of the business and deals with matters relating to the superin certain situations. vision of accounting, the effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk management system and the internal auditing system as well All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the work adthe Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise their voting rights shall ditionally performed by the auditor. It prepares the Supervisory Board’s be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockresolutions concerning the annual financial statements of LANXESS holders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders’ AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through and recommends an auditor whom the Supervisory Board then proa company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions. poses to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for appointment. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge and experience in the field of accountCompensation report ing acquired through his professional activities. The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen (Chairman), Mr. Berndt, Dr. Fauss, The compensation report describes the structure of the compensaMr. Meiers, Mr. Laufs and Mr. Walthie. tion system and the level of compensation for the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. It complies with legal requirements and with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. It is a part of the Group Management Report of LANXESS AG. 124 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Compensation of the Board of Management The annual performance-based component, known as the Annual Performance Payment (APP), is based on corporate business targets The structure of the compensation system and the level of compensaand other conditions, such as the attainment of certain Group EBITDA tion for the members of the Board of Management are determined by targets, which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginthe Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the compensation is ning of the respective fiscal year. The APP is equivalent to 115% of regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriateness the annual base salary in the case of 100% target attainment, with of the compensation for an individual Board of Management member the maximum payment limited to 150% of this variable compensation include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, and the component. Compensation from the performance-based APP in 2011 economic situation and sustainable growth of the LANXESS Group. totaled €3,951 thousand. Actual payments in 2012 may differ from Consideration is also given to the company’s overall compensation this amount, which was calculated in advance. structure and to compensation at comparable companies. The compensation structure is also designed to be competitive in the internaThe following table shows details of the annual compensation paid tional market for highly qualified executives and provide the motivation to individual members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG: to successfully work toward sustainable corporate development. Annual Compensation of the Board of Management Back in 2010, a new contractual basis was established for the work of € ’000 Fixed Variable Total the Board of Management that takes into account and implements the compensation compensation1) provisions of the German Law on the Appropriateness of Management Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 943 1,423 2,366 Board Compensation and the German Corporate Governance Code. Dr. Werner Breuers 547 862 1,409 Dr. Bernhard Düttmann The 2010 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG resolved to (effective April 1, 2011) 569 2) 646 1,215 approve the compensation system that was introduced with these new Dr. Rainier van Roessel 538 862 1,400 contracts. This compensation system was also applied in concluding Matthias Zachert the service contract with Dr. Bernhard Düttmann, who was appointed (until March 31, 2011) 150 158 308 to the Board of Management effective April 1, 2011. 2,747 3,951 6,698 1) Payment in 2012; in the case of Mr. Zachert, settlement at the end of his service in 2011 2) Including one-time payments In 2011, in addition to the annual base salary, the compensation of the members of the Board of Management included three variable components aligned with LANXESS’s annual performance and, In March 2011, on account of the company’s exceptional performance particularly, with its corporate success over a number of years. A cap in fiscal 2010, the Supervisory Board approved the payment of a spehas been defined for each of the variable compensation components. cial bonus to Dr. Heitmann, Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel equal to The compensation mix of 31% annual base salary and 69% variable 20% of APP target income. This bonus amounted to €190 thousand compensation components is strongly aligned with the company’s for Dr. Heitmann and €109 thousand each for Dr. Breuers and Dr. van performance and long-term value creation. Roessel. Mr. Zachert received a total of €1,320 thousand in connection with the end of his service on the Board of Management, part of Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management which was in settlement of his entitlement to variable compensation % components. Annual base salary 31 Annual Performance Payment 36 One element of long-term compensation is the Long-Term Incentive Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 19 Long-Term Performance Bonus 14 Plan (LTIP), which was succeeded in 2010 by the Long-Term Stock 100 Performance Plan (LTSP). This compensation component is based on the performance of LANXESS stock. The LTIP and LTSP respond to the call by legislators for a stronger focus on long-term company The individual compensation components are as follows: performance. The LTIP is divided into three three-year tranches. For the first program, which was for the period from 2005 to 2007 and The fixed compensation comprises the annual base salary and remuended in 2011, it comprised the Stock Performance Plan (SP) and neration in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the tax value of perquithe Economic Value Plan (EVP), while for the period from 2008 to sites such as the use of a company car. The annual base salary of the 2010 it consisted only of the SP. This is linked to the performance members of the Board of Management is market-oriented and in line of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones STOXX with that paid at other comparable companies. The aggregate amount 600 ChemicalsSM. of the fixed compensation came to €2,747 thousand in fiscal 2011. Corporate Governance 125 1250 Participation in the LTIP required a prior personal investment each The following table provides additional information about the longyear in LANXESS shares to a value of 13% of the annual base salary. term compensation paid: Under each plan, these shares were subject to a five-year lock-up period. First payments under the LTIP were made after three years, Long-Term Compensation of the Board of Management provided defined conditions had been satisfied. In the event of 100% SP rights granted in 2011 LTPB 1) target attainment by the SP and EVP for 2005 to 2007, the payment (exercisable from 2015) per tranche was 43.3% of the individual target income, which is the Number Fair values € ’000 annual base salary plus the APP assuming 100% target attainment. of rights € ’000 For 2008 to 2010, 100% target attainment by the SP brings a payDr. Axel C. Heitmann 532,125 266 556 ment per tranche of 50% of the individual target income. Dr. Werner Breuers 306,375 153 336 Dr. Bernhard Düttmann (effective April 1, 2011) 322,500 161 126 Because the LTIP expired in 2010, the Supervisory Board approved Dr. Rainier van Roessel 306,375 153 336 a new plan for the years 2010 through 2013. The LTSP is divided Matthias Zachert into four four-year tranches and is also based on the performance of (until March 31, 2011) 354,750 177 0 1,822,125 910 1,354 LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM 1) Payment in 2012 and 2013, respectively reference index. Compared to the previous LTIP, the possible payment per tranche under the new plan has been reduced from 50% to 30% of the individual target income, assuming 100% target attainment. The On termination of their service contracts, the members of the Board condition for participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment of Management receive benefits under the company pension plan. each year in LANXESS shares to a value of 5% of the annual base These benefits are paid when the beneficiary reaches age 60 or if the salary. The shares are subject to an average five-year lock-up period. beneficiary is permanently unable to work. They are paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s death. For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters applied, please see Note [14] to the Financial Statements. The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution of 25% of The personnel expenses incurred in fiscal 2011 for the SP entitlements annual base salary. Moreover, the members of the Board of Managegranted amount to €816 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, €559 thoument must themselves pay an amount from deferred compensation sand each for Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel, and €20 thousand amounting to 12.5% of the APP. Effective January 1, 2011, the memfor Dr. Düttmann. These personnel expenses are theoretical amounts bers of the Board of Management may increase the amount they pay and are not to be equated with the actual gains realized when the themselves from deferred compensation to up to 25% of the APP. The entitlements are exercised in the future. The entitlements granted to company makes a contribution equal to 25% of the APP. From the date Mr. Zachert lapsed when he stepped down from the Board of Manageof entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capital – including the ment. This resulted in income of €1,020 thousand. interest thereon – may be converted to a pension benefit. There are claims arising from provisions in place before 2006 that are granted Also in the interests of long-term corporate performance, a Long-Term as vested rights. If the service contract ends before the beneficiary Performance Bonus (LTPB) is a further variable compensation comporeaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional benefits nent which rewards target attainment only after two successive fiscal up to a defined ceiling. years. It was first pledged to the members of the Board of Management in 2010. The basis for calculating the LTPB is the individual APP LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of Board of target attainment for the fiscal years in question. The exact amount of Management members. The total service cost recognized in the 2011 the LTPB results from the average individual APP target attainment for annual financial statements for this purpose was €918 thousand. The the two fiscal years. Assuming an average APP target attainment of present value of the obligations for the members of the Board of Man100%, the LTPB amounts to 45% of the annual base salary. The first agement serving as of December 31, 2011 was €13,166 thousand. payments could be made in spring 2012 on the basis of fiscal 2010 The past service cost resulting from the plan changes that became and 2011. Actual payments in 2012 may differ from this amount, effective on January 1, 2011 totaled €860 thousand. which was calculated in advance. The service cost for pension entitlements earned in 2011 and the present value of the obligations, including vested rights, as of December 31, 2011 amounted, respectively, to €184 thousand and €8,148 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, €156 thousand and €1,314 thou126 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 sand for Dr. Breuers, €68 thousand and €3,232 thousand for Dr. van who chair a committee other than the Audit Committee receive a Roessel, €413 thousand and €472 thousand for Dr. Düttmann, and further quarter. However, no member may receive in total more than €97 thousand and €2,040 thousand for Mr. Zachert. The past service three times the fixed compensation amount. cost resulting from plan changes was €767 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, €520 thousand for Dr. van Roessel and minus €427 thousand for Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in Mr. Zachert. addition and also receive an attendance allowance of €1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board meeting and each committee meeting Obligations to former members of the Board of Management, including they attend, with the exception of meetings of the Committee formed Mr. Zachert, who stepped down during the year under review, totaled pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codetermination Act and €9,478 thousand as of December 31, 2011. meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their membership on the supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the Payments of €1,799 thousand were made to former members of members of the Supervisory Board were remunerated only for their the Board of Management. These include the payments made to service on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Mr. Zachert in connection with the end of his service in 2011. in the amount of €5 thousand each. In fiscal 2011, the members of the Board of Management received The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive indemnification should their service contracts be terminated for debased on the company’s performance during the standard term of an fined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of a individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five years). Unlike material change of control over the company. The terms depended on the fixed compensation component, this variable compensation comthe respective circumstances and, regardless of the remaining term ponent is not paid every year, but only once at the end of the standard of the service contract, included severance payments amounting to term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change of the amount is prorated. control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB assuming 100% target achievement. Payment of the variable compensation depends on how LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM inNo additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the Board dex during a member’s five-year term. The average price of LANXESS of Management in the event of termination of their service. In 2011, no stock and the average level of the index during the 90 trading days member of the Board of Management received benefits or assurances prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Supervisory of benefits from third parties in respect of their duties as members of Board members were elected are each compared to the respective the Board of Management. average for the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at the conclusion of which the members’ terms end. The No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in variable compensation is only payable if the stock has outperformed fiscal 2011. the benchmark index. The exact amount of the variable compensation depends on the extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock Compensation of the Supervisory Board has outperformed the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to 10 percentage points, the variable compensation amounts to The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by Sec€50 thousand for this five-year period; if it has outperformed the tion 12 of the company’s articles of association. From fiscal 2011, index by between 10 and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is it was changed in respect of the fixed remuneration and attendance paid, and if the degree of outperformance is greater than this, the allowance following a resolution of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting compensation is €150 thousand. held on May 18, 2011. The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG now receive fixed compensation of €80 thousand per No variable compensation was paid in fiscal 2011. year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this amount. Serving as the The expected compensation payable for the term of office that began chair or a member of Supervisory Board committees is compensated with the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, separately in accordance with the German Corporate Governance 2010 and runs until the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ MeetCode. Supervisory Board members who belong to a committee receive ing that resolves to ratify the Supervisory Board members’ actions for one half of the fixed compensation amount in addition. The chair of the fiscal 2014 was valued at a total of €1,500 thousand (previous year: Audit Committee receives a further half. Supervisory Board members €1,500 thousand) at December 31, 2011 and reported as a provision. Corporate Governance 127 1270 None of the members of the Supervisory Board received benefits for services provided individually during the reporting period. No loans or advances were granted to members of the Supervisory Board during the reporting year. The following table breaks down the compensation received by each member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2011: Compensation of the Supervisory Board in the 2011 Fiscal Year1) € Fixed Compensation Attendance Fixed Total compensation as committee allowance compensation LANXESS AG member LANXESS LANXESS AG Deutschland GmbH Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Chairman 240,000 0 21,000 5,000 266,000 Ulrich Freese, Vice Chairman 120,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 186,000 Axel Berndt 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Wolfgang Blossey (until May 31, 2011) 33,333 16,667 7,500 2,083 59,583 Dr. Rudolf Fauss 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 80,000 80,000 18,000 5,000 183,000 Robert J. Koehler 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Rainer Laufs 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Thomas Meiers (effective June 1, 2011) 46,667 23,333 7,500 2,917 80,417 Dr. Ulrich Middelmann 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Hans-Jürgen Schicker 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Gisela Seidel 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 Theo H. Walthie 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 1,160,000 480,000 231,000 60,000 1,931,000 1) Figures exclude value-added tax Directors’ dealings Pursuant to Section 15a (1) of the German Securities Trading Act The table below shows the total number of LANXESS shares held by (WpHG), the trading of securities by certain parties, including memmembers of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of bers of a management board or supervisory board, must be reported February 29, 2012: if the total sum of the transactions undertaken in any given calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Individuals who are closely related Function Name Total number to these parties (e.g. spouses, registered partners and first-degree Chairman of the Board of Management Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 23,220 relatives) are also subject to this reporting requirement. LANXESS AG Board of Management member Dr. Werner Breuers 10,880 publishes reportable securities transactions. Board of Management member Dr. Bernhard Düttmann 1,150 Board of Management member Dr. Rainier van Roessel 16,500 Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr. Rolf Stomberg 800 Supervisory Board member Dr. Rudolf Fauss 335 Supervisory Board member Theo H. Walthie 2,000 The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of February 29, 2012 was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company. 128 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Offices held by Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2011) Member of External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group the Board of Management Dr. Axel C. • Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry • Chairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Heitmann Association (VCI) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. • Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business (APA) • Member of the Board of Trustees of Konvent für Deutschland e.V. • Member of the Board of Trustees of the North Rhine-Westphalia chapter of Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft • Member of the Advisory Board of Goethe-Institut e.V. • Member of the Association of Friends of Philharmonie KölnMusik e.V. Dr. Werner • Member of the Supervisory Board of Currenta • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Breuers Geschäftsführungs-GmbH • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH • Member of the Board of Trustees of the VCI’s • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aliseca GmbH Chemical Industry Fund • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. • Member of the Board of Trustees of the DWI • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS International S.A. of RWTH Aachen University • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd. • Member of the German Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations • Member of the Advisory Board of the Association for Chemistry & Economics (VCW) Dr. Bernhard • Member of the Supervisory Board of Gesellschaft • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Düttmann für Kommunikation SE (GfK), Nuremberg • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI) • Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Unternehmensführung e.V. (GEFIU) Dr. Rainier • Member of the Board of the VCI Regional Association in • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH van Roessel North Rhine-Westphalia • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. • Member of the VCI Trade Policy Committee • Executive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. • Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH German Association for Personnel Management (DGFP) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Holding Hispania S.L. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemicals S.L. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. • Chairman of the Governing Board of LANXESS Srl. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. Matthias Zachert • Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI) 1) (stepped down from • Member of the Advisory Board of Institut für the Board of ManUnternehmensplanung (IUP) 1) agement effective • Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft March 31, 2011) in der Unternehmensführung e.V. (GEFIU) 1) 1) The offices listed for Mr. Zachert are those he held as of the date he stepped down. LANXESS AG Supervisory Board a) Members of the Supervisory Board Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman) Ulrich Freese (Vice Chairman) • Former Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division of • Vice Chairman of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K. Hannover • Former member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., Further offices: London, U.K. • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Further offices: • Vattenfall Europe Mining AG, Cottbus* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* (Chairman) • Vattenfall Europe Generation AG, Cottbus* • Biesterfeld AG, Hamburg* • Vattenfall Europa AG, Berlin* • HOYER GmbH, Hamburg • 50Hertz Transmission GmbH, Berlin* • KEMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg • DMT GmbH, Essen* • Smith & Nephew plc, London, U.K. • Evonik Wohnen GmbH, Essen • OAO Severstal, Cherepovets, Russia • Evonik Immobilien GmbH, Essen • Ruspetro plc, London, U.K. • GSB – Gesellschaft zur Sicherung von Bergmannswohnungen mbH, Essen • GSG Wohnungsbau Braunkohle GmbH, Cologne * Statutory supervisory boards Corporate Governance 1290 129 Axel Berndt Thomas Meiers Member of the Works Council at the Leverkusen site District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Further offices: Cologne • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Further offices: • Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne* • Sasol Germany GmbH, Hamburg* (until November 30, 2011) Dr. Rudolf Fauss • Head of Central Functions in the HR Services Germany Group Function • Chairman of the LANXESS AG Group Managerial Employees’ Committee Dr. Ulrich Middelmann • Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee Further offices: Former Vice Chairman of the Executive Board of ThyssenKrupp AG, Duisburg/Essen • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn* • Commerzbank AG, Frankfurt am Main* Dr. Friedrich Janssen • ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG, Duisburg* (until December 31, 2011) Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen • ThyssenKrupp Materials International GmbH, Essen* (until December 31, 2011) • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • National-Bank AG, Essen* • E.ON Avacon AG, Helmstedt* Hans-Jürgen Schicker • E.ON Energy Trading SE, Düsseldorf* • E.ON Hanse AG, Quickborn* Chairman of the Works Council at the Uerdingen site • E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen* Further offices: • Stadtwerke Göttingen AG, Göttingen* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • HDI-Gerling Sach Serviceholding AG, Hannover • Thüga Assekuranz Services München Versicherungsmakler GmbH, Munich • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf Gisela Seidel Chairman of the Works Council at the Dormagen site Robert J. Koehler Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Chairman of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, Wiesbaden Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Theo H. Walthie • Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, Heidelberg* (Chairman) • Klöckner & Co. SE, Duisburg* Self-employed consultant • Demag Cranes AG, Düsseldorf* (until September 23, 2011) Further offices: • Benteler International AG, Salzburg, Austria (Chairman) • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • SGL Carbon S.p.A., Lainate, Milan, Italy • SGL Carbon SDN BHD, Banting, Malaysia • SGL Carbon S.A., La Coruña, Spain The information about offices held refers to memberships of other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies Rainer Laufs in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2011). • Self-employed consultant • Former Chairman of the Management Board of Deutsche Shell AG, Hamburg Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* b) Members of the Supervisory Board who stepped • WCM Beteiligungsund Grundbesitz AG, Frankfurt am Main* (Chairman) down in fiscal 2011 • Petrotec AG, Düsseldorf* (Chairman) • Avancos Technicas Services GmbH, Hamburg (until November 22, 2011) • BorsodChem Zrt., Kazincbarcika, Hungary (until January 31, 2011) Wolfgang Blossey (member until May 31, 2011) District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Hannover Further offices: • INEOS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne* • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne* The information about offices held refers to memberships of other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad as of the effective date of resignation. * Statutory supervisory boards 130 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Report of the Supervisory Board Dear Stockholders, about business performance, the situation of the Group, including the risk situation, strategic development and current issues. On the basis of 2011 marked another very successful year for LANXESS. The company these reports, we discussed significant business transactions in detail. achieved new sales and earnings records. Once more, the course set We thoroughly examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by in prior years proved to be the right one. The company successfully the Board of Management and discussed them at length in meetings implemented its strategy of focusing on sustainable growth and conof the full Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles sistently targeting global growth markets. The Supervisory Board would of association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to like to thank the Board of Management and all Group employees for approve the actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these their dedication and excellent work. actions and adopted resolutions on them. In 2011, as in previous years, the Supervisory Board duly and fully The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Board performed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the law of Management and the other members of the Board of Management and the articles of association. It advised the Board of Management were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings. regularly on the management of the company and monitored its work. We regularly discussed the present state and future development of the company as well as material events. The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Management informed us regularly and without delay in detailed written and oral reports Report of the Supervisory Board 131 1310 Focus of deliberations by the Supervisory Board At a second meeting in May, we approved the conclusion of a building lease in connection with the relocation of company headquarters to The Supervisory Board met a total of eight times in fiscal 2011. Cologne. We regularly discussed the sales and earnings performance of the comAt the August meeting, a considerable amount of time was devoted to pany and its segments, as well as the financial condition. Additionally, personnel issues. The Supervisory Board resolved to extend Dr. Axel C. the Board of Management kept us updated about the overall state of Heitmann’s appointment as a member and Chairman of the Board the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, the performance of Management by an additional five years starting July 1, 2012. We of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition plans. Other imporalso adopted resolutions concerning the adjustment of pension entitletant issues addressed by the Supervisory Board are presented below. ments for the members of the Board of Management and adjusted Dr. Heitmann’s base salary. Additionally, the Board of Management We examined the purchase of the material protection business of gave us a detailed report on the company’s energy concept and on Syngenta AG at a special meeting in February 2011. After detailed compliance management. Lastly, the Supervisory Board amended its review and discussion, the Supervisory Board approved the acquisition. rules of procedure. As well as making changes to the wording, the age limit for members of the Supervisory Board was raised from 72 to 75. The Supervisory Board held another special meeting in February 2011 at which it unanimously resolved to terminate Mr. Matthias Zachert’s At the meeting in November, the Board of Management’s report inservice on the Board of Management effective March 31, 2011, in cluded an overview of recruiting at LANXESS. line with Mr. Zachert’s own request. At the same time, the Supervisory Board resolved to appoint Dr. Bernhard Düttmann to serve on the Board At its December meeting, the Supervisory Board reviewed in full and of Management of LANXESS AG for a three-year term starting April 1, reached a decision on the corporate planning for 2012 as proposed 2011. The Supervisory Board thanked Mr. Zachert for his outstanding by the Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s strategic work and important contributions to the company’s successful growth. alignment and capital expenditure policy. The Board of Management reported to us on the internal control, risk management and auditing The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held in March was the systems. Lastly, we defined the targets for the Board of Management’s review of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial variable compensation components for fiscal 2012. statements for fiscal 2010, the proposal for use of the distributable profit, and preparation of the motions for resolution by the Annual All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board also dealt at length with their duties diligently and conscientiously. The Supervisory Board’s issues relating to corporate governance. The Board of Management meetings in 2011 were attended by all members, with the exception reported on the status of environmental protection and safety in the of two meetings at which one of the twelve members was absent. All company. With regard to human resources issues, the Supervisory committee meetings were attended by all members. The stockholder Board adopted the necessary resolutions concerning the attainment representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board of performance targets for variable compensation components and worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meetthe granting of a performance bonus to the members of the Board of ings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. Management. Lastly, an adjustment was made to the base salaries of Dr. Werner Breuers and Dr. Rainier van Roessel. At the meeting in May, the Supervisory Board approved the placement of a €500 million Euro Benchmark Bond under the existing Debt Issuance Program. In addition, the Board of Management reported on the company’s current innovation projects. 132 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Work of the committees Corporate governance and declaration of compliance The Supervisory Board has four committees. The membership of these The Supervisory Board discussed the further development of the committees is shown on page 123. The committees are tasked with German Corporate Governance Code (the Code) in the year under preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the review. In connection with the Code’s recommendations, we extensively full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making reviewed and defined goals for the composition of the Supervisory powers conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. Board. We also discussed the outcome of the efficiency review of the Supervisory Board’s activities. No conflicts of interest on the part of The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in partiSupervisory Board members became known last year. cular with the annual financial statements and management report of LANXESS AG for fiscal 2010, the consolidated financial statements Stockholders can download the joint declaration of compliance by and Group management report for fiscal 2010, the interim reports the Board of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to Secissued during fiscal 2011, and the condensed consolidated financial tion 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act from the company’s statements and interim management report included in the 2011 halfwebsite at any time. As expressed in the declaration, LANXESS AG year financial report. It also extensively reviewed the risk management complies with the Code’s recommendations and suggestions except and internal control systems. Other topics discussed were the signifiin a few justified cases. More information is contained in the corporate cant findings by the internal audit department, corporate governance, governance statement, which can be found in the section on corporate compliance, accounting-related topics and the determination of the governance on page 120 of this Annual Report. principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2011 financial statements. The external auditor attended all of the Audit Committee’s meetings and reported on the auditing activities. The Presidial Committee convened six times during 2011 to prepare the meetings of the Supervisory Board and to discuss personnel issues. A chief focus of its deliberations was the preparation of the personnel decisions to be reached by the full Supervisory Board. The Committee formed pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codetermination Act and the Nominations Committee did not convene in fiscal 2011. The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. Report of the Supervisory Board 1330 133 Financial Statements of LANXESS AG and Composition of the Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements of the LANXESS Group The composition of the Supervisory Board also changed during fiscal 2011. Employee representative Wolfgang Blossey stepped down The financial statements and management report of LANXESS AG for from the Supervisory Board effective May 31, 2011 for professional the 2011 fiscal year, which were prepared by the Board of Managereasons. We thank Mr. Blossey for his commitment and trustful ment in accordance with the rules of the German Commercial Code, cooperation. The Local Court of Cologne appointed Thomas Meiers, as well as the consolidated financial statements and Group manageDistrict Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Indusment report for fiscal 2011, which were prepared by LANXESS AG trial Union, to serve as an employee representative on the Supervisory in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards Board of LANXESS AG with effect from June 1, 2011. Mr. Meiers (IFRS), were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft was selected by the Supervisory Board to be a member of the Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual Committee. Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The auditor issued an unqualified opinion in each case. Leverkusen, March 20, 2012 The Supervisory Board satisfied itself of the independence of the The Supervisory Board auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial stateDr. Rolf Stomberg ments were discussed with the Board of Management and the auditor Chairman at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 8, 2012. They were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 20, 2012. The responsible auditor was present for the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the material results of the audits. He was also available to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements and management report of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the Group management report and the proposal for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory Board has approved the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, which were prepared by the Board of Management. The financial statements of LANXESS AG, thus, have been adopted. We endorsed the Board of Management’s proposal for use of the distributable profit after close examination and extensive deliberations that carefully weighed the best interests of the company and the stockholders. 134 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 172 Notes to the Income Statement 135 Statement of Financial Position 172 (20) Sales 136 Income Statement 172 (21) Cost of sales 137 Statement of Comprehensive Income 172 (22) Selling expenses 138 Statement of Changes in Equity 172 (23) Research and development expenses 139 Statement of Cash Flows 172 (24) General administration expenses 172 (25) Other operating income 140 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 172 (26) Other operating expenses 140 General information 173 (27) Financial result 140 Structure and components of the 173 (28) Income taxes consolidated financial statements 174 (29) Earnings and dividend per share 140 Financial reporting standards and 174 (30) Personnel expenses interpretations applied 141 New standards and interpretations issued 175 Other Information but not yet mandatory 175 (31) Employees 142 Presentation changes and restatement 175 (32) Contingent liabilities and other of prior-year figures financial commitments 142 Consolidation methods 176 (33) Related parties 143 Currency translation 176 (34) Compensation of the Board of Management 143 Accounting policies and valuation principles and the Supervisory Board 150 Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion 176 (35) Financial instruments 152 Companies consolidated 182 (36) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 183 (37) Segment reporting 156 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position 185 (38) Audit fees 156 (1) Intangible assets 185 (39) Declaration of Compliance pursuant to 157 (2) Property, plant and equipment Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 158 (3) Investments accounted for using the equity method 185 (40) Exemptions under Section 264 Paragraph 3 158 (4) Investments in other affiliated companies of the German Commercial Code 158 (5) Derivative financial instruments 159 (6) Other non-current and current financial assets 186 Responsibility Statement 159 (7) Other non-current assets 187 Auditor’s Report 160 (8) Inventories 160 (9) Trade receivables 160 (10) Near-cash assets 160 (11) Other current assets 160 (12) Equity 162 (13) Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 167 (14) Other non-current and current provisions 170 (15) Other non-current and current financial liabilities 171 (16) Non-current and current income tax liabilities 171 (17) Other non-current and current liabilities 171 (18) Trade payables 171 (19) Further information on liabilities Consolidated Financial Statements 135 Statement of Financial Position Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 226 373 Property, plant and equipment (2) 2,131 2,679 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 13 12 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 8 19 Non-current derivative assets (5) 3 8 Other non-current financial assets (6) 74 82 Deferred taxes (28) 170 196 Other non-current assets (7) 113 120 Non-current assets 2,738 3,489 Inventories (8) 1,094 1,386 Trade receivables (9) 942 1,146 Cash and cash equivalents 160 178 Near-cash assets (10) 364 350 Current derivative assets (5) 19 8 Other current financial assets (6) 58 27 Current income tax receivables 69 64 Other current assets (11) 222 230 Current assets 2,928 3,389 Total assets 5,666 6,878 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 889 889 Other reserves 699 943 Net income 379 506 Other equity components (221) (280) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 15 16 Equity (12) 1,761 2,074 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (13) 605 679 Other non-current provisions (14) 351 331 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 11 13 Other non-current financial liabilities (15) 1,302 1,465 Non-current income tax liabilities (16) 50 63 Other non-current liabilities (17) 95 89 Deferred taxes (28) 40 75 Non-current liabilities 2,454 2,715 Other current provisions (14) 422 446 Trade payables (18) 664 766 Current derivative liabilities (5) 23 40 Other current financial liabilities (15) 176 633 Current income tax liabilities (16) 34 49 Other current liabilities (17) 132 155 Current liabilities 1,451 2,089 Total equity and liabilities 5,666 6,878 136 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Income Statement LANXESS Group € million Note 2010 2011 Sales (20) 7,120 8,775 Cost of sales (21) (5,381) (6,765) Gross profit 1,739 2,010 Selling expenses (22) (646) (732) Research and development expenses (23) (116) (144) General administration expenses (24) (298) (325) Other operating income (25) 189 179 Other operating expenses (26) (261) (212) Operating result (EBIT) 607 776 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 16 7 Interest income 10 11 Interest expense (93) (104) Other financial income and expense (47) (35) Financial result (27) (114) (121) Income before income taxes 493 655 Income taxes (28) (112) (148) Income after income taxes 381 507 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 2 1 of which attributable to LANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 379 506 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (29) 4.56 6.08 Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Income Statement | Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income LANXESS Group € million 2010 2011 Income after income taxes 381 507 Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans (130) (94) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 125 (33) Financial instruments (41) (38) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method (26) (11) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 49 40 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (23) (136) Total comprehensive income 358 371 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 2 1 of which attributable to LANXESS AG stockholders 356 370 138 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Statement of Changes in Equity LANXESS Group € million Capital Capital Other Net Other equity components Equity Equity Equity stock reserves reserves income attributable attributCurrency Financial to able to nontranslation instruments LANXESS AG controlling adjustment stockholders interests Dec. 31, 2009 83 806 818 40 (340) 25 1,432 13 1,445 Allocations to retained earnings 40 (40) 0 0 Dividend payments (42) (42) 0 (42) Total comprehensive income (117) 379 125 (31) 356 2 358 Income after income taxes 379 379 2 381 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (117) 125 (31) (23) 0 (23) Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans (130) (130) (130) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 125 125 0 125 Financial instruments (41) (41) (41) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method (26) (26) (26) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 39 10 49 49 Dec. 31, 2010 83 806 699 379 (215) (6) 1,746 15 1,761 Allocations to retained earnings 379 (379) 0 0 Dividend payments (58) (58) 0 (58) Total comprehensive income (77) 506 (33) (26) 370 1 371 Income after income taxes 506 506 1 507 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (77) (33) (26) (136) 0 (136) Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans (94) (94) (94) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (33) (33) 0 (33) Financial instruments (38) (38) (38) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method (11) (11) (11) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 28 12 40 40 Dec. 31, 2011 83 806 943 506 (248) (32) 2,058 16 2,074 Consolidated Financial Statements 139 Statement of Changes in Equity | Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Cash Flows LANXESS Group € million Note 2010 2011 Income before income taxes 493 655 Depreciation and amortization 283 325 Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 0 (2) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method (16) (7) Financial losses 83 98 Income taxes paid (114) (95) Changes in inventories (205) (178) Changes in trade receivables (176) (148) Changes in trade payables 161 70 Changes in other assets and liabilities (4) (16) Net cash provided by operating activities before external financing of pension obligations (CTA) 505 702 Cash outflows for external financing of pension obligations (CTA) (75) (30) Net cash provided by operating activities (36) 430 672 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment (501) (679) Cash inflows from financial assets 107 24 Cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents and net of subsequent purchase price adjustments 0 (285) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 3 7 Interest and dividends received 16 10 Net cash used in investing activities (36) (375) (923) Proceeds from borrowings 170 655 Repayments of borrowings (251) (221) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (91) (100) Dividend payments (42) (58) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (36) (214) 276 Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities (159) 25 Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 313 160 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents 6 (7) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (36) 160 178 2010 figures restated 140 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method. LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. Its registered calendar year. office is at Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee 40, 51369 Leverkusen, Germany. The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated Financial reporting standards and financial statements of the LANXESS Group, to which the auditors, interpretations applied PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified auditor’s The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group as of reports, are published in the electronic version of the German Federal December 31, 2011 were prepared in accordance with the InterGazette (Bundesanzeiger). national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal with the additional requirements of Section 315 a Paragraph 1 of the 2011 were prepared by the Board of Management of LANXESS AG German Commercial Code (HGB). and authorized for submission to the Supervisory Board on February 28, 2012. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to Application of the following accounting standards and interpretations examine the consolidated financial statements and declare whether became mandatory starting in 2011. However, they currently have no or not it approves them. impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group: • IAS 32: Classification of Rights Issues – Amendments to IAS 32 Structure and components of the • IFRIC 14: Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement – consolidated financial statements Amendments to IFRIC 14 • IFRIC 19: Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of Instruments financial position, the income statement and statement of compre• IFRS 1 and IFRS 7: Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 hensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement Disclosures for First-time Adopters – Amendments to IFRS 1 of cash flows and the notes, which include the segment information. and IFRS 7 • Various IASs and IFRSs: Improvements to IFRSs (2010) The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were prepared in euros (€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ milThe amended version of IAS 24 (Related Party Disclosures) published lion) except where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are clasin November 2009 was already applied by the LANXESS Group as of sified in the statement of financial position as current or non-current. December 31, 2010. It had no impact on the consolidated financial Further details of their maturities are provided below in certain cases. statements. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the basis of historical acquisition, generation, construction or production costs of the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies and valuation principles. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 141 General information | Structure and components of the consolidated financial statements | Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied | New standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory New standards and interpretations issued In May 2011 the IASB published three new standards – IFRS 10, but not yet mandatory IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 – and two revised standards – IAS 27 and IAS 28 – on accounting for participating interests in other entities. If In 2011 the LANXESS Group did not yet apply certain further accountadopted by the E.U., these new and revised standards are to applied ing standards and interpretations that had already been issued by the for the first time for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2013. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS InterEarlier application is permissible provided that this is stated in the pretations Committee but were not mandatory for that year. The applicanotes to the financial statements and all of the standards are early tion of these standards and interpretations is in some cases contingent applied at the same time. An entity may, however, early provide some upon their adoption by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the dates of the disclosures on interests in other entities required by IFRS 12 for mandatory application may ultimately be later than indicated below. without being compelled to apply the other new or revised standards. The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the applicaIn November 2009 the IASB published IFRS 9. The new requiretion of these standards will have on its financial position and results ments this standard introduced for classifying and measuring financial of operations. assets were supplemented in October 2010 by requirements for the measurement of financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial In June 2011 the IASB issued a revised version of IAS 19. This instruments. The new standard represents the first of three phases in addresses the recognition and measurement of expense for definedthe complete replacement of IAS 39. If adopted by the E.U., IFRS 9 is benefit plans and termination benefits. It also results in altered disto be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2015. closures on employee benefits. If adopted by the E.U., the amended The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the application version of IAS 19 is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or of IFRS 9 will have on its financial position and results of operations. after January 1, 2013. The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the application of this revised standard will have on its financial position and results of operations. The following accounting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group. Standard/Interpretation Date of publication Mandatory for Adoption LANXESS as of by the E.U. fiscal year IFRS 7 Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets – Amendments to IFRS 7 Oct. 7, 2010 2012 yes IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets – Amendments to IAS 12 Dec. 20, 2010 2012 no IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters – Amendments to IFRS 1 Dec. 20, 2010 – no IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement May 12, 2011 2013 no IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income – Amendments to IAS 1 June 16, 2011 2013 no IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Oct. 19, 2011 2013 no IFRS 7 and IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IFRS 7 and IAS 32 Dec. 16, 2011 2013/2014 no 142 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Presentation changes and restatement Entities that in aggregate are immaterial to the Group’s financial posiof prior-year figures tion and results of operations are not consolidated, but included in the consolidated financial statements at cost of acquisition. To harmonize the presentation of pension payments, cash outflows to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany, for external Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section headed financing of pension obligations (contractual trust arrangement, CTA) “Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of companies. are included in cash flows from operating rather than investing activities starting in 2011. To enhance transparency, a subtotal “Net cash provided by operating activities before external financing of pension Fully consolidated companies obligations (CTA)” has been inserted into the presentation of cash flows from operating activities. The prior-year figures are restated accordingly. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of a business combination is stated as the aggregate of the In the segment reporting, restatements of prior-year figures were fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities necessitated by an inter-segment transfer of activities. Further details incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued in exchange are given in Note [37]. No further prior-year figures have been restated. for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts. Consolidation methods For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are measured at The financial statements of the consolidated companies were prepared fair value as of the acquisition date. using uniform accounting policies and valuation principles. For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on Decemnot acquired either at their fair value or at the pro-rata share of the fair ber 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the purpose of value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reported in the statement consolidation. of financial position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests. Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income, expenses, receivables and Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt or payables are eliminated. equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess of the Scope of consolidation consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the direct or indirect control recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price allocation has of LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG holds more than half been re-examined. of the voting rights in a company or is otherwise able to govern the company’s financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits from its activities. A company is consolidated as of the date from which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control (acquisition date) and deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. Investments in entities in which the LANXESS Group exerts a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest between 20% and 50%, are accounted for using the equity method. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 143 Presentation changes and restatement of prior-year figures | Consolidation methods | Currency translation | Accounting policies and valuation principles Investments accounted for using the equity method The exchange rates for major currencies against the euro changed as follows: The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity method (associate) is adjusted annually by the percentage of any Exchange Rates change in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage inter€1 Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate est in the entity. Differences arising from the first-time accounting for 2010 2011 2010 2011 investments using the equity method are determined according to Argentina ARS 5.31 5.57 5.19 5.75 the same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is Brazil BRL 2.23 2.43 2.33 2.33 included in the carrying amount of the associate. China CNY 8.82 8.16 8.98 9.00 United Kingdom GBP 0.86 0.84 0.86 0.87 Joint ventures are also included in the consolidated financial stateIndia INR 59.74 68.60 60.58 64.86 ments using the equity method. Proportionate consolidation is not Japan JPY 108.65 100.20 116.38 110.99 used. Canada CAD 1.33 1.32 1.37 1.38 Singapore SGD 1.71 1.68 1.81 1.75 South Africa ZAR 8.86 10.48 9.70 10.10 United States USD 1.34 1.29 1.33 1.39 Currency translation In the financial statements of the individual consolidated companies that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements of the Accounting policies and valuation principles LANXESS Group, all foreign currency receivables and payables are translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are hedged. The accounting policies and valuation principles are the same as Forward contracts serving as economic hedges against fluctuations those used in the previous fiscal year and have been consistently in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. applied. This does not apply to changes arising from new or amended accounting standards or intepretations that became mandatory for the The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on the basis first time in fiscal 2011 (see section headed “Presentation changes of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the and restatement of prior-year figures”). entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of foreign companies are financially, economically and organizationally autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore the local Intangible assets currencies. The assets and liabilities of these companies are translated at closing rates, while income and expense items are translated at Acquired intangible assets with a definite useful life are recognized average rates for the year. at cost and amortized over their respective useful lives using the straight-line method. The amortization period for software, concessions, Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in industrial property rights, similar rights and assets and licenses to the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate, such rights and assets varies from 3 years to 20 years. Amortization irrespective of the date on which it arose. for 2011 has been allocated to the respective functional areas. Any further loss of value is recognized by means of an impairment charge. Since equity (excluding income and expenses recognized directly in Impairment losses are reversed in the following year if the reasons for other comprehensive income) is translated at historical rates, the differthem no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying ences arising on translation at closing rates are shown separately in amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which other comprehensive income as exchange differences on translation they would have been recognized if the impairment losses had not of operations outside the eurozone. been recognized or their current recoverable value. The lower of these If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss. 144 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 two amounts is recognized. Intangible assets with indefinite useful Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle assets at lives and goodwill are not amortized. They are tested for impairment the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition, annually, or more often if events or a change in circumstances indicate the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost a possible impairment. Any impairment losses are recognized in other of acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is operating expenses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. recognized. The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over development stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected a long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to useful life of the software from the date it is placed in service. the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition or construction. Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances allocated free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (Deutsche Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly Emissionshandelsstelle, DEHSt) or comparable authorities in other in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction costs are European countries are capitalized at a value of zero. capitalized if they will result in future economic benefits and can be reliably determined. Property, plant and equipment Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants are recognized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of the related assets Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or and depreciated over the period between one general overhaul and construction less depreciation for wear and tear. LANXESS does not the next using the straight-line method. use the revaluation model. Impairment losses are recognized for any reduction in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. In comWhere assets comprise material components with different purposes, pliance with IAS 36, impairment losses are measured by comparing different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capithe carrying amounts with the discounted cash flows expected to talized individually and depreciated over their useful lives. be generated by the assets in the future. Where it is not possible to allocate future cash flows to specific assets, the impairment loss When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between is assessed on the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cashthe net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or generating unit to which the asset belongs. Impairment losses are loss in other operating income or expenses. reversed if the reasons for previous years’ impairment charges no longer apply, provided that this does not cause the carrying amounts Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on the folof the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would lowing useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout the Group: have been recognized if the impairment charge had not been taken or their current recoverable value. Useful Lives Buildings 20 to 50 years The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment comprises Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years the direct cost of materials, direct manufacturing expenses, approPlant installations 6 to 20 years Machinery and equipment 6 to 12 years priate allocations of material and manufacturing overheads, and an Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years appropriate share of the depreciation and impairments of assets used Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years in construction. It also includes the shares of expenses for company Vehicles 5 to 8 years pension plans and discretionary employee benefits that are attributComputer equipment 3 to 5 years able to construction. Furniture and fixtures 4 to 10 years Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 145 Accounting policies and valuation principles Leasing Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Group becomes the contracting party to them. Financial assets are derecIn accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially all risks ognized when the contractual rights to receive payments from them and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (finance leases) expire or the financial assets are transferred together with all substantial are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the present value of opportunities and risks. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the minimum lease payments at the date of addition. They are deprecithe contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when they expire. ated over their useful lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased asset is uncertain, it is depreciated over the shorter of its estimated In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is useful life and the lease term. the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition of financial assets in the financial statements. The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. Liabilities under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of the leased Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially recognized asset at the inception of the lease or the present value of the minimum at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost using lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter the minimum lease the effective interest method. Write-downs for amounts unlikely to be payments are divided into financing costs and the portion representrecovered are recognized via impairment accounts. ing repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing contracts that do not include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards incidental Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments included to ownership (operating leases), the lessee recognizes the lease payin non-current assets are classified as “available-for-sale” financial ments as current expenses. assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value cannot be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized at cost. Property, plant and equipment also includes assets that LANXESS Where objective evidence exists that such assets may be impaired, leases or rents out to third parties under agreements other than finance an impairment loss is recognized on the basis of an impairment test. leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded as the economic owner of the assets, a receivable is recognized in the amount of the disInvestments in companies accounted for using the equity method counted future lease or rental payments. are recognized at the amounts corresponding to LANXESS’s share in their equity in accordance with IAS 28 or IAS 31. Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. Where IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. Any gain or components of the contract are recognized and measured separately. loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected in the income statement. Financial instruments All other primary financial assets are classified as “available-for-sale” and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to loans and Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement, a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or equity instruwith the exception of write-downs and translation gains and losses, is ment for another. These include primary financial instruments, such recognized in other comprehensive income until the financial asset as trade receivables or payables and financial assets or liabilities, as is derecognized. well as derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge risks arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-derivative or interest rates. financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition. 146 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Derivative financial instruments and The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on hedging transactions the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruments as The fair value of loans is calculated from discounted future interest assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Gains and payments and capital repayment amounts. losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair values are contracts used to hedge future cash flows from pending business or the prices determined and published by the market. forecasted transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant financial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial liabilities are recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the due within one year is their carrying amount. That of all other liabilities underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized here is determined by discounting them to present value where feasible. are subsequently reclassified to other operating income or production costs, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance leases profit or loss. Any portion of the change in value of such derivatives are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the deemed to be ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized market rate for comparable lease agreements. directly in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates – Most of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are provided such derivatives qualify for hedge accounting – are recognized traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values of forward exchange in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit contracts are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “foror loss as interest income/expense at the same time as the income ward method.” Currency options are valued using an asset pricing from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. model based on the Black & Scholes model. The fair values of forward commodity contracts are also derived from their trading or listed prices Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering nonusing the “forward method.” Where no market price is available, values financial items based on expected purchases, sales or utilization and are determined using recognized capital market pricing methods. held for this purpose are recognized not as financial derivatives but as pending transactions. If the contracts contain embedded derivatives, the derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract, Inventories provided that the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract. Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) and assets consumed Determination of fair value during the production process (raw materials and supplies). They are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring the fair lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling value of financial instruments are outlined below: price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining production costs and selling expenses. Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted using current interest rates to determine their fair value. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 147 Accounting policies and valuation principles The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, direct Provisions manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed and variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal capacity Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 37 utilization, where these are attributable to production. and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best estimates of the amounts of the respective obligations. Non-current portions of It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare material provisions due in more than one year are discounted to presfacilities and discretionary employee benefits that can be allocated to ent value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed production. Administrative costs are included where they are attributwith reasonable certainty. Where the projected obligation alters as the able to production. time of performance approaches (interest effect), the related expense is recognized in other financial expense. Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the not manufactured using long-term production processes. estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the Given the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the provision was originally recorded. LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped together. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits are established for defined-benefit pension plans. The provision is measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated Cash and cash equivalents using the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with date, but also expected future salary and benefit increases. Actuarial banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from the date gains and losses and adjustments resulting from the asset ceiling of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents in view of and from minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans their high liquidity. are recognized in full in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual bonus Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be sold in payments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such assets may other personnel costs. Reimbursements to be received from the Gerbe individual non-current assets, groups of assets (disposal groups) man government under the phased early retirement program are or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include recorded as receivables and recognized in the income statement as liabilities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part soon as the criteria for such reimbursements are fulfilled. of the transaction. The share-based compensation program provides for cash settleAssets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. They are ment. Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and the carrysuch programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the ing amount. rights allocated to employees. The fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and the expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro-rata provision during the vesting period. 148 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or pending Allocations to provisions for rebates to customers are recognized in legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be reasonably the period in which the respective revenues are legally recognized. estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees and legal costs Revenues such as license fees, rental income, interest income or and the cost of potential settlements. The amounts of such provisions dividends that are attributable to a subsequent fiscal year are accrued. are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed together with the The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production orders. Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not applied to determine when revenues are realized. Contingent liabilities Research and development expenses Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably estimated According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, whereas or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. They are not development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, specific narrowly recognized in the statement of financial position unless they have been defined conditions are fulfilled. Development costs must be capitalized entered into in connection with a business combination. if it is sufficiently certain that future economic benefits to the company will cover not only the usual production, selling and administrative costs but also the development costs themselves. However, since the Liabilities development and optimization of products and processes frequently involves uncertainties, the conditions for capitalization of the developCurrent liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption amounts. ment are generally not met. Non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. Financial liabilities that do not constitute either the hedged item or the hedging instrument in a permissible hedge accounting relationship are carried Income taxes at amortized cost, calculated using the effective interest method. This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or construccountries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the tion of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other liabilities basis of local tax rates. and released to the income statement over the underlying period or expected useful life of the assets to which they relate. Income tax liabilities and provisions for income taxes comprise liabilities pertaining to 2011and any liabilities from previous years. Sales and other revenues In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities in the Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made or the statement of financial position and the tax base and for differences arisservice rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and deductions. ing from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryforwards. This is normally the case when the significant risks and benefits assoDeferred taxes are calculated at the rates which – on the basis of the ciated with ownership of the goods pass to the purchaser. It must also statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in relation to future be sufficiently probable that the economic benefits will be obtained periods, as of the closing date – are expected to apply in the individual and the costs incurred must be reliably determinable. countries at the time of realization. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizable due to future taxable income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 149 Accounting policies and valuation principles Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to income Global impairment testing procedure taxes levied by the same tax authorities. In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment losses need to Statement of cash flows be recognized or previously recognized impairment losses reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, the residual carrying amount The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and outflows of each cash-generating unit is compared to its recoverable amount. during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents of the LANXESS In the LANXESS Group these impairments tests are performed at Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing least once a year. activities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents. Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested annually for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in circumThe cash flow from operating activities is calculated using the indirect stances indicate a possible impairment. The residual carrying amount method. This involves eliminating the translation effects and the effects of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, is of changes in the scope of consolidation from the changes recognized compared to its recoverable amount. in the items on the statement of financial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the indirect method cannot be directly derived The LANXESS Group defines its business units as the cash-generating from the statement of financial position. units. However, if there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current assets below business-unit level, impairment testing is also performed Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are at this level and impairment losses recognized in the income stateincluded in the cash flows for investing activities after deducting any ment where necessary. third-party subsidies. Investments involving finance leases, along with capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. Comparison therefore The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures to sell and the value in use. If the carrying amount of a cash-generating shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized. The fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the price that Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash flows from would be obtained by selling the cash-generating unit to a third party operating activities. Disbursements made under finance leases where at the time of valuation less the estimated selling costs. The value in LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash outflows for financing use is defined as the present value of future cash flows based on the activities, while cash inflows under finance leases where LANXESS continuing use of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful is the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing activities. life. The first step in an impairment test is to determine the fair value less costs to sell. If this is less than the carrying amount of the cashCash outflows relating to the financing of pension obligations are generating unit, the value in use is then determined. allocated to cash flows for operating activities. Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in the investing cash flow after deducting cash and cash equivalents acquired or divested. Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flow, while interest and dividends paid are reflected in financing cash flow. 150 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The recoverable amount is calculated from a forecast of future cash Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion flows based on the LANXESS Group’s current long-term planning. This planning is based on the latest approved five-year plan, which is The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance in turn built on past experience and the Board of Management’s estiwith IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and valuation prinmates of expected market conditions, including assumptions regarding ciples and the use of forward-looking assumptions and estimates that future raw material prices, cost of sales, selling expenses, research may affect the valuation of assets and liabilities, income and expenses and development expenses, general administration expenses and and contingent liabilities. exchange rates. The present value of future cash flows is calculated by discounting them using a weighted capital cost factor. The capital All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated financial cost factor is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market models, statements are based on management’s expectations. Information taking into account the capital structure and business risks specific that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually and may result to the chemical industry. in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the respective assets and liabilities. If the impairment test shows a strategic business unit to be impaired, an impairment loss is first recognized for any goodwill assigned to Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the valuation it. Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the other of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are explained below. non-current assets of the strategic business unit in proportion to their net carrying amounts at the closing date. The LANXESS Group tests its cash-generating units for impairment at least once a year by determining the respective recoverable amount Impairment losses are fully recognized in the income statement under (for further information see the section headed “Global impairment other operating expenses and reflected in the segment reporting in testing procedure and impact”). The test is based on forecasts of future the expenses of the respective segments. cash flows, derived from reasonable assumptions representing the management’s best assessment of the economic circumstances at the The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2011 are outlined time of the impairment test. Management’s expectations of future cash in the following section. flows therefore indirectly affect the valuation of assets and goodwill. The assumptions and estimates used for the impairment test conducted on assets in fiscal 2011 could differ from the actual values in subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments. The impairment test was based on a discount rate after taxes of 7.4% (2010: 8.0%), without using growth rates to extrapolate the last year of the forecasting period. The testing of the cash-generating units did not reveal any indication of possible asset impairment or of the need for impairment loss reversals. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 151 Accounting policies and valuation principles | Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion The principal goodwill items were tested for impairment on the basis of Defined-benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial computafair value less costs to sell. As of the annual impairment testing date, the tions and valuations. The section on provisions for pension and other goodwill from previous years was tested for impairment after adjusting post-employment benefits contains information on the assumptions for currency translation effects. This included, in particular, the goodwill on which the actuarial calculations and estimates were based (see of €105 million in the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit Note [13]). recognized in connection with the acquisition of Petroflex in 2008. There is also a degree of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of The goodwill of €45 million acquired in fiscal 2011 was tested for certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS impairment as of the closing date for the consolidated financial stateGroup believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly ments. The impairment test included goodwill that arose in the Techniand in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities cal Rubber Products business unit from the acquisition of the elastomay occasionally reach different conclusions. mers business of Royal DSM N.V., Netherlands, in the Rhein Chemie business unit from the acquisition of the Darmex group, Argentina, in Other significant estimates are used to assess the useful lives of inthe Material Protection Products business unit from the acquisition tangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the probability of of the materials protection business of Syngenta AG, Switzerland, collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories and in the Functional Chemicals business unit from the acquisition of and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized Unitex Chemical Corporation, United States (see the section headed for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. The first-time “Companies consolidated”). consolidation of business operations also involves estimation uncertainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of Neither a one percentage point increase in the discount rate nor a the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. 10% reduction in expected future cash flows would have led to the recognition of an impairment loss on these goodwill items. Up to the time these consolidated financial statements were prepared, no circumstances had become known that would necessitate a major The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected by change in such estimates. assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the underlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The LANXESS Group performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of December 31, 2011 as required by the IFRS. These involved calculating the impact of variations in the parameters used, especially the probability of occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumptions described above would not have a material impact on the level of other provisions reported in the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity analyses relating to provisions for pension and other post-employment benefits, see Note [13]. 152 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Companies consolidated The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign affiliates. EMEA (excluding Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2011 19 13 6 5 16 59 Additions 2 3 4 1 10 Subtractions (1) (1) (2) Mergers (1) (1) (1) (3) Changes in scope of consolidation (1) (1) 1 (1) Dec. 31, 2011 20 13 7 6 17 63 Companies accounted for using the equity method Jan. 1, 2011 1 2 3 Dec. 31, 2011 0 1 0 0 2 3 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2011 2 2 1 2 1 8 Additions 2 2 Subtractions 0 Changes in scope of consolidation 1 1 (1) 1 Dec. 31, 2011 5 2 1 3 0 11 Total Jan. 1, 2011 21 16 7 7 19 70 Additions 4 3 4 1 12 Subtractions (1) (1) (2) Mergers (1) (1) (1) (3) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 0 0 0 Dec. 31, 2011 25 16 8 9 19 77 Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These comBetween the date of acquisition and year-end 2011, the business panies are immaterial to the Group’s financial position and results of contributed €389 million to LANXESS Group sales and €44 million to operations, since together they account for less than 0.1% of Group earnings. Its earnings contribution was affected by the remeasurements sales and less than 0.1% of equity. made for purposes of the purchase price allocation. If the business had been acquired with effect from January 1, 2011, it would have On May 2, 2011 LANXESS completed the acquisition of the elascontributed roughly €150 million more to Group sales and some tomers business of Royal DSM N.V., Netherlands. This transaction €20 million more to earnings. comprised the acquisition of all the shares of DSM Elastomers Europe B.V., Heerlen, Netherlands, and its affiliates, and all the shares of The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination pursuDSM Elastômeros Brasil Ltda., Triunfo, Brazil, and selected assets ant to IFRS 3. Thus, in allocating the purchase price, the acquiree’s and liabilities. The companies were consolidated as of this date. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities were included acquisition was funded from existing liquidity of the LANXESS Group. at fair value. The remaining difference of €12 million represents the The elastomers business acquired from DSM produces the Keltan goodwill acquired on the acquisition. The following table shows a brand of ethylene propylene diene monomer (EPDM) rubber at sites breakdown of the purchase price allocation and its impact on the in the Netherlands and Brazil. The business supplements the EPDM statement of financial position of the LANXESS Group. activities of the Technical Rubber Products business unit in the Performance Polymers segment. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Companies consolidated Additions from Acquisition of Keltan EPDM Business On October 12, 2011, LANXESS acquired all the shares of Unitex € million IFRS carrying Purchase Carrying Chemical Corporation, Greensboro, United States. This company amounts prior price amounts upon was assigned to the Functional Chemicals business unit in the Perforto first-time allocation first-time consolidation consolidation mance Chemicals segment. The acquisition gives LANXESS access to Unitex’s flexible production facilities and expands the portfolio of Intangible assets 4 58 62 Property, plant and phthalate-free plasticizers. equipment 121 45 166 Other assets 195 16 211 These businesses were consolidated as of the above acquisition dates. Total assets 320 119 439 Since they were acquired, these businesses have contributed a total Non-current liabilities 1 24 25 Current liabilities 207 0 207 of €47 million to LANXESS Group sales. Their contribution to Group Total liabilities 208 24 232 earnings was negligible due to the continuing effects of the remeasureNet acquired assets ments made for purposes of the purchase price allocation. If these (excluding goodwill) 112 95 207 businesses had been acquired with effect from January 1, 2011, they would have contributed around €30 million more to Group sales and Acquisition costs 219 Acquired goodwill 12 €3 million more to earnings. The following table shows the impact of the last four acquisitions The purchase price allocation is provisional and was carried out with listed above, none of which individually had a significant impact on the aid of reports from external experts and in light of the information the Group assets or liabilities. available at and immediately after the acquisition date. According to IFRS, the purchase price allocation is subject to adjustment within one Additions from Other Acquisitions year after the acquisition date to reflect new information and findings. € million IFRS carrying Purchase Carrying amounts prior price amounts upon to first-time allocation first-time The goodwill resulting from the acquisition of the elastomers business consolidation consolidation reflects, in particular, marketing and cost synergies arising from the Intangible assets 0 54 54 improved capacity utilization, especially at the production site in Brazil, Property, plant and the expansion of LANXESS’s product mix in the EPDM business and equipment 6 16 22 additional sales opportunities to existing and new customers, parOther assets 28 2 30 Total assets 34 72 106 ticularly in South America. The acquisition thus represents a further step in LANXESS’s long-term growth strategy in the area of ethylene Non-current liabilities 0 7 7 propylene rubbers. Current liabilities 12 0 12 Total liabilities 12 7 19 Effective January 11, 2011, LANXESS acquired all the shares of the Net acquired assets (excluding goodwill) 22 65 87 Darmex group, which was assigned to the Rhein Chemie business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment. This acquisition has given Acquisition costs 120 the business unit access to bladder technology and is in line with its Acquired goodwill 33 strategy of growing the business in the emerging markets. On April 13, 2011, the LANXESS Group acquired the material proThe goodwill arising from the other acquisitions mainly reflects markettection business of Syngenta AG, Basel, Switzerland. This transaction ing and cost synergies resulting from improved capacity utilization, mainly comprised selected intangible assets. This acquisition expands especially at the production sites in North and South America, and the range of biocides offered by the Material Protection Products busifrom the enlargement of LANXESS’s product range in the above business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment for the protection of ness units. building materials. A further acquisition by this business unit was the purchase of all the shares of Verichem Inc., Pittsburgh, United States. This acquisition closed on November 9, 2011. As well as extending LANXESS’s product portfolio, this transaction strengthens the company’s position on the U.S. market for material protection products. 154 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Other information on companies consolidated Company Name and Domicile % Interest held The following table lists the affiliated companies in accordance with Fully consolidated companies Section 313 Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code: North America Company Name and Domicile LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 % Interest held LANXESS Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100 LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A. 100 Fully consolidated companies Rhein Chemie Corporation, Chardon, U.S.A. 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Germany Unitex Chemical Corporation, Greensboro, U.S.A. 100 LANXESS AG, Leverkusen – Verichem Inc., Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen 100 DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 Latin America IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 100 LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos Ltda., LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100 São Paulo, Brazil 100 LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Langenfeld 100 LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Rhein Chemie Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 LXS Dormagen Verwaltungs-GmbH, Dormagen 100 Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen 100 Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim 100 Asia-Pacific Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld 100 LANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 LANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia 100 LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, China 100 LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 LANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100 LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Heerlen, Netherlands 100 LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea 100 LANXESS Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, France 100 LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 LANXESS Finance B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 LANXESS PTY Ltd., Homebush Bay, Australia 100 LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS International SA, Granges-Paccot, Switzerland 100 LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K. 100 LANXESS Wuxi Chemical Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China 100 LANXESS Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., Modderfontein, Nexachem Trading (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (formerly: Rhein South Africa 100 Chemie LOA (Qingdao) Limited), Qingdao, China 100 LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 Rhein Chemie Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Rubber N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 OOO LANXESS, Dzerzhinsk, Russia 100 Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands 100 Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 155 Companies consolidated Company Name and Domicile % Interest held Associates accounted for using the equity method Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 Asia-Pacific LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China 50 Joint ventures accounted for using the equity method Asia-Pacific Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Chemical Co., Ltd., Tongling, China 25 Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries Germany LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) Darchem International Ltd., Havant, U.K. 100 LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 Rustenburg Chrome Mine Holdings (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 74 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 North America LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Latin America Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago, Chile 100 Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Latin America Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 39 156 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Notes to the statement of financial position 1 Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2010 € million Concessions, indusAcquired goodwill Advance payments Total trial property rights, similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2009 137 128 4 269 Capital expenditures 9 18 27 Disposals (2) (2) Reclassifications 1 (1) 0 Exchange differences 10 14 0 24 Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2010 155 142 21 318 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2009 (68) (5) 0 (73) Amortization and impairment losses in 2010 (16) (16) of which impairment losses 0 Disposals 1 1 Reclassifications 0 Exchange differences (4) 0 (4) Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (87) (5) 0 (92) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2010 68 137 21 226 Changes in Intangible Assets in 2011 € million Concessions, indusAcquired goodwill Advance payments Total trial property rights, similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2010 155 142 21 318 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisition 116 45 161 Capital expenditures 25 8 33 Disposals (12) (10) 0 (22) Reclassifications 16 (16) 0 Exchange differences (3) (9) 1 (11) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2011 297 168 14 479 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (87) (5) 0 (92) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Amortization and impairment losses in 2011 (32) (2) (34) of which impairment losses (2) (2) (4) Disposals 11 6 17 Reclassifications 0 0 Exchange differences 3 0 3 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (105) (1) 0 (106) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2011 192 167 14 373 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 157 Notes to the statement of financial position 2 Property, plant and equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2010 € million Land and buildings Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2009 1,188 5,167 195 275 6,825 Capital expenditures 27 104 23 348 502 Disposals (38) (81) (6) (1) (126) Reclassifications 44 162 11 (217) 0 Exchange differences 34 131 8 16 189 Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2010 1,255 5,483 231 421 7,390 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2009 (833) (4,031) (152) 0 (5,016) Depreciation and impairment losses in 2010 (30) (213) (24) (267) of which impairment losses (1) (1) Disposals 37 80 6 123 Reclassifications 0 Exchange differences (12) (83) (4) (99) Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (838) (4,247) (174) 0 (5,259) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2010 417 1,236 57 421 2,131 Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2011 € million Land and buildings Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2010 1,255 5,483 231 421 7,390 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 24 157 2 5 188 Capital expenditures 14 112 19 522 667 Disposals (17) (132) (8) (2) (159) Reclassifications 31 169 9 (209) 0 Exchange differences (5) (15) (1) 11 (10) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2011 1,302 5,774 252 748 8,076 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (838) (4,247) (174) 0 (5,259) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Depreciation and impairment losses in 2011 (35) (234) (22) (291) of which impairment losses (2) (7) 0 (9) Disposals 17 130 8 155 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences 0 (3) 1 (2) Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (856) (4,354) (187) 0 (5,397) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2011 446 1,420 65 748 2,679 Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets with a total €151 million (2010: €146 million) and buildings with a carrying net value of €61 million (2010: €66 million) held under finance leases. amount of €2 million (2010: €7 million) and a cost of acquisition or The gross carrying amounts of these assets at the closing date totaled construction of €10 million (2010: €16 million). €165 million (2010: €163 million). The assets mainly comprise machinery and technical equipment with a carrying amount of €56 milDirectly attributable borrowing costs of €12 million (2010: €1 million) lion (2010: 58 million) and a cost of acquisition or construction of were capitalized, based on an average cost of debt of 5.2% (2010: 5.2%) for the Group. 158 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 3 Investments accounted for using the equity method 5 Derivative financial instruments As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Derivatives with a total fair value of €16 million (2010: €22 million) are Germany, Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Co., Ltd., Tongling, China, and capitalized in the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, Group for fiscal 2011. Instruments with a negative fair value totaling China, were accounted for using the equity method. €53 million (2010: €34 million) are recognized as liabilities. The following tables show the main items included in the income stateDerivative Financial Instruments ment and statement of financial position related to these associates: € million Dec. 31, 2010 Notional Positive Negative Income from Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method amount fair values fair values € million 2010 2011 Forward exchange contracts 1,718 16 (25) Sales 1,182 1,333 Currency options 153 2 (9) Income from investments accounted for using Forward commodity contracts 19 4 0 the equity method 16 7 Total derivative financial instruments 1,890 22 (34) of which current 1,465 19 (23) Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method of which non-current 425 3 (11) € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2010 2011 Assets 900 911 Derivative Financial Instruments Liabilities 726 739 € million Dec. 31, 2011 Equity 174 172 Notional Positive Negative Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest amount fair values fair values and equity valuation (161) (160) Investments accounted for using the Forward exchange contracts 2,265 16 (51) equity method 13 12 Currency options 0 0 0 Forward commodity contracts 22 0 (2) The €1 million (2010: €13 million) decrease in the carrying amount Total derivative financial instruments 2,287 16 (53) of investments accounted for using the equity method arose from of which current 1,827 8 (40) the equity-method income after adjustments for a loss of €11 million of which non-current 460 8 (13) (2010: €26 million) recognized in other comprehensive income and the effect of the pro-rata income transfer of €1 million (2010: €8 million). A capital increase at LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical The total notional amount of forward commodity contracts was Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, increased the carrying amount €22 million (2010: €19 million), including €22 million (2010: of investments accounted for using the equity method by €4 million €19 million) due within one year. The total notional amount of forward (2010: €5 million). exchange contracts and currency options was €2,265 million (2010: €1,871 million), including €1,805 million (2010: €1,446 million) due within one year. 4 Investments in other affiliated companies Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2011 the unrealized losses This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling recorded in other comprehensive income in 2011 or earlier periods €19 million (2010: €8 million). The increase is primarily due to the from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting acquisition of shares in service companies acquired together with amounted to €25 million (2010: €8 million). In fiscal 2011, a gain of the Keltan EPDM business and the acquisition of further shares in €12 million (2010: €15 million) was reclassified from equity to profit Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, in connection with its stock or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions. Currency market listing. hedging contracts had a notional amount of €815 million (2010: €932 million). As of December 31, 2011, these had positive fair As of December 31, 2011, the other investments classified as values of €1 million (2010: €12 million) and negative fair values available-for-sale financial assets, apart from the shares in Gevo Inc., of €36 million (2010: €24 million). Contracts with a total notional comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of these amount of €583 million (2010: €544 million) are due within one instruments at the closing date could not be reliably determined, they year. The hedged cash flows will be realized within the next two years. were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 159 Notes to the statement of financial position The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized losses from curThe available-for sale non-current financial assets comprise €60 million rency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income in 2011, (2010: €50 million) in bearer securities of an exchange-traded index €18 million will be reclassifiable from equity to profit or loss in 2012 fund. Accounts receivable of €6 million (2010: €8 million) relate to and €7 million in 2013 (2010: €3 million expected to be reclassifilease agreements in which the other party, as lessee, is to be regarded able in 2011 and €5 million in 2012). as the economic owner of the leased assets (finance leases). The other financial receivables mainly comprise fixed-term investments As of December 31, 2011 the unrealized losses recognized in other with short fixed-interest periods. Write-downs of other financial assets comprehensive income in 2011 or earlier periods from forward comamounted to €9 million (2010: €10 million). modity contracts that qualified for hedge accounting amounted to €1 million (2010: €2 million gains). In 2011, a gain of €3 million The leasing receivables are due as follows: (2010: €2 million) was reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions. Hedges comprised forMaturity Structure of Lease Payments ward commodity contracts with positive fair values of €0 million on € million Dec. 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 (2010: €4 million) and negative fair values of Lease Interest Leasing €2 million (2010: €0 million). The total notional amount of these payments portion receivables hedges was €22 million (2010: €19 million), including €22 million Up to 1 year 2 0 2 (2010: €19 million) due within one year. The hedged cash flows will 1 to 5 years 7 1 6 be realized within one year. 9 1 8 The LANXESS Group expects that of the unrealized losses from forward Maturity Structure of Lease Payments commodity contracts recognized in other comprehensive income in € million Dec. 31, 2011 2011 (2010: unrealized gains), €1 million will be reclassifiable from Lease Interest Leasing equity to profit or loss in 2012 (2010: €2 million of unrealized gains payments portion receivables reclassifiable in 2011). Up to 1 year 3 1 2 1 to 5 years 4 0 4 Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities 7 1 6 is given in Note [35]. 7 Other non-current assets 6 Other non-current and current financial assets Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less write-downs. Other Financial Assets No write-downs were necessary in 2010 or 2011. € million Dec. 31, 2010 Non-current Current Total Other non-current assets comprised: Available-for-sale financial assets 51 1 52 Other Non-Current Assets Receivables under finance leases 6 2 8 Other financial receivables 17 55 72 € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2010 2011 74 58 132 Receivables from pension obligations 81 85 Other receivables 32 35 Other Financial Assets 113 120 € million Dec. 31, 2011 Non-current Current Total The increase in receivables from pension obligations was mainly attributable to an increase in the value of the underlying assets. Other Available-for-sale financial assets 61 1 62 receivables include security deposits. Receivables under finance leases 4 2 6 Other financial receivables 17 24 41 82 27 109 160 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 8 Inventories The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as follows: The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised: Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Inventories 2010 2011 € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Carrying amount 942 1,146 2010 2011 of which neither impaired nor past due 850 1,033 Raw materials and supplies 243 271 of which unimpaired but past due by Work in process, finished goods and merchandise 851 1,115 up to 30 days 75 85 1,094 1,386 between 31 and 60 days 7 9 between 61 and 90 days 1 1 more than 90 days 3 3 Inventories of €184 million (2010: €157 million) are reflected at their net realizable value. With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past Write-downs of inventories were as follows: due, there were no indications as of the closing date that the respective debtors would not meet their payment obligations. Write-Downs of Inventories € million 2010 2011 Balance at beginning of year (79) (62) 10 Near-cash assets Additions charged as expenses (18) (59) Reversals/utilization 38 20 The near-cash assets of €350 million (2010: €364 million) comprise Exchange differences (3) 0 units of money market funds that can be sold at any time and are Balance at end of year (62) (101) expected to be realized within twelve months after the closing date. 9 Trade receivables 11 Other current assets Trade receivables are stated after write-downs of €13 million (2010: Other receivables and other assets totaling €230 million (2010: €19 million) for amounts unlikely to be recovered. These write-downs €222 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs. They related to gross receivables of €28 million (2010: €25 million). principally comprise miscellaneous claims for tax refunds (mainly sales taxes) amounting to €182 million (2010: €109 million) and other All trade receivables – totaling €1,146 million (2010: €942 miladvance payments. Write-downs totaled €1 million (2010: €1 million). lion) – are due within one year. Trade receivables of €6 million (2010: €3 million) related to other affiliated companies and €1,140 million (2010: €939 million) to other customers. 12 Equity Changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows: Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management Write-Downs of Trade Receivables until May 17, 2016 to acquire shares in the company representing € million 2010 2011 up to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose Balance at beginning of year (22) (19) permitted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiarAdditions charged as expenses (4) (3) ies of the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or Reversals/utilization 8 8 its subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such Exchange differences (1) 1 shares may be acquired either in the market or via a public tender Balance at end of year (19) (13) offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of companies or equity interests in companies Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 161 Notes to the statement of financial position or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized to use them to In addition, pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant bonds and/or articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of these 2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, instruments) issued by the company and to grant holders of convertible with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the comor warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or income bonds pany’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the company or shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of its direct and indirect affiliates that grant a conversion or option right €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are generally or stipulate a conversion or warrant obligation the number of shares entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can of their conversion or option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of warrant obligation. The stockholders shall not have subscription rights warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates in such cases, except where the shares are retired. subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion Capital stock The capital stock of LANXESS AG was €83,202,670 and or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with thus unchanged from the previous year. It is divided into 83,202,670 the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders Authorized capital As of December 31, 2011 the company’s authoof convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its rized capital comprised the following: affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 2 of if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued Meeting on May 7, 2009 authorized the Board of Management until shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further May 6, 2014, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount Conditional capital As of December 31, 2011 the company’s conof €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally ditional capital comprised the following: entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of Management until May 17, warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parmore installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profitties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – either as registered or the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital as bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000, stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or imacquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded pose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligaaffiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription tions on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the bearer shares of the company representing a total pro-rata increase stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued of up to €16,640,543 in the company’s capital stock on the terms shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 4 of details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus conditionally increased by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). 162 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the extent Capital reserves The capital reserves of LANXESS AG were unchanged that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option from the previous year at €806,195,490. or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against Other reserves The €244 million increase in other reserves to cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent €943 million was entirely attributable to the increase in retained earncompany, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of the authorization ings from €541 million to €785 million. granted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or conversion rights Retained earnings comprised prior years’ undistributed income of or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the companies included in the consolidated financial statements. They extent that the company elects to grant shares in the company in place also contained actuarial gains and losses along with the effects of the of all or part of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit capital increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is plans and the associated tax effects. granted or if the company’s own shares, shares issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed company are used to service Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests comprised the the option or conversion rights. interests held by other stockholders in the equity of DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany; EUROPIGMENTS S.L., Barcelona, Spain; When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with and Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao, China. The year-onthe approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights year change was entirely related to the earnings for 2011. in the following cases: • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; Capital management The main purpose of capital management in the • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued option LANXESS Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the Group’s or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the numoperations and achieve an attractive return on sales and capital comber of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe as pared to the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights or defines a second key criterion for capital management, which is to fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations; maintain an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the Group • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue price is has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most of these are not significantly below the theoretical market value of the bonds with derived from the statement of financial position, income statement option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined and cash flow data. Capital management in the LANXESS Group using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued by application of entails decisions by the relevant internal bodies on the capital structure Section 186 Paragraph 3 Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporashown on the statement of financial position, the appropriateness of tion Act, in which case the issued shares may not exceed a total of the company’s equity, the distribution of the profit, the amount of the 10% of the capital stock either at the time this authorization takes dividend, the financing of capital expenditures and borrowing and the effect or at the time it is utilized; repayment of debt. The articles of association of LANXESS AG do not • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or concontain any specific capital requirements. version rights or conversion obligations are vested with bond-like characteristics. 13 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement benefits on the basis of statutory regulations or contractual agreements. These are provided through both defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 163 Notes to the statement of financial position In the case of defined-contribution plans, the company pays contribuThe Bayer Pensionskasse assumes any pension adjustments in tions into separate pension funds. These contributions are included in accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational Pensions the respective functional cost items as expenses for the year, and thus Improvement Act (BetrAVG) insofar as the necessary funds are made in the operating result. Once the contributions have been paid, the available to it. Pension adjustments not expected to be assumed by company has no further payment obligations. In 2011 these expenses the Bayer Pensionskasse are accounted for by LANXESS as a separate totaled €38 million (2010: €34 million). defined-benefit plan. The pension plan financed through the Bayer Pensionskasse is also Pension plans based on statutory regulations mainly comprise an reflected in the consolidated financial statements as a defined-conobligation to pay a lump sum when employment ends. The amount tribution plan. The above amounts include contributions of €21 mildepends principally on years of service and final salary. lion (2010: €21 million) to this pension fund. In 2011 the Bayer Pensionskasse decided to increase future contribution rates to cover Pension plans based on contractual agreements generally comprise its long-term pension obligations. Accordingly, contributions are exlifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disability or when pected to increase to around €28 million for 2012. the employee reaches a certain age. Benefits are normally based on employees’ salaries and years of service. The Bayer Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Supervision Alongside retirement benefits, pension and other post-employment Act. The obligation of the plan sponsors is not confined to payment benefit obligations include the obligation of Group companies in the of the contributions for the respective fiscal year. Therefore the Bayer Americas to reimburse healthcare costs to retirees. Pensionskasse is a defined-benefit plan sponsored by multiple employers and would normally have to be accounted for proportionately as Benefit entitlements are financed either internally through provisions a defined-benefit plan. or externally through legally independent pension funds. The pension commitments in Germany are partly covered by the LANXESS Pension The Bayer Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverage Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany (CTA). for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means that the sum The provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits recof existing plan assets and the present value of future contributions ognized in the statement of financial position reflect the present value must be at least equal to the present value of the future benefits payof the defined-benefit obligation at year end, taking into account exable under the plan. The LANXESS Group is therefore exposed to the pected future benefit increases, less the year-end fair value of external actuarial risks of the other plan sponsors of the Bayer Pensionskasse plan assets adjusted for unrecognized past service cost, unrealizable and thus has no consistent or reliable basis for allocating the benefit plan assets and minimum funding requirements. The defined-benefit obligation, plan assets and costs to account for the Bayer Pensionsobligation is measured regularly – at least every three years – by an kasse as a defined-benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. There is no independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Cominformation available on overor underfunding that could be used to prehensive actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for estimate any impact on future contributions. The Bayer Pensionskasse all major pension plans. The discount rates used to compute present is therefore accounted for as a defined-contribution plan and not as value normally correspond to the yields on high-quality corporate a defined-benefit plan. bonds with the same maturities. Total expenses for defined-benefit plans in 2011 amounted to €47 million (2010: €38 million). Expenses for pension payments, and the effect of plan curtailments, settlements and divestments totaling €38 million (2010: €33 million), are recognized in the operating result. The interest cost pertaining to pension entitlements earned in prior years and the expected return on plan assets totaled €9 million (2010: €5 million). This amount was reflected in the financial result. 164 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The costs for the plans comprise the following: The net recognized liability is reflected in the following items in the statement of financial position: Costs for Defined-Benefit Plans € million Pension Other postNet Recognized Liability as of Dec. 31 obligations employment benefit € million 2010 2011 obligations Provisions for pensions and other 2010 2011 2010 2011 post-employment benefits 605 679 Current service cost 18 22 12 7 Other non-current assets (81) (85) Past service cost 0 1 0 0 Net recognized liability 524 594 Interest cost 84 89 7 7 Expected return on plan assets (86) (87) 0 0 The defined-benefit obligation and plan assets changed as follows Plan curtailments, settlements and divestments 3 8 0 0 in 2011: 19 33 19 14 Change in Defined-Benefit Obligation as of Dec. 31 The reconciliation of the defined-benefit obligation to the net amounts € million Pension Other postof assets and provisions recognized in the statement of financial obligations employment benefit obligations position is as follows: 2010 2011 2010 2011 Reconciliation to Net Recognized Liability as of Dec. 31 Defined-benefit obligation Benefit obligation at € million Pension Other postbeginning of year 1,117 1,419 114 125 obligations employment benefit Current service cost 18 22 12 7 obligations Past service cost 0 1 – – 2010 2011 2010 2011 Interest cost 84 89 7 7 Defined benefit obligation (funded) 1,279 1,347 7 6 Employee contributions 2 2 – – External plan assets (1,105) (1,156) (3) (4) Plan settlements (6) (34) – – Underfunding 174 191 4 2 Actuarial gains/losses 188 137 2 1 Defined benefit obligation Benefits paid (67) (74) (17) (13) (unfunded) 140 187 118 120 Acquisitions/divestments 0 0 – – Unrecognized past service cost (1) (1) 1 0 Plan curtailments 0 0 0 0 Effects of asset ceiling and Exchange differences 83 (28) 7 (1) minimum funding requirements 88 95 – – Benefit obligation at end of year 1,419 1,534 125 126 Net recognized liability 401 472 123 122 Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position Receivables from pension obligations (81) (85) – – Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 482 557 123 122 Net recognized liability 401 472 123 122 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 165 Notes to the statement of financial position Change in Plan Assets as of Dec. 31 pension payments are made directly out of external pension assets € million Pension Other posttotaled €19 million in 2011 (2010: €21 million). obligations employment benefit obligations It is not possible to reliably estimate the employer contributions to 2010 2011 2010 2011 defined-benefit plans in the next fiscal year. These depend mainly on Fair value of plan assets future decisions by the company’s management and on the regulatory Plan assets at beginning of year 876 1,105 3 3 environment in each country. Expected return on plan assets 86 87 0 0 Actuarial gains/losses 5 52 0 0 The following table shows the actuarial gains and losses recognized Acquisitions/divestments – 0 – – outside profit or loss as a component of other comprehensive income, Plan settlements (9) (42) – – Employer contributions 96 48 0 1 the effects of the asset ceiling recognized in other comprehensive Employee contributions 2 2 – – income, and the minimum funding requirements: Benefits paid (52) (57) 0 0 Exchange differences 101 (39) 0 0 Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income Plan assets at end of year 1,105 1,156 3 4 € million Pension Other postobligations employment benefit obligations Employer contributions contain both allocations to externally financed pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursement of 2010 2011 2010 2011 pension payments and externally financed pension obligations where Actuarial gains/losses (183) (85) (2) (1) subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of external Effects of asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements 78 (10) – – pension assets. (105) (95) (2) (1) Allocations to external financing where LANXESS can claim reimbursement of payments made (CTA) amounted to €30 million (2010: The accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognized in other com€75 million). Allocations to external financing where subsequent prehensive income at year end 2011 amounted to minus €385 million (2010: minus €302 million). The actuarial gains and losses are assigned to the following categories: Categories of Actuarial Gains/Losses as of Dec. 31 € million Pension obligations Other post-employment benefit obligations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets 1 (50) 15 5 52 0 0 0 0 0 Experience adjustments (23) (26) 36 (54) (39) (3) 0 (2) 4 4 Adjustments for changes in valuation assumptions 95 90 (81) (134) (98) 7 6 (6) (6) (5) Net actuarial gain/loss for the year 73 14 (30) (183) (85) 4 6 (8) (2) (1) 166 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Experience adjustments represent changes in benefit obligations other Group companies. Employee turnover rates are estimated on arising from differences between actuarial assumptions and actual the basis of age and gender. developments during the year. By contrast, adjustments for changes in valuation assumptions reflect differences in the benefit obligation The discount rate used to calculate the present value of pension and resulting from differences in the assumptions made at the start and other post-employment benefit obligations is derived from the yield end of the year. on high-quality corporate bonds with the same maturity. An increase of 0.5 percentage point in the discount rate would reduce pension The increase in the adjustments for changes in valuation assumpobligations by €105 million (2010: €90 million) and other posttions is primarily due to the decline in discount rates in the principal employment benefit obligations by €6 million (2010: €5 million). countries in which LANXESS has pension obligations. A reduction of 0.5 percentage point in the discount rate would have largely the opposite effect. The actual return on plan assets in 2011 amounted to €139 million (2010: €91 million). The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place within about five years. The following weighted parameters were used to calculate benefit expense and obligations: Assuming all other parameters remain unchanged, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumptions relating to the expected Assumptions as of Dec. 31 long-term increase in medical costs would raise or reduce the present % Pension Other postvalue of the defined-benefit obligation by €9 million (2010: €8 milobligations employment benefit lion). The costs for healthcare plans would not materially increase or obligations decrease. 2010 2011 2010 2011 Discount rate 6.7 6.2 6.3 5.7 The plan assets now comprise: Expected salary increases 4.0 3.6 4.1 3.8 Expected pension increases 2.1 2.1 – – Breakdown of Plan Assets as of Dec. 31 Expected return on plan assets 8.7 7.8 5.8 5.8 % of plan assets 2010 2011 Expected increase in the cost of medical care – – 8.6 8.4 Fixed-income securities 62.8 58.1 Expected long-term increase in Equity instruments 22.7 25.7 the cost of medical care – – 5.5 5.5 Real estate 2.1 2.0 Other 12.4 14.2 The discount rate is weighted on the basis of the benefit obligation for 100.0 100.0 each pension plan at year end, including all plans in the calculation. By contrast, the weighting of the percentage for the expected return on The expected return on each category of plan assets was calculated plan assets only includes pension plans with plan assets. The weighton the basis of generally available and internal capital market reports ing is based on the plan assets at year end. The weighted valuation and forecasts. The expected return on fixed-income securities is based assumptions also reflect country-specific differences. on the maturity of the portfolio and the yields on the closing date. The expected return on equity instruments reflects the long-term return The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric basis for expectations for the underlying equity portfolio. the computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national biometric assumptions are used to compute benefit obligations at The table below shows the defined-benefit obligation and plan assets at the end of each year: Funded Status as of Dec. 31 € million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Defined benefit obligation 967 1,049 1,231 1,544 1,660 External plan assets (491) (668) (879) (1,108) (1,160) Underfunding 476 381 352 436 500 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 167 Notes to the statement of financial position 14 Other non-current and current provisions These comprise: Other Provisions € million Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 151 92 38 281 172 85 30 287 Environmental protection 29 31 68 128 23 34 77 134 Trade-related commitments 97 32 – 129 115 11 – 126 Restructuring 26 23 12 61 23 31 6 60 Miscellaneous 119 43 12 174 113 45 12 170 422 221 130 773 446 206 125 777 Provisions changed as follows in 2011: Changes in Other Provisions in 2011 € million Jan. 1, 2011 Allocations Interest effect Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, differences 2011 Personnel 281 153 4 (137) (10) (4) 287 Environmental protection 128 21 4 (11) (7) (1) 134 Trade-related commitments 129 65 0 (41) (26) (1) 126 Restructuring 61 29 0 (14) (16) 0 60 Miscellaneous 174 57 4 (35) (23) (7) 170 773 325 12 (238) (82) (13) 777 Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions mainly Stock Performance Plan 2005–2007 If LANXESS stock performs in relate to annual performance-related compensation and multi-year line with this index, a payment of €0.75 per right is made. For each compensation programs. percentage point up to 10% by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.025 is paid in addition. For each percentage point above 10%, Multi-year compensation programs €0.05 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €1.50. Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP) LANXESS AG offers a long-term incentive program to members of the Management Board and certain Members of the Board of Management and senior managers were other managers. This program provides for cash settlement. Followentitled to take part in the Stock Performance Plan 2005–2007. Eligiing the granting of rights under two consecutive three-year programs bility for this plan was contingent upon participation in the Economic launched in 2005, a new program was introduced in 2010 under Value Plan described below. which rights are being granted for the years 2010 to 2013. The date of issue of the rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from Stock Performance Plan 2008–2010 If LANXESS stock outperforms the outstanding tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the the index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each LTIP is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment percentage point up to 5% by which the stock outperforms the inin LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. dex, €0.05 is paid in addition. For each percentage point above 5%, €0.06667 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per Whereas the first program comprised a share-based component (Stock right, however, is €2.00. Performance Plan 2005–2007) and a non-share-based component (Economic Value Plan), the subsequent programs are entirely shareStock Performance Plan 2010–2013 If LANXESS stock outperforms based (Stock Performance Plan 2008–2010 and Stock Performance the index, a payment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each Plan 2010–2013). percentage point by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, Stock Performance Plan Awards under the Stock Performance Plan is €2.00. are based on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index. 168 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Members of the Board of Management and senior managers are LANXESS shares were trading at €40.00 at year end 2011, and the entitled to take part in the Stock Performance Plan 2008–2010 and reference index stood at 513.19 points. the Stock Performance Plan 2010–2013. The net expense in 2011 totaled €13 million (2010: €40 million). Obligations arising from the Stock Performance Plan are valued on While rights from the 2007 tranche were exercised at an average the basis of the following principal parameters: value of €0.78, the rights from the 2008 tranche were exercised at the maximum value. As of December 31, 2011, a provision of €38 milPrincipal Parameters as of Dec. 31 lion (2010: €46 million) had been established. Of this amount, the % 2010 2011 intrinsic value of rights exercisable as of the closing date accounted for €1 million (2010: €1 million). Expected share price volatility 40.0 41.0 Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 Expected index volatility 20.0 23.0 Economic Value Plan Awards under the Economic Value Plan Correlation between LANXESS stock were dependent on the development of the economic value of the and the index 70.0 81.0 LANXESS Group. The Economic Value Plan ended in 2011 following Risk-free interest rate 0.7 0.4 the disbursement to eligible participants of the provision of €9 million established as of December 31, 2010. The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index Environmental provisions The Group’s activities are subject to extenin the past two years. sive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Compliance with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove The following table provides information on the tranches outstanding or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances as of December 31, 2011: at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous site Stock Performance Plan SP Plan SP Plan 2008–2010 SP Plan 2010–2013 2005–2007 Tranche 2007 Tranche 2008 Tranche 2009 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2011 Duration 5 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 7 years 7 years Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 4 years 4 years Holding period for personal investment shares Jan. 31, 2010 Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Initial LANXESS share price €40.79 €24.03 €12.86 €27.28 €27.28 €55.60 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index price 431.50 points 465.97 points 317.39 points 432.44 points 432.44 points 564.17 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2010 €1.10 €2.00 €1.98 €1.46 €1.31 – Fair value per right as of December 31, 2011 €0.04 €2.00 €2.00 €1.20 €1.04 €0.27 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2011 1,002,155 10,746,985 11,966,222 13,186,165 12,312,495 0 Rights granted – – – – – 12,280,036 Rights exercised 639,950 10,208,485 – – – – Rights compensated – – 243,897 131,897 162,641 122,428 Rights forfeited – – 598,333 765,623 1,442,900 451,510 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2011 362,205 538,500 11,123,992 12,288,645 10,706,954 11,706,098 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 169 Notes to the statement of financial position owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of removing no future economic benefit is expected to arise from these measures. hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on its property Costs are estimated based on significant factors such as previous expeor neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard rience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused the presence and new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current of contaminants, and often regardless of whether the practices that environmental laws and regulations, the number of other potentially resulted in contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As many responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial position of LANXESS’s production sites have a long history of industrial use, it of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the liability, is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such situations and the remediation methods likely to be employed. may have on the LANXESS Group in the future. It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore canand remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal not be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have requirements and the information available about conditions in the occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard could be various countries and at specific sites. Subject to these factors, but brought by government agencies, private organizations or individuals. taking into consideration experience gained to date with matters of a Such claims would then relate to the remediation of sites or other land similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon that the LANXESS Group acquired from the Bayer Group or from currently available information. However, the possibility that additional third parties, where materials were produced specifically for third parcosts could be incurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be ties under contract manufacturing agreements or where waste from excluded. LANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional costs, production facilities operated by the LANXESS Group was treated, should they occur, would not materially impact the Group’s financial stored or disposed of. position or results of operations. Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under legislation Trade-related commitments Provisions for trade-related commitments such as the U.S. environment law commonly known as “Superfund.” At mainly comprise those for rebates, customer discounts, product locations in the U.S., numerous companies, including LANXESS, have returns, outstanding invoices, impending losses and onerous contracts. been notified that the U.S. authorities or private individuals consider such companies to be potentially responsible parties under Superfund Provisions for restructuring Of the restructuring provisions existing as or related laws. At some sites, LANXESS may be the sole responsible of December 31, 2010, a total amount of €14 million was utilized party. Remediation measures have already been initiated at most of in 2011. €29 million was allocated in 2011 to provisions for further the sites concerned. restructuring programs. The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs relate Provisions for restructuring totaled €60 million (2010: €61 million) on primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of December 31, 2011. Of this amount, €45 million (2010: €39 million) landfills, and redevelopment and water protection measures. The procomprised provisions for severance payments and other personnel visions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present expenses and €15 million (2010: €22 million) comprised provisions value of the expected commitments where environmental assessments for demolition and other expenses. or clean-ups are probable, the costs can be reasonably estimated and 170 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Miscellaneous provisions covered, by insurance and that could materially affect the business operations, revenues, earnings and cash flows of the LANXESS Group. Legal risks The LANXESS Group is involved in numerous legal disputes. As an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to Sundry provisions The sundry provisions contain provisions for guaranadministrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business tees, product liability, waste management commitments not included and may be again in the future. in environmental provisions, and provisions for other liabilities. Administrative and court proceedings generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are therefore subject to a number of 15 Other non-current and current financial liabilities imponderables. The outcomes of any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. It is therefore possible that legal The following tables show the structure and maturities of other finanjudgments could give rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully cial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2010 € million Current Non-current 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 > 2015 Total Bonds 401 496 198 1,095 Liabilities to banks 124 57 14 13 12 30 126 Liabilities under finance leases 11 10 34 6 4 25 79 Other primary financial liabilities 41 2 2 176 468 48 515 16 255 1,302 Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011 € million Current Non-current 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 > 2016 Total Bonds 401 497 199 496 1,192 Liabilities to banks 159 27 35 34 34 61 191 Liabilities under finance leases 11 35 7 4 5 22 73 Other primary financial liabilities 62 2 3 3 1 9 633 62 541 41 241 580 1,465 The LANXESS Group has placed the following bonds on the capital market: Bonds Issuance Amount Interest rate Maturity € million % June 2005 500 4.125 June 2012 April 2009 500 7.750 April 2014 September 2009 200 5.500 September 2016 May 2011 500 4.125 May 2018 In September 2009, LANXESS partially redeemed the bond issued in June 2005, reducing the outstanding nominal amount to €402 million. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 171 Notes to the statement of financial position The weighted average interest rate for financial liabilities in the 17 Other non-current and current liabilities LANXESS Group at year end was 5.3% (2010: 5.9%). The other non-current liabilities totaling €89 million (2010: €95 milLiabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased assets lion) mainly include asset subsidies of €71 million (2010: €79 million) are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the economic granted by third parties. property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments totaling €100 million (2010: €110 million), including €16 million (2010: The other current liabilities are recognized at settlement cost. They €20 million) in interest, are to be made to lessors in future years. comprise: Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest of €55 million Other Current Liabilities (2010: €41 million) on financial liabilities. Of this amount, €53 million € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, (2010: €40 million) relates to the above-mentioned bonds. 2010 2011 Tax liabilities 42 59 Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the contractually Payroll liabilities 21 27 agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [35]. Social security liabilities 20 24 Miscellaneous liabilities 49 45 132 155 16 Non-current and current income tax liabilities Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own tax liabiliThe non-current and current income tax liabilities comprise: ties, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf of third parties. Income Tax Liabilities € million Dec. 31, 2010 Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contriNon-current Current Total butions that had not been paid by the closing date. Provisions 41 33 74 The miscellaneous liabilities include guarantees, commission payments Payables 9 1 10 50 34 84 to customers and reimbursements of expenses. As in the previous year, there were no such liabilities to other affiliated companies. Income Tax Liabilities € million Dec. 31, 2011 18 Trade payables Non-current Current Total Trade accounts were mainly payable to third parties. As in the previous Provisions 55 43 98 year, the entire amount totaling €766 million (2010: €664 million) Payables 8 6 14 63 49 112 is due within one year. Trade payables of €35 million (2010: €26 million) related to companies accounted for using the equity method and €731 million (2010: €638 million) to other suppliers. 19 Further information on liabilities Of the total liabilities, €586 million (2010: €261 million) had maturities of more than five years. The increase from the previous year was mainly due to the issue of the €500 million Benchmark Bond that matures in 2018. 172 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Notes to the income statement 23 Research and development expenses The research and development expenses of €144 million (2010: 20 Sales €116 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alternaSales, amounting in 2011 to €8,775 million (2010: €7,120 million), tive products and production processes, and costs for applying the mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates. results of research. A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region is given in the segment information (see Note [37]). 24 General administration expenses General administration expenses comprise costs not directly related 21 Cost of sales to operational business processes and the costs for the country organizations. Cost of Sales € million 2010 2011 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 3,451 4,570 25 Other operating income Direct manufacturing and other production costs 1,930 2,195 5,381 6,765 Other Operating Income € million 2010 2011 Direct manufacturing costs include those for personnel, depreciation, Income from non-core business 124 93 impairments, energies, and goods and services procured. The other Income from the reversal of provisions 24 29 production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and Income from hedging with derivative inventory discrepancies. financial instruments 0 16 Income from reversals of write-downs of receivables and other assets 6 4 Gains from the disposal of non-current assets 1 3 22 Selling expenses Miscellaneous operating income 34 34 189 179 Selling Expenses € million 2010 2011 Marketing costs 375 440 26 Other operating expenses Outward freight charges and other selling expenses 271 292 Other Operating Expenses 646 732 € million 2010 2011 Expenses for non-core business 108 72 The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal and exterExpenses for allocations to restructuring provisions 11 29 nal marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing, Write-downs of trade receivables and packaging and the provision of advice to customers. other current assets 4 3 Losses from the disposal of non-current assets 1 1 Expenses for hedging with derivative financial instruments 20 0 Miscellaneous operating expenses 117 107 261 212 Miscellaneous operating expenses include allocations to environmental provisions, expenses for designing and implementing IT projects, and costs incurred for corporate transactions. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Notes to the income statement 27 Financial result The actual tax expense for 2011 was €148 million (2010: €112 million). This figure differed by €58 million (2010: €42 million) from the The financial result is comprised as follows: expected tax expense of €206 million (2010: €154 million). Financial Result The expected tax expense for the LANXESS Group is calculated by € million 2010 2011 applying an overall tax rate of 31.5% (2010: 31.2%) for the German Income from investments accounted for companies. This comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a using the equity method 16 7 solidarity surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax. Interest income 10 11 Interest expense (93) (104) The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax result Net interest expense (83) (93) is as follows: Interest portion of interest-bearing provisions (18) (21) Net exchange loss (16) (4) Reconciliation to Reported Tax Income Miscellaneous financial expenses (12) (9) Dividends and income from other € million 2010 2011 affiliated companies (1) (1) Other financial income and expense (47) (35) Income before income taxes 493 655 Financial result (114) (121) Aggregated income tax rate of LANXESS AG 31.2% 31.5% Expected tax expense (154) (206) Tax difference due to differences between local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate 52 75 Interest expense mainly includes payments of bond interest. This Reduction in taxes due to amount has been adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of €12 miltax-free income and reduction of tax bases 8 7 lion (2010: €1 million). In compliance with IAS 17, the interest portion utilization of unrecognized loss carryforwards 3 25 of the lease payments under finance leases amounting to €4 million Increase in taxes due to (2010: €5 million) is included in interest expense. Income from investnon-tax-deductible expenses (6) (5) Other tax effects (15) (44) ments accounted for using the equity method comprises the €7 million Actual tax result (112) (148) (2010: €16 million) share in the income of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Effective tax rate 22.7% 22.6% Leverkusen, Germany, that is attributable to LANXESS. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the various items 28 Income taxes of the statement of financial position as follows: This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual Deferred Taxes countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the € million Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2011 basis of local tax rates. Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred tax tax tax tax assets liabilities assets liabilities The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: Intangible assets 8 17 7 40 Income Taxes by Origin Property, plant and equipment 4 136 4 146 Inventories 13 3 38 4 € million 2010 2011 Receivables and other assets 5 66 5 39 Current taxes (60) (129) Pension provisions 83 0 98 0 Deferred taxes resulting from Other provisions 104 0 110 0 temporary differences (37) 13 Liabilities 55 5 49 11 statutory changes in tax rates 0 (1) Loss carryforwards 85 – 50 – loss carryforwards (15) (31) 357 227 361 240 Income taxes (112) (148) of which non-current 180 180 159 214 Set-off (187) (187) (165) (165) 170 40 196 75 174 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: 29 Earnings and dividend per share Changes in Deferred Taxes The calculation of earnings per share for 2011 was based on the € million 2010 2011 weighted average number of shares outstanding (83,202,670 shares), including only earnings from continuing operations and disregardDeferred taxes as of January 1 125 130 Tax income/expense recognized in the ing the effects of accounting changes. Since there are currently no income statement (52) (19) equity instruments in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic Changes in scope of consolidation – (31) and diluted earnings per share are identical. Further information on Taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 49 41 equity instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future Exchange differences 8 0 is contained in Note [12]. Deferred taxes as of December 31 130 121 Earnings per Share The deferred income taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 2010 2011 Change in % comprised €29 million (2010: €39 million) relating to actuarial gains Net income (€ million) 379 506 33.5 and losses, the impact of the asset ceiling and minimum funding reNumber of outstanding shares quirements for defined-benefit pension plans, and €12 million (2010: (weighted) 83,198.3601) 83,202,670 0.0 Earnings per share €10 million) relating to financial instruments. (undiluted/diluted) (€) 4.56 6.08 33.3 1) The difference between this figure and the capital stock of €83,202,670 in 2010 results from the Deferred tax assets of €35 million (2010: €140 million) related to tax weighted inclusion of a temporary holding of the company’s own shares. jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2011 or 2010. In this respect, the LANXESS Group has taken into consideration tax planning LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €115 million for fiscal calculations and customary and feasible tax strategies. 2011 (2010: €104 million). The dividend payment made to shareholders of LANXESS AG in 2011 amounted to €0.70 per share (2010: Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of €0.50 per share). €50 million (2010: €85 million) were recognized on the €164 million (2010: €274 million) in tax loss carryforwards that represent income likely to be realized in the future. 30 Personnel expenses Deferred taxes were not recognized for €206 million (2010: €208 milThe breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: lion) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €195 million (2010: €200 million) can theoretically be utilized over more than five years. Personnel Expenses Further, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2011 for tax€ million 2010 2011 deductible temporary differences of €45 million (2010: €34 million). Wages and salaries 912 985 Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €65 million (2010: Social security contributions 160 174 €66 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary Retirement benefit expenses 61 77 differences of €15 million (2010: €13 million) were not recognized. Social assistance benefits 8 8 1,141 1,244 The increase compared to the previous year is principally due to salary adjustments, higher annual performance-related compensation and acquisitions made in 2011. Personnel expenses do not include the interest portion of personnel-related provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the financial result (see Note [27]). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 175 Notes to the income statement | Other information Other information The minimum non-discounted future payments pertaining to operating leases total €418 million (2010: €235 million). The increase in the 31 Employees amount of these future payments compared to 2010 is mainly due to the construction of the new site in Singapore and the signing of The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group in 2011 the rental agreement for the Group’s new headquarters in Cologne, was 15,849 (2010: 14,475). The increase compared to the previous Germany. year was mainly due to acquisitions made in 2011 and new hires at one of our sites in South Africa. The respective payment obligations mature as follows: Employees by Function Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments 2010 2011 € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2010 2011 Production 10,470 11,421 Marketing 1,882 1,976 Up to 1 year 31 39 Administration 1,632 1,757 1 to 2 years 27 41 Research 491 695 2 to 3 years 25 39 14,475 15,849 3 to 4 years 22 35 4 to 5 years 21 29 More than 5 years 109 235 235 418 32 Contingent liabilities and other financial commitments Payments under operating leases amounted to €39 million in 2011 Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2011 amounted to €12 mil(2010: €32 million). The year-on-year increase was mainly due to the lion (2010: €4 million). They resulted from guarantees and similar expansion of the operational business. instruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential future commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purwould create an obligation that was uncertain at the closing date. An chase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the projects in the area of property, plant and equipment total €284 million event of delayed settlement or insolvency on the part of the debtor. (2010: €197 million). The increase is principally attributable to the construction of the new site in Singapore and a capital expenditure As a personally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, project at one of our sites in South Africa. Of the respective payments, Germany, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital into this €211 million are due in 2012, €71 million in 2013 and €2 million company in the future. in 2014. Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities, financial Description of the master agreement Under the master agreement that commitments also exist under operating leases. was concluded between Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, As explained in the section on recognition and valuation principles, among other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on special transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims in the areas of of the leased assets to the lessee. In the LANXESS Group, operating product liability, environmental contamination and antittrust violations. leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation of financing. of tax effects relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off. 176 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 33 Related parties In addition, service cost of €918 thousand (2010: €588 thousand) relating to defined-benefit pension plans and past service cost of In the course of its operations, LANXESS sources materials, inventories €860 thousand (2010: €0 thousand) was incurred in 2011 for and services from a large number of business partners around the members of the Board of Management as part of their compensation world. These include companies in which LANXESS AG holds a direct package. The present value of obligations as of December 31, 2011 or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies are carried out was €13,166 thousand (2010: €11,195 thousand). on an arm’s-length basis. Payments of €1,799 thousand (2010: €441 thousand) were made to Transactions with companies accounted for in the consolidated former members of the Board of Management. This figure includes the financial statements using the equity method and their subsidiaries above payments to one member who left the Board of Management mainly comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, during 2011. The total obligation for former members of the Board infrastructure and logistics totaling €457 million (2010: €386 million). of Management was €9,478 thousand as of December 31, 2011 As a result of these transactions, trade payables of €35 million (2010: (2010: €6,884 thousand). €26 million) and trade receivables of €6 million (2010: €3 million) existed as of December 31, 2011. Further payment obligations to The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation these companies under operating leases or under purchase agreeof €1,931 thousand in 2011 (2010: €3,448 thousand). The proviments relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure projects in sions established for multi-year compensation for Supervisory Board the area of property, plant and equipment are immaterial. members as of December 31, 2011 amounted to €1,500 thousand (2010: €1,500 thousand). Information on the compensation of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board who are employees of the LANXESS Group received salaries under their employment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented 34 Compensation of the Board of Management appropriate compensation for the employees’ functions and tasks and the Supervisory Board within the Group. Total compensation of €9,370 thousand (2010: €11,365 thouThe compensation amounts for each member of the Board of Managesand) was paid to the members of the Board of Management of ment and the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are listed on pages LANXESS AG for fiscal 2011, comprising €6,698 thousand (2010: 123ff. in the compensation report, which forms part of the audited €6,588 thousand) in annual compensation and €2,264 million (2010: Group Management Report. €4,613 thousand) in multi-year compensation. In addition to the compensation reported as expense in the consolidated financial stateNo loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or ments for 2010, further compensation of €408 thousand for 2010 the Supervisory Board in fiscal 2011 or 2010. was disbursed in 2011 (2010: €164 thousand for 2009). The multi-year compensation includes payments made under the 35 Financial instruments Long-Term Incentive Program (LTIP). 1,822,125 share-based compensation rights were granted in 2011 (2010: 3,999,000). The fair Primary financial instruments are reflected in the statement of financial value of these rights at the grant date was €910 thousand (2010: position. In compliance with IAS 39, asset instruments are categorized €3,210 thousand). Expenses for the LTIP recognized in the consolias “loans and receivables,” “held at fair value through profit or loss,” dated financial statements amounted to €934 thousand (2010: “held to maturity” or “available for sale” and, accordingly, recognized at €8,025 thousand). cost or fair value. Liability instruments that are neither held for trading nor constitute derivatives are carried at amortized cost. Payments of €1,320 thousand (2010: €0 thousand) were made to one member in connection with his leaving the Board of Management during 2011. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 177 Other information Risks and risk management The global alignment of the LANXESS would have no material impact on future cash flows. In the long term, Group exposes its business operations, earnings and cash flows to a however, these exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect cash variety of market risks. Material financial risks to the Group as a whole, flows should the LANXESS Group not be in a position to absorb them, such as currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and commodity price for example, through the pricing of its products in the respective local risks, are managed centrally. currencies. These risks could impair the earnings and financial position of the If the exchange rate for the euro had been 5% higher against all other LANXESS Group. The various risk categories and the risk management currencies on the reporting date, this would have had a €19 million system for the LANXESS Group are outlined below. (2010: €27 million) effect, mainly on other comprehensive income, which would have improved accordingly. This effect mainly relates to The principles of risk management are defined by the Board of Manthe U.S. dollar. A correspondingly lower rate for the euro would have agement. At the regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Comhad basically the opposite effect. mittee, which are chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reports on the outcome of financial risk management and on current risks levels Many companies in the LANXESS Group are based outside the euroare presented and any further action is decided upon. Simulations are zone. Since the Group prepares its consolidated financial statements performed to assess the impact of market trends. The implementation in euros, the annual financial statements of these subsidiaries are of the Financial Risk Committee’s decisions and ongoing risk managetranslated into euros for consolidation purposes. Changes in the avment are undertaken centrally by the Group Function Treasury. The erage exchange rate of a currency from one period to the next can aim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks and materially affect the translation of both sales and earnings reported in to manage and limit their effects as appropriate. this currency (translation risk). Unlike transaction risk, translation risk has no impact on Group cash flows in the local currency. Currency risks Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in numerous currencies, it is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the The LANXESS Group has material assets, liabilities and businesses relative value of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, against outside the eurozone that report in local currencies. The related longthe euro. term currency risk is estimated and evaluated on a regular basis. In view of the risks involved in such cases, however, foreign currency Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instruhedging transactions are only concluded if consideration is being given ments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly to withdrawing from a particular business and it is intended to repatriwhen receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other ate the funds released by the withdrawal. The effects of exchange rate than the company’s local currency. fluctuations on the translation of net positions into euros are reflected in other comprehensive income. Currency risks relating to operating activities are systematically monitored and analyzed. While the risks relating to changes in the value of Interest rate risks Fluctuations in market interest rates can cause receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are fully fluctuations in the overall return on a financial instrument. Interest rate hedged, the scope of hedging for currency risks relating to forecast risk affects both financial assets and financial liabilities. transactions is subject to regular review. A substantial proportion of contractual and foreseeable currency risks are hedged using derivative Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed financial instruments. Changes in the fair values of these instruments interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will only are recognized in the financial result or, in the case of cash flow hedges, have a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. The available liquidity in other comprehensive income. Realized income/expense from the is invested in instruments with short-term fixed interest rates, so that the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognized in other operatLANXESS Group benefits quickly from rising interest rates. A general ing income/expenses. change of one percentage point in interest rates as of December 31, 2011 would have altered Group net income by around €3 million Currency risks arising on financial transactions, including interest, are (2010: €3 million). generally fully hedged, mainly through forward exchange contracts. Credit risks Credit risks arise from trade relationships with customers Since the LANXESS Group concludes derivative contracts for the and dealings with banks and other financial partners, especially with regreater part of its currency risks, it believes that, in the short term, gard to the investment business and financial-instrument transactions. a significant rise or fall in the euro against other major currencies 178 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed, Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from potential financial shortfalls using both internal and external information sources. Customer and the resulting increase in refinancing costs. The aim of liquidity portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the management in the LANXESS Group is to ensure that the Group has risk profile is elevated. The maximum credit risk is mitigated mainly sufficient liquidity and committed credit facilities available at all times through letters of credit and credit insurance agreements in favor of to enable it to meet its payment commitments, and to optimize the the LANXESS Group. Most of LANXESS’s customer risks are insured liquidity balance within the Group. against default with a leading European credit insurer. The €1.4 billion (2010: €1.4 billion) syndicated credit facility, which Since the DSO (days of sales outstanding) period for trade accounts runs through November 2014 and was unused as of the closing date, receivable as of December 31, 2011 ended before the consolidated is a key component in the LANXESS Group’s liquidity management. financial statements were prepared, no significant credit risk exists Further long-term credit facilities amounting to some €450 million were in this regard. arranged in 2011. About €330 million of this amount was unused as of the closing date. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has Credit risk management also includes global management of the counshort-term liquidity reserves of €528 million in the form of cash and terparty risk relating to banks and financial partners. The LANXESS cash equivalents and highly liquid investments in AAA-rated money Group pays particular attention to risk diversification to prevent any market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position cluster risks that could jeopardize its existence. Through master agreebased on a broad range of financing instruments. ments, the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components thereof and derivative financial instruments: Dec. 31, 2010 € million 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 > 2015 Bonds (26) (468) (50) (550) (11) (211) of which interest (26) (66) (50) (50) (11) (11) Liabilities to banks (135) (64) (17) (15) (14) (32) of which interest (12) (6) (3) (2) (2) (2) Trade payables (664) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (15) (14) (37) (8) (5) (31) of which interest (4) (4) (3) (2) (1) (6) Other primary financial liabilities (41) (2) of which interest (41) 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (147) (196) Receipts 131 189 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (318) (1) (1) (11) (13) Receipts 311 1 1 10 12 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (219) (87) (71) Receipts 233 89 71 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (429) 0 0 0 (9) Receipts 432 0 0 0 9 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 179 Other information Dec. 31, 2011 € million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 > 2016 Bonds (436) (70) (570) (32) (232) (541) of which interest (34) (70) (70) (32) (32) (41) Liabilities to banks (167) (33) (40) (38) (37) (63) of which interest (7) (6) (5) (4) (3) (2) Trade payables (766) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (14) (38) (9) (6) (6) (27) of which interest (3) (3) (2) (2) (1) (5) Other primary financial liabilities (62) (1) (3) (3) (2) (1) of which interest (56) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (447) (183) Receipts 417 173 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (788) (2) (13) (18) (24) Receipts 777 2 11 17 23 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (38) (2) Receipts 39 2 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (364) 0 0 (6) Receipts 370 2 0 6 The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities If all raw material prices had been 10% higher or lower on the closdue within one year from the closing date contain accrued interest of ing date, the changes in the fair values of the respective hedging €53 million (2010: €40 million) relating to the bonds. instruments would have increased or decreased other comprehensive income by €2 million (2010: €2 million). Raw material price risks The LANXESS Group is exposed to changes in the market prices of commodities used for its business operations. Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of financial instruIncreases in energy and raw material procurement costs are generally ments The table shows the carrying amounts of the individual classes passed on to customers. Where such increases cannot be passed on of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of in their entirety, the related risks are systematically monitored, evaluated measurement is also shown: and controlled as part of the financial risk management system. The aim is to achieve a deliberate and controlled reduction in the volatility of cash flows and thus the volatility of the company’s economic value by making systematic use of derivatives, for example, for natural gas or n-butane. Where cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting, changes in their fair values are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction is realized. 180 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Dec. 31, 2010 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount category Dec. 31, 2010 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 942 Receivables under finance leases – 8 Other financial receivables LaR 72 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 160 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 364 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 60 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 16 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 6 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,095) Liabilities to banks FLAC (250) Trade payables FLAC (664) Liabilities under finance leases – (90) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (43) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (24) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (10) Dec. 31, 2011 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount category Dec. 31, 2011 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,146 Receivables under finance leases – 6 Other financial receivables LaR 41 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 178 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 350 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 81 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 1 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 15 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,593) Liabilities to banks FLAC (350) Trade payables FLAC (766) Liabilities under finance leases – (84) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (71) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (38) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (15) LaR Loans and Receivables AfS Available-for-Sale Financial Assets FAHfT Financial Assets Held for Trading FLAC Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost FLHfT Financial Liabilities Held for Trading Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 181 Other information Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2010 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value Fair value (other comprehensive (profit or loss) income) 942 942 8 8 72 72 160 160 364 364 8 52 52 16 16 6 6 (1,095) (1,203) (250) (250) (664) (664) (90) (90) (43) (43) (24) (24) (10) (10) Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2011 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value Fair value (other comprehensive (profit or loss) income) 1,146 1,146 6 6 41 41 178 178 350 350 8 73 73 1 1 15 15 (1,593) (1,700) (350) (350) (766) (766) (84) (84) (71) (71) (38) (38) (15) (15) 182 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category Fair Value Measurement Levels € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million Dec. 31, 2011 2010 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Loans and receivables 1,174 1,365 Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 424 431 Near-cash assets 350 – – Financial assets held for trading 6 15 Other available-for-sale financial assets 72 1 – 1,604 1,811 Derivative assets – 16 – Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (2,052) (2,780) Derivative liabilities – (53) – Financial liabilities held for trading (10) (15) (2,062) (2,795) Net result by category The following table provides an overview of the Fair value measurement Fair value measurement is based on a hiernet results based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39: archy that reflects the significance of inputs in the valuation. This comprises three levels: Net Results by IAS 39 Category € million 2010 2011 Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities Loans and receivables 13 14 in active markets Available-for-sale financial assets (1) (10) Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices used within Level 1 that Assets and liabilities held for trading 0 0 are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (101) (100) prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) (89) (96) Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and expense and remeasurement effects. The classification of financial instruments using the fair value hierarchy is as follows: The net result for available-for-sale financial assets includes losses of €7 million (2010: €1 million), which are reflected in other compreFair Value Measurement Levels hensive income. € million Dec. 31, 2010 In addition, fees of €8 million were incurred in 2011 (2010: €15 milLevel 1 Level 2 Level 3 lion) in connection with financial instruments. Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets 364 – – Other available-for-sale financial assets 51 1 – Collateralization of financial liabilities Financial liabilities amounting Derivative assets – 22 – to €15 million (2010: €28 million) were collateralized by mortgages Derivative liabilities – (34) – or other property claims. Mezzanine financing Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in Note [12]. 36 Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows Explanation of the method used to calculate and present cash flows For a general explanation, please see the comments on the statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies and valuation principles.” Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 183 Other information Net cash flow provided by operating activities The net cash inflow lion) net of acquired cash and cash equivalents totaling €41 million from operating activities in 2011 amounted to €672 million (2010: (2010: €0 million) and subsequent purchase price adjustments. Cash €430 million). Income before income taxes, which is the starting point inflows comprised €9 million (2010: €8 million) in interest received for the statement of cash flows, amounted to €655 million (2010: and €1 million (2010: €8 million) in income from other affiliates. This €493 million) after depreciation, amortization and impairments of consisted mainly of inflows from the transfer to LANXESS of the pro€325 million (2010: €283 million). Income taxes paid in 2011 rata share of the income of Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, amounted to €95 million (2010: €114 million). The balance of other Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method. The net cash assets and liabilities showed a year-on-year decrease of €16 million outflow for investing activities was €923 million (2010: €375 million). (2010: €4 million). Cash outflows for the external financing of pension obligations (CTA) comprised payments of €30 million (2010: Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities A net cash in€75 million) to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany. flow of €276 million (2010: outflow of €214 million) was recorded Total payments of €90 million were made in the years prior to 2010. for financing activities. This included a €434 million inflow from net Further information on external financing of the pension obligations borrowings (2010: €81 million outflow for net loan repayments), a is given in Note [13]. €100 million (2010: €91 million) outflow for interest paid and other financial disbursements, and a €58 million (2010: €42 million) outflow Net cash used in investing activities Purchases of intangible assets, for the dividend paid by LANXESS AG in 2011. Details of unused property, plant and equipment led to a cash outflow of €679 million credit facilities are given in Note [35]. in 2011 (2010: €501 million). Of this amount, 71% went for expansions and 29% to maintain existing operating capacities. Cash inflows Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents (cash, checks, from financial assets mainly comprised proceeds from the sale of bank balances) amounted to €178 million (2010: €160 million). In units in money market funds and overnight funds. The acquisition of accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes securities with maturisubsidiaries resulted in a cash outflow of €285 million (2010: €0 milties of up to three months from the date of acquisition. 37 Segment reporting Key Data by Segment € million Performance Advanced Performance Reconciliation LANXESS Polymers Intermediates Chemicals 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 External sales 3,692 5,059 1,411 1,545 1,978 2,130 39 41 7,120 8,775 Inter-segment sales 0 1 47 52 8 10 (55) (63) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 3,692 5,060 1,458 1,597 1,986 2,140 (16) (22) 7,120 8,775 Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals 548 768 259 264 281 289 (170) (175) 918 1,146 Exceptional items affecting EBITDA 1 (9) (19) (5) (24) (17) (28) (45) Segment assets 2,545 3,468 883 941 1,212 1,421 109 135 4,749 5,965 Segment acquisitions 219 120 339 Segment capital expenditures 298 447 101 117 114 113 16 23 529 700 Depreciation and amortization 141 159 57 63 67 77 17 13 282 312 Impairments 0 2 1 7 0 1 0 3 1 13 Segment liabilities 874 1,012 417 454 519 527 459 473 2,269 2,466 Employees (December 31) 4,281 4,977 2,903 2,883 4,907 5,819 2,557 2,711 14,648 16,390 Employees (average for the year) 4,258 4,748 2,920 2,875 4,795 5,574 2,502 2,652 14,475 15,849 2010 figures restated Segment changes made after the closing date for the consolidated financial statements for 2010 involved the transfer of the adipic acid activities from the Semi-Crystalline Products business unit in the Performance Polymers segment to the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment. The previous year’s figures have been restated accordingly. 184 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Key Data by Region € million EMEA (excludGermany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific LANXESS ing Germany) 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 External sales by market 2,038 2,546 1,320 1,569 1,174 1,458 955 1,201 1,633 2,001 7,120 8,775 Non-current region assets 446 706 813 937 385 438 375 431 371 575 2,390 3,087 Acquisitions 108 42 57 118 14 339 Capital expenditures 91 165 193 222 73 53 30 43 142 217 529 700 Employees (December 31) 2,638 3,357 7,590 7,846 1,309 1,427 1,215 1,585 1,896 2,175 14,648 16,390 Notes to the segment reporting The valuation principles applied in The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation provide sersegment reporting correspond to the uniform recognition and valuation vices for more than one segment. They include technical service staff. principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa), On December 31, 2011 the LANXESS Group comprised the followGermany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific. ing reporting segments: Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s place of business. In fiscal 2011, no individual customer of the LANXESS Segment Operations Group accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. Performance Polymers Special-purpose rubbers for high-quality rubber products, e.g. for use in vehicles, tires, construction and Since the earnings figure used for management purposes within the footwear; engineering plastics, polyamide compounds LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and amorAdvanced Intermediates Intermediates for the agrochemicals and coatings industries; fine chemicals as precursors and intermeditization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals, this is the amount reported as the ates for pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty “segment result.” It comprises gross profit, selling expenses, general chemicals; custom manufacturing administration expenses, research and development expenses and Performance Chemicals Material protection products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other other operating income and expenses. It does not include, in particucoatings; finishing agents for the leather industry; lar, depreciation and amortization or exceptional items, which relate rubber chemicals; ion exchange resins for water treatment; plastics additives such as flame retardants and principally to restructuring activities. plasticizers In light of the Group’s central financial management, interest income The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets and expense and income tax income and expense are not reported and liabilities not directly allocable to the core segments including, in at segment level. particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. It also includes the €12 million (2010: €13 million) interest in investments accounted for Reconciliation of Segment Sales using the equity method and the corresponding income of €7 million € million 2010 2011 (2010: €16 million) (see Note [3]). Total segment sales 7,136 8,797 Other/Consolidation (16) (22) The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are Group sales 7,120 8,775 calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable circumstances (arm’s-length principle). Reconciliation of Segment Result € million 2010 2011 Total segment results 1,088 1,321 Depreciation and amortization (283) (325) Other/Consolidation (170) (175) Net interest expense (83) (98) Exceptional items in EBITDA (28) (45) Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 16 7 Other financial income and expense (47) (30) Income before income taxes 493 655 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 185 Other information Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant 38 Audit fees and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In particular, segment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, income tax In 2011, audit fees of €2,714 thousand (2010: €2,485 thousand) for receivables, receivables from derivatives, or other financial assets. the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as expenses. Of this amount, €1,275 thouInformation on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. It mainly sand (2010: €1,174 thousand) relates to the auditing of financial comprises income from site services provided by Currenta GmbH & statements, €653 thousand (2010: €446 thousand) to audit-related Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not related to the operating services, and €786 thousand (2010: €865 thousand) to other serbusiness of the segments. Therefore, it is not allocated among the vices rendered to Group companies. The fees for financial statements segments. audit services comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial statements Reconciliation of Segment Assets of the LANXESS Group and the mandatory financial statements of € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. 2010 2011 Total segment assets 4,640 5,830 Near-cash assets 364 350 39 Declaration of Compliance pursuant to Deferred tax assets 170 196 Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act Cash and cash equivalents 160 178 Other financial assets 132 109 A Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Income tax receivables 69 64 Derivative assets 22 16 Code has been issued pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Other/Consolidation 109 135 Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the Group assets 5,666 6,878 LANXESS website. Capital expenditures made by the segments mainly comprise additions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. 40 Exemptions under Section 264 Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Code All depreciation, amortization and impairments in fiscal 2010 and 2011 were recognized directly in profit or loss. In 2011 the following German subsidiaries made use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264 Paragraph 3 of the German Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and Commercial Code (HGB): other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not include income tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other financial liabilities. • Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen • IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities • LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Leverkusen € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, • LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 2010 2011 • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen Total segment liabilities 1,810 1,978 • LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Langenfeld Other financial liabilities 1,478 2,098 • LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Leverkusen Income tax liabilities 84 112 • LXS Dormagen Verwaltungs-GmbH, Dormagen Deferred tax liabilities 40 75 • Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen Derivative liabilities 34 53 • Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim Other/Consolidation 459 488 Group liabilities 3,905 4,804 • Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld • Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 186 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the management report of the Group includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Leverkusen, February 28, 2012 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Leverkusen The Board of Management Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Dr. Werner Breuers Dr. Rainier van Roessel Consolidated Financial Statements 187 Responsibility Statement | Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Leverkusen, the statement of financial those entities included in consolidation, the determination of the entiposition, the income statement and statement of comprehensive ties to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement and principles used and significant estimates made by the company’s Board the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the of Management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the group management report for the business year from January 1 to consolidated financial statements and the group management report. December 31, 2011. The preparation of the consolidated financial We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. statements and the group management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements Our audit has not led to any reservations. of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated the responsibility of the parent company’s Board of Management. Our financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U., responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to statements and on the group management report based on our audit. § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accorWe conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements dance with these requirements. The group management report is in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) the opportunities and risks of future development. (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated Cologne, February 29, 2012 financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with PricewaterhouseCoopers reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the Aktiengesellschaft economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report Bernd Boritzki Carsten Manthei are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the German Public Auditor German Public Auditor 188 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Glossary ISO 50001 International standard which defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. ISO 9001 International standard which defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. Off-spec products Products which do not meet the manufacturer’s own specifications or customer requirements. Industry-specific terms Polyamide A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and CLP and GHS CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and electrical properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear. packaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains new provisions for the classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. REACH Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization It was announced on December 31, 2008 and has already entered and Restriction of Chemicals. The E.U. REACH Regulation stipuinto force. lates the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals before marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to This new regulation is based on the Globally Harmonized System of determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and estimate Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which their impact on health and the environment. ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. The use of internationally agreed classification criteria and labeling Steam cracker A facility that uses steam to produce chemical raw elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at materials for manufacturing plastics, coatings, solvents and crop protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards protection products. that may be caused by chemicals. Synthetic rubber Synthetic rubber is the term used for elastic Compounding facility A facility for processing and finishing engineerpolymers produced from petrochemical raw materials. It is the starting ing plastics to enhance their functional properties. product for rubber production. With a 50 to 60 percent share of production volume, styrene-butadiene rubber is the most important Elastomers Stable yet elastic and formable polymers that are used of the synthetic rubbers. It is used especially in the manufacture of to manufacture tires, rubber bands and sealing rings, for example. car tires. Exclusive synthesis Synthesis is a process in which chemical VOC emissions Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for elements are used to manufacture a new substance. In the case organic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become of exclusive synthesis, substances are produced individually and gaseous at low temperatures. exclusively for a certain customer – in contrast to catalog business. Vulcanization Vulcanization is a process that applies heat and Fermentation process Generally speaking, fermentation characterpressure over time to make rubber more durable. It destroys the izes the conversion of organic substances by bacteria or enzymes. plastic properties of the rubber or rubber blend and makes it elastic. However, industrial chemicals such as acetone or butanol can also be produced by fermentation. ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental management system. Further Information 189 Glossary Financial glossary GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Capital employed This is defined as total assets less deferred tax for consumption. assets and interest-free liabilities. Goodwill Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company. This is Cash flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Corporate governance Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned with long-term value creation. It comprises Hedging An investment position intended to limit or offset certain the observance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and clearly identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest recommendations as well as the implementation and application rate changes. of company guidelines and management and control structures. IAS/IFRS International Accounting Standards/International Financial Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the Reporting Standards. These are uniform international accounting future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of assets and with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial stateliabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in future from unused ments and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. loss carryforwards or tax credits. Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners Due diligence The careful investigation and analysis of a company, concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly. particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial condition and its performance in the areas of technology and the Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and nonenvironment. It is undertaken especially by potential purchasers current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) involved in acquisition projects. less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts deduction of interest and income taxes. receivable less trade accounts payable. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortiPurchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition zation: the operating result before deduction of interest and income to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. taxes plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing. Ratings are issued assets. by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region banks applying their own criteria. Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in affiliated ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. changes in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets of the affiliated company. Sell-side analysts Sell-side analysts work for banks and brokerages. They produce industry-specific analyses of listed companies. These Euro Benchmark Bond Bond issued in euros which, on account of are used to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to its issue volume, can be used as a reference value for comparable make investment recommendations. Published in the form of issuers. research studies, these recommendations are targeted at external users, especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreeinvestment ideas. ments and term sheets. These are contractually binding promises by the borrower or obligor during the term of the loan agreement, for example, that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. 190 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 I Index Income statement Inorganic Pigments 79ff., 136, 172ff. 28ff. Ion Exchange Resins 28ff., 90, 117f L Leather 28ff., 90, 118 Liquidity 94, 119 M A Markets 20ff., 72f, 77, 103f, 108f Acquisitions 16f, 22, 29f, 71, 152f Material Protection Products 28ff. Advanced Industrial Intermediates 26f, 90, 117 Megatrends 14, 20ff., 115ff. Advanced Intermediates 26f, 72, 85, 90, 117ff. Multi-period overview 96 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 64, 123 N B Net financial liabilities 76, 93 Board of Management 8f, 121f, 128 Bonds 65, 92ff. O Business conditions 76f, 107ff. Offices 128f Butyl Rubber 20ff., 90, 116ff. Opportunities 115ff. C P Capital expenditures 14ff., 20ff., 89f Performance Butadiene Rubbers 20ff., 90, 116 Compensation 44, 98f, 123ff. Performance Chemicals 28ff., 72, 86, 90, 117ff. Corporate governance 120ff. Performance Polymers 20ff., 72, 84f, 90, 116ff. Corporate responsibility 36ff. Products 20ff., 48f Customer industries 77, 103f, 108f R D Rating 65f, 92 Declaration of compliance 120f Research and development 104ff. Demography 43f Rhein Chemie 28ff., 90, 118 Directors’ dealings 127 Risk management 109ff. Diversity 42f Rubber Chemicals 28ff., 118 Dividend 65, 119 S E Sales 79f, 82ff. Earnings per share 82, 174 Saltigo 26f EBITDA pre exceptionals 13, 74, 81 Segment reporting 84ff., 183ff. EBITDA margin 81, 84ff. Semi-Crystalline Products 20ff., 90, 116ff. Education initiative 54ff. Sites 72f Employees 39ff., 97ff. Statement of cash flows 91, 139, 182f Environmental protection 36f, 46ff. Statement of financial position 87ff., 135, 156ff. Equity 88, 138, 160ff. Stock 60ff. Strategy 12ff., 73f, 115ff. F Subsidiaries 71, 154f Financial management 92ff. Supervisory Board 120ff. Forecasts 115ff. Supervisory Board Committees 123 Functional Chemicals 28ff. Sustainability 20ff., 36ff. G T Growth 12ff., 20ff., 79ff. Targets 12ff., 115ff. Technical Rubber Products 20ff., 90, 117 H HR Policy 39ff. HSEQ Targets 52f Further Information 191 Index | Graphics and Tables Group Management Report Graphics and Tables 73 74 LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Value Management and Control System 76 Net Financial Liabilities 76 GDP and Chemical Production in 2011 77 Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro 77 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2011 79 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 79 Key Financial Data 79 Group Sales Cover 80 Effects on Sales F2 Key Data 80 Sales by Segment F2 Sales by Region 81 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment F2 Employees by Region 81 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals C2 Performance Indicators: Performance Polymers 82 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income C2 Performance Indicators: Advanced Intermediates 82 Sales by Market C2 Performance Indicators: Performance Chemicals 84 Sales by Segment 84 Performance Polymers: Overview of Key Data Strategy 84 Performance Polymers: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 12 Business Model 85 Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data 13 EBITDA Growth 85 Advanced Intermediates: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 16 Acquisitions 86 Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data 86 Performance Chemicals: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 86 Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data Corporate Responsibility 87 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 37 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 87 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets 43 LANXESS Employee Structure Germany/Rest of the World 88 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities 46 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 89 Ratios 47 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) 89 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization 48 REACH Implementation Schedule 89 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment 49 Energy Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold 90 Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2011 50 Energy Consumption by Segment 91 Cash Flow Statement 50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in Relation to Volumes Sold 92 Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2007 50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 93 Financing Structure 50 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) in Relation to Volumes Sold 93 Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011 50 VOC Emissions in Relation to Volumes Sold 94 LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index 51 Total Waste in Relation to Volumes Sold 96 Business Ratios – Multi-Period Overview 51 Waste for Disposal 97 Employees by Region 51 Water Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold 97 Employees by Segment 52 HSEQ Targets 97 Employees by Functional Area 55 Social Activities by Topic 104 Selling Costs 55 Social Activities by Region 104 Shares of Sales by Industry Sector 105 Research and Development Expenditures 105 Number of Employees in Research and Development Investor Information 107 Expected Growth in GDP 61 Stock Performance since Listing 108 Expected Growth in Chemical Production 61 Stock Performance 2011 109 Expected Evolution of Major User Industries 62 Performance Data 2011 111 Main Sources of Risk 62 Capital Market Information 114 Financial Risks 63 Stockholder Profile as of December 31, 2011 64 Geographical Breakdown as of December 31, 2011 64 Reported Holdings of Three Percent or Above by Institutional Investors Corporate Governance 64 Recommendations as of February 15, 2012 124 Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management 65 Overview of LANXESS’s Bonds 124 Annual Compensation of the Board of Management 125 Long-Term Compensation of the Board of Management 127 Compensation of the Supervisory Board in the 2011 Fiscal Year Group Management Report 127 Directors’ Dealings 71 Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG 128 Offices Held by Board of Management Members 72 Performance Polymers in Brief 128 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 72 Advanced Intermediates in Brief 72 Performance Chemicals in Brief 192 LANXESS Annual Report 2011 Financial Calendar 2012 May 9 Interim Report Q1 2012 May 15 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting August 7 Interim Report H1 2012 September 20 LANXESS Capital Markets Day November 6 Interim Report Q3 2012 Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or comments. Contact Corporate Communications Tel. +49 214 30 31872 E-mail: mediarelations@lanxess.com Contact Investor Relations Tel. +49 214 30 23851 E-mail: ir@lanxess.com This Annual Report was published on March 22, 2012. Masthead LANXESS AG 51369 Leverkusen Germany Tel. +49 214 30 33333 www.lanxess.com Agency Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Photography Katja Velmans, Düsseldorf (Cover and products) Andreas Pohlmann, Munich (Management) Carlos Cunha (Page 20) Raffaella Tedesco (Page 26) Hans-Dieter Gerriets (Page 28) Jun Peng Zhang (Page 31) Audi AG (Page 24) LANXESS archive English edition Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG Language Service Printed by Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany Publisher LANXESS AG 51369 Leverkusen Germany www.lanxess.com
