COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS “Kcell” JSC Kcell and Activ trade marks Introduction “Kcell” JSC (Kcell) is the cellular operator of Kazakhstan. We provide mobile communications services that help people and companies communicate in an easy and efficient way. Our company plays an important role in Kazakhstan as a business structure, innovative company and responsible citizen. Kcell operates with respect to local culture and traditions and with the principle of giving back to society. We have been driving the concept of socially responsible business in Kazakhstan. Every year, with the support of the company implements approximately 40 social programs and projects on such areas as education, cultural heritage and social sphere (children, people with disabilities, etc.). At Kcell, we believe that socially responsible initiatives not only create strong and vital communities over the country – they also help to get alternative access to the market and enhance the company’s performance. Veysel Aral, Chief Executive Officer of Kcell November 1, 2012 Contacts: Aida Dossayeva, Corporate Communications Director Tel. +7 727 2582755 ext. 1945 Fax: +7 727 2582755 ext. 1013 e-mail: aida.dossayeva@kcell.kz The principle Systems Implementations Outcomes Human rights The Principle 1: Kcell code of ethics In its day-to-day business Kcell is governed by the Kcell Currently, 1 609 employees are with Kcell throughout Businesses should and conduct code of ethics and conduct which provides guidance for all Kazakhstan. support and Kcell employees in how to conduct our business with In 2011 there were employed 1 516 employees. respect the Personnel Policies honesty, integrity and high standards of business ethics in protection of relation to our customers, employees, shareholders, Periodically information are updated and available to all internationally Salary Policy suppliers, business partners and competitors, the society in the Company’s employees at the internal web-portal proclaimed human which we operate and the environment. http://intra.kcell.kz, where the employees may freely rights and Instruction on express their opinions upon each issue and get necessary termination of EA Internal regulations as well as instructions are placed at the information about the Company, procedures, etc. The The Principle 2: internal web-portal. most interesting and important issues may be found in Make sure that Vacation regulation the company internal magazine “Kcell Magazine”. they are not The employment agreement is executed with each complicit in Recruitment employee where all rights and responsibilities of the Kcell launched an initiative for transformation of human rights regulation parties, conditions of labor, rest, labor payment etc. are corporate culture in 2012 and designed internal social abuses provided. network for being more open and transparent and for Regulation on getting feedback from all employees on different matters. financial assistance In addition, the Company offers to its employees a social to employees package, which includes e.g. insurance program, soft Regularly updated information about the Company’s lending in the leading banks of the country, meal service, projects and campaign are available to external auditoria List of employees’ daily transportation as well as a wide spectrum of training at web-sites http://www.kcell.kz and http://www.activ.kz benefits and limits programs. and in our customer care offices and standardized dealer points. Financial Assistance is provided to employees (up to Supervisor level inclusive) in case of serious illness or Corporate groups on the most popular social platforms funeral of an employee’s immediate family member or (www.facebook.com, www.twitter.com, www.mail.ru, serious illness of an employee. www.vkontakte.ru) were created for feedback from our clients. Employees are granted with an unpaid leave up to 5 (five) calendar days in case of marriage registration, child birth or “Consultative telephone line on women’s matters” social death of close relative (with payment in the amount of project were lanced with the support of the Ministry of employee’s three working day current salary). health of the republic of Kazakhstan and Business Women Association of Kazakhstan and Kcell. About 15,000 calls were received during one year. Labour The Principle 3: Kcell code of ethics The employment agreement is executed with each The arrangement of the first charity SMS project aiming Businesses should and conduct employee where all rights and responsibilities of the at children, needed in surgery to be done in the foreign uphold freedom of parties, conditions of labor, rest, labor payment etc. are countries, sponsors: the Charitable fund “Sabi” and the association and Labor contract provided for. Charitable fund “Voluntary Society Miloserdiye”. For the the effective date of August 17, 2012 about 359 children were treated. recognition of the Kcell to the utmost cooperate and render assistance to right to collective various public associations, protecting the rights of the Opening and giving help to the center of social adaptation bargaining socially vulnerable wide sections of the population. and labor rehabilitation for children with disabilities «Health for children: equipment of the special correctional class and programme for social adaptation. The Principle 4: Constitution of the The Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan prohibits All new employees are involved into the orientation The elimination of Republic of using the child labor and Kcell operates in line with the program, which allows to make the fastest all forms of forced Kazakhstan labor laws. acquaintenance of the company and become its integral and compulsory part. As well there are continuously carried out contests labour Kcell code of ethics for the employees of the company “Best Operator”, “Best and conduct Sales Representative”. The Principle 5: The effective Labour contract The Company has in place a comprehensive performance abolition of child review system to analyze periodically its employees’ labour Insurance program performance (based on targets and competencies) in order to properly compensate, retain and promote its The Principle 6: Labour Code of the employees. The elimination of Republic of discrimination in Kazakhstan respect of employment and occupation Environment The principle 7: Kcell code of ethics To protect the health of the Company’s employees there Aiming at water saving there were installed the water Business should and conduct used the controlled systems of air conditioning depending saving taps, to decrease the level of power consumption support a on the outdoor temperature as well there performed a there were installed the power saving fluorescent precautionary regular replacement of filters and cleaning of air supply and lighting, to decrease of oil and petrol consumption Kcell approach to air conditioning systems. creates car pool and reduce the number of business trips environmental by using the 3G technologies. challenges The Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and The Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption The Principle 10: Kcell code of ethics Within the framework of implementation of this principle For communication and fastest response to the inquiries Businesses should and conduct GSM Kazakhstan/Kcell follows the Code of ethics and of our clients the call center operates 24 hours a day. work against conduct as well as the Gifts favour and hospitality corruption in all its Gifts favour and procedure. forms, including hospitality extortion and procedure A Security Service was established aiming at development bribery of the system of preventive measures to react against the corruption and fraudulent-related practices.
