Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Special Feature Responding to Natural Disasters How Citizen helps — Now and into the future Message from Management We strive to be a company that is loved, respected and truly needed by society CITIZEN HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Internal Audit & CSR Department at Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 188-8511, Japan Tel: +81-42-468-4776 Fax: +81-42-466-1280 Website: http://www.citizen.co.jp/english/ Published: June 2012 Citizen is a registered trademark of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Message from the Management key to new growth lies in quickly grasping values sought by on which we live based on Japan’s deep-rooted ancient the market and giving thought to what we can do, or ought custom that frowns on wasting anything. In the same to do, by harnessing our strengths. Toward this end, I manner, as long as we give due consideration to regional realize I have an important duty to present a proper diversity when engaging in business around the world, we direction. Now that we have been able to strengthen our can eventually expect to be needed as a community-based organizational structure, we will create a new management company. plan that focuses on globalization, speed and vigor, and In these ways, we firmly believe that ongoing efforts to make Group-wide efforts to achieve new growth. do what is naturally necessary in a natural manner with a sense of caring as a human being will allow us to grow as a Transformation into a Truly Global company and help realize a sustainable society. Company Since our Group’s founding in 1930, we have achieved Lastly continuous growth mainly based on the watches and Based on the above principles, the Citizen Group is clocks business, and have exploited the downsizing committed to producing reasonable profit through proper technology, precision technology, low power consumption business activities in consideration of society and the technology and other such technologies cultivated in the environment, and to benefiting our stakeholders through watches and clocks business to expand into a variety of continuous growth. businesses on a global scale. While our overseas sales This CSR Report presents our CSR initiatives over the account for roughly 60% of the Group’s total sales, simply past year. It is structured on the Citizen Group Code of doing business around the world does not make us a truly Conduct, which was established to ensure abidance with global company. We can become a truly global company our corporate philosophy, and has been edited to only by achieving global standards in terms of both incorporate the views of employees who daily practice the personnel and business operations. This means we must code of conduct. We strive to be a company that is loved, undergo a shift to acquire an outward-looking business culture. In other words, we must maintain an accurate I hope that as many people as possible will read this report and give us feedback of their views and opinions. respected and truly needed by society understanding of the market, our competitors, and our own strengths and weaknesses as the first step toward Thank you for your further understanding and continuous support of the Citizen Group. globalization in the real sense of the term. Additionally, to achieve true globalization, it is not only June 2012 necessary to understand the distinct culture, climate and The Citizen Group’s Mission and Vision Group Management with a Focus on customs of each region of the world and engage in Toshio Tokura The Citizen Group abides by the corporate philosophy, “For Globalization, Speed and Vigor business activities that are grounded in the local President and CEO the citizen: Contributing to and striving to be respected by In recent years, the business environment that we work in Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. community, but it is more important than ever to recruit and the citizens of the world,” and engages in business with a is dramatically changing and diversifying on a global scale, develop human resources who possess a global outlook. sense of mission to help enrich people’s lives around the such that we are seeing a major transformation of industrial Many people who work for our Group have various unique world by producing products that are loved and favored by structures in various sectors. As it is risky to make abilities. We hope to provide a working environment that worldwide citizens. judgments based solely on conventional values, we believe maximizes their true potential and become a vibrant Group. We understand that Corporate Social Responsibility it is necessary to stay on top of such rapid social changes (CSR) means giving due consideration to sustainability in and establish a framework that would allow us to respond terms of the economy, society and the environment, and promptly to demands and changes in society. Since fiscal Compassion as the Very Essence of CSR engaging in responsible business activities with proper The essence of CSR, the way I see it, lies in each and every 2010, we have been reaching toward our vision of awareness of our Group’s impact on and relationship to employee and their effort to nurture a compassionate heart becoming a group capable of continual, sustainable society. Recently, CSR is also considered an acronym that as a human being and their conscious wish to attain growth, as stated in our medium-term management plan, personal growth—in the way that many people realized Participating in the UN Global Compact stands for Corporate Sustainability Respect. In this sense, and have endeavored to establish a tough and sustainable We announced our participation in the United we are obligated to fulfill our responsibilities in a socially afresh the importance of connecting and caring for others organizational structure. We are convinced that it is owing Nations Global Compact in April 2005 and pledged to respectable manner. At the same time, our corporate in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. We are all to this effort that we have been able to override the difficult make Group-wide efforts to uphold, respect and put into philosophy also embodies our Group’s founding wish to citizens before we are businesspeople. As long as we make business environment we encountered in fiscal 2011 in the practice the Ten Principles outlined therein. Furthermore, earn wide and lasting respect from all citizens. Therefore, judgments from the consumers’ perspective or the aftermath of a series of natural disasters and the impact of to ensure our commitment to the Global Compact, we we will abide by this philosophy and commit ourselves to perspective of others, our actions will naturally coincide the strong yen. have established and comply with the Citizen Group Code fulfilling our CSR with the participation of all our employees with CSR. With regard to environmental issues of global Fiscal 2012 is the final year of the present of Conduct, which provides specific guidelines that to become a company both loved by citizens and concern, we can give due consideration to the environment medium-term management plan and the year for embody the spirit of the Global Compact. respected by society. simply by acting with a sense of compassion for the Earth formulating a new one. In a time of diversifying values, the 01 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 02 Editorial Policy Contents Website (Details) Message from the Management 01 The aim of this publication, CSR Report 2012, is to provide all of a guide for every employee in the Group, to help them our stakeholders with a straightforward outline of the Citizen Editorial Policy understand and carry out CSR activities. Group’s business activities and the Group’s approach and The website carries comprehensive The Citizen Group 03 initiatives in relation to its social responsibilities. This report CSR information. Citizen Products and Technology in Use Here, showcases the CSR activities in fiscal 2011 based on our http://www.citizen.co.jp/social/index.html There and Everywhere 05 guidelines for better fulfillment of our social responsibilities—the Organizations covered in the report Citizen Group Code of Conduct—and through profiles of our Economic and social data: 31 domestic and 58 overseas companies (total 89) employees. In the Special Feature, we describe the future Environmental data: 22 domestic and 12 overseas companies (total 34) Special Feature approach of the Citizen Group as a corporation as tempered by Responding to Natural the lessons of the Great East Japan Earthquake and outline our Pamphlet (Digest) Disasters Period covered by the report The pamphlet summarizes the How Citizen helps aid activities to disaster stricken areas. In addition, the report Fiscal 2011 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012) CSR of the Citizen Group — Now and into the future features employees from all over the world holding up cards answering the question “What does CSR mean to you?.” This Some data from fiscal 2012 is also included. along with the Group Code of Conduct. 07 gives employees responsible for CSR a visible presence and creates a real feel for our approach to CSR, based on the Guidelines Referenced Base of CSR 11 participation of all employees. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (GRI) CITIZEN GROUP CODE OF CONDUCT Although designed to make the Citizen Group’s CSR Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) High — What does CSR mean to you? 13 activities known to the general public, this report also serves as Interest of Stakeholders Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) Group Code of Conduct, Article 1 Front cover Date of Publication Craftsmanship that Our Customers Love — The Citizen 15 The Citizen Group assists the ARTS This Report for HOPE project which sponsors art The Possibilities of Designs that Meet the Customers’ June 2012 (Previous report: June 2011/Next report: June 2013) programs for children in disaster Website Expectations 16 stricken areas. Disclaimer Group Code of Conduct, Article 2 This CSR report includes future projections based on the information available when the report was written. The actual results of activities Reinforcing Overseas Green Procurement 17 High For details, see page 8. documented may differ from such future projections. Importance for Citizen Group Group Code of Conduct, Article 3 Information Disclosures and Communication with Investors 18 The Citizen Group Sales (billion yen) Sales by Business Category Group Code of Conduct, Article 4 Harnessing world-leading compact, precision technology to continually 400 Promoting Downsizing to Reduce Environmental Impact 19 offer true value and fulfill people’s expectations and aspirations 336.6 ¥ 279.7 Development of Environmentally-Friendly Products — LEDs for Lighting 20 300 296.8 billion 284.9 279.7 With the corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to watches, realizing high speed machining with micron level 252.5 Group Code of Conduct, Article 5 be respected by the citizens of the world,” the Citizen Group has precision in our machine tools, providing the parts essential for been launching diverse businesses around the globe making use downsizing, greater precision, and lower power consumption in 200 Supporting Individuals Who Inspire Others of the expertise in miniaturization, precision manufacture, and our devices and components, and making the lives of citizens — CITIZEN OF THE YEAR 21 reduced power consumption built up in its watch division. more convenient and comfort in our electronic products— Watches and clocks 49.8% We are creating innovative new products based on the Citizen’s “Micro HumanTech” is alive in all of these businesses 100 Machine tools 15.0% Group Code of Conduct, Article 6 concept of “integration of technology and beauty” in our and products. Devices and components 21.9% Creating Ideal Working Environments 23 Electronic products 8.1% 0 Promoting Initiative-Taking and Autonomy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Other products 5.2% by Employees 24 Corporate Profile Watches and Clocks Machine Tools Electronic Products Sales by Region Number of Employees by Region* Name Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Group Code of Conduct, Article 7 Establishment May 28, 1930 Responding to Anti-Social Forces 24 Location of 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, Head Office Tokyo 188-8511, Japan Group Code of Conduct, Article 8 ¥ 279.7 18,832 Representative Toshio Tokura, President and CEO billion Encouraging Structural Reforms and Changes in NC automatic lathes Line thermal label printers Corporate Culture in China 25 Capitalization ¥32.648 billion (as of March 31, 2012) Devices and Other Products Human Resource Development in China 27 Employees 23,725 (consolidated; as of March 31, 2012) Components Sales ¥279.7 billion (consolidated; FY2011) Group Code of Conduct, Article 9 Japan 38.4% Japan 6,304 33.5% Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange, 1st Section Asia 31.8% Overseas 12,528 66.5% Corporate Governance 28 Americas 17.8% Europe 11.3% Data volume 29 Eco-Drive radio-controlled watch LED packages for lighting Bridal jewelry Others 0.7% Third-Party Comments 30 * From fiscal 2011, excluding number of part time employees 03 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 04 Citizen Products and Technology in Use 4 LCOS* (Digital still camera) Incorporated in PN liquid crystal (Digital still camera) Compact switch (Digital still camera) 5 Marriage Ring Scratch resistant rings 6 Sports timer High visibility magnetic 7 Automotive Components Manufacturing Here, There and Everywhere electronic view finders that are more compact Liquid crystal used to display focus area within Used for that keep their shape reversal displays, essential during marathon broadcasts components for use in ABS brakes, airbags, engines, etc. and slimmer viewfinders shutter Citizen’s wide ranging business activities make it an integral part of society. than optical switches, versions etc. Citizen products and services play a crucial role behind the scenes of our day-to-day lives. * Short for “Liquid Crystal on Silicon,” LCOS are LCD panels that use silicon substrates. LED backlight unit (Car navigation) Quartz Crystal Devices Used in the 24 Publication 1 Watch 2 3 LED (Lighting) development of (Home Electronics) slimmer, energy Publishing technical books chiefly in fine arts and Eco-Drive watches: the Reference signals Low-energy saving car navigation history and running the first watches to be used to ensure that consumption, long systems book section in the museum granted Eco-Mark electronic equipment life, mercury free, shop of the Tokyo National certification in 1996 is functioning environmentally Museum and elsewhere correctly friendly lighting 11 8 Electronic View Finders 23 Zirconia ceramic parts for (Camcorders for professional use) optical communicator High resolution (Optical Network) viewfinders capable of catching even fast Used in connectors movements during for fiber optic sporting events cables 19 Highly reliable Liquid Crystal 2 9 Time control system 22 Display (Gas meters) Clocks fitted to Durable specifications 9 buildings or other even at high 1 exterior surfaces, temperature and 18 often cherished as humidity symbols representing 22 20 the local area 21 16 24 10 21 Electronic dictionary LCOS* (Projector) Used to store Japanese Used in video and bilingual engines due to high Japanese-English definition and dictionary data and 4 picture quality medical, health-related and general information * Short for “Liquid Crystal on Silicon,” LCOS are 5 LCD panels that use silicon substrates. 20 Digital thermometer 11 Combustion Pressure Sensor Predicted temperature (Ship) measured in about 60 Fitted inside engine seconds. Backlight cylinders to measure enabling reading in combustion pressure dark locations 6 Digital blood 12 pressure monitor Self-service ordering system 8 Easy to use health 17 Enables restaurant management support 7 customers to order tools with clear displays 23 from menu touch screens at their tables 10 19 13 POS Thermal Printer Leisure Facilities Used for issuing Providing multipurpose receipts, tickets, and entertainment venues, coupons from ice rinks to culture schools 15 3 12 13 18 Submount (Optical Disk Drives) 14 Photo Printer A ceramic substrate 14 Enabling easy with high radiation photo printing at performance mounted locations such as with laser and diodes supermarkets and for optical disks photo stores 17 Quartz Crystal Devices LED (Mobile Phones) Electronic Paper (Mobile Phones) Compact switch (Mobile Phones) 16 Digital Pedometer 15 NC automatic lathe Measuring Coreless Motor, (Mobile Phones) Easy operation for measurement while instruments Gear Head, Encoders Used to produce Used for key lights, World’s first electronic Used as switches on walking or jogging to help maintain and Machinery used Instruments used regular signals in camera flashes and paper keypad, side surfaces improve health Used in electronic to grind metal to accurately time with actions backlights on mobile harnessing the microscopes, to make measure small when on standby phones, etc. memory capabilities radiotherapy high-precision components and flexible properties equipment, robots, components of electronic paper etc. 05 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 06 Special Feature The basis of disaster response is, first and foremost, ensuring people’s Support for the Affected Region Responding to safety, and then seeking to find ways to minimize damage. Dividing its The Citizen Group is striving to aid the people affected by the earthquake and tsunami Natural Disasters initiatives into measures launched by individual companies with consideration of the form and scale of their businesses and the specific characteristics of disaster and contribute to the recovery of the disaster-struck region. To this end, Citizen has provided relief funds totaling 100 million yen via the Japanese Red Cross How Citizen helps the regions concerned, and shared, company-wide measures, the Citizen Society, and Citizen Watch Co. of America, Inc. has donated 50,000 U.S. dollars — Now and into the future Group works to mount effective responses to disasters. through the American Red Cross. In addition, Group companies have mounted a variety of initiatives to help the victims of the disaster. The Citizen Group’s Response to the 01 Providing support through sport We held a table tennis event for children in Shinchicho, where the Citizen Tohoku Great East Japan Earthquake and Soma Works is located. Seeking to contribute to the region’s recovery from the disaster, we invited five players from Division 1 of the Japan Table Tennis League to Tsunami Disaster participate, under the slogan “You Can Do It Soma!” Students from elementary and junior high schools in Fukushima and Miyagi Prefectures came together at the venue to trade shots with the League players, Rising from the Ruins and Facing the Challenge receive instruction, and watch rapid-fire demonstration matches. Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake, employees of Citizen Tohoku’s We think that the event was a success in raising spirits in the region through the Soma Works, located in Shinchicho, in Fukushima Prefecture’s Soma District, agency of sport. received instructions to return home. Then the tsunami struck. While the Soma Works Japan narrowly escaped being inundated by the tsunami, many employees’ houses were Bringing smiles to the faces of the leaders of the next generation The Citizen Group is providing support for ARTS for HOPE, an initiative that brings art damaged, and they were forced to live in evacuation centers. Then-President of Citizen Tohoku, Haruo Kumagai, sent a message to employees programs to children in areas affected by the disaster, and the Iwate Mobile Library affirming his belief that striving not to be overwhelmed by disaster, and working to project being conducted by Shanti Volunteer Association, which seeks to offer a restore the plant and to create a functioning workplace as soon as possible would in substitute for libraries which were destroyed along the Iwate coast by offering a itself be a means of providing support for the disaster-struck region. This sentiment mobile book lending service focusing on areas of temporary accommodation. rallied the plant’s employees in the wake of the disaster, and under conditions in which A call to Group employees saw us collect 30 boxes of art supplies, including even reporting for work was difficult, they began to make efforts towards recovery. paints, crayons and sketchbooks, and 2,077 near-new books, which have been donated to the organizations running the respective projects. Measures introduced in anticipation of a major earthquake proved effective In part as a result of the effectiveness of measures introduced prior to the Great East Offering the joy of working Japan Earthquake, the molds and important production machinery which are As an initiative to support people who lost their jobs as a result of the earthquake and essential to the Soma Works’ operations escaped serious damage. Particularly large tsunami disaster, since June 2011 Citizen Heiwa Watch Co., Ltd. has provided production equipment such as press machines were fixed to the building’s employment to a total of seven evacuees, seeking to provide them the psychological foundations and were thus almost undamaged, while completed and partially stability that comes with working. completed products on the same floor had only fallen over. Thanked by Katsunobu Sakurai, the mayor of Minami Soma in Fukushima The plant was well provided with earthquake precautions targeting important Prefecture, for what he considered “A tremendous show of support,” then-President equipment because of Citizen Tohoku’s conviction that a massive earthquake with its of Citizen Heiwa Watch, Atsuo Kawaguchi, promised to continue to provide support epicenter in the ocean off Miyagi Prefecture would occur within a 30-year period. The for local employment. Citizen Watch Miyota Co., Ltd. is also providing employment for Soma Works suffered significant damage in the Miyagi Earthquake in 1978, due, for people from the affected areas. example, to the fact that a large amount of goods and equipment fell from shelves. Following this experience, the plant was scrupulous in putting anti-earthquake measures into place in order to prevent molds and production equipment from falling or toppling. As a result, it was able to restart production less than two weeks after the earthquake. As an issue for the future, the first order of business is the ability to effectively confirm the safety of employees and their families. To ensure that it is able to do so without fail, the Soma Works has decided to begin training in the use of a safety confirmation system which has already been introduced by 35 Citizen Group companies. Creating better systems based on lessons from the disaster In the future, after identifying the issues brought into focus by the earthquake and tsunami disaster, Citizen Tohoku will proceed with the formulation of a business continuity plan (BCP) that foresees all potential disasters and unusual situations. Using the experience of the recent disaster, the company will realize a BCP that offers practical and effective guidance in all relevant areas from evacuation procedures to Some of the many books donated the procurement of equipment. by Citizen employees Katsunobu Sakurai, Mayor of Minami Soma (R) and (then) President of Citizen Heiwa Watch, Atsuo Kawaguchi 07 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 08 Special Feature Responding to Human Bonds Transcending Borders Response to the Thai Floods Special Feature Responding to Natural Disasters — Healing victims of the disaster through music — — Support for employees caught in the disaster — Natural Disasters How Citizen helps How Citizen helps — Now and into the future — Now and into the future Hope for Tomorrow Through Music, from Italy to Shinchicho While the facilities belonging to Royal Time Citi (RTC) and Citizen Machinery Asia 02 Seeking to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster, (CMA) did not suffer flood damage during the massive floods which occurred in 03 the Citizen Watch’s Group companies Citizen Watch Italy and Citizen Watch Thailand in 2011, 560 employees were affected. Europe donated a total of 453 musical instruments, including harps, clarinets, The residences of 480 of RTC’s employees (90% of the company’s workforce) brass instruments and other brass band instruments to elementary and junior were flooded. In some cases the damage was severe, cutting lifelines and leaving the high schools in Shinchicho, Fukushima Prefecture’s Soma District, where the employees without the means of getting to work and going shopping, making it Citizen Tohoku Soma Works are located. A commemorative concert was held impossible for them to lead normal daily lives. Wishing to provide support to help together with the presentation ceremony. employees overcome this situation as quickly as possible, we organized a “Help Citizen Employees Suffering in the Thai Floods” campaign to raise funds, and we also The L’Aquila earthquake struck Italy in April 2009. To aid recovery efforts, Citizen distributed supplies by means of boats. Italy Watch Co., Ltd. donated computers to elementary schools in the L’Aquila region. CMA was forced to suspend operations from October 17 to 21, but recommenced work on the 24th, with all employees working hard to make up the Thailand Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, Dante Grossi, the Managing Director of Citizen Watch Italy, stated his desire to return that kindness by providing a form of production backlog. Members of the Citizen Machinery Miyano Group set up direct support to the children of Japan which would communicate a feeling of warmth donation boxes in their company canteens, raising a considerable amount of money, and hope transcending national borders. which was presented to flood victims individually by Citizen Machinery Miyano’s 20% of Shinchicho was flooded by the tsunami that followed the earthquake, President, Kenji Sugimoto, as a token of sympathy, and in appreciation of the efforts and the town suffered enormous damage: 578 families lost their homes, and more of employees who had mounted all-night vigils in order to protect CMA from flooding. than 110 of the town’s residents were killed or went missing. Amid these Because a “Citizen-wide” perspective means that we are all united as circumstances, Mr. Grossi and Citizen Watch Italy sought to encourage local employees of Citizen despite the fact that our countries and workplaces might be children, the leaders of the future, to feel hope for tomorrow, with strong spirits different, support from colleagues and aid towards recovery came quickly from unbowed by hardship and hearts comforted by music, through their donation of companies throughout the Group. musical instruments and organization of a commemorative concert. We hope that the donated instruments will offer a powerful message to victims of the disaster at other events organized to promote recovery, and that the spirit of Citizen Watch Italy’s gift will be communicated. Details of support provided • For one month, RTC delivered water, food (rice and pot noodles) and everyday items by boat to the residences of employees affected by the flood. “The world has witnessed the events in • RTC and related factories in China supplied 20 tons of rice for 500 employees, Tohoku. With extraordinary courage and representing 40 kg per person when distributed to all employees. discipline, and tremendous passion, you • Based on RTC’s company rules, 480 employees affected by the flood were offered a have faced the destructive power of donation of 3,000 baht per person. nature, and set about rebuilding your lives • Donations of 3,325,619 yen were made by Citizen Watch Group companies. with a new courage and determination. that you really need at present, it is our • Citizen Watch supplied four rubber boats and 400 blankets. Your parents, facing terrible hardships, hope that it will serve to remind you that have taught us the meaning of human you are not alone, and that there are dignity. As the representative of all the people who admire you.” “Our Thai employees gave us courage” Voice Dante staff members of Citizen Watch Italy, I We first heard reports of people falling victim to flooding in would like to offer a humble gift to you Message From early September. At the peak of the floods, at the end of from our country. While it is seems an October, about 90% of our employees were affected. In the midst of this situation, seeing our Thai employees insignificant gift compared to the things coming voluntarily to the plant and working hard to pile sandbags and bail water gave the Japanese staff members fresh heart. Royal Time Citi Co., Ltd. Managing Director Toshihiko Oso Kenji Sugimoto, President of Citizen Machinery Miyano, presenting donations individually to employees affected by the Thai floods 09 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 10 Base of CSR The Citizen Group’s CSR and Risk Management CSR and Risk Management Promotion Structure Relations with Stakeholders In fiscal 2011, we continued work on a risk that the damage. We will set up a framework in which activities that Under the Citizen Group’s CSR and Risk Management The Citizen Group’s business activities are built upon Citizen Group as a whole had designated as high priority in might prove useful to others can be actively shared system, the president of Citizen Holdings bears overall relationships of trust with a variety of stakeholders. Our aim its fiscal 2010 risk evaluation: business continuity plans throughout the Group, even as companies share responsibility, and the CSR Committee, composed of is to communicate with our stakeholders and to bring our (BCPs) for use in the event of a disaster. We inspected and information among themselves. representative members of Citizen Holdings, reports corporate philosophy to fulfillment. evaluated our manufacturing companies in particular. In directly to the president and plans and proposes guidelines The Citizen Group’s Stakeholders addition, we formulated Group Trade Secret Management Internal Reporting System and policies for the Group. Rules for dealing with trade secrets and began We have set up a Corporate Ethics Hotline in accordance We aim to improve As an executive body, the Group CSR Promotion customer satisfaction implementing them throughout the Group. with the Internal Reporting System Rules, both for prevention and to continue taking Committee consists of supervisory personnel in charge of our customer feedback The criteria for risk evaluation in fiscal 2011 were set or early detection of legal violations or misconduct stemming CSR selected from the operating subsidiaries. Individual We conduct our business in an into consideration in all our businesses as we In order to ensure the trust of our shareholders and investors and to up so that they could be stated in quantitative terms as from dishonest actions and for improvement in the levels of open and fair manner in subsidiaries have their own CSR committees. In addition, accordance with the law and move forward. guarantee that we can meet their much as possible. As a result of evaluations conducted self-regulation. Our Internal Reporting System Rules state expectations, we proactively engage with societal norms, and each committees are set up with the participation of the Group individual acts as a responsible in dialogue with them and strive to throughout the Group companies, it was decided to that the reporting party’s privacy must be respected. They Customers disclose correct and significant companies to plan and implement policies for concerns member of society. information in a timely manner. position maintaining safety overseas and dealing with also state that the subject of the report must be given the that are important to the entire Citizen Group. The auditing emergency situations as major issues for fiscal 2012. opportunity to refute claims made against them and that the Government Shareholders departments of these companies join forces to audit and reporting party must not be subjected to unfair treatment. evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of these efforts in Post-Disaster Business Continuity Plans (BCP) Furthermore, since 2008, we have had an external terms of governance, with the aim of improving the quality The Citizen Group has been working on a post-disaster reporting hotline in place, one that allows employees to file of corporate actions. BCP for several years, but our experiences during the Great reports anonymously. This is just one of the ways in which Individual subsidiaries carry out activities to raise NGOs and Suppliers and East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 prompted us to we have created and operated an environment that awareness of compliance. They offer CSR education based NPOs Contractors improve our post-disaster BCP to make it more effective. encourages employees to report misconduct. on their own educational frameworks designed for We maintain dialogue In order to grow and develop In fiscal 2011, we focused on first saving human lives according to the job classifications of their employees. If the with NGOs and NPOs, along with the suppliers and and then bringing manufacturing plants back on line. The Results of CSR Awareness Surveys forging partnerships contractors who are our need arises, we conduct CSR and compliance education based making use of Local Employees business partners, we aim manufacturing companies in particular examined and The Citizen Group conducts a CSR awareness survey Community our respective areas to conduct our business in a every year in order to determine the degree to which for all the companies in the Group. of strength. fair and transparent manner. evaluated a set of questions that was uniform across the employees are aware of CSR and corporate ethics. We conduct a variety of social We respect each individual, entire Group. As a result of these investigations, we contribution programs based on our acknowledge our employees’ Q.1 Are you aware of the Corporate Ethics Hotline? corporate philosophy in order to maintain diversity, and strive to create an uncovered the following two issues. harmony with the local community and environment in which anyone can Schematic Diagram of Our CSR and Risk Management System the international community. work in security and comfort. ■ Recovery Systems 2011 76 % 24 % Each Group company has an emergency response system Policy planning, deliberation and making Basic Approach to Risk Management in place, but they have delayed in setting up recovery 2010 75% 25 % President of Citizen Holdings/Head of CSR for the Group We are working on risk management for the purposes of scenarios. In specific terms, this means setting up a Yes No properly controlling risks that may impede the realization of timeline for recovery and positing procedures and methods Citizen Holdings CSR Committee Q.2 If you detected any legal violation, would you call our Corporate Philosophy, the accomplishment of for restarting operations in each department. the Corporate Ethics Hotline? CSR and Risk Management management plans, and the fulfillment of our social ■ Alternative Production Facilities/Other Aspects of 36% 46% 18% Corporate Ethics Hotline Promotion Office responsibility to achieve sustainable growth in corporate 2011 Internal Audit & CSR Department Business Continuity value. Risks involving the Group are classified into two We need to conduct further studies and investigations of 2010 35% 47% 18% types: strategic risks and operational risks. The strategic these matters in terms of supply chain management. Yes Don’t know No Implementation risks are dealt with by the Management Committee and by the Operational Management Committee, whereas the Issues for Group Companies by BCP Implementation * Response rate in 2011: 75.3% (6,849 of 9,097 persons), Citizen Group CSR Promotion Committee (operating subsidiaries) Status 2010; 76.7% (6,651 of 8,677 persons) operational risks are addressed by all companies in the Each subsidiary Group in an organized manner. ① Companies that have been working on BCPs since Exchanging Opinions with before the 2011earthquake: They will implement their Topics Students at Musashino University CSR Committee Corporate Ethics Hotline CSR and Risk Management Efforts plans laterally within their own Groups. The Citizen Group has developed Basic Risk Management ② Companies that began considering BCPs before the Students at Musashino University wrote an evaluation of our 2011 CSR Report from the perspective of job seekers Rules. The Citizen Group CSR Promotion Committee in the 2011 earthquake: They have accelerated their efforts considering joining the company as new employees. We took executive departments monitors operational risks in each since the earthquake, but they will inform and train their the opportunity of receiving the report to exchange opinions Internal Audit Department J-SOX Internal Control System Environmental Management Committee on Appropriate Information Security Security Trade Trade Secret Management Group company to determine whether they should be employees further, including conducting disaster drills. with the students. We received much valuable feedback, such addressed by individual companies or by a Group-wide ③ Companies that began implementing BCPs after the as the dearth of information 2011 earthquake: The entire company will accelerate its relevant to a prospective Control Committee committee or equivalent body. A proposal is then made to Committee employee. We plan to Coordination Committee efforts. Subcontracting Committee the CSR Committee. The CSR Committee then considers the Committee Coordination Committee In specific terms, these plans will be conceived and create similar opportunities risks that the Group CSR Promotion Committee has referred. for exchanges with our The CSR Committee coordinates the resources needed to carried out with consideration for each company’s regional outside stakeholders in the deal with the risks within the Group, and if necessary, it characteristics, corporate structure, and size, as well as future. makes proposals to the Group Management Committee. kinds of potential natural disasters and the degree of 11 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 12 Citizen aims to pursue its corporate social responsibility (CSR) with the participation of all employees as a “corporate group contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” CITIZEN GROUP CODE OF CONDUCT WE WILL OBSERVE ALL LAWS AND COMPANY REGULATIONS AND WILL ACT ACCORDING TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT. In keeping with a corporate philosophy stating that Citizen contributes to and strives to be respected by the citizens of the world, we will: 1 Provide our customers with products and services that demonstrate our concern for 7 Respond to anti-social behavior by individuals and organizations in a decisive safety, quality, and the environment. manner. 2 Engage in fair, transparent and open competition in business transactions, and 8 Value and respect the different cultures and customs of foreign countries, and maintain healthy relationships with our suppliers and government regulatory contribute to the development of local communities. authorities. 9 The top management of the Citizen group recognize that implementing this Code of 3 Work to communicate with the general public, taking the initiative in making Conduct is their personal responsibility, and that they must take the lead not only in corporate information openly available, while at the same time practicing responsible enforcing it within the company, but in conveying it to our business partners and data management. suppliers. In addition, they must always be conversant with opinion within the 4 Recognize that environmental issues are a common concern of mankind and a company and outside it, develop an effective internal system for compliance with the crucial issue for management in terms of the survival and activities of the company, Code of Conduct, and work to ensure a thorough adherence to corporate ethics. and engage these issues in a voluntary, proactive manner. The company and its employees will make every effort to abide by this Code of Conduct. 5 Value symbiosis with local communities, and strive to contribute to society as a If a situation in violation of this Code of Conduct should happen to arise, the Company will good corporate citizen. make an appropriate report to the community about its own efforts to solve the problem and to prevent its recurrence. 6 Ensure a safe and pleasant working environment and encourage the development It will also impose strict penalties once the scope of rights and responsibilities is clear. of our employees’ abilities and energies while respecting their characters, individuality, and diversity. Effective April 6, 2007 * We asked employees of the Citizen Group “What does CSR mean to you?” (The English translations of the messages can be seen in the web version of the Citizen Group CSR Report.) 13 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 14 Group Code of Conduct, Article 1 Provide our customers with products and services that demonstrate our concern for safety, quality, and the environment. Design for the Future Craftsmanship that Our Customers Love — The Citizen Creating environmentally friendly products is a mission for those of us engaged in manufacturing. But wearing a watch Tokyo Designers Week 2011 Tokyo Designers Week is a design event that draws large also involves an element of fashion, so it is essential to numbers of companies and designers from Japan and respond to the feelings of customers who want to possess overseas, and Citizen first participated in this event in 2010. At something wonderful. These watches feature both a high the 2011 event, we exhibited the possibilities of a variety of level of precision and environmentally friendliness. On top of designs that arose out of the process of developing the Eco “High-quality watches that, their design inspires customers to want to wear them Drive Concept Model, a watch that generates electricity from light. forever. The superb and balanced way in which Citizen that we produce with watches are assembled is one of their strengths, and we During the 2010 Tokyo Designers Week, Rido Sasaki exhibited “Photosynthesis Watch,” an almost plant-like customer input.” believe that these products are harbingers of the future. watch, which delineated a fine and delicate form like a new bud, “woke up” when exposed to light, marked time with a What Designers Can Do needle of light. Visitors We don’t want to burden those who come after us, so we to the exhibition chose ask ourselves what we can do to ensure a better future. it as the most superb These are things that people engaged in manufacturing concept presented. must be intensely aware of: the environment, quality, and design. Indeed, it is from the balance among these elements that the value of a product design arises. My own personal goal is to make changes that impart A presentation by a designer new values to people’s lives and their sense of time. It pleases me to think that watches that I had a hand Mikio Unno Director, in making are marking out the moments of the happy Executive Adviser, occasions in people’s lives. Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. Citizen’s Flagship Brand, Embodying Its products on the basis of feedback from our customers is Corporate Philosophy — The Citizen both the starting point of craftsmanship and the essence of Citizen’s philosophy. The Possibilities of Designs that Meet the Customers’ “The Citizen,” launched in 1995, was the first high-quality brand in the industry to provide a 10-year warranty and In the future, we would like to make more people aware of this sense of values. Expectations promise complete after-purchase service, including long-term repairs. Seventeen years after its introduction, The Citizen has become a flagship brand embodying the company’s corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and For more information about The Citizen, please see our website at: “The environment, quality, and design. striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” http://citizen.jp/the-citizen/story/index.html (Japanese only) In order to ensure that our customers continue to love The balance among them is a harbinger our products over the long term, we allow no compromises in the areas of performance and quality, and only our Training Human Resources Leads to Delighted Customers Voice of the future.” master watchmakers, experienced technicians, assemble “The Citizen” embodies the company’s corporate philosophy the watches. We use timeless designs to create watches of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the that customers can treasure forever. citizens of the world,” and it has become our flagship brand, We want to remind our customers of two things: our one that we are very proud of. In order to provide our watches as part of a culture in which people use fine customers with this high-quality watch, it is essential to promote the growth of each individual employee. products for a long time, and the practice of taking good Organizations are based on people, and no matter what care of fine objects, something that contemporary people kinds of organizations and systems a company has in place, are apt to forget. neither the company nor its products can grow unless it fosters the growth of its people. For Creating Products with Our Customers that reason, I believe that my job—and my responsibility to our customers—is Our long-term interactions with customers in connection to reconfirm the significance of our with the maintenance and repair of their The Citizen work and to ensure that the tenacious watches have taught us many things. efforts of each individual employee lead to greater customer satisfaction. If you make a fine product, customers will be pleased Rido Sasaki with it. In addition, listening to feedback from customers Ryota Aoyagi Product Planning Headquarters serves as a motivation to make even finer watches, leading President and CEO Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. to improvements in quality and technology. Thus creating *Ms. Sasaki is holding a prototype of the Photosynthesis Watch that she designed herself. 15 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 16 Group Code of Conduct, Article 2 Group Code of Conduct, Article 3 Engage in fair, transparent and open competition in business transactions, and maintain healthy relationships with Work to communicate with the general public, taking the initiative in making corporate information openly our suppliers and government regulatory authorities. available, while at the same time practicing responsible data management. Reinforcing Overseas Green Procurement Information Disclosures and Communication with Investors Active and Fair Information Disclosures each group company and periodically confirms and shares In order to be selected by all stakeholders as a trusted information concerning new products, management, “It is important to conduct partner that has earned the trust of society, it is essential personnel matters, and so on while developing structures to consolidate, manage, and distribute information multiple verifications on a daily that Citizen is understood as a company. concerning Citizen Holdings. In order to gain trust broadly As the departments responsible for the external basis to protect suppliers.” dissemination of information, the Public Relations Section throughout society, rather than disseminating information and Investor Relations Section are bodies within the based primarily on the company’s own ideas, we Management Planning Department that develop structures continuously strive to disclose information from the for fair disclosures by engaging in active communications consumer’s perspective, taking into account people’s while sharing information with each other. lifestyles and needs while maintaining our objectivity. Under this type of structure, building trusting The Investor Relations Section holds financial briefings relationships with stakeholders, increasing corporate value four times each year and actively responds to requests and brand value and supporting the continuous growth and from the media, working to increase opportunities for development of the Group while raising social recognition dialogue with shareholders and investors, enhance the of the Citizens Group and improving understanding of the transparency of corporate activities through appropriate Group’s corporate philosophy and its management dissemination of information concerning the latest stances are important roles shares by the Public Relations developments and management’s vision, and raise Section and Investor Relations Section. We also believe corporate value. In other of the Section’s important roles is Takeshi Inoue that these activities are essential for carrying out our supporting bidirectional communications to convey within Former Manager responsibilities as a business enterprise. the Company perspectives and opinions from outside the Environmental Planning Department Company with the aim of improving corporate activities. We Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. are working to increase understanding of the Citizen Group Conducting Appropriate Communications by as many people as possible and build long-term trusting To actively disclose accurate corporate information in a relationships. conditions are unstable and fluid. In response to these timely manner, the Public Relations Section works with Building Structures That Support Mutual Development circumstances, ongoing checks on a daily basis are necessary for both sides. We make every effort to travel to “Gaining the understanding and The watch business conducts transactions with a total of local sites and engage in repeated face-to-face discussions ■ Assessment by Outside Organizations about 400 suppliers (green partners) in Japan and other countries, and all suppliers cooperate with Citizen’s green in order to actively identify problems and learn about trust of stakeholders and building Citizen Holdings has been selected for inclusion in management’s approaches. the Ethibel Sustainability Index by Belgian socially procurement efforts. good relationships is our The primary objective of green procurement is to responsible investment (SRI) assessment company The percentage of manufacturing conducted provide customers with safe and secure products. In the Ethibel for eight consecutive years since 2004. overseas has been rising rapidly in recent years, and it is case of external ornamentation of watches in particular, we responsibility.” important not only to comply with environmental have many overseas suppliers, and the success of green regulations of each country including in Europe, the United procurement in the watch business depends on overseas States, China, and so on, but also to conduct rigorous green partners. control of hazardous substances such as lead contained in materials, parts, and components. For this reason, that establishing verification systems that can maintain the best relationships for both sides is an urgent matter. China Advancing and Evolving on a Daily Basis Our green partners in China are caught up in the whirlwind of change that is taking place amidst rapid growth, and Verification testing using samples (fluorescent x-ray analysis) CSR Procurement The Citizen Electronics Group engages in procurement activities in accordance with the spirit of the Citizen Group Code of Conduct and the United Nations Global Compact including comprehensive compliance with the aims of building strong partnerships with suppliers who actively undertake CSR including consideration for the environment and human rights and achieving a harmonious coexistence and mutual benefit. Suppliers are requested to comply with the CSR Procurement Guidelines, a statement of requirements concerning observance of human rights, labor, occupational safety and health, fair trade, and so on. The CSR Procurement Guidelines Toshiyuki Furukawa, General Manager Management Planning Department and members Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. 17 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 18 Group Code of Conduct, 4 Article 4 Recognize that environmental issues are a common concern of mankind and a crucial issue for management in terms of the survival and activities of the company, and engage these issues in a voluntary, proactive manner. Development of Environmentally-Friendly Products Promoting Downsizing to Reduce Environmental — LEDs for Lighting Impact “Gentle Light That Adds Citizen Group Environmental Policy Revised April 1, 2010 Color to Our Lives” Slogan “Small is Eco” Nodoka Oyamada Opto Devices Division Citizen Electronics Co., Ltd. 1 Promoting downsizing Use production and technology innovations to reduce 3 Minimizing environmental risks Compliance with global environmental laws and regulations environmental impact, generate profits and reduce CO2 (REACH regulations, US regulations, Chinese regulations, emissions etc.) Creating new environmental value through 2 Citizen Environmental Products 4 Enhancing communication with local communities through environmental Identify new environmentally-conscious content of and social contribution activities products and parts “Small is Eco” “Small is Eco” was adopted in 2010 as a group-wide Citizen Heiwa Watch slogan that makes use of the Group’s expertise to Environmentally-Friendly Light That Uses Providing Healing Light to People and the World Example of Application of Miniaturization invigorate environmental activities throughout the Group. Watch Manufacturing Technology Awareness concerning electricity increased dramatically Technology and Observed Effects Downsizing is central initiative within those environmental LEDs are an environmentally-friendly light source. following the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, and activities. Compared to incandescent light bulbs, LEDs use only demand for energy-saving products and renewable energy We are developing Observed Effects Citizen Watch has been developing miniaturization about one-seventh or one-eighth the power and do not is increasing rapidly. environmentally conscious (CO2 Reduction in FY 2011) technologies since about 2003. Such technologies not only production facilities, and contain any hazardous substances such as the mercury We will continue our efforts to develop introduction of the KM-2 has CO2 emissions environmentally-friendly products with the aim of providing reduce environmental impact by saving space, resources, found in fluorescent lights. LEDs also have longer life spans, energy, and manpower and reducing costs, they also provide environmental value by reducing water usage, resulted in a 75% reduction in electricity consumption, a 70% reduction in mass, and a 226 tons (overall) contributing to a reduction in waste caused by replacement. LEDs are truly the “lighting of the future.” products that lend even a little of our strength so that we can contribute to solving various problems around the chemical usage, and detrimental effects on the work 12% reduction in installation Citizen Electronics began developing LED lighting in world including the restoration of areas affected by space per unit, providing Reduction in environmental disasters. environment and health. Citizen Group refers to this added impact per unit 2003 and successfully developed a lighting LED with a energy, resource (cost), and Light is an essential item that cannot be removed from value as a whole as “downsizing.” space saving benefits. Electric power brightness of 17,000 lumens, the world’s highest level, in Representative examples of integrated operations in our lives. It is my desire that such light causes no the watch business include the KM-2 micro-cam lathe and Earlier C-7 model 1.3 kWh 2011. The Citizen Electronics environmental policy of detrimental stimulus or harm miniaturization of watch assembly lines of Citizen Heiwa Mass of resources “smaller, thinner, higher-performance product designs” is to people or the global environment, that is safe and Watch. In 2011, we began trial use of “functional water 500 kg applied here too, and the presence of the beneficial tradition of pursuing the “lighter, thinner, shorter, smaller” secure, that at times can technology” for washing the cutting oil that adheres to Space can be sensed in the attitudes of each developer. calm or excite people, and watch components, and in addition to the miniaturization of facilities, we are adopting the downsizing concept with 0.9 m2 that is both pleasant and enjoyable. A team member meeting washing processes Standards for Determining Observed Effects as well. The environmental impact reduction effects including Approximately 51% Energy Savings Achieved with LED Lighting — Inubosaki Lighthouse illuminated KM-2 energy, resource, and space savings were converted to The Inubosaki Lighthouse in Choshi, Chiba Prefecture was selected as one of the “world’s reductions in carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide units used 100 lighthouses.” The lighthouse provides maritime weather information and plays a role as are listed below. a differential GPS station to provide GPS differential information and is crucial for safe and Electric power: 0.357 kg-CO2/kWh economic navigation by ships. LEDs powered by solar panels are used to light up the Resources (iron): 2.5 kg-CO2/kg (iron) lighthouse. The LED lights use LEDs manufactured by Citizen Electronics, and compared to Space: 76.0 kg-CO2/m2 per year the earlier metal halide lamps, they reduce power consumption by approximately 51%. Washing watch components using functional Example Initiative * The LED lights were manufactured by IWASAKI ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. water 19 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 20 Group Code of Conduct, Article 5 Value symbiosis with local communities, and strive to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen. Topics Supporting Individuals Who Inspire Others — CITIZEN OF THE YEAR Walking for Health and the Environment Since 2007, Citizen Watch (China) Co., Ltd. has been and the 2011 walk was held in the Shunan bamboo sea in holding an annual walking event called “Walk for Health, Sichuan Province to educate people about current Walk for the Environment.” The United Nations conditions and raise awareness about the preservation of designated 2011 as the International Year of Forests, and sustainable forests. About 30 people from Chongqing, it was a year for raising awareness concerning the Chengdu participated in the walk, raising awareness importance of preserving sustainable forests. Vast areas about the power of nature and the preservation of forests. of forest lands are being lost around the world even now, Citizen Heiwa Watch Wins Monodzukuri Nippon Grand Award Citizen Heiwa Watch won the fourth Monodzukuri Nippon Technical Classes at Special Need Education Grand Award for excellence in the youth support School category. The award, presented by the Ministry of Since 2002, we have cooperated with the Iida special Economy, Trade and Industry and other organizations, need education school Nagano Prefecture to conduct was created to support the development of monodzukuri periodic technical training courses on watch manufacture. (manufacturing) that supports advances in Japanese We have hired many graduates, and the courses also industry and culture and makes significant contributions serve to raise interest in working while assisting disabled to enriching lifestyles. persons to participate fully in society. Citizen Heiwa Watch was recognized for its What is Citizen of the Year? measures such as technical classes conducted at a Watch Assembly Clinics for Parents and their “Every year, we select Citizen of the Year is an annual awards scheme that recognizes special need education school with the aim of fostering Children citizens who have inspired local residents and made significant the next-generation of manufacturing human resources We have conducted a deserving individuals who contributions to the development, happiness, and all-around and watch assembly program entitled “You enhancement of their local communities. Prompted by a lack of clinics for parents Too Can Become a inspire their communities wide-ranging recognition for deserving citizens, the scheme was and their children. Future Master” every year established in 1990 to mark Citizen’s 60th anniversary, tying in and honor them for their with the spirit of the company’s name. since 2007 as a part of the Iida City Super Science actions and activities.” For more information about Citizen of the Year, please see our website at: Promotion Project for http://www.citizen.co.jp/english/coy/ educating schoolchildren with the aim of raising awareness concerning employment by the young people Supporting the Development of High School Transcribing Books into Braille for Students Volunteering to Prepare Bodies for Burial in who will be the workers of the future. The program Students in Farming Communities in of a School for the Blind for More Than a Disaster Areas and Supporting Survivors teaches participants about local companies and raises Bangladesh through Video Classes Half-Century Ms. Ruiko Sasahara excels at preparing bodies interest in manufacturing. Atsuyoshi Saisho, a university student, was Mr. Tatsuyuki Takeuchi was assigned to school for burial and volunteered to assist in restoring selected as the first Japanese coordinator of for the blind as a teacher of Japanese and was the many badly damaged bodies caused by Grameen Bank in Bangladesh. Mr. Saisho was surprised to learn that almost no books other the tsunami following the Great East Japan Solar Bear Smile Project Pink Ribbon Campaign aware of educational disparities caused by the than textbooks were available in Braille. Earthquake based on their condition while lack of local teachers. Only about 10% of high Concerned that his students would not learn alive. She helped send off more than 300 Citizen Watch contributes a portion of sales of its Since 2010, Citizen Watch Company of America, Inc. school students in impoverished agricultural the joy of reading books, he learned Braille on people while enabling survivors who had solar-powered Eco-Drive products to the Solar Bear has supported a campaign for the eradication of breast communities are able to complete school, and his own and over the course of nearly 60 years suddenly lost a family member to avoid the Fund, a non-profit organization that engages in global cancer, selling products with the pink ribbon mark on the Mr. Saisho wanted to do something to help transcribed more than 4,000 books including pain of viewing their loved ones in a distressful them. His idea was inspired by the video novels and poetry collections as well as condition. Ms. Sasahara continues to provide warming prevention activities and environmental back cover throughout the classes that he took through a preparatory academic works and encyclopedias for mental health support including traveling education for children, to support the installation of solar North American market. A total school. Classes taught by a well-known students who are seeking to obtain throughout the disaster area and engaging in power equipment by kindergartens and nursery schools. of $200,000 including 2% of teacher were recorded and played in remote qualifications. At around age 40, he began volunteer activities such as Ochakko, villages. Of the approximately 30 students who putting efforts into teaching transcription and discussion groups where survivors can drink In February 2012, sales and other funds were participated in the first session, 20 passed and trained other transcribers as well. Today, at the tea and talk with a doctor who specializes in Citizen Watch donated to Susan G. Komen four were admitted to age of 83, Mr. Takeuchi palliative care, since last donated solar for the Cure. some of the most has undertaken autumn. competitive universities. transcription of the New power facilities to In the second session Anthology of Classical the Iwaki City of the program, results Japanese Literature, Azamino are being improved and which has 100 volumes. the territory is being Kindergarten in expanded. Fukushima Prefecture. Mr. Atsuyoshi Saisho Mr. Tatsuyuki Takeuchi Ms. Ruiko Sasahara 21 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 22 Terakoya Education/Kiheitai Activities In addition, Kiheitai activities supplement existing Group Code of Conduct, Article 6 small-group quality improvement programs by supporting Citizen Finetech Miyota Co., Ltd. implements a variety of Ensure a safe and pleasant working environment and encourage the development of our employees’ abilities and programs from the perspective human resource not only initiative-taking and autonomy, but also measures energies while respecting their characters, individuality, and diversity. development with the aim of promoting initiative-taking and to eliminate barriers between departments. Employees set autonomy on the part of employees. By training employees the topics and issues are addressed by groups within Creating Ideal Working Environments who pay attention to changes and problems, address issues on their own, and move to the next action, the departments or inter-departmental groups. This supplements quality improvement programs, which are company seeks to improve work abilities and rise employee intended mainly to reinforce business structures, with satisfaction. personnel development effects by promoting awareness and fostering teamwork. “A true business Terakoya education is a program that trains By conducting terakoya education and kiheitai employees but also supports employees taking the person is also able initiative by asking what each employee wants to learn and activities throughout the company, Citizen Finetech Miyota adopting innovations in conveying information by having is achieving growth by individual employees and raising to fulfill his role as employees teach in their areas of specialization. The motivation. This is expected to lead to steady program consists primarily of voluntary courses conducted i m provem ents and resul t s i n b us i nes s act i v i t i es . a member of a after working hours, but three years after its launch, Establishing this type of environment is an important role of the company. family.” participation in the program is increasing, particularly in QC inspection courses, leading to substantial results. Fumio Kikuchi Manager Promoting Initiative-Taking and Autonomy by Employees Business Management Department Top: Terakoya activities Middle: Kiheitai activities Citizen Tohoku Co., Ltd. Bottom: Citizen Finetech Miyota Operating Officer Yasuhiro Nakagawa “Training human resources who can present issues and resolve Desire to Create New Value such as the Dianthus Beautification Campaign and supporting the promotion of women to management them on their Citizen Group believes that one of its management responsibilities is to create an environment that respects positions in an attempt to create systems that function with own.” each employee, recognizes diversity, and supports full a good balance between men and women. The company participation by all personnel, and to carry out this seeks to create new value by avoiding male-dominated responsibility, we strive to create workplaces where it is perspectives and incorporating flexible female perspectives easy for personnel to work. Citizen Tohoku Co., Ltd. in as well. particular has made efforts to create an environment where There are many issues, but by addressing them one women can work as long as they like with peace of mind, by one, I believe that we can create workplaces that implementing various programs and systems. respect each employee and support their ambitions. It is Citizen Tohoku actively conducts programs that seek the company’s role to establish various systems and to improve the workplace from the perspective of women programs that support this. Bakke Nursing Room Citizen Tohoku established and operates the Bakke Nursing Room at the worksite. Group Code of Conduct, Article 7 The nursing room was established so fathers and mothers can work nearby their Respond to anti-social behavior by individuals and organizations in a decisive manner. children with a sense of security and with the aim of promoting interest in manufacturing among the children, who can see their parents at work, to foster future generations of Citizen workers. The children have some degree of interaction with the workers, and they provide some motivation to each other. The nursing room is currently attended by five children, its Responding to Anti-Social Forces full capacity, and the children are growing day by day. Citizen Group is aware that ties to anti-social forces lead to a substantial loss of confidence in the company by society and have a significant impact on the continued existence of the company. Our fundamental policy is to take a decisive stance against Parenting Class for Fathers demands for inappropriate gains from anti-social forces and organizations, and we completely avoid all ties with anti-social forces. A parenting class was held for fathers to support an For Children’s Development We establish and reinforce systems to avoid all relationships with anti-social forces such appropriate balance between work and parenting by I learned that when fathers are more closely involved in their male employees. The hope is that the class children’s care, there are many positive benefits on the as holding briefings for general affairs personnel of group companies to encourage the inclusion expanded the men’s perspectives concerning children’s development such as enhancement of the of anti-social force exclusion provisions in all contracts entered into by group companies. parenting and support working mothers while children’s analytical abilities, the ability to express and We maintain regular contact with local companies and outside organizations such as the Hiroshi Taya fostering fathers who are fond of actively participating control emotion, and ability to develop interpersonal police to support activities for the exclusion of anti-social forces. Voice Business Management in their children’s upbringing and education. relationships. In the future, I am going to value my time with Department Citizen Tohoku Co., Ltd. children even more. A briefing for general affairs personnel 23 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 24 Group Code of Conduct, Article 8 Value and respect the different cultures and customs of foreign countries, and contribute to the development of local communities. Encouraging Structural Reforms and Changes in corporate culture) and production reforms in order to become a world-leading enterprise. Future Targets Today at CPGZ, there is an awareness of the need to First, measures were taken to change the corporate in Corporate Culture in China culture with the aim of transforming local employees into thoroughly implement the PDCA cycle, and we are adopting corporate policies for each year, setting priority human resources who were able to act more tasks for each division and incorporating measures autonomously. Among the specific measures was designed to carry those tasks into day-to-day activities. We localization of management by establishing organizations “We are growing into a company with local ties in China, a country centered on local personnel. Another measure was the have also started consulting with the government, attorneys, and labor bureaus to respond to rapidly undergoing rapid change. I’m confident that we can accelerate the pace implementation of 3Q7S activities led by local employees. changing laws in China. Also, employee conditions were reformed to improve Our targets for the future are to establish a corporate by improving communication with yields, quality, and productivity by reducing employee culture that enables employees to act autonomously, to separation and improving its stabilizing technical skills. In respond to environmental regulations, to become a employees.” addition, 10 committees were established within CPGZ, company understood by our stakeholders, and to coexist taking into account the unique characteristics of Chinese harmoniously and achieve mutual benefit with and be employees, to listen to the comments and opinions of the recognized by local communities. All employees are employees and discuss them in executive officer meetings working together to achieve these targets. and establish systems regarding benefits, safety, wages, and so on that incorporate the employees’ perspectives to the greatest extent possible. Longtime employees were actively promoted to foreman and leader positions, outside consultants were hired, and training tailored to specific Topics positions was conducted. The results have been a fostering of awareness as executives, reductions in costs, a Employment of Disabled Persons reduction of leadtimes, and an overall improvement in CPGZ actively employs disabled persons. The efficiency throughout the plant. company currently has 26 disabled employees and does not create any distinctions in the work content Yoshiki Kurobe Becoming a Locally-Recognized Company based on their disabilities and assigns the same work Former Managing Director as non-disabled employees. Support is available, but Employees from other districts have a strong tendency to Citizen Precision Guangzhou Ltd. disabled employees are given work with significant resign from their jobs at the time of the Chinese new year and return to their hometowns, and long-term employees responsibilities and some individuals have even been are often locals. CPGZ is putting greater efforts into promoted to team leader positions. CPGZ plans to hire Relationship between Evolving China and Guangzhou (CPGZ) in a way that will lead to the even more disabled employees in the future and activities that support local regions with the aim of making Japanese Companies development of the Citizen Group as a whole. There were provide them with a positive work environment. contributions and becoming a company where employees many problems to be addressed, but we believe it was also The extremely rapid pace of change in China has resulted can be proud to work for the benefit of such local necessary to take measures for the benefit of the local in many problems as well as heightened awareness for the employees. Improving CPGZ’s local reputation also serves workers. Citizen Group, which has group companies and plants in to please the families of such employees and increases China. local residents who want to work for the company. I believe This evolution has not just been economic, but has Raising Organizational Capabilities: that this is one example of the beneficial coexistence and extended to their thinking, lifestyles, and approaches to The Phoenix Plan mutual development of the company and local work. As they have changed, it has been necessary for us Under these circumstances, the key issue was how communities. to make various responses. management can work with employees to enhance In 2009, the management team at that time had organizational capabilities. The Phoenix Plan was adopted misgivings about operations in China. Personnel expenses with the aim of becoming a company that can survive until were rising rapidly in conjunction with high economic at least 2020. The plan calls for structural reforms (changes The Company as Seen by a Local Employee Voice growth, and environmental regulations were being made I have worked for CPGZ since I was hired after graduating, and I currently work on improving worksites stricter on a yearly basis, requiring various management and managing employee conditions. measures. Under these rapidly changing conditions, it was We have the highest respect to employee opinions. Women account for 90% of the workforce, and necessary to determine therefore, we work to create a work environment that is friendly to women employees. Local employees want to work even after childbirth. As a result, new mothers are granted 30 minutes each morning and afternoon what types of for nursing, enabling employees with young children to work with peace of mind. Currently, about 100 structures and pregnant women work for CPGZ, and most women return to work after taking maternity leave. In the future, systems should be I hope to enhance the childcare leave system and to establish a nursing room. created to provide My role is to create ties between the company and its employees and to create an even better employee-friendly workplace, and I hope to make the company a good place to work including wages and benefits while work environments taking into consideration the interests of the company. Yang Wanling Deputy Senior Manager an d p r om ot e th e Management Center Citizen Precision Guangzhou Ltd. development of CPGZ acquired “Cleaner Production Certification” Posters in corridors encourage participation in 3Q7S activities led by local Citize n Pr ecis ion under China’s Cleaner Production Promotion Law. employees. 25 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 26 Group Code of Conduct, Article 8 Group Code of Conduct, Article 9 Value and respect the different cultures and customs of foreign countries, and contribute to the development of The top management of the Citizen group recognizes that implementing this Code of Conduct is their personal responsibility, local communities. and that they must take the lead not only in enforcing it within the company, but in conveying it to our business partners and suppliers. In addition, they must always be conversant with opinion within the company and outside it, develop an effective Human Resource Development in China internal system for compliance with the Code of Conduct, and work to ensure a thorough adherence to corporate ethics. Corporate Governance “Conveying manufacturing Basic Approach such as reviewing important documents, monitoring the techniques raises The Citizen Group endeavors to improve business value company’s operations and finances, and attending and contribute to society through sustained corporate meetings of the Board of Directors and other bodies, motivation and generates activities in harmony with local communities and the global auditors are also responsible for auditing the implementation environment under the corporate philosophy of and management of internal control systems. pride in one’s work.” “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens We have also established a Nomination Committee of the world.” In the constant pursuit of this goal, we strive and Remuneration Committee—consisting of outside to reinforce corporate governance in recognition of the directors and the president— to provide advisory support. importance of ensuring management transparency and Citizen Holdings Corporate Governance Structure effectively supervising management from various Shareholders’ Meeting perspectives. Appointments and dismissals Nomination Remuneration Roles of the Pure Holding Company and Appointments Committee Committee Appointments and and Subsidiaries dismissals Proposals and Advice and dismissals recommendations recommendations We have clarified the scope of responsibility and authority of Citizen Holdings and each of the individual operating Accounting subsidiaries that make up the Citizen Group. Citizen Board of Audits Board of Directors audits Independent Holdings is responsible for developing management Auditors Accounting Appointments, Auditor policies to optimize Group-wide management and to make dismissals and supervision effective use of resources to boost corporate value. Yoshitaka Nakayama Reports President & CEO Group Managing Director Individual operating subsidiaries in turn operate Management Guangzhou Most Crown Electronics Ltd. independently based on the nature of their segments in the Committee interests of more effective management and increased Internal Audit & CSR Department Direction and supervision profitability. Internal audits Watch School Opened Reforming Employee Awareness Guangzhou Most Crown Electronics Ltd. (MCLG) made Citizen Micro Devices (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (CDLS) Roles of the Board of Directors and the Board Subsidiaries reforming the corporate culture and developing human People in China believe that it is possible to make advances of Auditors resources priorities. As a part of its measures to address by seeking a new environment, and personnel separation The Citizen Holdings Board of Directors consists of nine Internal Control Systems these issues, the company opened a watch school to raise rates are high compared to Japan, and as a result, members (as of March 31, 2012), including two outside Having set out a basic policy on the establishment of technical skills. accumulating technical skills is an issue. In order to directors (registered as independent officers with the Tokyo internal control systems at Citizen Holdings, we are now At the watch school, which was established in 2011, a overcome this problem, CDLS made a major push to Stock Exchange). The Board of Directors determines working to further enhance our internal control systems. To total of 24 local employees selected from various reform its corporate culture and change and raise management policies and other important matters for ensure proper and effective execution of the internal control departments learn watch assembly skills and techniques employee awareness. Citizen Holdings and the Citizen Group and supervises the systems and reliable financial reporting, J-SOX Internal (including theory) once each month with the aim of Employee training is conducted on quality, health and execution of directors’ duties. Control System Coordination Committee meetings are held becoming watch professionals. The watch school provides safety, 5S, and other The Citizen Holdings Board of Auditors consists of with the participation of relevant personnel from Group a forum for employees who want to learn, and is intended topics. In addition, three members including two independent outside auditors consolidated subsidiaries. In collaboration with outside to enable employees to experience the joys and difficulties outside instructors were (as of March 31, 2012). In addition to checking the audit institutions, we work to constantly improve, operate, of manufacturing, raise motivation, and support the employed to conduct execution of directors’ duties in general through activities and evaluate our internal control systems. development of human resources who are proud of their supervisor training, work jobs. methods and approaches, In addition, the 3M Academy was established as a part of self-improvement activities to enable employees to management techniques and so on with the aim Comment from an Outside Director There is no end to unfortunate incidents caused by an inward-looking management culture or a failure of Voice study Japanese and Chinese and improve their of raising the skill levels management’s ethical viewpoints, and even more important than actively disclosing information is building communication skills. By undertaking these activities with of supervisors. structures that seek assessments from outside the company. In my opinion, the Citizen Group has outstanding objectives, not only are skills raised, but awareness is Based on the belief corporate ethics and the group-wide efforts to carry them out lead to trustworthy management. improved and the fundamental policy of the 3M group The Company’s corporate governance systems are appropriate for clarifying executive authority and that communication is (Citizen Watch Miyota, MCLG, and Myoko Precision)— responsibilities concerning business and strengthening audit functions to accelerate the pace of management and essential, efforts are also enhance its reliability while encouraging intra-group competition and rebuilding the Group’s overall high earning “Respect the field and people! Make the company better made to promote structures. As an outside director, I regularly make proposals and offer my opinions concerning management from and dreams happen!”—is put into practice. communication by an outside perspective and strive to raise the corporate value of the Citizen Group. The hope is that future graduates will become holding social events Kazumoto Yamamoto instructors and the Academy can be operated by local staff and inter-departmental Takashi Mitsuishi, General Manager Outside Director Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. only, and I am confident that we will achieve this objective. exchanges. Citizen Micro Devices (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 27 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 28 Data: Environment Third-Party Comments Targets and Results for Fiscal 2011 Evaluations ○: Achieved △: Partly achieved ×: Not achieved Group-wide CO2 Emissions Targets for FY2011 Results for FY2011 Evaluation Electricity Gas Heavy oil Others (Tons-CO2) 1. Promoting downsizing 150,000 121,836 A company’s CSR report is more than a simple report outlining CSR ■ Use production and technology innovations to reduce Tokyo: Activities addressing 96 topics conducted 100,000 97,753 94,198 91,900 initiatives. It represents a commitment to undertake initiatives that seek to put environmental impact, generate profits and reduce CO 2 83,779 emissions Tokorozawa: Activities addressing 38 topics conducted the company’s principles into practice. My comments this year are once 50,000 ■ Set topics linked to the environment based on business Citizen Watch used the concept of ○ again based on this same perspective. targets (policy management) “deemed effects” to calculate the results Save resources, save energy, save space, improved of its miniaturization activities. 0 2000 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) One Akiyama recyclability, reduce chemical use, improve operating President of Integrex Inc. rates, etc. Group-wide Waste Production*1 Recycled Land-filled Incinerated 2. Creating new environmental value through Citizen Environmental Products (Tons) (%) Recycling Rate ■ Identify new environmentally-conscious content of ■ Specific actions were not taken; some 10,000 100 1. Positive points When targets are set, activities undertaken to achieve those products and parts hazardous chemicals were replaced 7,840 7,317 targets, and the activity targets are presented the following and chemical substance management 6,647 6,967 The Citizen Group reports on its CSR initiatives and ■ Create a new “eco-drive” value (watches) was maintained 5,370 maintains a highly admirable stance of involving all of its year, the results are easy to understand, PDCA is more ■ Acquisition of overseas eco-marks 5,000 50 personnel in initiatives aimed at putting into practice its effective, and ongoing activities are supported. 3. Minimizing environmental risks Also, given that more than 60% of the Group’s sales corporate philosophy of “contributing to and striving to be ■ Compliance with global environmental laws and Collected updated information come from overseas, it is essential to spread the Group’s regulations REACH regulations, United States ○ 0 2000 2008 2009 2010 0 2011 (FY) respected by the citizens around the world” in every aspect regulations, Chinese regulations, etc. *1 Waste production = of its business activities based on the Citizen Group Code principles among the 63% of its personnel who are based industrial waste + general waste + valuable resources ■ Response to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy: of Conduct, which serves as a guide for carrying out that overseas. It is important to share principles and raise CO2 (electricity & gas) reductions (generally, 1% annually) ○ Amount of PRTR Substances Discharged and Transported understanding of them while periodically verifying the Tokyo: 55% reduction in CO 2 emissions compared to 1999 Down 57% compared to 1999 (10,144 t-CO 2) corporate philosophy. Released into atmosphere Released into public waters (10,730 t-CO 2) Released into soil at business premises The report presents information not only on the spread of those principles and the awareness and attitudes Tokorozawa: 13% reduction in CO 2 emissions compared to Down 18% compared to 1999 (10,206 t-CO 2) ○ Disposed of by landfill at business premises specific initiatives undertaken in business activities for each of employees including overseas employees. From the 1999 (10,809 t-CO 2) Transferred to sewage system Transferred offsite (Tons) item of the nine-article Code of Conduct, but also perspective of risk management too, it is particularly ■ Implementation of waste reduction activities 300 Tokyo: Reduction of industrial waste—maintenance and Down 79% compared to 1999 (114 t) ○ 258 introduces the “faces” and “voices” of the employees important to conduct business based on local conditions. A management 200 involved in an easy to understand and accessible manner. I higher level of reporting on CSR initiatives is expected in Tokorozawa: Reduction of industrial waste—maintenance and Down 39% compared to 1999 (103t) management ○ found the initiatives for reforming systems, changing conjunction with globalization. 100 4. Enhancing communication with local communities through environmental and social contribution activities 28 26 59 29 corporate culture, and developing human resources in Undertaken as part of CSR activities ○ 0 China under Article 8 including the straightforward 3. Looking ahead 2004 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) presentation of local problems and issues and the In order to be a company that is respected by society, it Business Activities and Environmental Impact approaches and actions taken to address them to be a is necessary to incorporate the three Is. The most important Japan Overseas Japan Overseas Japan Overseas particularly interesting statement of the actual concerns is integrity. The good faith of the organization and maintainTotal energy input (GJ) 2,290,208 14,423,934 CO2 emissions BOD emissions (tons) and difficulties confronted when conducting overseas ing agreement between what the company says and what 91,900 856,776 39 19 (tons-CO2) Water resource input (km3) 1,591 business and the efforts needed to overcome them. it does in order to put its principles into practice is crucial. 1,705 INPUT OUTPUT NOx emissions (tons) 6 3 COD emissions (tons) 7 680 The Special Feature focuses on Responses to Natural Second is the innovation performed on the basis of the trust Repeated use of water within the organization (km3) 397 17 Disasters, and the ongoing measures undertaken in obtained as a result of the company’s integrity. In order to SOx emissions (tons) 5 3 Waste generated (tons) 7,317 5,374 continue to grow as a company needed by society, innovaChemical substance input 637 1,669 response to the Great East Japan Earthquake have been (tons) fruitful. The Group went beyond national borders when tion, improvement, and reform are absolutely essential for Containers and packaging Water drainage (km3) 1,337 973 Waste land-filled (tons) 240 3,282 634 1,400 creating value. Last is Ichien-yugo, integration between the used (tons) working towards recovery following the earthquake and in Input and output data does not include environmental impact at the distribution/sales, usage or procurement stages. Period: April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 Scope: 22 domestic companies, 12 overseas companies response to the flooding in Thailand to provide mutual company and individuals, the company and other compasupport, and the full participation by all employees in Japan nies, and the company and society while enabling each to Data: Employees (18 main group companies) and other countries was quite impressive. exhibit its unique capabilities. Ichien-yugo is the very Recent Graduates Hired Employment of Disabled Persons purpose of CSR initiatives. FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 2. Potential improvements for the future I hope that the Citizen Group will make use of its The report on activities undertaken pursuant to the Citizen unique strengths and think long and broadly about what is Male 89 65 90 Employment rate 1.69% 1.91% 1.89%* Group Code of Conduct was easy to understand and needed and what it can do to build a truly sustainable Female 35 19 26 * Employment rate as of June 1, 2011 society and work together as a corporate group, Implementation of Specific Health Checkups and Specific Counseling worthy of praise, but I also would like to see reports on Total 124 84 116 specific targets for each item of the Code and on the contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens Guidance (at 32 worksites) progress of activities intended to achieve those targets. of the world. I hope also that the Citizen Group will continue Employees Hired Mid-Career FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 its initiatives based on integration (Ichien-yugo). Specified medical examination FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 75.5% 78.5% 79.5% rate (employee & family) Male 14 35 37 Metabolic syndrome rate 10.8% 11.1% 12.1% Response to the Third-Party Comments Female 11 28 13 I would like to thank Ms. Akiyama for her valuable opinions and comments. The proposal was made that we Pre-metabolic syndrome rate 11.9% 11.5% 11.8% Total 25 63 50 strive to become a truly global company and a vigorous company as our management policy for carrying out Specific counseling guidance the new medium-term plan. The Group’s risk management environment is changing as a result of globalization, rate 20.3% 23.0% 32.6% Use of Childcare Leave Scheme Use of Nursing Care Leave Scheme and we believe that establishing a work environment that supports autonomous activity by employees including Occurrence of Accidents overseas employees is necessary for undertaking CSR initiatives. We will work to enhance dialogue with Male Female Total Male Female Total FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 stakeholders and make use of their individual strengths while working together to put our corporate principles FY 2009 0 57 57 FY 2009 0 3 3 into practice and raise corporate value. Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Masanori Ito FY 2010 3 42 45 FY 2010 0 0 0 Manager Accidents resulting FY 2011 4 39 43 FY 2011 0 1 1 10 6 8 Internal Audit & CSR Department, Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. in employee absence 29 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 Citizen Group CSR Report 2012 30
