COP 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT COP, 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS KK-ELECTRONIC, 2012 kk-electronic supporting the ten principles Commitment to the Global Compact KK-ELECTRONIC HAS REACHED preferred source ahead of more poluting kk-electronic continuously supports the NEW HEIGHTS IN SUPPLYING GREEN kinds of energy. Global Compact work and the ten prinENERGY ciples by obtaining more insight into the Another sustainable step was in the areas of CSR and following implementIn the past year kk-electronic has experiautumn 2011 where kk-electronic ing this in our routines and operation enced several improvements for us being purchased our own wind turbine, partly throughout the organisation. a part of the renewable energy industry. for testing the new control system, and partly for supplying the energy for In April 2012 kk-electronic launched a running the company by ourselves. The new product, a wind turbine platform, installation work is now complete, and that has the abilities of optimising, the wind turbine already produces more measuring, controlling and surveilling than the company consumes on an anthe wind turbine in its operation activinual basis. ties. These are all important and relevant aspects of the renewable energy indusFinally we have made improvements in try today, since the aim is to be competithe field of Corporate Social Responsibilitive with other kinds of energy sources, ty from our membership of UN’s program such as fossil fuels. With the new product Global Compact. We have now much we aim at being a supplier of a holistic more focus on CSR, which is an advansystem, that contributes to the goal of tage for us as a global player in the renewable energy sources to be the renewable energy industry. Tommy G. Jespersen, CEO CONTENTS 2 Continued support for Global Compact 3 kk-electronic in 2012 4 CSR business practices 6 Code of Conduct 7 Initiatives in joint-venture in China 8 Press release on kk-electronic’s new product 9 Purchase of wind turbine 10 Measurement of outcomes 11 New efforts in kk-electronic KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 2/12 kk-electronic in 2012 In the COP 2011 kk-electronic was repreprinciples, and we began with a focus on Our approach to working more intensely sented as three separate institutions in these elements. They were principle 2, with CSR began in a process of impleDenmark, Poland and China. The com4 and 5, and our scope for approaching menting the CSR thinking and planning pany is now harmonized into one unit, these principles were to: in the company by a CSR “wheel” (p. 5), which is also why the COP 2012 is made which would ensure that the activities on behalf of kk-electronic’s locations in • engage our suppliers in CSR involved were handled correctly. Denmark, Poland and partly also China. • make a policy of human rights However, in China, in kk-Qianwei, they • make a policy of non-use of child Furthermore, we made a code of conhave made their own CSR report, which labour duct to ensure the implementation of is included below. • make a code of conduct CSR in small steps. CSR EFFORTS When beginning working with these This meant, however, that we had to scopes, however, we soon realized that postpone the policy of human rights and In our COP 2011 we used a SWOT analythe row and volume of our intentions the policy of non-use of child labour for sis for measuring how to prioritize our needed to be revised, and in order to the following year’s efforts. approach to the ten principles. Three of reach the best possible final result, we the principles appeared to need our atchose to revise our goals. tention more than the remaining seven FOR THREE DECADES KK-ELECTRONIC HAS EVOLVED TOGETHER WITH THE WIND ENERGY INDUSTRY. TODAY MORE THAN 18,000 KKELECTRONIC CONTROL SYSTEMS ARE INSTALLED IN WIND TURBINES AROUND THE WORLD. KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 3/12 CSR business practices CODE OF CONDUCT implementing the Code of Conduct in BUSINESS CONDUCT STANDARDS the supplier network beginning with In our COP of 2011 we stated that we the group of suppliers that is estimated kk-electronic expects the suppliers to would make a Code of Conduct for each to be in a high risk group. The segmenconduct their business responsibly, with of our three locations: in Denmark, Potation of suppliers is made through a integrity and honesty and to adhere to land and China. We have made one Code risk assessment analysis, dividing the the following standards: of Conduct for these three locations, and suppliers in three groups. The degree of the implementation process was initirisk for each supplier decides the kind of Compliance with applicable laws ated in the first half of 2012. approach required from kk-electronic. Suppliers are required to comply with all Compared with the total amount of supapplicable laws, regulations and codes in Our Code of Conduct includes codes on pliers a rather low percentage is in the the countries of operation. how to act in the areas of Collaboration, high risk group. The suppliers have been Human Rights, Labour, Child Labour, contacted with our Code of Conduct Labour The Right to freedom of association and implementation followed by a self asSuppliers shall, at a minimum, comply collective bargaining, Discrimination, sessment form and a visit. The high risk with all applicable laws relating to miniHealth and Safety, Environment, Corrupgroup, to be prioritised first, consists of mum wages, working hours, overtime tion and Bribery. companies with a significant volume and compensation and legally mandated production in low cost countries, and benefits. CODE OF CONDUCT IN SUPPLY have no CSR policy. CHAIN A Workplace Free of Child Labor kk-electronic seeks the acceptance from Suppliers will not use child labor. “Child” Throughout our Supply Chain, kkour suppliers through a letter of Business refers to any person employed under the electronic is implementing the Code of Conduct Standards: age of 15, or under the age for compleConduct in the various functions during 2012. The implementation in the Supply Chain is made in two steps to ensure that the codes reach every function in the chain. One step is communicating the Code of Conduct to managers, and another is communicating the codes directly to employees. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT In kk-electronic’s supplier network we are also going through an implementation process, with the aim of the Code of Conduct being an integrated part of our contracts, audits and daily cooperation with our suppliers. For our suppliers the Code of Conduct formulates the minimum requirements of ethical behavior for kk-electronic corporate management, kk-electronic employees, as well as consultants and contract workers who provide products or services to our organizations on a global basis. Our Strategic Sourcing department is KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 4/12 ting compulsory education, or under the lity, gender, political affiliation, union Ethical dealings minimum age for employment in the membership marital status, or any other Suppliers must comply with all country, whichever provides the greatest protected characteristic under the law. applicable laws regarding bribery, protection. corruption and prohibited business Health and Safety practices and shall respect kk-elecFreedom of Association Suppliers will provide a safe and healthy tronic’s policies regarding corrupSuppliers shall respect the right of workworkplace in compliance with application and bribery. ers to associate freely, to join or not join ble laws and regulations. Our suppliunions, to seek representation, and/ ers provide safe and healthy working or join other worker’s organizations in conditions and are committed to work accordance with local laws and regulaconstantly with protecting employees tions. from work related hazards and dangers in the work-place. A Workplace Free from Discrimination Suppliers will not discriminate in the hirProtection of the Environment ing process or employment policies such Suppliers will conduct their business opas promotions, rewards and access to erations with care for the environment training, based on race, ethnicity, color, and comply with all applicable environage, religion, sexual orientation, disabimental laws and regulations. CSR WHEEL In 2012 we developed a CSR “wheel” in order for the organization to continuously follow the plans and processes as well as the progress of our CSR efforts. The CSR wheel is also a tool that assists us in our CSR employment. The flow of the wheel constitutes a year, and in each step more information in the specific area is available for the user. Via our internal communication channel we have provided access to the wheel and more information on each subject including links to the Code of Conduct and to other relevant information in connection with the CSR activities. So besides being a planning tool, the purpose of the wheel is to keep all employees informed about our activities and progress within CSR. KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 5/12 Code of Conduct kk-electronic’s Code of Conduct is our commitment to Employee Privacy Discrimination conduct our business with integrity in all our actions. kk-electronic and the supplier shall respect the kk-electronic and our suppliers will not engage It is a tool for us to perform our jobs in the best posprivacy rights of its employees whenever it gathers in or support discrimination on the basis of race, sible manner. or keeps private information. colour, sex, language, religion, political or other As a part of that kk-electronic and our suppliers must opinion, caste, national or social origin, property, comply with national laws and regulations as well Leave birth, union affiliation, sexual orientation, health as the principles expressed in our code of conduct, kk-electronic and our suppliers must offer vacastatus, family responsibilities, age, and disability and we expect our suppliers to ensure, that their sub tions, leave periods and holidays consistent with or other distinguishing characteristics. Hiring, suppliers are aware of and complying with our code local laws and regulations. Furthermore parental remuneration, benefits, training, advancement, of conduct. leave must be offered to employees who care for discipline, termination, retirement or any other It is our conviction that carefulness and responsibila newborn or newly adopted child. Women, who employment-related decisions shall be based on ity contributes to our competitive strength and as take maternity leave, must not face dismissal or relevant and objective criteria. such benefits our customers. We are all responsible threat of dismissal, and shall be able to return to for maintaining good work relationships and habits. work in their former employment at the same rate Health and safety Keep up the good work! of pay and benefits. kk-electronic and our suppliers provide safe and healthy working conditions and are committed to Collaboration Labour work constantly with protecting employees from We emphasize collaboration in all our work activikk-electronic wants to ensure, in kk-electronic and work related hazards and dangers in the workties in order to reach optimal work conditions for through our supply chain, safe working condiplace. In order for this to succeed we must all foleach of us, and in order to ensure a sufficient basis tions, and that workers are treated with respect low the health and safety policies and procedures for everyone to accomplish their tasks. and dignity, both in the recruiting process, during outlined by the company. employment and in connection with termination Only by working together in an honorable manner of employment. Environment can we conduct a business with integrity that supAll of us are responsible for respecting the environports a healthy daily work life. Working hours ment and striving to conserve natural resources in Both in terms of weekly working hours and off operating our business. Translated into day-to-day When in doubt we should not face challenging periods, these will under no circumstances exceed activities, that means using resources efficiently, situations alone, but seek input from our managethe maximum permitted under local laws and recycling as appropriate, handling any bio-hazardment before making decisions or taking new steps. regulations. ous materials properly and disposing of all waste However, before asking questions to others we ask according to our policies. ourselves: Wages and employment conditions kk-electronic and our suppliers must comply with Furthermore kk-electronic and our suppliers shall What is my role and responsibility? all local laws and regulations regarding wage, maintain awareness of current environmental What would be in kk-electronic’s interest? overtime wages, sick leave and other elements of legislative requirements, which are relevant to the Am I convinced that this is legal and ethical? compensation. environmental impacts of activities, products and If this is known to the public, would that be of services. Also, we must ensure legal compliance benefit for kk-electronic? Child Labour through training, awareness, operational control Is this complying with our strategy of being kk-electronic and our suppliers oppose to child and monitoring. globally oriented, of being market driven and of labour. We will work to prevent and remove any keeping attention towards our customers? instance of child labour in a manner that is consistWe also need to demonstrate continuous improveWould this be of interest to my colleagues (knowlent with the best interest of the child. ments of the overall environmental performance edge sharing)? related to significant environmental aspects. Minimum Age Requirements If you are still in doubt contact your management We must not engage in, or benefit from, the use of Corruption and Bribery in order to get advice on how to proceed. child labour. The minimum age for employment kk-electronic and our suppliers shall refrain from shall not be less than the age of completion of bribing, or using any other method, to unjustly Human Rights compulsory schooling and, in any case, shall not be influence public officials, the judiciary and/or kk-electronic and our supplier shall protect less than what has been determined by local laws private parties. workers from acts of physical, verbal, sexual, or and regulations. psychological harassment, abuse, or threats in the Our contracts with agents, intermediaries and conworkplace, whether committed by managers or The right to freedom of association and collecsultants shall include a section on anti-corruption fellow workers including when determining and tive bargaining and that the contract holder must comply with all implementing disciplinary measures. kk-electronic and our suppliers respect the rights applicable laws and regulations. of employees to associate freely and join workers organisations of their own choice. There shall be no kk-electronic is part of an anticorruption partnerdismissals, discrimination, harassment or intimidaship on the Chinese market, established by the tion due to association or union. Danish Embassy in Beijing. KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 6/12 Joint-venture in China Initiatives in kk-Qianwei KK-ELECTRONIC’S JOINT-VENTURE KK-QIANWEI CSR REPORT ON HUMAN RIGHTS & NON-USE OF CHILD LABOR COLLABORATION WITH QIANWEI, A PART OF THE CSIC GROUP, ALSO DEkk-Qianwei has been fulfilled the comno kk-Qianwei staff is under the age of MANDS FOR A FOCUS ON CSR AND mitments about human rights & non-use 18. HOW TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESSES of child labor set out in the Global Compact throughout 2011 and some action 1.2 Action Plan: kk-Qianwei has made a CSR report on plans have been made for 2012. their initiatives showing their focus on • kk-Qianwei has no separate written CSR, with guidance from the organisa1. About Human Rights: human right policies so far, in 2012 some tion of sustainable investments, IFU. 1.1 Status: kk-Qianwei supports internahuman right policies shall be explicitly tionally proclaimed human rights in all written in various company polices/ of its spheres of influence: rules. For example, polices regarding Equal Opportunities Employer and non• Freedom of association: kk-Qianwei use of child labor shall be stated in the has set up its own labour union to recruiting polices; represent the employees’ right, and a union for female employees was also set • More dialogue & communication shall up to protect the female staff ’s right. The be conducted regarding the equal opcompany provided the unions with all portunity policies. the necessary conditions for carrying out its activities. All the employees in the 2. About non-use of child labor in the company are allowed to join the union supply chain: at their own discretion. By now all the employees have joined the union. 2.1 Status: • Collective bargaining: In 2011 a collec• All kk-Qianwei suppliers have signed tive contract has been signed by and beSupplier UN Global Compact which tween the trade union on behalf of the means their commitment not to use employees and the general manager on child labour. behalf of the employer. In 2012, all the terms included in the collective contract • All the supplier’s renewed business liwill be continually executed. censes have been received which means that they have complied with the labor • About labour rights: all kk-Qianwei law in China which states clearly: “The employees’ salary is above minimum employer shall be banned from recruitsalary specified by the local government; ing juveniles under the age of 16”. in 2011 there was no excessive overtime working, all the overtime working 2.2 Action Plan was paid according to the labour law of China. • More communications besides business license check with our suppliers in • Nonuse of child labor: 2012 regarding this, one of the possibilities is to ask suppliers to report the kk-Qianwei has never used child labor, status of non-use of child labor KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 7/12 Products for more wind energy Optimising renewable energy The new development from kk-elecwind turbine in an optimising manner IN APRIL 2012 KK-ELECTRONIC tronic with CoE reducing elements is and finally provide the ability to reduce LAUNCHED ITS NEW GENERATION OF a platform that covers and connects the Cost of Energy by means of eg. less WIND TURBINE CONTROL SOLUTION the wind turbine’s different systems. material consumption. It is a complete infrastructure of data, 6TH SENSE WIND TURBINE gathered and analysed to continuously Hardware features PLATFORM improve the wind turbine’s output. It Physically the platform “C” consists of a is developed as an open platform in row of dedicated wind turbine modules The global challenge in the field of energy which you collaborate in one language that measure and control all elements is increasing. Prices on traditional fossil on optimizing the wind turbine and its in a wind turbine, of which the most energy are increasing and governments operations. important are pitch, structure, converter are constantly looking for alternatives with and grid modules. Furthermore each a sustainable profile. This puts wind on Henrik Simonsen, Technology Director at wind turbine contains a data and inforthe agenda as an energy source that is an kk-electronic, states: mation server, which via a network is operational alternative, and it demands ”C is not just a control for a wind turbine. connected to a park server, and further for wind energy to become competitive It is a total infrastructure or coherent up to an enterprise server, functioning compared with other energy sources, tool box, that provides the tools necesas a work station for the development renewables as well as fossils. kk-electronic sary for optimizing a single wind turbine team. has met this challenge by developing a 6th or a whole park. In its complete form it sense wind turbine platform has the features of measurement, analySoftware features sis, development and implementation. The platform software development, In a Danish wind turbine park up in the In one platform it is a control system, a changing algorithms, is based on mathNorthern part of Jutland the blades of measurement system, a data collecting ematical models of the wind turbine, one of the wind turbines are continuoussystem, an analysis system, a developand regulation and control algorithms ly sweeping through the air. The blades’ ment system, a simulation system and a written in mathematical equations. movement seems to continue endlessly test and roll out system, all of it conThis means that these are tools directly while covering an enormous area, but nected and ready for use. The platform accessible for any type of engineer, and at the same time it has a calming effect. has given kk-electronic an insight into a with direct interface to aeroelastic deOnce in a while you get a glimpse of long row of improvement possibilities in sign programs. Furthermore the system how they are pitching a little, acting on the field of Cost of Energy.” allows for the customer to integrate own the control system’s demands. The wind software applications. turbine is kk-electronic’s newest investment, and underlines the company’s Human aspect of “C” emphasis on renewable energy sources, As a platform it is interconnecting but just as much it is an investment in a people and functions of the company, high quality wind turbine for testing the its management, its developers, its sucompany’s new wind turbine platform. pervisory personnel and its service and The platform meets several needs of a maintenance people. wind turbine operation, and allows for an interaction in the data collection that In kk-electronic’s wind turbine in Jutland gives the wind turbine a 6th sense. The C platform is a turning point of analthe platform is collecting and analyzing ysis and learning, and a turning point of the data, while controlling, optimizing, Cost of Energy reduction development and direct implementameasuring and surveilling the operation The target of wind turbine manufacturtion. It short-cuts and automates a row of the wind turbine. Now, three months ers and energy companies is a reduction of work processes in the optimization after commissioning, the control system of Cost of Energy (CoE) with up to 30% of wind turbines. The interconnection performs outstanding, running with a within the next years, which means that platform provides 6th sense abilities. It daily availability higher than 98%, and this is the same focus for kk-electronic will predict the optimal next steps of the the wind turbine continuously produces and their next generation of wind turwind turbine, and in this way avoid unmore energy than the amount conbine platform. necessary wear and tear on the mechansumed by kk-electronic. ical construction. All data will control the KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 8/12 Purchase of wind turbine KK-ELECTRONIC HAS PURCHASED A 2 MW WIND TURBINE, WHICH COVERS MORE THAN THE COMPANY CONSUMES IN ITS OPERATIONS The carbon offset or the emission perkk-electronic has – also as a way to demmits are determined by governmental onstrate its commitment to the wind bodies based on emission targets and power industry – decided to buy their sold to companies, which are required own wind turbine. The company develto hold a number of permits (or carbon ops and manufactures control systems credits) equivalent to their emissions. for wind turbines and the solution is a The permits are traded among markets, very important element in making the companies, governments, or other wind turbines efficient and safe energy entities to comply with the limits on the generators. Control systems are often total amount of carbon dioxide they described as the “brain of the turbine”, are allowed to emit or to mitigate their which oversee the operation and safety own greenhouse gas emissions from systems and communicate to utility transportation, electricity use, and other companies’ central control rooms. sources. In November 2011 the company took The offsets/emission permits are typiover a 2 MW wind turbine located on the cally achieved through financial support west coast of Denmark – in the southof projects that reduce the emission of ern part of Thy, which is an area with greenhouse gases in the shortor longstrong wind and close to the sea. In this term. The most common project type is location a 2 MW will be able to produce kk-electronic’s wind turbine in the Norrenewable energy such as wind farms, approx. 6-7 mio. kWh annually, and this thern part of Jutland, supplying enough biomass energy, or hydroelectric dams. will more than offset the consumption of energy to cover the company’s consumpkk-electronic’s operations. kk-electronic tion. kk-electronic invests in wind turbine is effectively substituting traditional enkk-electronic has chosen another way ergy with a clean, non-polluting renewto ensure that the energy consumption able energy source. from the company and its production doesn’t harm the environment: The investment in the wind turbine is another step in kk-electronic’s awareness of sustainability and focus on conducting a business that is ready to face a future where the nature of operating a business and sustainable improvements are combined. KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 9/12 Measurement of outcomes KK-ELECTRONIC SPENT THE LAST QUALITY STANDARDS YEAR ON INITIATING PROJECTS AND PROCESSES THAT WILL ENSURE A During 2011 kk-electronic also focused FOCUS ON CSR on the standard OHSAS 18001, Occupational Health & Safety, and on becoming kk-electronic has made the CSR wheel, certified for the use of this standard. We and the implementation phase is already expect to be certified for this standard initiated. However, we expect the impleultimo 2012. mentation to be an on-going process for the rest of 2012. Furthermore, through our QHSE policies (Quality, Health, Security and EnvironIt is the same case for kk-electronic’s ment) we ensure that kk-electronic alCode of Conduct. The code has been ways comply with DS/EN ISO 9001:2008, developed and published internally to DS/EN ISO 14001:2004 and DS/OHSAS managers and departments, and will 18001:2008. now be implemented in processes and procedures throughout the organisation during the rest of the year. Finally the extensive network of suppliers at kk-electronic has been introduced to the our CSR goals and Code of Conduct. Currently more than half of them has responded with acceptance of our inquiry. KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 10/12 New efforts in 2012-13 DURING THE NEXT YEAR KK-ELECwithin our Supply Chain to be on-going SCOPE OF COP 2012 TRONIC WILL MAKE NEW EFFORTS IN through 2012, and also in 2013. ORDER TO IMPROVE THE COMPANY’S For the next year we will be taking a new CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY With the CSR wheel and the Code of look at the remaining seven principles Conduct, we were ready to take the next of the Global Compact throughout the To this point we have focused on the steps: a policy of human rights and a company. principles 2, 4 and 5 not being complicpolicy of non-use of child labour. Accordit in human rights abuses, elimination ing to the scope of our efforts in 2010-11 We will also continue the implementaof all forms of forced and compulsory we were to make these policies for the tion process of our Code of Conduct in labour and effective abolition of child COP 2012. our Supply Chain and with our suppliers. labour. These have been the principles that needed most focus. The remaining We had to revise our efforts and did not Finally we will be implementing the principles were estimated in our SWOT make the policies yet, but they will be a CSR “Wheel” (the internal processes of analysis to be working well at the time of natural follower of our work so far with gathering information for our CSR work, the examination, and so far we have conthe CSR wheel and the Code of Conduct. as well as for distributing information on centrated on improvements in the areas As such the policy is in our scope for CSR), and make a policy on human rights that showed to need immediate attennext year’s COP. and a policy on non-use of child labour. tion. During the next year we will also be focusing on the remaining principles. The detailed action plans for kk-electronic’s CSR activities for 2012-13 will be In terms of implementing our Code of made according to this COP and taken ® Conduct, we expect the implementation into the business via the CSR wheel. phase in our network of suppliers and KK-ELECTRONIC COP 2012 PAGE 11/12 kk-electronic a/s Boegildvej 3 DK-7430 Ikast Tlf: +45 9722 1033 Fax: +45 9721 1431
