Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 eco.lyreco.com A WORD FROM THE CEO W e want to be the Reference for sustainable Workplace Supplies Solutions . Clearly, investment is key and through the annual budgeting process, we will ensure that the This is Lyreco’s Sustainability vision. It means that we want to create a more necessary funds are made available to deliver our internal targets; we will also ask suppliers sustainable tomorrow, and we believe Lyreco can play a leading role in the of all types to deliver their part. industry towards this goal. We hope that in working this way, we will engage our customers and Sustainability is at the core of our business. Since our last Sustainability employees, and further challenge our suppliers to work harder at what report we have made solid progress which was recognised by the whole We want to be counts towards a more sustainable future. Office Supplies industry, when we won the Corporate Social Responsibility category at the 2012 European Office Products Awards. Specifically, the the Reference I do hope you will enjoy this Sustainable Development report through judges praised Lyreco as a company that lives, works and breathes its which we aim to share our key initiatives and achievements. But that is approach to CSR, consistent in everything it does . for sustainable not the main reason for publishing it. This report’s primary purpose is to We are proud of all our achievements and we wanted to build on this serve as a working document — something that our management teams foundation as we look to the next step of our sustainability journey. Workplace Supplies can use to compare results, share information and ideas, and set ever Consequently, throughout 2011, we’ve listened closely to stakeholders: more ambitious targets each year. we asked about the future of sustainability and how businesses like Lyreco Solutions. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the commitment can contribute to finding solutions in more and more meaningful ways. of management and staff to this endeavour. It is through their efforts and Bearing in mind the economic challenges and increasing customer demand enthusiasm that Lyreco can go on making a positive contribution to the for value, we knew it was time to be visionary; to map out clearly the company we want to be, communities in which we do business. for a more sustainable future. This led the definition of our mid term strategy: Eco Future . We look forward to receiving your feedback. The plan sets out our new vision with commitments and targets; it demonstrates how we will Kind regards, grow our business while building a more sustainable tomorrow. Steve Law We believe we can achieve our targets by 2017 with hard work, innovation and investment. 2 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 CONTENT p. 2 .................................................................. A word from THE CEO p. 4 ...................................................................................THE Business VALUES p. 5......................................................................................key figures p. 6................................................................................... Eco Future Businesses, like families or countries, need values to work to. Sharing our p. 7.............................................................. Sustainability Strategy values makes all of us stronger as a team. Our values are simple enough, p. 8............................................................. Managing Sustainability but are very important. They are: p. 9........................ 8 YEARS SUPPORTING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PASSION respect p. 10-23 ............................ ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS RESPECT excellence p. 12-13................................................................................ CARBON FOOTPRINT respect professionalism p. 14-15................................................................................................. PRODUCTS p. 16-18.....................................................................................................DELIVERY EXCELLENCE professionalism passion p. 19..................................................................................................... PACKAGING p. 20-22......................................................................................................... WASTE excellence PROFESSIONALISM p. 23..........................................................................................INFRASTRUCTURE passion Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 p. 24-33 .................................................... SOCIAL ACTIONS p. 26-29........................................................................................LYRECO PEOPLE READ MORE p. 30-33...............................................................................................COMMUNITY ON-LINE p. 34-41............................................. ECONOMIC ACTIONS p. 36-38.................................................................................................CUSTOMER The Lyreco Eco website showcases videos and p. 39-41...........................................................................................MARKETPLACE practical elements of the Sustainability initiatives and actions. Visit the website on a regular basis so you can as well get the latest news, awards and recognitions. p. 42...............................................................Customer Testimonial p. 42-43....................................................................... Business Cases eco.lyreco.com p. 44-45............................................................ Supplier testimonials p. 46.................................................................... FINANCIAL INTEGRITY p. 47........................................................................................... Awards 3 THE BUSINESS Your office... our world 37 countries, one Lyreco In addition to the extensive markets covered by Lyreco, we have also formed strategic sales alliances with 7 partners: Askul, OfficeMax, Officepro, Office Products Depot, Waltons, Inforshop and Marken. Continuous improvement is the rule All subsidiaries contribute to the continuous improvement of the group model by sharing new ideas and best practices. Sustainable Development takes advanLyreco tage of these synergies from all areas of the business and group experts help by Lyreco Partners: improving the group best practices. Askul OfficeMax Officepro Office Product Depot Waltons Inforshop Marken 7 strategic alliances These alliances allow us to better serve our international clients with a presence in Japan, Mexico, United States, Taiwan, New Zealand, South Africa, Namibia, Mozambique, Brazil and Argentina. 4 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 KEY FIGURES SALES FORCE CUSTOMER CUSTOMER ORDER SERVICE PREPARATION Sales force Indicators Customer Order Preparation n 5,000 sales people Service Indicators n 2,900 cars Indicators n 31 Distribution n 25,000 calls/day Centres: Areas for n 61,000 orders/day n 400,000 m2 improvement n 293,000 lines/day n 235,000 parcels n Increase prepared/day communication on Sustainable Areas for Development with customers improvement Areas for improvement n Reduce environmental impacts n Reduce environmental n Reduce Health & Safety risks due to travelling impacts due to hard copy orders n Increase waste recycling n Reduction of printed reports n Energy savings initiatives Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 PRODUCT SELECTION DELIVERY Product selection Indicators Delivery Indicators n An average of 6,000 products offered n 1,750 vans and drivers by each country n 61,000 deliveries n 15 product families every day n 790 green products, which is 16.3% of the International common range Areas for improvement n 100 ergonomic products, which is 2.3 % n Reduce Health & Safety of the International common range risks Areas for improvement n Reduce environmental n Continue to develop a deeper range of environmentally impacts due to transportafriendly products tion (route planning) n  Continue to raise consumer awareness on Sustainable n Reduced packaging Development and pay special attention to certified suppliers n Define strict and formalised criteria for qualification as green product. n Reduce hard copy invoices (e-biller). 5 Sustainability Strategy Aligned to the new vision, in early 2012, Lyreco launched a mid-term Sustainability strategy, Eco Future . Despite the fact that sustainability principles have been embedded in Lyreco’s culture and values for many years, Eco Future is a visionary step, developed to bring consistency, transparency and a longer term perspective of Lyreco’s Sustainable Development approach. The Eco Future strategy comprises the vision; three guiding principles and clearly defined commitments: environment protection, social responsibility and economic success. Furthermore, a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and ambitious targets have been defined; making sure Lyreco’s progress can be shared with all stakeholders and the general public. THE VISION: To be the Reference for sustainable Workplace Supplies Solutions. Eco Future applies to all the Lyreco subsidiaries world-wide It means we would like Lyreco In order to fully communicate with to be a company where Sustainability is taken stakeholders and the general public, Lyreco will be organising press releases and into account all times, at all levels, customer events in the countries. A dedicated video has been released on for any decision. the eco.lyreco.com website along with a document to explain the full Eco Future Strategy. 6 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Sustainability Strategy GUIDING PRINCIPLE GUIDING PRINCIPLE GUIDING PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC SUCCESS Reduce our ecological footprint Reinforce our long term relationship focusing on human Build lasting customer relationships by providing solutions Help our customers and suppliers to do the same relationships and Development to their sustainability goals COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS COMMITMENTS 1. Develop environmentally preferable products & 4. Ensure a safe and healthy working 8. Establish customer partnerships on services environment sustainability 2. Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 5. Contribute to the personal development 9. Establish supplier assessment 3. Prevent and manage waste of each individual programmes on sustainability 6. Focus on the development of our best 10. Develop sustainable innovations in talents products & services 7. Promote education of children in KEY PERFORMANCE developing countries INDICATORS & Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 TARGETS 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS & TARGETS INDICATORS & TARGETS 2017 Green 25% Products of sales 2017 Supplier increase of Performance level 10% per year C02 reduction Working 90% of employees emissions of 20% conditions are satisfied 100% for the Suppliers Audited Lyreco branded 90% of employees products 90% Training level consider they are Waste properly trained is recycled LFE* collection increases of 10% target per year Lost working decreases days of 10% * Lyreco For Education 7 Managing Sustainability Sustainability as a broader concept comes naturally to Lyreco; sitting firmly on foundations of the integrated management approach to Quality, Environment and Health & Safety. An integrated Management A unique certification body In addition, some countries have also chosen System – the foundation for continuous improvement to obtain an FSC CoC Certification (Forest To ensure a reliable basis and common operating practice for all subsidiaries, Lyreco The Lyreco Quality & Environmental Management System focuses on preventive actions Stewardship Council – Chain of Custody). These certifications are also issued by SGS. Each country has its uses the recognised international standards and continuous improvement. To ensure a own Quality, Security ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 to which the Integraconsistent approach, Lyreco has chosen The audit feedback and results are shared ted Management Systems are certified. This SGS as the unique certification body for all within Lyreco and used for internal bench& Sustainability ensures that quality and environmental matters are dealt with at a level trusted by interested the subsidiaries world-wide. marking as well as global improvement. Through many years of cooperation SGS report Manager (QSS), parties and understood by employees. that Lyreco has a management system that who is a member Aligned with the Quality & Environmental lives in all levels of the organisation, which shows daily in all Lyreco’s processes. of the Senior Management System, Health & Safety Management Team. management is based on Lyreco’s guidelines Daily management referring to the OHSAS 18001 standard and In every subsidiary, there is a department whose local legislation, applied in the subsidiaries main responsibilities are the components of by the Senior Management Teams. Sustainable Development, including Quality International strength through and Environmental management. global coordination SGS audits all HEALTH & SAFETY The QSS Manager reports directly to the In 2010, a structured monthly Coordination OHSAS Managing Director. The aim of this structure template was set up to encourage sharing of QUALITY 18001 ENVIRONMENT Lyreco subsidiaries is to ensure that key business decisions are best practices and to enable data gathering, ISO 9001 ISO 14001 annually on the made with Quality, Environment, Health, Safety, Economic and Social aspects taken into analysis and follow up of sustainable development projects. standards account – thus ensuring a sustainable growth. ISO 26000 ISO 9001 & Each local Senior Management Team is SUSTAINABILITY More recently, ISO 26000, the guideline for ISO 14001 and supported by a Management Team at Lyreco Group level. Regular Group Directors meetings Corporate Social Responsibility, has been re-certifications are are held to analyse and discuss Sustainabiadopted to provide structure to the sustaility projects, actions and results, and make nability journey, with several employees now done once corporate decisions regarding these matters. fully trained in its application. every three years. 8 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 8 YEARS SUPPORTING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 In 2004, Lyreco became The Ten Principles Labour Anti-Corruption the first office supplies The UN Global Compact asks companies n Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the n Principle 10: Businesses should work to embrace, support and enact, within their freedom of association and the effective recoagainst all forms of corruption, including signatory to the United sphere of influence, a set of core values in gnition of the right to collective bargaining; extortion and bribery. Nations (UN) Global the areas of human rights, labour standards, n Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Compact, affirming the environment and anti-corruption. The Ten forced and compulsory labour; commitment to the Principles enjoy universal consensus and n Principle 5: the effective abolition of child are derived from the Universal Declaration labour; and advancement of its 10 of Human Rights, the International Labour n Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination About the UN Global universal principles in the Organization's Declaration on Fundamental in respect of employment and occupation. Compact areas of human rights, Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio DeThe United Nations Global Compact claration on Environment and Development, Environment labour, the environment and and the United Nations Convention against n Principle 7: Businesses should support isinitiative the largest corporate responsibility in the world – with 7,000 anti-corruption. Corruption. a precautionary approach to environmental signatories based in more than 135 challenges; countries and Local Networks existing or emerging in 90 countries. Human Rights n Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Since then, Lyreco has proudly reaffirmed its n Principle 1: Businesses should support greater environmental responsibility; support of the UN Global Compact annually and respect the protection of internationally n Principle 9: encourage the development For more information, go to and published a Communication on Progress, proclaimed human rights; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly www.unglobalcompact.org which is a public disclosure to stakeholders n Principle 2: make sure that they are not technologies. posted on the UN Global Compact website. complicit in human rights abuses. 9 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS In the delivery of its Sustainable Development systems to include sustainability priorities. vision and policy, Lyreco aims to: This means dedicated actions and programmes n Identify and evaluate opportunities to reduce on Products, Packaging, Delivery, Waste Manaenvironmental impacts in serving customers and gement, Carbon Footprint and Infrastructures. to take opportunities to enhance the environment. n Ensure our operations and projects are managed The following pages detail activity carried out in in accordance with accredited quality (ISO 9001) 2011 or scheduled to be carried out in 2012. and environmental management (ISO 14001) 10 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH Environmental actions across the whole business Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Our Environmental Actions Actions CARBON PRODUCTS DELIVERY PACKAGING WASTE INFRASTRUCTURE FOOTPRINT n Measure and reduce n Shop green with the n Reduced impact of n Re-use supplier box n Office supplies waste n IS infrastructure the carbon footprint new e-shopping website delivery vans programme collection consolidation n FSC Chain of Custody n Green fleet policy nReduced packaging for n Improving waste from forest to consumer small orders segregation in offices n Transporting goods by n European Eco Label for train Lyreco Paper n Target zero waste n Paper storage at the nSustainable Product regional delivery centres nGreen printing Assessment awareness n Collection of customer returns n Sales Force Mobility : one step further p. 12-13 p. 14-15 p. 16-18 p. 19 p. 20-22 p. 23 11 CARBON FOOTPRINT Measure and Reduce the Carbon Footprint Lyreco’s business operations inevitably create carbon emissions one of its most significant environmental impacts. As part of the Eco Future strategy, it was agreed that a meaningful carbon reduction plan required first a thorough understanding of the footprint of the operations globally. As a result, in early 2011, a project was launched to do just that. 5 main steps in assessing 1. Selection of a Lyreco’s global carbon consistent method to What are scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions? ensure accurate results What is ISO 14064 footprint: Lyreco chose the international standard standard? n Scope 1 Direct emissions Direct emissions resulting from activities within the Lyreco’s ISO 14064 as a guideline on which to control. It includes Distribution (company vans), process build the Carbon Footprint Calculator, The ISO 14064 standard is part of the ISO 14000 series emissions such as Consumables and Materials, and Fixed Assets. which is bespoke to Lyreco in terms of activities and countries. of International Standards for environmental management. n Scope 2 Energy Indirect emissions The ISO 14064 standard proIndirect emissions from Energy Sources purchased and used 2. Definition of the Scope vides governments, businesby Lyreco, such as electricity and gas. All Lyreco subsidiaries are included in the ses, countries and organisacalculation of the Carbon Footprint. tions with an integrated set of n Scope 3 Other Indirect emissions In terms of operational boundaries, all tools for programmes aimed Any other indirect emissions from sources not directly controlled scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are at measuring, quantifying and by Lyreco. Lyreco includes Movement of People (employee taken into account, as well as a part of reducing greenhouse gas business travel) and Direct Waste (waste disposal). scope 3. emissions. 12 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 CARBON FOOTPRINT Measure and Reduce the Carbon Footprint 2010 2011 3. Data collation Energy Sources t CO2 eq. 17 826 14 993 A template was issued to all subsidiaries with guidance – the key being to collect Lyreco plans a 20% Freight t CO2 eq. 23 783 21 249 data as thoroughly and accurately as possible – in order to set up relevant Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Actions Movement of People t CO2 eq. 20 695 20 106 Carbon reduction programmes at the next Consumables and Materials t CO2 eq. 12 508 12 886 stage. During the process, it was found Direct Waste t CO2 eq. Fixed Assets t CO2 eq. 279 19 990 450 19 723 that the accuracy of some data could not be verified by Lyreco and therefore CO2 reduction a number of areas have been excluded TOTAL t CO2 eq. Kg CO2 eq. per Delivery 95 081 6.32 89 407 6.04 from the calculation, such as subcontractors own vehicles and completely by 2017 Scope = all Lyreco entities except Finland. outsourced activity . Again, the aim was to ensure consistency across countries compared and accuracy long term. to its 2010 * t CO2 eq. = equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide. 4. Conversion of footprint Lyreco’s Carbon Footprint (in %) 2011 Kg co2 eq. per delivery into C02 equivalence emissions levels.* The Carbon Footprint was measured in equivalent tonnes of CO2 (t CO2 eq). *In line with the European Union’s unilateral 15,8% A range of conversions provided by commitment in 2007 that Europe would cut its 20,9% credible environmental agencies were emissions by 20% of 1990 levels by 2020. 4.4 % CO2 reduction used to calculate and then convert the per delivery between huge amount of data that was collated 6.35 from the 27 countries. 2011 and 2010 0,5% 6.3 5. Reporting the Carbon 6.25 Footprint Lyreco’s carbon footprint is broken down 13,6% 6.2 as detailed in the opposite table and 6.15 graph. Having identified the footprint successfully for the base year of 2010, 22,4% 6.1 work is being undertaken in early 2012 6.05 to calculate the 2011 footprint. Furthermore, a number of improvement 21,2% 6 programmes have been assessed in detail 5.95 to define the Lyreco Carbon Footprint Freight reduction target for the mid term (see the Movement of people 5.9 Eco Future Strategy for further details), Fixed Assets 2010 2011 aiming overall for a 20% CO2 reduction by Energy Sources the end of 2017 compared to 2010. Consumables and materials Direct waste 13 PRODUCTS SHOP GREEN ON-LINE FSC CHAIN OF CUSTODY During 2012 Lyreco will introduce a new n In a prominent position on the shopping FROM FOREST TO CONSUMER online ordering tool which has been designed basket, the shop green button will make the to help drive the sustainable development conversion of the product items to products Adding to the list of certifications, Lyreco n In 2011, 2 more countries were certistrategy towards customers when they with better environmental credentials easy. has taken the step of extending the Chain fied: purchase. With a fresh and modern design, of FSC custody right though to a number n Spain, in one warehouse. the new Webshop incorporates a powerful of Lyreco distribution centres; providing n Canada, in 3 warehouses. search engine, simplified shopping and comfort that products are indeed completely intuitive features. FSC, from forest to consumer. n In 2012, a certification project will Most importantly, to assist customers in In September 2010, Lyreco was the first also be launched in France. fulfilling their environmental purchasing distributor in the Benelux market to be FSC agendas, the search engine integrates a Chain of Custody Certified. product filter, allowing the user to quickly narrow down its search results, making it easy to find products with sustainable credentials. Countries n In line with Lyreco’s innovative approach certified and the Eco Future vision. FSC Chain of Custody 1 3 4 2010 2011 Target Webshop will 2012 deliver a feature How does FSC operate? unique to the In order to also be able to guarantee to industry called shop customers that a product originates from a sustainably managed forest, an audit What is FSC? green , a single click 1 in your basket, click on shop green button 2 select the green alternative must be performed at every intermediary step. The Chain of Custody’ (or supply FSC is an acronym for Forest Stewardship option allowing the 3 validate the change, it's done! chain) is the full path that the timber (product) must travel between an FSC-certiCouncil , and is a label or quality mark on a wood or paper product, indicating that user to convert the fied forest and the consumer. Everyone involved in the processing chain (sawmill, it originates from a responsibly managed forest. The FSC label guarantees susshopping basket to importer, pulp mill, print shop, wood industry…) is checked by an independent tainable origins, because not only is the forest of origin being checked, but also greener products. body, and will only then receive its own Chain of Custody certificate. the whole supply chain up to the final consumer. 14 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 PRODUCTS European Eco Label for SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT Lyreco paper ASSESSMENT In line with the vision to bring sustainable Furthering sustainable development commitments on product, Lyreco has What’s the EU Ecolabel? solutions to customers, Lyreco have been working on a method to allow customers Based on this new assessment process, Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Actions decided to offer own brand office papers; The Flower is the symbol to assess and compare the sustainable Lyreco Premium and Lyreco Standard, with of the EU Ecolabel. It is a credentials of the product ranges. EU Ecolabelling across Europe from 2012. voluntary scheme, estaIn view of the fact that there is no international more than 1,700 blished in 1992 by the European Union to encourage businesses definition for a green product , Lyreco decided to build a bespoke methodology to assess products listed in the to market products and services that are kinder to the environment. the green features of each product listed. international common Today, the EU Ecolabel covers a wide range of products and services. ProThe methodology combines: range will receive a Green duct groups include cleaning products, appliances, paper products, etc. n an assessment of self-claims made by Tree; 32% of the range. suppliers, based on the standard ISO14021 EU Ecolabel rules require the following when and supported by suppliers evidences The methodology will be rolled-out step by paper is manufactured: n product certified claims supported by step in almost all of the countries during 2012, n The use of recycled or virgin fibers coming third party certificates so that the results are fully available for the from sustainably managed forests; 2013 selection. n The reduction of greenhouse gas emisThe accuracy of the claims and application This will provide a consistent approach for sions, as well as air and water pollution; of the qualifications of each criteria was Finally, having defined a clear process appliEuropean customers, helping them recognize n The implementation of a rigorous waste assessed not only by marketing, but also by cable to all suppliers across 15 sections and at a glance which criteria are considered and management system; the Quality, Security & Sustainability teams, 27 countries Lyreco believes the company measured in sourcing and producing Lyreco n The banning of use of substances harmful as per the description of ISO 14021. to be in a uniquely competitive position on office paper. to the environment and human health. The scope and validity of the certificates were the market, allowing to support customers also checked for each product. in their sustainable approach at local or international level. Why EU Ecolabel, and not other natioThese environmental performance standards The scoring mechanism nal ecolabel such as the Blue Angel or In order to compare the environmental Nordic Swan? are the outcome of scientific research performance of the products, Lyreco has and wide-ranging consultation involving created a scoring rate, attributing points to Even though national labels have been competent bodies from the member States, each of the twelve criteria of the standard very successful and contributed to the ISO 14021 and to each label, depending on environmental awareness of the public, representatives of environmental NGOs, etc. the scope of the life cycle covered by the label. the progress towards a single “European Products with the highest score will receive Market” necessitates a common instrua Green Tree, provided that their environment that prevents confusion amongst The EU Ecolabel is only awarded after mental credentials result in a differentiation consumers and producers. from the other products of the range. verification that a product meets the related The advantage of the EU Ecolabel is that it promotes transparency, simplicity and requirements. consistency across the whole EU. 15 DELIVERY Reduced impact OF delivery vans With carbon emissions from the delivery are able to cover more than 100 km every fleet a significant environmental impact, day, without any emissions. investigating lower impact technologies has always been important to Lyreco. In France, the preference has been to order 4 Renault Kangoo Electric which will be Reduced impact vans are now operational spread across Paris city centre. As the in 6 countries: UK, Italy, France, Belgium, loading capacity of these vehicles is lower the Netherlands & Thailand. than a standard 3.5 tonne van, it is planned that the Kangoo will deliver part of the route In Italy, a first Natural Gas Van (NGV) started in the morning, returning to the distribution to deliver goods to customers in May 2011, centre to restock before delivering the second and by the end of 2012, they will use 15 NGVs and one electric van. part of its route in the afternoon. GREEN FLEET POLICY As a result more than 160 Parisian customers In late 2011, France ordered 12 Fiat Ducato will receive deliveries daily without any CO2 Lyreco is committed to reducing the carbon Taking a continuous improvement approach, NGV 3.5 T and 3 Iveco Daily NGV 7 T. emissions. dioxide emissions of the extensive company the below figures will also be reviewed on These vehicles will be split across different Furthermore, the use of 4 electric vans car fleet. However, this is the first time CO2 an annual basis in order to help reduce French cities: instead of 4 diesel vans will save 12,000 reduction targets have been defined for all our global carbon footprint in line with the n Paris: 9 vehicles diesel litres per year. car categories and all the European countries targets set. n Valenciennes: 3 vehicles through our car fleet policy. n Toulouse: 2 vehicles n Bordeaux: 1 vehicle Number of The reduction targets have been integrated Type of Car (*) Max CO2 (g/km) Environmentally in the Group Request For Quotation (RFQ) Car category 1 110 The limitation being that there are only Friendly Vans sent to the manufacturers for 2012 as Car category 2 130 27 gas stations opened up in France to detailed in the opposite table. Car category 3 135 companies such as Lyreco. Car category 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8 145 The targets have been defined following Car category 9 180 Regards electric vans; with 2 already in use market research and will directly benefit the Van – 3.5 T 225 in London city centre, a further 2 Iveco Daily countries that are included in the Group RFQ. (*) Lyreco internal classification, depending on the job Electric were received in Benelux at the end Those not included in the RFQ must use the profile. of 2011. One is used in Brussels city centre same framework and maximum CO2 levels and the other one is used in Utrecht (the as reference for the selection of cars. Netherlands). 2 5 55 These new vehicles are 100% electric and 2010 2011 Forecast 2012 16 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 DELIVERY Transporting GOODS by Train In Switzerland long distance hauling the preparation and possibly missing the of product in volume is carried out by train to the final destination. However, this train. The Swiss Railway Company (SBB) is totally outweighed by the positives of is reputed to be as punctual as a Swiss reduced environmental impacts; punctuality Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Actions watch and very reliable. As trucks are not of the arrival; zero traffic jams; no road allowed to drive on the roads between taxes and a good safety record. 10.00 p.m. and 05.00 a.m., an alternative solution to transport parcels to regional distribution centres overnight, Lyreco Long distance sought and came upon a significantly transport is done only reduced environmental impact. by train and accounts Workflow is as follows: for 30% of the total n during the day, the long distance volumes are placed on pallets and then parcels per day. into the railway wagon which is located next to the sorting gates of the national distribution centre. The parcels which Environmental benefits will travel the longest distance have a of train transport high priority. n They are prepared by 09.00 p.m. at compared to road latest. At 09.30 p.m. the train comes to transport: pull away the wagons in the direction of n 91,000 kg St. Gallen (East Switzerland), Bern (middle of Switzerland), Geneva (North West of of CO2 saved in 2011 Switzerland) and Cadenazzo (South of n 99% less Switzerland). n No later than 05.30 a.m. the railway polluting particles wagons are at their destination where the Lyreco drivers come to unload the pallets and then prepare their daily distribution route. Volumes per day: about 100 m3, There are of course advantages and the equivalent of disadvantages to using the railways. The downside is that an increased volume of 20 tonnes of material. orders on the day could lead to delay in 17 PACKAGING Paper Storage at the Regional Distribution Centres Structuring distribution to maximise effiThe equivalent of more than one truck a day ciency within Lyreco operations and those is spared, a journey of 250 km equating to of our suppliers is subject to regular review about 19,000 diesel litres saved every year. for volume products. In particular, paper This is the equivalent of around 50,000 kg deliveries have been reorganised for Paris in of CO2. France in order to reduce daily transportation between Villaines (the National Distribution In the coming months, a fourth paper product Centre) and the Regional Distribution Centres will be added to the process, saving between (RDC) in Paris. 2 and 3 trucks every day, equating to about 39,000 diesel litres and 102,000 tonnes of Since October 2011, paper deliveries of CO2. In a second phase, this process may Lyreco A4, Lyreco Premium A4 and Lyreco be rolled out to other RDCs in France and Budget A4 are shipped directly from supplier duplicated in other countries. Collection of Customer mills to the RDCs based at La Courneuve, Vitry-sur-Seine, Gennevilliers and Morangis. Orders for these papers are prepared directly 2011 Target 2012 Returns by the RDC employees. CO2 Emissions 10,000 kg 50,000 kg In most Lyreco countries, customers through visiting the customer once instead of Saved benefit from an excellent returns policy that twice and appears not to affect the service involves their goods being collected by a level from the customer perspective. Lyreco driver, no matter what the reason Benelux has recently adopted this approach for return. In the past, the driver may have with positive effects and roll-out is planned made a special journey to collect goods in some other countries, where volumes from a customer the day after their phone allow it. call; however, under a new scheme piloted Even though the return rate is as low as in France, Lyreco waits for the customer to 1% this will still save about 14,000 diesel place their next order (within a maximum litres on an annual basis. delay of five days) to simultaneously deliver the new order and collect the return. This saves transportation costs and emissions 2011 Target 2012 CO2 Emissions 37,300 kg 56,000 kg Saved 18 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 PACKAGING Re-use supplier box Reduced packaging programme FOR small orders This project, launched in Italy at The environmental benefits are: Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Actions the beginning of November 2011, n A reduction of raw material as sought to reduce the number of an envelope needs less paper than small volume consignments being a small cardboard box shipped in boxes that would be n A reduction of transportation n Kingston: Since December, nearly considered too large. impacts lower volume and lower 10,000 cardboards boxes per weight to be transported, plus month (12% of the total volume) The picking process is as normal, energy savings are reused. but at the final checking point, a n A reduction of waste n Environmentally: Small Logistic supervisor assesses the volume changes, BIG ENVIRONMENTAL of the products in the box: if it is IMPACT! less than the thickness of a Lyreco 2011 Target 2012 Packaging waste is another of They must then be stored in the Plans to rollout this process to Catalogue the items are removed Lyreco’s environmental impacts and correct containers. No less than other suitable NDCs are under and packed in an envelope instead CO2 Emissions 4,700 kg 20,000 kg a good reason for Canada to launch 60 suppliers were selected for their consideration. of a parcel. Saved a project to re-use supplier boxes quality cardboard boxes. for packing customer orders. n Pickers then take the cardboard This process results in supervisors In subsidiaries where this process box they need from the corresponIn total across the packing an average of 150 more is suitable, it will be considered Initially, some market research was ding container. envelopes per day and usually for roll-out. carried out to ensure that customers A flyer explaining the reuse project 3 Distribution the envelopes contain one or two would welcome the initiative. The results were positive and the project was put into each parcel at the packing stage for the first three Centres, this will products. Envelopes represent 1 to 1.4 % of total parcels shipped. was rolled out to three distribution months save more than Therefore about 13,500 square centres in Halifax, Calgary and n This box has been re-used labels meters of paper are saved in one Kingston. are also affixed to the parcels, to 91,000 square year, the equivalent of 4,735 kg The flow of the process is as further explain the concept. meters of paper CO2. follows: The results are as follows: in 2012 n 3 containers are installed to n Halifax: Since August, nearly 4,000 sort and store supplier packaging cardboard boxes per month (26% of boxes the total volume) are reused. 2011 Target 2012 n Re-stockers must take care to n Calgary: Since September, nearly keep the cardboard boxes which 6,500 cardboards boxes per month CO2 Emissions 5,000 kg 32,000 kg are defined as re-usable, in shape. (16% of the total volume) are reused. Saved 19 WASTE Office Supplies Waste Improving Waste Segregation Collection in offices In 2011 Iberia (Spain & Portugal) new plastic products such as plastic bags, Especially in France, waste segregation has n The other provides a compactor that not implemented a project combining folders, picture frames, recycling bins, ecobeen a way of life for years in our Distribution only sorts 3 categories of waste (plastic environmental and social aspects, where kites and so on. Centres, where up to 27 different waste bottles, aluminium cans and plastic cups), employees extended their waste treatment schemes have been implemented. but also helps turn plastic cups into a raw segregation skills from batteries, aerosols The campaign However, at the registered Head Office, material that could be used, for instance, to and CDs to writing implements such as In Iberia, the action covers offices in Cornellà only 3 streams of waste were managed replace wood veneer in the manufacturing pens and markers. de Llobregat (Barcelona Spain) in the past: office paper, cardboard and of furniture. A new waste and Alovera (Guadalajara water bottles. To increase the emphasis on partnership was Spain). To manage recycling and encourage each employee to Taking a further step to enforce segregation, established with the project the Quality, play a part, a number of steps were taken. all individual waste bins were removed a company that Security and Sustaiand replaced with sorting stations in each pays Lyreco for nability Department An analysis of the department. Now employees must get up to each collection worked together throw away their waste. However, this has of plastic with the Human bins showed that been made this easier by putting a magazine wastes and recycles Resources and Marketing Commuclose to 60% of the rack on each desk (Lyreco product code: 3 335 894) where waste paper can be colthem into new products. nication Departments. Communication is waste was made up lected all through the day. This way, sheets can be used as draft paper, therefore saving The payment always key to gaining of plastic cups from on books and pads. received for the wastes employee buy-in to is donated by Lyreco these projects, hence vending machines or From a financial point of view, waste to AEA (Aide et Action), the Non the poster designed by segregation makes sense. All the required Governmental Organisation involved Marketing, which is used to cover water fountains. The investments are offset by reduced collection in the Lyreco For Education project (see pages 30 & 31). the recycling box and to promote the campaign. It’s slogan is: I write, so volume seemed signicosts (waste skips) and cleaning costs (less bins to empty). Savings will be re-invested in How does it work? I recycle ficant enough to look extra cleaning hours to bring more comfort to the employees and sub-contractors. This Boxes are collected twice per year and contain at least 500 units of writing and Results It’s too early in the campaign for results as for solutions. is the offset to thank employees for the mindset change needed to accept these correction products. yet, but the employees are very positive 2 companies were found to help recycle constraints with good grace. n Social Action: For every collected and since it involves supporting the Lyreco this type of product. unit, 0.02€ is given to AEA Charity, Lyreco For Education, employees n One offered containers for collection and n Environmental Action: writing and are determined to segregate their waste a recycling scheme that converts cups into correction implements are recycled and carefully! The campaign will be rolled out a material that can be mixed in washing they are used as raw material to make to other offices and locations through 2012. machine ballast. 20 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 WASTE TARGET ZERO WASTE In line with the zero waste target set for WISE (UK / Ireland), when tenders for management of pallets and general waste were undertaken for the UK National Distribution Centre during 2011, efficiency and costs were high on the agenda. Pallets Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Actions Lyreco receives pallets of all varieties each day from suppliers, but they cannot reuse all of them to onward ship goods to Regional Distribution Centres. The new partner pays a rebate for pallets they take and at the same time provides excellent reporting on recycling rates. Since the contract began in late 2011, the recycling percentage has gone up by 5% in the UK to 95%. Moreover, the rebates paid for the pallets have made the waste diversion highly cost effective. General Wastes During the review of land-filled wastes in 2011, a number of wastes with potential recycling options were found: Glassline label backing complete solution will be in place during 2012. recycling percentage as high as 97 – 98%, This product arrives in rolls and is a single This is an excellent example of replacing a leading Lyreco countries in terms of Waste n some wood products including damaged label wide. Once all the labels are used, product that creates an unusable waste, with Management and already ahead of the overall pallets; hardboard tops; pallet frames the spools of label backing are not easily a product that creates a recyclable waste and company target of 90%. n glassine label backing recyclable and those companies who were therefore diverting waste from landfill. n plastic banding interested in taking it needed such large n hard plastics volumes that storage would be a difficulty Plastic banding Recycling Rate – Percentage n floor sweepings and add a significant cost. This product is used to hold boxes together Recycled in the UK – especially paper. Made from a number of The aim of the tender was to find a partner to take As an alternative, a company was found who plastics, it causes a problem because it’s all of these items and general wastes. However, offer labels with a backing made of clear difficult to contain, store and present the the remit was only partially successful – the plastic. This meant that once the labels were material to an interested organisation. The wood products were taken for recycling, but used, the backing could go directly into the choice is to chip the material or to bale it. the other products were specialist and it was plastics waste stream to be bailed; for which Both options would require the purchase necessary to look elsewhere. Approximately Lyreco receive a rebate. The performance of or lease of a machine and a cost/benefit 50% of the general waste to landfill was made these labels on our printers is still under test exercise is still in process. up of label backing and plastic banding a and the Group is also reviewing the product With these 2 previously land-filled materials 75% 78% 97% significant enough volume to work on. for its potential with other subsidiaries, but a fully diverted from landfill, UK could see a 2010 2011 Forecast 2012 21 WASTE Sales Force Mobility : ONE STEP FURTHER The September 2011 release of Sales Force In addition, the carbon footprint reduction attriMobility SFM (see the first green insert) introbutable to the long distance vehicles transporting duced electronic versions of reports that were the reports from the Group Head Office to the previously only available as paper reports; local Head Offices is estimated to be 31,000 kg another positive impact on the environment. CO2 (corresponding to a yearly distance of Until this time, sales reports for the Field Sales 72,600 Km). Removal of the need to distribute Force were printed centrally or locally, with the reports locally once they arrived within the a vast share being delivered by road in hard relevant Head Offices also has a significant copy. Globally, the annual volume of paper environmental impact reduction, since Lyreco usage was close to 111 pallets. Through this has 5,000 sales people, however the benefit is dematerialisation, Lyreco difficult to calculate. has reduced their carbon footprint with the reduction Lyreco has reduced SFM’s initial design concept of CO2 emissions directly carbon footprint and development have or indirectly linked to paper, been driven by the dematoners and distribution with the reduction terialisation that current associated to previous printed paper reports. of CO2 emissions technologies enable for processes and supporting directly or indirectly documents. This applies in Specifically, the environLyreco case to Price Offers, mental footprint savings linked to paper Prospect and Customer of moving from paper to electronic reports are Cards and Reports to name a few. This is good What is Sales Force What comes next? estimated per year as follows: for both the environment and for employees Mobility ? who have since gained in efficiency and have n An off-line mode More than seen a significant reduction of documents to This solution dedicated to the Field Sales n Accessibility on any device 11,000,000 pages. sort, file and carry… Forces started in 2010 and today means: n Price offers can be created online More than 3,520,000 litres water. during a visit and sent directly to prospects and customers. More than 118,800 kg n Prospect or Customer details can be CO2 Emissions. completed and consulted during a visit. n Daily activity and objectives can be More than 1,320 trees. managed on the fly and consulted at a glance. Source: Australian Environmental Protection Agency n Enhanced Business reports are acestimating that using 1 ream of paper equates to 6% of a tree, 5.4 kg of CO2 and 160 litres of water. cessible online. 22 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 WASTE INFRASTRUCTURE Green Printing IS Infrastructure awareness Consolidation Although printing does not represent a Printing greener requires not only printers huge part of Lyreco’s greenhouse gas and software with built-in eco-friendly emissions, it was decided in December 2011 features and functionalities, but also proper Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Environmental Actions to consider further the impact of internally communication actions to continuously printed documents. Obviously this is good raise the awareness of personnel in order environmental practice as well as good to change their mindset and usage practice. business sense. The Quality Security & Sustainability ManaLyreco therefore updated the previously gers in each country have therefore been communicated Best Practice on this subject appointed as project coordinators to further and launched a subsidiary assessment to increase the overall green printing level. review practices which was then followed by local actions. The Best Practice update includes numerous simple technical tips and guidelines MPF* installed 2010 2011 Target 2012 in Lyreco to be implemented world-wide, which can locations contribute significantly to the environment (as % of 50% 100 % 25% when combined in a large scale. potential roll-out or or Ref. x2 x4 identified) Among these, a particular focus was based In order to make its Data Centers Energy sizing of our installed base, with all associated on the below table: Efficient & Greener, Lyreco uses 2 dedicated side benefits on the environment. technologies for the whole IT systems: the Duplex printing This allows printing on both sides of a piece of paper, automatically. It comes installed or as an option. Virtualisation & the Consolidation. Basically, those approaches enable to reduce the In 2011, Lyreco N-up printing Found within the software (e.g. PowerPoint), this functionality allows printing of number of physical servers, and consequently made the decision to multiple pages of documents on a single page, reducing paper usage. the power consumption and the needed infrastructure (e.g. space, cooling system). move towards DataMFPs* The consolidation of the devices and tasks into a single multifunction printer enables energy saving and space saving. They also often include the duplex printing module. The expectations behind are not only to base consolidation improve scalability (ability of the system to be machines. Toner Save This function allows printing in draft mode that uses less toner, but at the same enlarged to accommodate company needs) and or Eco Mode time a good quality for documents intended for internal purposes. workloads, but as well to further optimize the The implementation is currently in progress and will deliver increased performance, increased Printers may be configured to go into sleep mode after a certain amount of Target Target consolidation (i.e. the number of servers will be Power Save Mode time being idle, thus reducing energy consumption. The printer automatically 2011 comes out of sleep mode when a print job is sent. 2012 2013 divided by 4) and reduced power consumption. Evolution of Scan to File / This feature is quite often integrated in the MPF*. It allows scanning to file or the Power N/A +39% (*) -45% Scan to Mail email, bypassing the need for paper output. Consumption * Multifunction Printer (*) Increase due to the old and new infrastructures will live together till the new system is completely up and running. 23 TITRE SOCIAL ACTIONS In the delivery of its Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims to: n Develop equality and social inclusion principles throughout one organisation and supplier relationships. n Develop and care for our people thanks to a proper work environment in terms of Health and Safety and human resources programmes (e.g. Lyreco University, Lyreco Campus, Internal Opinion Barometer, and Training Plans). n Contribute to the progress of our community, carrying out Lyreco For Education, charity and supplier social audit actions. The following pages detail activity carried out in 2011 or scheduled to be carried out in 2012. 24 24 Sustainable Sustainable Development Development Report 2011/2012 Report 2011/2012 SOCIAL ACTIONS SOCIAL APPROACH Social actions across the whole business Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Social Actions LYRECO PEOPLE COMMUNITY n Lyreco Campus n Lyreco For Education n Lyreco University n Mangrove planting n Career building in Group Information Systems n Humanity in the supply chain n Very Lyreco People n Lyreco in Canada donates to Sun Youth once again n Collection Campaign for children p. 26-29 p. 30-33 25 LYRECO PEOPLE Lyreco University In 2009 Lyreco launched an internal talent development programme called Lyreco University (LU). The aim of this programme was to implement a dedicated process in each of our largest subsidiaries to secure the development of the biggest local talents. The objectives of the LU programme are to: n Identify the top potential individuals in every country n Help them to grow to prepare their future and the future of Lyreco n Motivate them by granting them access to a dedicated programme n Use the skills of the students to review and business operates across all departments. The aim is to prepare them for future manager the LU and Lyreco is currently looking at how to implement the programme in the smallest The 2011 LU improve our business roles and increase their ability to migrate into and less mature subsidiaries too. No doubt the programme was other areas of the company. objective is to make this a global programme. The programme is managed locally by the HR In the beginning this programme was only active in 10 of our 17 department and provides the students with a intended for our biggest subsidiaries with series of training days delivered by members more than 600 employees, but based on the subsidiaries training of the Senior Management Team and external presenters. Through the course of the year success of the first years of the programme it’s now mandatory for all subsidiaries emand developing the students will work on a business relevant project presenting the results to the SMT at ploying 300 people. This means that the LU programme in 2011 was active in 10 of our 60 of our best talents the end of the programme. 17 subsidiaries training and developing 60 of This training is designed to develop the stuour best talents. dent’s global understanding of how the Lyreco In 2012 an additional subsidiary has launched 26 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 LYRECO PEOPLE Lyreco Campus In 2010 as a supplement to Lyreco University, Lyreco launched an additional talent development programme. This programme Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Social Actions was aimed at the continued development of the best talents coming out of the local Lyreco Universities. The objectives of Lyreco Campus are to: n Follow up on the Lyreco University programme for very high potential individuals n Help them grow to prepare their future and the future of Lyreco n Provide international exposure n Motivate and retain them by granting them access to a dedicated programme n Use the skills of the students to review and improve our business training available. It’s a very ambitious programme and all the students have to be at The Campus programme also involves bringing back previous years Campus alumnae to join Already 6 of these Lyreco Campus involves bringing the absolute best talents from each subsidiary to their very best to keep up in this high pace programme. During the programme they the Group SMT and Campus students in a full day of lectures and workshops on a students have been the EDHEC international business school in Lille, France for a two week intensive are put through a number of demanding activities requiring them to muster both specific business topic. In 2011 this topic was Social Sustainability. promoted into senior training programme. For 11 straight days physical and mental strength. All activities In 2012, 8 students have been enrolled in the managerial roles the programme introduces them to: are designed to prepare them for potentially n Strategy and business models stepping into a demanding management 9 students completed n Performance Management & Managerial role in the future. Campus programme and we are hoping to innovation Lyreco Campus in 2011 see the same progress from this class. n Financial Performance Management and The Campus students are also required to Demanding business games work on a project defined and sponsored by 2 out of the 3 Campus projects presented to the Group Senior Management Team. These the Group Senior Management Team were All lectures are done by professors of the projects are chosen for their high relevance deemed suitable for continuation. EDHEC business school and they put the to the business and potential contribution to students through some of the best executive the development of the company. 27 LYRECO PEOPLE Career building in Group INFORMATION SYSTEMS Lyreco has a commitment to improve continuously and ensure careers are developed Revised: and individuals trained. At the end of 2008, a result of the bi-annual Internal Opinion Barometer showed that n Key job roles in GIS (11 for 90% of employees) employees in the Group IS Dept were lacking in clarity around job definitions, performance and associated compensation schemes assessment criteria, and evolution opportunities 2011 Target 2012 within Group IS and from Group IS to other operations. n Career paths in these key job roles New revised Job role descriptions / 11 / 90% 20 / 100% Determined to address the problem, a decision was made to refine the internal descriptions n Mobility rules % of Group IS employees for jobs and positions, with the aim of bringing Number increased clarity on job content and perforn Development plan for each key job role of internal promotions / 15 / 10% N/A mance assessment, compensations, and possible Career opportunities for our Group % of Group IS employees Information System (GIS) employees. 28 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 LYRECO PEOPLE VERY LYRECO PEOPLE Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Social Actions 2005 SOUTH AFRICA 2006 INDIA 2007 CARIBBEAN CRUISE 2008 WEST USA 2009 VIETNAM 2010 BRASIL 2011 SOUTH MEDITERRANEAN CRUISE 2012 BALI Since 2005, Lyreco has managed an interEach year, around 200 people from all subvalues representatives based on Lyreco and gather for one week to share an exciting national incentive programme to reward the sidiaries are respectively recognised, split common statements: Passion, Respect, trip, Vietnam in 2009, Brazil in 2010, and a best employees. by leagues, as the best sales people, the Excellence and Professionalism. All winners Mediterranean Cruise in 2011. best sales managers, and the best Lyreco worldwide come to the exclusive VLP club 29 COMMUNITY LYRECO FOR EDUCATION In 2008 Lyreco launched a charity programme called Lyreco For Education (LFE). Projects are lead in developing countries to help children all over the world to have a better future. Thanks to the worldwide participation of customers, suppliers and employees through events, promotional opportunities and donations, LFE has supported the education of more than 50,000 children in Bangladesh, Vietnam, Brazil and Togo. Together for Togo 2011-2013 ! 30 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 COMMUNITY School enrolment: 5% more in 2011 37,125 children In 2011, Lyreco decided with its partner, the Non Governmental Organisation AEA, will have better to support a 3-year project in the poorest region of Togo. access to education Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Social Actions COMMITMENT: to improve access to and the quality of education in the region of les Savanes for 32,000 children. The OBJECTIVE: to contribute to financing 165 education projects in 165 villages for To give a good understanding of our projects to all Lyreco employees, Lyreco follows children aged from 7 to 12: 5 people who are our LFE ambassadors from Togo and tell us step by step how the n by building new schools in remote areas projects progress in their village. n by increasing the awareness of the parents to understand the importance of children’s education n by improving the sanitary conditions n by recruiting and training more teachers Thanks to the 2011 over achievements (see table), Lyreco will extend the LFE project to the Kara region in Togo, where 50 villages have been identified and only 7% of children have access to a pre-school programme. Yétéme, a 7 year old boy Sérémine, 10 years old Philomène, Christine, educator Nantiébe, 10 years old in Tampiéna village mother of 2 little girls in a childhood centre The objective is to prepare children from the age of 3 to 5 for entry into the primary school FIRST RESULTS END OF 2011: 2010 2011 2012 n by building early childhood centres n 165 education projects established n by teaching literacy, nutrition and hygiene Collected 277,661 € 345,652 € on-going To learn more about n 165 school directors rules with learning games n 576 teachers the LFE’s activities, visit: n by recruiting and training up to 150 local teachers n 19,500 parents n 990 meetings organised by parents Achievement eco.lyreco.com and teachers vs Target 188 % 162 % on-going n by improving the communication between n 1 school built and fully equipped school authorities and parents 31 COMMUNITY Mangrove planting Humanity In different Lyreco countries, there are different in the supply chain sustainability needs. In Thailand, Lyreco is proud to have taken part in planting mangrove since 2011. This is a crucial sustainability action for biodiversity. The expansion of many industries in Thailand has significantly impacted on the environment of the country. A survey from Lyreco employees the Government in 1986 indicated that there was a decrease of 50%. The mangrove planted over 600 trees forest has been declining steadily, while the invasion rate has been increasing gradually. because they believed Following the introduction of new government it crucial to the impropolicy; the recovery of the mangrove area has improved. As a result, the mangrove vement of biodiversity area has been increased to 2,528 Km2 and later on to 2,785 Km2 in 2004. This is in Thailand. Lyreco greater than the government target and a positive trend. The biggest change has expect to continue this A company, which passionately believes in The employees are all either mentally or been accomplished by the cooperation of the government and the citizens together valuable project on an acting with humanity, is the Danish supplier Vejviser . The purpose of the company physically disabled or from a minority group. The number of employees varies with the with the increase of reforestation and the decrease of deforestation. annual basis. is to transform its employees from total exclusion from the labour market to gaining number of referrals from the districts. The employees from Vejviser perform a the ability to enter the labour market on variety of manual tasks like the packing of their own. various publications and Lyreco in Scandinavia has used them for many years and is very Historically, the district of Albertslund, at satisfied with their performance. the outskirts of Copenhagen wanted to strengthen its sustainable development and asked every local company, including Target Lyreco, what they could do to support this 2010 2011 2012 goal. This resulted in Lyreco using Vejviser as a supplier. Number In the past the employees were referred to of hours performed Vejviser from the district of Albertslund, by Veijviser ~800 but as the project evolved they came from employees ~300 all districts in the region of Copenhagen. for Lyreco ~200 32 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 COMMUNITY Lyreco helps Montreal Collection campaign Needy for children Over 150 Sales Representatives once again chose to For over 8 years, the Lyreco employees in Iberia have participated in the Red give back to the community through a teambuilding Cross campaign to collect new or nearly event organised during the 2012 Sales Convention. new toys to be given out on the Magical Night of the Three Kings, also known During November and December of 2011 as Epiphany.... This is a commitment to Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Social Actions Lyreco employees across Canada were ensure that all children have access to encouraged to donate new and lightly used toys that will aid their development and clothing items in donation boxes set up in educate through play to develop values each Lyreco location. These items were that will guide them throughout life. The then gathered and shipped to Montreal motto of this last campaign was A game where they were combined with food and suitable for all now more than ever, it’s hygiene items. The Sales Staff were then your turn! Youth Red Cross has distributed split into teams where they assembled over 36,000 toys to children of families gift baskets for 3 Montreal community referred by social services, thanks to the In May 2010, coinciding with the centenary organisations: Le Refuge, Dans la Rue increasing support of the public. After the of the Red Cross and the 50 years of Red and Sun Youth Organisation. In addition hard work of volunteers and staff of Youth Cross Cornellà, Lyreco in Iberia received a to individual donations made by Lyreco Red Cross, this year has reached a record special recognition as a business company employees and goods offered by Lyreco of 17,604 children, 24,51% more than partner with Red Cross Cornellà. Lyreco Suppliers, the participants were given a the last phase and doubled over the past was noted as contributing to building a budget to go shopping for items to include three years. This large increase would not more united world and for their participation in the gift baskets. have been possible without the help and in the Magic Kings campaign with the aim support of 203 companies in Catalonia, of raising the awareness of the society on: Through their efforts, including Lyreco. Specifically in Cornellà n social and economic inequalities faced de Llobregat (Barcelona – Spain), Lyreco by children some 900 food items Head Office location. n importance of the toy in the education of children. and hygiene products In 2011, 274 children n cultural integration along with over 3 of 178 families had The award states to build a world with skips of clothing were a toy for christmas, respect and dignity . donated making the thanks to contribution event a great success. of Lyreco employees. 33 ECONOMIC ACTIONS In the delivery of its Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims to: n Support and increase economic growth in all our countries, in a sustainable fashion. n Promote innovation and adopt a pragmatic approach to sustainability, targeting efforts on priority issues which have meaningful benefits for the environment, community and economy. n Work ethically with our suppliers and partners, and encourage them to apply a Sustainable Development strategy. n Adopt a Sustainable Procurement & Product Approach. The following pages detail activity carried out in 2011 or scheduled to be carried out in 2012. 34 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 ECONOMIC APPROACH Economic Actions across the whole business Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Actions CUSTOMER MARKETPLACE n Sustainable tools for customers n Supplier Sustainability Involvement Programme n Green bags solution n Sustainable procurement n Green welcome packs n Increased stakeholder dialogue n Lyreco, a green partner of Generali Group n Unique trade fair n New survey for improved customer satisfaction n Advancing technology & sustainability p. 36-38 p. 39-41 35 CUSTOMERS Sustainable Tools for Customers In line with our vision to bring sustainability to customers, Lyreco has developed and launched tools that will help customers to reduce their environmental impact when purchasing workplace supplies. Customer Environmental Logistics Calculator Balance In a user friendly way, the objective of the The aim of this initiative was to develop a tool tool is to: for the environmental analysis of individual n give environmental information about the business processes with our customers. The deliveries tool needed to be easy to understand but n suggest to the customer how to reduce its professional in its use. environmental impact n show couple of initiatives This need arose from discussions with customers about sustainable developments. The The key principles of the tool are as follows: users told us that they wanted to contribute n use the Carbon Footprint assessed with to a reduction of environmental impacts, but LCFC (Lyreco Carbon Footprint Calculator) that it was difficult for them to find a suitable n promote bigger and bundled orders link to their own job or business. n the tool is fully customized as it can be fully All these requirements meet the Lyreco translated and takes into account the carbon Customer Environmental balance. footprint of each country Feedback from customers has been very At the same time, the tool is really a customer positive regards this tool and we believe that awareness tool as the figures that are provided we achieved the required objective. There during the simulations are based on average have been numerous requests from customers assumptions. who want to use it in their own company. With the calculator, we offer the opportunity to set up the balance sheet not only for the entire company, but also on departmental level. The roll-out of this tool in the different countries is scheduled to be done step by step. This tool is able to calculate the CO2 equivalent for one customer order managed by Lyreco, to project this to the total business activity between Customer and Lyreco and finally to simulate different cases and the environmental impact. 36 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 CUSTOMERS GREEN BAGS SOLUTION GREEN WELCOME PACK Italy has launched a new product for customers and employees: Lyreco branded polypropylene Bags. The Green Welcome Pack was created in Italy in 2011 as a gift for new Field Customers. Lyreco’s intention In 2011, the Italian government introduced a was to give something valuable to the new customers: new law where plastic bags are banned and not only a simple selection of office products, but also Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Actions all shops had to replace them with recycled and recyclable bags. Being innovative; a clear indicator of its attention the team were inspired to create a useful, to the environment. eco-friendly product that was practical and pleasing at the same time. The key All the products chosen had a low enviFuture strategy and work towards the criteria were reusability; environmental ronmental impact and were packaged in target sales of Green products. credentials and user-friendliness. a box made of 100% recycled paper with A different design was produced in 2011 graphics printed using vegetable inks. and 2012; both showing the catalogue cover to advertise the brand on the one The Welcome Pack was also appreciated side and the environmental credentials by Corporate Customers and quickly on the other, to demonstrate sustainable became a Green Gift used to promote development commitment. sustainable behaviours. It helped on many The success of the campaign led to Great success occasions to increase the sustainable culture among the end-users of Corporate production of 45,000 bags in 2011 and 40,000 in January, 2012. In fact the 2012 of this campaign Customers as well as promoting Lyreco’s sustainable commitments during the production has been so successful that another run of 35,000 bags was produced with 45,000 bags customer’s events. in May. in 2011 and All this was possible thanks to the partnership with selected suppliers: 3M, Pigna, Pilot This idea is also a success from another point of view: Lyreco Bags have now a 75,000 in 2012. and Bic. The Green Welcome Pack allowed them to showcase their green products to lead role of viral marketing campaign. wider office community, increasing sales Lyreco distribute the bags during internal thanks to the end-users opportunity to events like the annual Sales Convention, test the products. as gifts for suppliers and during other sponsored events. The last occasion was The Green Welcome Pack was an unpreConfindustria Meeting , a national and cedented success. Thanks to this tool relevant, economic and social event with Lyreco will continue to promote the Eco 2,500 guests. 37 CUSTOMERS LYRECO A GREEN PARTNER New Survey for improved OF GENERALI GROUP Customer Satisfaction In 2011, Italy undertook a series of activities to improve On an annual basis, Lyreco contacts a reviewed so that the results can be easily their contribution to the sustainability strategy of Generali selection of customers to review their understood and communicated. Group. satisfaction levels with the products and services they have received. In the past, Some statistics: Lyreco attended customer seminars at The functionality is: this survey was carried out by telephone n In each country, the objective is to send Cinque Tappe per l’Ambiente Events n mandatory when the sustainable product and despite being customer-friendly, it was the survey to 10,000 random customers (Five Stages for Environment) as speakers is also cheaper than the standard one time-consuming and expensive. per channel (Field and Corporate) on 2 key topics: n optional when the green product is more In 2011, Lyreco reviewed the way the n The survey covers at least 40 items (42 for n Sustainable products, waste management expensive than the standard one Customer Satisfaction was assessed with Corporate Customers) so that all elements and energy This has helped in the drive to more sustaia view to improving the entire process and impacting on customer satisfaction are n Paper and mobility nable procurement for Generali Group. moved to an online format. assessed The events took place in Mogliano, Veneto, n To date, countries that have used the new Trieste, Milan, Turin and Rome with audiences Finally, in 2011 Lyreco started to collect waste The overall customer satisfaction survey survey have reported: of up to 100 end-user customers. The aim toners from Generali Group. This service helps provides: n An overall satisfaction with Lyreco was to raise awareness of the company’s to reduce the environmental impact of this n a clear overview of exactly what the cusservices, ranging between 7.49 to 9.02 (out Big Project related to Environment and Suskind of waste as the empty toners are being tomers think there is no interpretation by of 10*) depending on the country and the tainability, encouraging them to be involved re-used.These results show that partnership a phone operator; the customers’ answers customer channel in purchasing choices that would relate between customers and suppliers, when based are recorded as provided n A minimum of 82.2% of the customers directly to the sustainability strategy. on a sustainable approach, bring an added value n identified areas of weaknesses (and up to 98.54%) would (absolutely or Lyreco provided quarterly management to both parties and the wider community. n a measure of progress probably) recommend Lyreco data regarding spend on sustainable Percentage n an increase of the customers' total products across the three categories of of remanufactured satisfaction the contract: PAPER, TONER and General Lyreco Toners n an increase of the company’s ongoing 98.5 % Office Products (GOP). in toner purchases improvement Strong involvement of Generali in Sustainability 2% 11% The new online system enables Lyreco Up to 2010 2011 as well as the proactive Lyreco approach achieved significant changes in the switch Percentage of sustainable to survey many more customers than the past, providing a more accurate overview. customers would to greener procurement. products in GOP purchases 38% 2010 42% 2011 Furthermore the questionnaires have been updated to be more relevant to the recommend Lyreco Lyreco implemented a substitution function customer and a completely new section Percentage of paper in the dynamic purchasing catalogue with environmental on Sustainable Development has been for Generali Group. The function reviews credentials in paper added. This ensures we have our customer the products in the shopping basket and purchases perspective and wishes on the matter. (*) The rating is done from 1 to 10 (from Very Poor to offers the user an equivalent but sustainable 88% 97% Finally, the scoring methodology has been Excellent). alternative. 2010 2011 38 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 MARKETPLACE SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY INVOLVEMENT PROGRAMME Striving for continuous improvement, Monitor Compliance to Supplier Sustainability Number of checks per area in October 2011, Lyreco reviewed its Principles Establishing a set of minimum requirements is 4 4 Socially Responsible Procurement Policy critical to managing sustainability risks within the supply chain. However, to ensure these 38 24 and moved to a Supplier Sustainability Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Actions principles are being implemented effectively, Lyreco audits supplier compliance with these Involvement Programme principles once a year. The suppliers for our Directly Imported Products must ensure that they provide all The scope and outline of the requirements of Implement Supplier relevant policies and associated evidence 16 manufacturers are now wider as, in addition Sustainability Principles required to demonstrate their compliance. to the social accountability aspects, EnviThese principles specify expectations in Following the successful completion of the ronmental , Management Systems and relation to the following areas: compliance audit Lyreco can provide the 34 Ethical elements are also audited. n LABOUR supplier with feedback on their sustainability n HEALTH & SAFETY performance. The programme involves the following key n ENVIRONMENT objectives: n MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Support of Supplier n Implement Supplier Sustainability Principles n ETHICS Sustainability Performance n Monitor compliance to Supplier Sustainan COMPLIANCE with the LAW Lyreco understands that real improvement in NB: Some checks may not be applicable to some bility Principles Suppliers must review Lyreco Supplier Sustaisupplier sustainability is driven by a genuine suppliers. The list and number are subject to change n Support of Supplier Sustainability pernability Involvement Programme and ensure partnership with our suppliers. Therefore, depending on the audit outcomes. formance they have the necessary policies, processes Lyreco provides its support if suppliers need and systems to meet these requirements. guidelines or recommendations. 2010 2011 Target 2012 Why does Lyreco care about the sustainability practices of % of factories audited 100% 100% 100% its supply chain? % of factories audited on Environmental, Management 0% 46% 100% System and Ethical items. Lyreco recognises that as a large purchaser of office supplies across the world, its sustainability performance is dependent on the management of the supply chain.The % of Non Conformances identified during the previous N/A 80% 100% business conduct of suppliers can have a significant impact on Lyreco’s sustainability audit and that are completely closed during the next performance and their reputation within the communities in which they operate. surveillance audit. Therefore, Lyreco has implemented a Supplier Sustainability Programme for Directly Imported Products to manage these risks within the supply chain. The objective of Number of Non Conformances. 10 13 N/A the programme is to educate, influence and support the supply chain to improve their overall sustainability performance. Number of Opportunities for Improvement. 7 15 N/A Scope: Lyreco Directly Imported Products manufactured in the risk countries 39 MARKETPLACE SUPPLIER PROCUREMENT Increased stakeholder dialogue In November 2011, France committed itself to la Charte Sustainability principles have been a part of Lyreco des bonnes pratiques (Charter of Good Practice) that culture and values for many years, but stakeholder defines rules for sustainable procurement. This set of dialogue on the subject has become increasingly rules & principles is managed by the French Ministry of important. Finance with the help of the Public administration. In order to increase stakeholder awareness Lyreco Purchasing Policies, our Supplier and dialogue, many countries set up a Code of Ethics and our Socially Responsible structured communication plan in 2011, Procurement Policy. This charter has been embraced by many with focus on customers, suppliers and prestigious companies (see insert) and employees. To close the circle and to complete our accounts for more than €360 billion of stakeholder communication, an increasing purchases. As an overall communication tool the new number of meetings were set up with eco-website was introduced and very well customers to discuss sustainable actions. This commitment is totally aligned with the received because it provides a good overview These meetings contribute to establishing Lyreco Code of Ethics, which was introof Lyreco policy and actions in the field of improved partnerships on sustainability and duced in early 2010 to ensure an ethical Sustainable Development. helps both customers and Lyreco to reduce working relationship with Lyreco suppliers. their ecological footprint. During the course of the year the Quality, The code defines appropriate and inapproSecurity & Sustainability Manager (QSS) priate behaviours between Lyreco and the set up interactive sessions around CSR supply base; it has to be signed off before (Corporate Social Responsibility) with the any supplier can enter into a tender with various departmental teams. The objective Lyreco and must also be referenced in any of these sessions was to give an update on contract signed. Sustainable objectives and actions on the one hand, and to trigger any new ideas and suggestions to enhance our sustainable actions on the other. It is essential that Lyreco policy is supported EADS, DANONE, L’OREAL, VEOLIA, EDF, SNCF, TOTAL, AREVA, BNP PARIBAS, by its suppliers; therefore CSR sessions have FRANCE TELECOM, LAFARGE, SOCIETE GENERALE, ALLIANZ France, ATOS been organised with our suppliers to gain ORIGIN, ALSTOM Transport, BOMBARDIE Transport, BPCE, CREDIT AGRICOLE, more insight in their sustainable actions and GDF SUEZ, GROUPAMA, HP France, LATECOERE, MICROSOFT, RICARD, the evolution of sustainable products. TECHNICOLOR, SIEMENS France and ZODIAC Aerospace. This action came in addition to our Supplier Sustainable Programme consisting of the 40 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 MARKETPLACE A UNIQUE TRADE FAIR Advancing technology & At the sales conventions for the last 2 years, Italy has sustainable development included a new initiative, known locally as The Green Fair . Digitalisation and dematerialisation The plan is to extend this service to all (removal of paper) of administrative countries and potentially to further other processes are an important source of documents. productivity improvement in business, Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Actions as well as having a direct contribution to In the same time, the share of electronic carbon reduction. orders has continued to grow, now taking over from fax orders. The aim of Lyreco Documents-on-Demand service (DoD) is to provide customers with Savings are as follows: easy access to electronic documents either online or by phone. More than 1,000,000 pages In 2010, Price Lists and Delivery Notes were made available as pdf downloadable More than 320,000 litres water The unique concept of the fair is that the 47 suppliers’ exhibition stands are made It was the first time files. from robust recycled and recyclable cardboard as opposed to the usual high in the industry In 2011, Lyreco extended the list of Documents-on-Demand to cover Signed More than 10,800 kg CO2 emissions impact metals and boards. that an entire trade Proofs of Delivery, which are now available to customers in France, UK, Italy and More than 120 trees Although the stands may give the impression of fragility, they are in fact very durable, exhibition has Spain. Invoice Duplicates and Credit Notes Duplicates are now available in all Calculation basis: 1 fax order = 2 pages (1 customer and 1 Lyreco). with a capacity of 50 kg per shelf. In addition to the basic structure composed featured stands European countries with the exception of Germany, CASH* & Poland which are still 1 order = 4 lines. Source: Australian Environmental Protection Agency of tables and bookcases, each stand was made from recycled to be rolled out. estimating that using 1 ream of paper equates to 6% of a tree, 5.4 kg of CO2 and 160 litres of water. equipped with 6 cardboard totems of different sizes, designed to display logos and advertising banners of the suppliers. and recyclable 2011 vs 2010 EDI Order Lines 4,26% The added benefit is that the stands are re-usable, so long as stored with the cardboard. On-line ordered lines 5,19% correct protection and the use of these stands will continue for many years. The final layout was exciting, the show was Fax Order Lines -25,69% a triumph of green colour and customization The Green Fair concept was themed with of Sustainable Development . Figures expressed in number of order lines. EDI stands for Electronic Data Interchange / OLO is the Internet accessible ordering site of Lyreco respect for the environment . * Czech Republic, Austria, Slovakia and Hungary zone. 41 CUSTOMERS Customer Testimonial: Business Case: Malmö stad TÜV Rheinland Malmö stad has been a customer of Lyreco for several years and would like to express our Objective appreciation for Lyreco approach Increase the usage of sustainable products in the TÜV Rheinland Group organisation. towards Sustainability issues. A Actions s an organisation with a strong initiatives which is assisting us in covering all n Continuous control and adjustment of the environmental focus, Malmö areas of procurement of office supplies, from product range ensuring that at all times the stad emphasizes the importance a sustainability point of view. main focus was on sustainable products. of our supplier’s commitment to the envin Additionally, the items were flagged in the ronment and the responsibility towards our Finally, we would like to state that the general catalogue. future generations. With the assistance from impression of Lyreco as a company considering To achieve sustained development Lyreco we have been able to improve our all dimensions of Sustainability is notable and Results of safety and quality. work for Sustainable Development and this trustworthy. In the comprehensive approach When starting the focus on sustainable products T has furthermore increased the awareness of you have considered the environment, the in 2009, about 8% of the total purchasing volume our environmental profile, both internally and economy as well as acknowledging your social was sustainable products, whereas in 2011, he TÜV Rheinland Group is a leading externally. More specifically, together with responsibility. In terms of the last part, we have this percentage has increased to 25%. provider of technical services worldLyreco we have arranged weekly deliveries been given the opportunity to watch some foowide. Since our foundation in 1872, of office supplies which have reduced the tage and follow the progress of your education we have been developing safe and sustainable environmental impact of each product’s programme in Togo, which has inspired us as solutions for the challenges arising from the journey from your warehouse to us. Besides an organisation and your customer. interaction between man, the environment the obvious benefits that bundling our orders Anders Tapper and technology. have brought, this has made us consider each Procurer at Malmo Stad order more carefully which in turn has reduced As an independent, neutral and professional the number of returns. organisation, TÜV Rheinland Group are committed Malmö stad (or Malmo Municipality) is to working towards a future that can fulfil the Sweden's third largest city by population Since our aim is to procure as sustainably after Stockholm and Gothenburg, and is 8,92% 24,85% needs of both mankind and the environment in as possible, Lyreco knowledge and range of one of the largest cities in Scandinavia. the long term. In the ever changing markets in 2009 2011 eco-labelled products has proved to be very which TÜV Rheinland Group operate, the focus helpful for us and based on that, we attempt Other Products is on serving customers, achieving success and to optimize our purchases. In addition to this, Malmö stad was awarded the prestigious Green Products constantly enhancing our appeal to customers, we feel comfortable using Lyreco programme prize as “Excellent Green Purchaser” partners and staff. in 2012 by the Swedish Environmental for return of empty toner cartridges. The Management Council. latter is another one of your environmental 42 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 CUSTOMERS Business Case: GLS Bank Business Case: Hydro Objective Objectives Increase the proportion of sustainable n Increase of green products in the Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Actions products in the product range available product range to the GLS Bank. n Reduction of Km to be covered for deliveries Actions n Continuous control and adjustment of the Threefold benefit for Those objectives are discussed on a product range ensured that at all times the customers and members regular basis with the customer during G main focus was on sustainable products. the dedicated business review. A leading provider of n Additionally, the green tree items were LS Bank is the world’s first aluminium and aluminium H flagged in the catalogue. socio-environmental fullActions products service bank. For nearly 40 n Reduction to delivery twice per week ydro is a leading provider Results years we have combined professional n Route optimisation by using the Lyreco of aluminium and aluminum When starting the business relationship in banking and social responsibility. Our delivery analyst as part of the existing products. Offering 105 years 2008, about 25% of the total purchasing aim is to promote sustainable social optimisation process of experience in technology development, volume were sustainable products, whereas, development and conservation of natural n Identification of green products in the renewable energy sources and innovative in 2011, the percentage has increased resources. Therefore, money for us is a electronic catalogue. partnerships, we are striving to strengthen to 47%. design element. GLS Bank is the only our customers’ positions and build a bank offering one-stop funds, financing, Results future-proof society. investments, foundations and donations. n CO 2 reduced by 4 tonnes through Specific socio-environmental investments reorganising delivery modes Number 1 in Germany and comprehensive transparency ensure n Driven distance reduced by 11,000 km Germany is one of the leading nations ecologically worthwhile and innovative regarding the use of aluminum, with Hydro banking services to our customers – with providing most of the metals. Our German a threefold benefit: human-social, forwardfacilities service the highest number of thinking, and economic. customers providing the utmost variety of products. In Germany, we have the most Savings Savings 24,90% 47,46% employees – over 6,000 – and generate 11,076 4,067 2008 2011 the highest sales figures in our industry. KM CO2 (tons) Other Products Our research centre in Bonn is the leading Green Products institute of its kind in Germany. 43 SUPPLIER TESTIMONIALS Lyreco work closely with Exacompta our suppliers… … through a sustainability programme and assessment. When it comes to demonstrating a credible is priced to offer a Bic, Exacompta and Tesa give us some concrete examples and concrete commitment to environmental realistic equivalent to of what we expect from our suppliers protection, Exacompta is an industry leader. the cost of a standard Part of the wider Exacompta-Clairefonnon-recycled product, ensuring that there taine Group, Exacompta has followed a are no drawbacks, only advantages, in sustainable development policy for more choosing to buy green . Furthermore, all of than 50 years – a policy that has directly Exacompta products have been designed influenced the design and evolution of its and manufactured in keeping with the product ranges. philosophy of sustainable development and have been independently certified Now, at a time when increasing numbers of accordingly. companies and organisations must abide Indeed this is an important point: Exacompta by internal guidelines and policies around products are not self-certified, but rather reducing their carbon footprint, Exacompta assessed and certified by recognised, continues to offer a comprehensive selection credible external organisations – such as of eco-friendly office products that not only PEFC, FSC, and the Blue Angel – that can meet those environmental obligations, but provide consumers with real assurance that also deliver premium quality and functional these products are what they claim to be. design combined with excellent value for money. Similarly, Exacompta various ranges are all expertly designed to be both aesthetically pleasing yet professionally stylish, and what is more, each product 44 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 SUPPLIER TESTIMONIALS BIC tesa BIC® is proud to support Lyreco Sustainable For many years tesa® has been a reliable Development Strategy. For years both European partner of Lyreco, regularly companies have always been innovative and achieving double digit growth together. There are in total four different green value active leaders on SD topics having regular In 2011 BIC® and recycling company TerMain sales drivers have been the innovative packs offered by Lyreco: contacts and sharing initiatives. raCycle have launched in several European sustainable ecoLogo® line up of tesa® (10% countries the 1st programme for collecting share of total sales). Both share nearly the Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Actions 2011 BIC Group sales were 1.8 billion €. BIC® and recycling writing instruments. BIC® same sustainable visions & targets. products are available across 160 countries. Terracycle is a voluntary programme, free of Consumers choose to buy, everyday, 44 charge, perfect for end-users who want to According to Nielsen 25% of all end users million BIC® products (of which 24 million recycle in their offices… Whatever the brand, prefer ecological products and appreciate are stationery). In Europe, 94% of BIC® your pen can be collected and recycled! the added value of sustainability. Hence, products sold are manufactured in Europe. tesa® supports the efforts of Lyreco to meet Contact: denis.bonnet@bicworld.com the needs of this target group. BIC® has adopted a global approach to www.bicworld.com sustainable development encompassing www.terracycle.eu Lyreco offers a complete range of tesa® tesa® Stick all of its operations and affecting all of the sustainable products for different applications. following key areas: products, production This wide range covers glue sticks, glue facilities, recycling solutions, responsibility rollers, office films, dispensers as well as tesafilm® to our customers and consumers, social packaging and masking tapes. Eco & Clear responsibility and societal responsibility. Moreover, tesa® & Lyreco bundle these Right from the start, most of BIC products ® sustainable products as attractive value are designed and made with “just what’s packs which secure the Lyreco accounts necessary” in terms of raw materials, leaving a significant additional benefit. The “BIC 4 colours”, tesafilm® Eco & Clear out anything that is superfluous. On top of top-seller and NF-Certified their light weight, BIC® products have a long performance life, and everyone can afford them. To simplify the consumer’s life, BIC implemented a strategy of eco-labelling and was the first manufacturer of writing instruments to earn the “NF” Environment certification, France official ecological label. tesa® desk dispenser For further information about sustainability at tesa® please visit the tesa® homepage http://www.tesa.com/consumer/ecoLogo and http://tesa.com/company/responsibility 45 FINANCIAL INTEGRITY FINANCIAL INTEGRITY Redistributing values to stakeholders in 2011 2011 SALES € 2,133m: The chart below summarises the main financial flows between Lyreco and Stakeholders. EMPLOYEES BANKS SUPPLIERS STATE & LOCAL INVESTMENT COMMUNITIES e 412m e 1,6m e 1,619m e 55m e 21m (wages, social contribu(financial interests (goods purchases (corporate tax and (tangible assets tions and profit sharing) and borrowing other taxes) acquisitions) and overheads) 9,537 employees reimbursement) in Q1 2011 Financial Integrity As a private group, Lyreco takes pride in Sales per region providing the highest standard of financial transparency and reliability for its stakeSales in million Euro holders. Its financial transparency is ensured by a 2,200 worldwide accounting and reporting tool 2,100 allowing access to all accounting entries in 2,000 the world from its head office. Financial reporting is performed in conformity 1,900 with IFRS standards. 1,800 The financial reliability is structured around 1,700 two controlling arms: n Internal audit ensuring a strict application 1,600 of our financial policies and procedures; 1,500 n A prime external audit firm certifying its 59% Europe Euro Zone 1,400 financial statements. Lyreco ensures the full 34% Europe other countries 1,300 independence of its auditor by excluding it 4% North America from any consulting function in the Group. 3% Asia Pacific 1,200 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 46 Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 AWARDS Canada WoRLDWIDE Canada awarded 2011 Community Leadership Award Lyreco scoops the Corporate Social of Excellence Responsibility award at the European Sustainable Development Report 2011/2012 Economic Our Environmental Actions Actions The COPA* Awards Committee recognized Office Products Awards 2012 Lyreco with its Community Leadership Award of Excellence for the renovation On January 30th 2012, more than 350 Through its press release, OPI said Judges of the Montreal Sun Youth Building in guests were present at this prestigious praised Lyreco as a company that lives, January 2011. annual awards event, which is organised by works and breathes its approach to CSR, With this award, COPA honoured Lyreco Office Products International (OPI) during consistent in everything it does . who, in addition to its routine duties and the Paperworld Exhibition in Frankfurt. responsibilities, went the extra miles to During this ceremony, Lyreco was celebraThis award is truly a source of pride for all get involved in programmes, initiatives ted for its overall Sustainability approach the Lyreco employees who contribute on and activities that benefit the community and recognised effectively by the whole a daily basis to our sustainable approach. in which they live and work . industry, as the entries were judged by Brent Milburn – Managing Director receiving the award. panel of office products industry executi*COPA – Canadian Office Products Association ves, including 3M, Avery, Brother, Esselte, Fellowes, Pilot, Quantore and OPI. Germany The assessment criteria and elements taken into account by the judges were: Germany honoured with CSR Award n Programmes, practices and policies that Profitable and socially responsible: Lyreco tal impacts associated with their office enhance the company as a socially and is the proof that both objectives can be supplies purchases environmentally aware operation combined. This was the message from the n Social Audits achieved with suppliers n Steps taken to develop a more responsible judges during a ceremony where Lyreco n Health and Safety application corporate culture; such as green initiatives Germany was honoured with the CSR n Internal education programmes Lyreco and educational/motivational initiatives Award from the economic association Pro University and Lyreco Campus for staff or customers Hannover Region (PHR), supported by the n Additional schemes to improve operaGerman region of Lower Saxony. tional impact, such community initiatives and joint ventures with NGOs Amongst the evidences presented by n Effective monitoring of sustainability Lyreco, the following were highly praised actions by the jury: n Code of Ethics establishing ethical Steve Law – Lyreco CEO with the award. relationships with stakeholders (Paperworld is the main international office products n Lyreco For Education programme – proexhibition, with more than 1,800 exhibitors and more than 50,000 visitors). moting education in developing countries Marc Gebauer (Managing Director) and Olaf Dubbert n The Environmental Calculator dedicated (Quality Security & Sustainability Manager) receiving the to helping customers reduce environmenaward. 47 Rue du 19 mars 1962 59770 Marly France Tel: +33 (0) 3 27 23 64 00 Fax: +33 (0) 3 27 45 17 97 eco.lyreco.com If printed, use of EU flower labelled paper is recommended.
