2012 Sustainability Report CONTENT Message from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 4 A Strategy and Organisational Profile 6 Section A Organisational Profile 7 Sustainability Reporting 14 Sustainability Strategy 18 Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 22 B Section B Governance, Commitment and Engagement 26 Governance 27 Stakeholder Engagement 31 C Commitment 34 Section C Management Approach 38 Building Our Business 39 Enhancing Our Environment 42 D Section D Caring for Our People 48 Performance Indicators 52 Building Our Business 53 E Enhancing Our Environment 60 Section E Caring for Our People 78 Looking Ahead 94 Reporting Frameworks 96 Global Reporting Initiative 97 United Nations Global Compact 111 RATING CARD IMPROVED DECREASED EXCELLED NEEDS WORK CONSISTENT long-haul flights. It is, therefore, pivotal uncompromising in our sustainability that we act in a responsible manner and principles and practices, since inception. contribute to reducing our environmental Our end vision is to have a building that footprint. This has significant prominence reflects our values of integrity, passion, in the context of South Africa, where innovation and excellence. there is a great economic divide between different social classes. The This sustainability report has already CTICC, therefore, has a responsibility to influenced our management team to address these challenges and, through identify key areas of concern that need its existence, stimulate economic growth to be addressed. Through ongoing with a positive impact on our local monitoring and quarterly reporting, our people, planet and prosperity. teams will be more proactive and our GRI 1.1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO This is the second dedicated sustainability management systems more effective. report that we have compiled in order to We recognise the importance of A sustainability culture and mindset and human capital development, to benchmark and assess our performance, in communication with our internal and remains one of the key drivers of the our social upliftment efforts and our terms of achieving our sustainable objectives. external stakeholders, and are continually CTICC’s performance, and success. unwavering drive to limit our impact on We have extended our initial ten indicators putting measures in place to ensure the environment. of last year to a total of 20, comparing that feedback from our stakeholders is It is my belief that sustainability – in all performance over time and setting new captured and followed up. We encourage its facets – can no longer be a secondary Over the past year, the centre continued targets for improved development. We you to engage with us on this report, consideration for any business wishing to make significant strides towards the believe that we can use these advancements so that we may continue to improve to be successful or, indeed, viable for realisation of its vision to become one to transform the meetings and events and benchmark ourselves against any length of time. For this reason, of the world’s leading environmentally industry, and raise the global meetings and international best practice. sustainability is not considered a part sustainable convention centres. The events standards in Cape Town, South Africa of the future success of the CTICC, but organisation recognises that it will only and the African continent. We believe that this report will provide a is, in fact, integral to that success. As achieve this objective, if it manages to fully transparent communication framework, an organisation, the CTICC has moved integrate the principles of economic, social The expansion of the CTICC will be on which to build trust, and to encourage beyond thinking about sustainability and environmental sustainability into every undertaken in line with the CTICC’s dialogue with our stakeholders. We as something we must do. Sustainable facet of its strategy and operations. established commitment to integrated encourage other convention centres to is simply what we are. It is the ‘green’ sustainability through effective economic, follow our lead and undertake Global thread that runs through every aspect We are cognisant of the substantial social and environmental advancement. Report Initiative (GRI) reporting, in of our centre and the glue that binds impact that our industry, as a whole, has The ultimate aim is to design and build order to raise the global standard of together every part of our business on resource consumption, specifically one of the leading green buildings in the meetings and events industry on the – from our financial management with regard to international travel and the world. We have, therefore, been African continent. 4 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 5 A STRATEGY AND We believe that sustainability principles and practices should be implemented ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE throughout our organisation as an integral part of what we do and who we are. The percentage of bookings by South African clients 87% GRI ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE With the successful achievement of its 2 The Cape Town International Convention initial mandate of bringing to fruition the Centre Company Ltd (Convenco) is the vision of a world-class convention centre holding company of the Cape Town in Cape Town, the focus of Convenco has International Convention Centre (CTICC). now shifted to overseeing the ongoing Convenco was formed in 1999 through growth and development of the centre, collaboration between the City of Cape and the expansion of its world-class Town, the Provincial Government of the facilities, as well as ensuring that the The CTICC’s BBBEE status as recognised by Empowerdex Western Cape and the business sector. It CTICC continues to advance business LEVEL 2 is jointly owned by the City of Cape Town tourism to the Western Cape, thereby (50.2% shareholding), the Provincial serving as a key contributor to the Gross Government of the Western Cape (25.1% Domestic Product (GDP) of South Africa. shareholding), and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd (24.7% shareholding). The centre’s goal is to become the best long-haul international convention The overall CTICC projected emission efficiency The primary objective behind the centre by 2020, and it already boasts a improvement from 2010 to 2015 formation of the holding company was variety of venues such as the auditoria, 25% to establish a world-class international ballroom, roof terrace, conference rooms convention centre in Cape Town that and exhibition halls. These venues are would provide meeting, convention and supplemented by the world-class services exhibition services, and facilities for expected of a top-ranking international local and international organisations, convention centre, such as audiovisual and their guests. The CTICC only has and sound equipment, rigging, security, Last year boasted visitors totalling more than stand construction, freight handling and 540 000 one office, in Cape Town, South Africa, set against the stunning backdrop of hotel services. The centre is also equipped the iconic Table Mountain. and staffed to offer a diverse range of 6 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 7 A cuisine, ranging from formal dinners The different types of events hosted A total of 140 staff members perform the When analysing the resource conand gala events, to cocktail parties and at the CTICC include conferences, daily operations, representing the following sumption of the convention centre, it is informal finger suppers. exhibitions, trade fairs, banquets, film departments within the company: important to take into consideration the or photo shoots and other special • Convenco number of events hosted, as well as the Cape Town is a sought-after international events. Over 500 events were hosted • Commercial and Business Development number of attendees. leisure and business tourism destination, during the last fiscal year, with clients • Finance and the CTICC has played a key role in raising from 18 different countries and more • Human Resources the destination’s business proposition, than 540 000 visitors, in total. • Operations in terms of meetings and events. This convention centre has positioned Cape CTICC’s facilities include two auditoria, CTICC OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE Town as a competitive global player in the with seating for 1 500 and 620 guests, Convenco conferencing industry. respectively, and a multifunctional ballChief Executive Officer’s Office room of 2 000 m 2, which can be divided Chief Operational Officer’s Office Currently, 13% of the events taking place at into larger or smaller configurations, the CTICC comprise international business. as required. There is also 11 200 m 2 Business Intelligence The remaining 87% of events booked dedicated exhibition and trade show Commercial and Business Development at the CTICC comprise local business. space, which can be subdivided and International and National Sales The international clients are mostly from configured into six separate venues Event Co-ordination Services Europe (44%), the United States (15%) for smaller exhibitions, banquets or Corporate Communication and the United Kingdom (14%), with a conferences. Hotel and Travel Services relatively small proportion from the rest of Marketing Service Africa (only four per cent). Four special and deluxe meeting rooms Operations of varying sizes each accommodate up Operational Services The overall event attendance was highest, to 330 delegates, and may be subdivided Conference and Exhibition Services in respect of events from the United States and configured into a variety of options. Food & Beverage Services (35%), the United Kingdom (30%) and The 13 meeting suites vary in size and Banqueting Service Asia (19%). There were fewer attendees can accommodate up to 25 delegates Facilities Management from Europe (9%), if one takes into each. In addition to these dedicated Finance consideration the fact that they hosted areas, there are multifunctional areas, Debtors most of the events (44%). The potential such as the Roof Terrace, conservatories, Creditors growth of the Asian and African markets the Gallery and Convention Square. Supply Chain/Procurement needs to be taken into consideration, in Human Resources respect of future growth opportunities. 8 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 9 A The graphs below indicate that, during the reporting fiscal year, most events were hosted during September and November. However, these were not large-scale events. Although fewer events were hosted in April, they were large events which required more operational and human resources. In January, the number of events, as well as the attendance, was significantly lower than during the rest of the year. NUMBER OF EVENTS 70 60 50 Total Events 40 30 20 10 0 Jul Aug Set Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 2011 2012 NUMBER OF ATTENDEES 100 90 80 70 Thousands 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Jul Aug Set Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 2011 2012 10 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 11 During the reporting period, the size, to sustainability and for joining forces structure and ownership of Convenco with a local exhibition organiser to host a GOLD WINNER did not change, and the capacity of sustainable exhibition, The Green Expo. the building remained unchanged. An CTICC won the international Gold Winner IMEX/Green Meetings Industry Council (GMIC) extension of the CTICC is currently in the The centre was also shortlisted by the Global Green Supplier Award at the IMEX 2012 in Frankfurt, Germany, in 2011. design phase, with construction expected Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) to commence in 2013. for the Sustainable Development Award for best sustainability strategy and qualified as Awards a finalist for the following awards: FINALIST CTICC won the international Gold Winner IMEX/Green Meetings Industry Council • Global Association of the Exhibition The centre was also shortlisted by the Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) (GMIC) Green Supplier Award at the IMEX Industry (UFI) Award for the Sustainable Development Award for best sustainability strategy. 2012 in Frankfurt, Germany, in 2011. – Innovation Category IMEX is a leading, worldwide exhibition for • Imvelo Award for Responsible Tourism meetings and incentive travel. The GMIC, – Best Economic Impact which provides international guidance • Mail & Guardian Green Award on sustainable event management, gave – Greening Future Category recognition to the CTICC for its commitment 12 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 13 A GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING application for 2012, and explored ways The lack of benchmarking with other GRI reporting guidelines recommend 3 This sustainability report is linked to the of further advancing its sustainable similar entities was the motivation the use of a binary selection tool, CTICC’s fiscal year, from 1 July 2011 to initiatives and practices. behind the CTICC wanting to set an known as the decision tree for boundary 30 June 2012, and showcases trends over example through its own reporting and setting. When applying the decision the last three years. This is the second The aims and objectives of the CTICC, encouraging other convention centres to tree, it was decided to exclude the sustainability report which has been as well as the expectations and do the same. The management team has Marimba Restaurant and Star Car Wash aligned to the framework and reporting interests of its stakeholders, were agreed that external quality assurances from the performance data. Although standards of the GRI. The objective of taken into consideration. It was agreed should be performed next year to ensure they are both based within the CTICC’s this report is to provide a comprehensive that the sustainability report should even more vigorous monitoring systems ge o gra phi ca l bo unda ry, the y a re overview of the current business incorporate the triple bottom line and for more accurate reporting. externally owned and managed. policies and practices, and consider focus on the impact of the CTICC, as recommendations for the way forward. well as its contribution towards the Although the planning process for the It was relatively easy to measure and local economy, the environment and extension of the CTICC has already report on the operational management While the scope and boundaries of the the people of Cape Town. started, the report only takes into of resources, as the Operations team 2012 report do not differ substantially consideration the existing building and has good quantitative data at its from the previous report, the assessment Easy access to appropriate information related business activities. Determining disposal. The significant increase in methods have been refined, in order was one of the main considerations in the scope was a straightforward process, electricity costs in South Africa led to to fulfil the requirements of a Level B determining material issues, in order as the convention centre is a single the implementation of more accurate application, where possible. to enhance internal reporting systems, entity with clear boundaries. The GRI electricity metering and sub-metering in cases where no data was available. content index is included at the end of to encourage energy efficiency. New The centre’s dedicated Nurture Our Quarterly reporting of relevant indicators this document. legislation around waste minimisation World (NOW) team, which is comprised was implemented. This is a proactive of management representatives of all solution to addressing concerns core divisions, reviewed the centre’s throughout the year, rather than relying on a single annual review. It was agreed that the sustainability report should incorporate the triple bottom line and focus on the impact of the CTICC, as well as its contribution towards the local economy, the environment and the people of Cape Town. 14 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 15 A also encouraged more accurate As a state-owned company, the CTICC measurement of both waste-to-landfill has a mandate to actively engage with its and recyclable products, and materials. stakeholders and keep them informed of its successes and challenges. To this end, Data was collected through existing a number of communication channels systems, such as utility accounts are used, which are managed by a and meter readings, and additional dedicated communication team. Means data sourced from standard business of communication include the annual practices, such as human resource report, newsletters, press releases and management and travel arrangements. board meetings. Dedicated stakeholder Internal systems were adapted to reflect and client engagement sessions are vital the GRI-indicator requirements, in for assessing business requirements, and alignment with international standards provide opportunity for feedback from of best practice. Continuous quarterly stakeholders and clients. reviews are recommended, in order to ensure ongoing monitoring and effective management of resources. As a state-owned company, the While compliance with mandatory Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment CTICC has a (BBBEE) legislation in South Africa mandate to actively already addresses some of the social requirements, more specific monitoring engage with its around the actual impact of social stakeholders and initiatives is still needed. The CTICC has been recognised as a Level 2 BBBEE keep them informed contributor by Empowerdex, an economic of its successes and empowerment-rating agency. challenges. A stakeholder review process was undertaken to assess whether all the internal and external stakeholders had been adequately included in communication and feedback structures. 16 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 17 A GRI SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The sustainability strategy focuses on the fully self-sufficient organisation. In addition, • Environmental responsibility: Ensuring 4.8 In 2009, the CTICC formalised its operational requirements of the CTICC, the CTICC strategy had to encompass the that environmental, safety, and health sustainability commitment through the with specific emphasis on practical organisational values of passion, integrity, considerations are included in key implementation of its NOW initiative, implementation and monitoring, while innovation and excellence. operations and communications which is a public expression of the CTICC’s embodying the centre’s mission statement, • Innovation: Providing a platform that intention to be a leader in environmental outlined as follows: Through the consistent achievement will encourage all stakeholders, among awareness. The NOW team was established • To maximise economic outcomes of its financial and non-financial others, staff, service providers, clients to drive the implementation of sustainability and job creation targets, its contribution towards the and visitors, to provide feedback and principles and practices within the CTICC • To focus on innovation and economy and social upliftment, and its promote innovation at an operational level. exceeding expectations effectiveness in raising the profile of • International leadership: Encouraging • To achieve service excellence through Cape Town and the Western Cape, the industry leadership through innovation The NOW team’s first task in the new entrenching capability in staff, as CTICC continues to achieve and exceed and good business practice financial year was to review the findings of well as the need for adherence to all these stated objectives. • Marketing and brand identity: the 2011 Sustainability Report and consider the highest standards Marketing the CTICC as a venue with the most salient issues to be addressed. The • To become a world leader in Sustainability objectives sustainable business practices objective was to rationalise the centre’s sustainability initiatives. To attain optimal implementation of the • Mobility: Encouraging non-motorised internal policies and practices, as well sustainability programme at the CTICC, the transport, such as walking, cycling, as implement more rigorous monitoring During 2010, the CTICC’s Board of Directors NOW team compiled a strategy, based on public transport and car-pooling, to systems for more comprehensive reporting added a fifth imperative that required the triple bottom line principles. The following reduce the number of single-occupancy and greater accuracy. convention centre to ensure that it was a objectives were identified to ensure the vehicles and single occupant trips successful implementation of the centre’s • Monitoring and reporting: Ensuring sustainability strategy. the implementation of a clear • Business development: The development and comprehensive monitoring of products and services which system, and providing a transparent address the needs of clients, while sustainability report also encouraging local economic • Operational management: Ensuring development that effective management systems are • Corporate social responsibility (CSR): in force throughout the centre, in order The coordination of a CSR programme to improve resource management that includes both social and • Staff training and awareness: environmental requirements Integrating sustainability issues in • Eco procurement: Encouraging the all staff-orientation programmes, establishment of environmental and and providing ongoing awareness social criteria for all procurement, and training programmes about and suppliers sustainability issues to all staff members 18 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 19 Where practical, these objectives were sourced, wherever possible. We • International access: We strive to stronger local community. translated into measurable indicators, support the Southern African provide equal opportunity to people • Water conservation: We encourage which could be reported on, while Sustainable Seafood Initiative (SASSI) with physical disabilities and comply water conservation by clients and other objectives, which form part of and the local fishing industry. with international access requirements. staff, by means of ongoing awareness the ongoing improvement process and • Employees: Appropriate training is • Mobility: Our premises are central and campaigns and the installation of narrative feedback, were provided offered, as well as the opportunity can be easily reached by means of water-efficient plumbing fixtures. without measurable indicators. The need to interact with management, if local public transport, as well as being Water-wise and indigenous vegetation for both short and long-term objectives employees wish to raise concerns or within walking distance of a range has been planted in the convention was identified. offer innovative ideas. of hotels. Non-motorised transport centre’s gardens. • Eco procurement: Preference is is encouraged by, among others, • Waste management: Throughout our Sustainability statement given to the procurement of local providing safe parking for bicycles. operations, effective resource To ensure that these objectives are goods and services, wherever possible. • Monitoring and reporting: management is implemented by means implemented and entrenched in the daily • Energy efficiency: Energy efficiency is a Comprehensive monitoring systems of an effective waste management operations of the CTICC, the sustainability principal focus, achieved by means of are in place and the centre compiles system. Where practical, reusable statement was updated to reflect current the latest technology, combined with an annual sustainability report. products are used instead of business practices. optimal management of energy. The • Social investment: A corporate social disposable ones, while our recycling • Catering: Seasonal food that is locally use of natural light and ventilation is responsibility programme is being programme monitors the centre’s grown and, where possible, organic, is encouraged, where practical. implemented to assist with building a efforts to reduce waste to landfill. 20 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 21 A GRI IMPACTS, RISKS AND Air travel Bottled water instead of the use of private shuttles and 1.2 OPPORTUNITIES Our vision to be the number one long-haul Many international clients consider South taxis. Delegates are encouraged to stay Despite the fact that the CTICC is a relatively destination in the world makes air travel Africa to be a Third World country with the within walking distance of the CTICC. The small organisation, compared to larger an absolute necessity. The organisation associated misconception that the water use of digital brochures is promoted, and conglomerates, the centre plays a pivotal is measured against the number of quality is poor. Although bottled water is conference bags and delegate badges are role in promoting sustainability through its international delegates it attracts. The provided, the CTICC encourages clients to collected for reuse and redistribution. service offerings and interventions. CTICC measures the induced tourism on an use tap water if, and when, possible. annual basis to assess how many travellers Impact of sustainability trends The international and local recognition were encouraged to maximise their visit to Waste management As discussed above, some concerns have received for these initiatives has Cape Town and South Africa. The CTICC provides waste separation been included in the centre’s performance qualified the CTICC to be a flag-bearer at source, as well as back of house. targets, which are set by the City of Cape for the sustainability movement in the Electricity consumption The centre also boasts an on-site waste Town and measured on a quarterly basis. events industry. The electricity crisis and rising costs have separation facility to maximise recycling Other concerns are incorporated in the key stifled growth in South Africa and forced in every area of the business. This practice performance areas (KPAs) of managers. In addition, it is capable of setting the the business sector to rethink its operations. has been entrenched as standard policy These KPAs are cascaded to the staff key standard, in terms of sustainability, in the The obligation to shift towards higher and also forms part of all service level performance indicators (KPIs), thereby meetings and events industry, and the energy efficiency has not only resulted in agreements, to ensure compliance by ensuring that they are embedded in broader hospitality sector. The awards energy savings for the CTICC, but also in contracted service providers. the operational structure of the CTICC. received by the CTICC are not seen as an financial savings. Furthermore, indicators have been put accolade, but rather as milestones in the Transportation in place to measure, monitor and track transformation of the tourism industry, An investment of over R2 million in a The CTICC is linked to the local public consumption, in line with company targets. which President Jacob Zuma has identified building management system (BMS) transport system and encourages as a key growth sector for South Africa. will allow every area of the business delegates to stay within walking distance The City’s performance targets to be managed effectively, in terms from the centre. There are, however, The annual Convenco Performance The section below provides an overview of utility consumption. The CTICC has numerous parking options available for Assessment Report provides a range of some of the key impacts of the CTICC identified sources of alternative power private vehicles, as private transport is of indicators with specific targets and on sustainability, as well as the effect and encouraged clients to supplement the most common option in the local feedback on the actual performance. on stakeholders and their expectations. their power for events with renewable transport culture. Although this is currently not a legal generated power. This has reduced Performance management agreements requirement in the South African context, pressure on the national grid and Event greening Senior managers sign a performance the CTICC has a responsibility to formulate resulted in a reduction in consumption Clients are encouraged to host sustainable management agreement, outlining the policies that will ensure that these key of conventionally generated electricity. events. This includes the provision of organic different KPAs, with specific KPIs that are impacts will receive due consideration. produce and the use of public transport reviewed quarterly and linked to their for delegates attending the conference, performance bonuses. 22 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 23 A This is filtered through the company to A shift from the traditional market, Environmental Legal different staff members and combined e.g. the Eurozone, due to sovereign Power resources are limiting grants. Political uncertainty into a monthly update on the Annual debt crises or the global recession, Long-haul flights have a negative Negative international perception Performance Plan for the CTICC, which has could lead to a need to focus on new impact on carbon foot printing. of crime in South Africa specific targets and deadlines. markets, e.g. African regional events. Water restrictions are an Policy change and instability Geopolitical influences could impact impediment to effective operations. Municipal Financial Management Act, PESTEL macro-environmental exchange rates and, therefore, impact 2003 (Act 56 of 2003) (MFMA) analysis the desirability of the destination The CTICC does not exist in isolation, but is and venue. intricately connected to the outside world with its constantly changing landscape. The Social PESTEL analysis tool is used to consider Convenco must have a commitment the external operating environments to the environment and consider the related to the political, economic, social, impact of, among others, climate technological, environmental and legal change, rising sea levels and pollution. sectors, as outlined below. The change in social interaction and the resultant widening of the social Political gap require a sustained focus on social Political stability or the lack thereof, media technology and strategy. is a constant factor which has The ‘Brain Drain’ continues to limit potential impact. the availability of technical skills. The legislative environment is a Corruption is becoming increasingly constant consideration and its prevalent in all facets of society. potential impact is vast. A heightened government focus on Technological business tourism or the lack thereof The speed of technological could either enhance the ability to advancement is challenging. improve business levels, or limit it. The associated cost of keeping abreast with ever-changing technology is a Economic further challenge. Exchange rate fluctuations, e.g. a National infrastructural shortcomings strengthening Rand, impact continue to have a negative impact conferencing pricing, hotel on the availability of accommodation, travel and technological solutions. length of stay. 24 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 25 B GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENT We place strong emphasis on maintaining high standards of financial management, AND ENGAGEMENT accounting and reporting, to ensure that the centre’s affairs are managed in Net foreign exchange earnings generated an ethical, transparent and responsible R615 million manner, while appropriate risk parameters are taken into consideration. As a state-owned entity, the CTICC • GM Fisher, non-executive adheres to stringent reporting frameworks, • SA Fisher, Director, as outlined in the MFMA. The CTICC Board non-executive, independent of Directors subscribes to the best practice • S Fourie, Director, non-executive Visitor/delegate days principles, set out in the King Report on • MA Gierdien, 1 243 910 Corporate Governance for South Africa, non-executive, independent 2009 (King III). • AC Seymour, (CA[SA]), non-executive, independent GRI GOVERNANCE • DC Skeate, non-executive, independent 4.1 Convenco is owned by the City of Cape • HJ Taljaard, non-executive, independent Town, the Provincial Government of the GRI International tourist days The number of 4.7 Western Cape and SunWest International The board established the following 437 571 flagship companies (Pty) Ltd. The Board of Directors comprises committees to assist with developing implementing GRI a maximum number of 14 directors. strategy and discharging its duties and sustainability principles 4.9 responsibilities: like the CTICC • Audit and Risk Committee 30 The directors of Convenco, as on 30 June GRI 4.10 2012, were: • Remuneration Committee • AM Boraine, Chairman, • Nominations Committee non-executive, independent • Expansion Committee Exhibition and other visitor days • R Toefy, CEO, executive • Social and Ethics Committee 1 030 069 • JK Pather, Chief Operations Officer (COO), executive 26 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 27 remuneration of the board, as well as gaps. Board members disclose their other that of the CEO and all staff reporting directorships, in writing, on a quarterly directly to him. basis and disclosure of conflicts of interest is a standard item on the agenda. Bonuses are linked to performance and the Remuneration Committee determines The CTICC culture and values encompass the CEO’s performance bonus. The the mission and vision of the company. management team (senior and middle For example, on a monthly basis, management) receive performance recognition is given to staff members, The Nominations Committee oversees the The CEO has an open-door policy and, bonuses in October, based on company based on how they implemented the process of determining the composition of although there are informal structures in performance, while the bonuses paid values of the company in a practical the board and its committees, in line with place for providing recommendations or out in February each year are based on manner. Regular staff performance the Companies Act, 2008 (Act 71 of 2008) direction to the highest governing body, individual performance. reviews also reflect company values, for and King III and BBBEE requirements. all stakeholders are strongly encouraged to example, participation in events such as attend the Annual General Meeting. Evaluation of the Board of Directors Mandela Day is a performance indicator. A summary of the gender, race and is conducted annually through selfOn an international level, participation age grouping of the Board of Directors Remuneration of the Board of Directors, evaluation, based on the King III in the United Nations Global Compact is provided in the table below. It is executives and senior managers is requirements. The performance of the (UNGC) is encouraged, with a strong coincidental that there are currently no aligned with the MFMA. The City Council chairman and members of the various focus on innovation and sustainability. women on the board. sets and revises the upper limits of committees is also assessed. The purpose of an internal performance evaluation is The centre’s approach to corporate LA SURNAME FIRST NAMES DATE OF APPOINTMENT to encourage board members to take governance extends beyond legislative Female African Coloured Indian White 20-30 31-40 41-50 Over 50 13 Male cognisance of what is expected of them compliance. Good corporate governance EC7 Boraine Andrew Michael 26 September 2003 x x x and how best to address any possible is seen as a cornerstone of the Fisher Stewart Alan 9 February 2007 x x x Fisher Garry Morton 22 November 2011 x x x Fourie Solly William 22 November 2011 x x x The CEO has an open-door policy and, Gierdien Mohamad Ali 17 October 2007 x x x although there are informal structures in Pather Jagandren Krishna 26 August 2011 x x x place for providing recommendations or Seymour Ashley Cavel 10 February 2009 x x x Skeate Denis Carson 5 July 1999 x x x direction to the highest governing body, Taljaard Henning Jeremia 5 July 1999 x x x all stakeholders are strongly encouraged Toefy Rashid 1 March 2008 x x x to attend the Annual General Meeting. 28 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 29 B sustainability of the centre, promoted The precautionary principle is used as a GRI STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT • Staff (permanent, temporary 4.14 and enabled through the development of tool when making decisions that might The CTICC prides itself on its integrity and and contract) a collective governance consciousness, pose a risk to the organisation. The transparency, specifically when engaging • Industry role-players, including GRI a risk management ethos, and a culture objective of this principle is to prevent 4.17 with stakeholders. As the centre is a professional conference organisers; driven by values and ethics. harm from the outset, rather than State Owned Company (SOC), stringent accommodation facilities such as hotels managing it after it has occurred. The reporting is expected, both through formal and bed & breakfast establishments; Compliance with the risk management CTICC has, for example, taken a tough and informal communication channels. and tourism bodies requirements set out in King III is a priority, stance on ensuring that the expansion • The media and a comprehensive risk-identification of the centre meets best practice The following internal and external and management process is in place environmental standards, with clear stakeholder groups were engaged by the The frequency of meetings with each of the to measure the extent of potential risks monitoring systems in place. organisation over the last year: above stakeholders is outlined below: to the business, in order to implement • Shareholders and board members appropriate risk-mitigating interventions. The board places strong emphasis on • Clients maintaining high standards of financial The COO is also the Chief Risk Officer management, accounting and reporting, ATTENDANCE OF SHAREHOLDERS AND BOARD MEMBER MEETINGS responsible for assessing the likelihood to ensure that the CTICC’s affairs are and possible impact of different risks managed in an ethical, transparent and Name of Director Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Ethics Expansion within the organisation. responsible manner. Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 6 5 4 2 1 4 meetings meetings meetings meetings meeting meetings AM Boraine 6 1 3 2 4 GM Fisher 3 1 SA Fisher (Dr) 4 2 3 SW Fourie 4 1 1 MA Gierdien 4 1 S Montsi 2 2 TM Pasiwe 0 2 JK Pather 6 5 4 1 LF Platzky (Dr) 1 1 1 BN Roberts 1 1 AC Seymour 6 5 1 2 1 DC Skeate 5 2 HJ Taljaard 6 4 1 1 R Toefy 6 5 4 2 1 4 30 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Clients External communication platforms: Client customer relationship events are • CTICC client/stakeholder newsletter hosted throughout the year. The following • CTICC website events are held regularly. • Press releases and press conferences • Media roundtables Frequency per annum • Digital signage in public spaces National 12 • Advertising • Collaborative marketing platforms International 12 • CTICC Annual Report • CTICC Sustainability Report Staff • CTICC stakeholder and Four staff meetings are held throughout client-engagement sessions the year. These take place every quarter. • CTICC board meetings • Participation in local and international Industry role-players, media and suppliers: industry events, and trade shows. Nature of Event Frequency per annum Internal communication platforms: Press conference 1 • Company intranet Stakeholder Events 2 • Staff meetings (various structures) Media meetings 12 • Memos • Departmental meetings The following external and internal • Key Performance Assessment meetings communication platforms are used to engage in two-way dialogue with these The main feedback received from the stakeholders, and respond to questions public and broader stakeholder community and concerns about the company. over the last year related to the expansion of the convention centre, as this will have a significant influence on Cape Town as a business and leisure destination. 32 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 33 GRI 4.11 COMMITMENT Green Meetings Industry International standards The centre is a As an industry leader in sustainability, Council (GMIC) The CTICC was the first convention centre the CTICC subscribes to the following The centre is a member of the GMIC, in Africa to have its work processes member of the GRI 4.13 international voluntary codes of practice. which recognises the CTICC as an certified by the International Organisation GMIC, which industry leader dedicated to sustainability for Standardisation (ISO), in line with United Nations Global in the meetings and events industry. international standards: recognises the Compact (UNGC) The GMIC promotes sustainability • ISO 9001 Quality Management CTICC as an industry The CTICC is one of the few convention through education on event-greening • ISO 14001 Environmental centres in the world that is a member and advocacy, as well as spearheading Management leader dedicated of the UNGC, a strategic policy initiative research, policy and standards. • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health to sustainability in for businesses which are committed to and Safety (OHS) aligning their operations and strategies Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the meetings and with universally accepted principles in The CTICC was the first convention centre events industry. the areas of human rights, labour, the in the world to align its reporting practices environment and anti-corruption. to the GRI framework and submit its report for an application-level check. 34 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 35 B Industry associations 110% Green Campaign The CTICC supports both local and The CTICC was one of the inaugural international industry associations, signatories of the Western Cape Provincial including: Government’s 110% Green Campaign, • Meeting Professionals International which was launched by Premier Helen • Global Association of the Zille on World Environment Day, on 5 June Exhibition Industry 2012. The aim of this campaign is to make • Proudly South Africa the Western Cape the green economy hub • Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa, with the support of the of Southern Africa 30 flagship organisations and companies • International Association such as the CTICC, which are already of Congress Centres implementing sustainability principles. • International Association of Exhibitions and Events • Southern African Association for the Conference Industry • International Congress and Convention Association • Exhibition and Event Association of Southern Africa • Cape Town Tourism • South African Event Greening Forum The CTICC was one of the inaugural signatories of the Western Cape Provincial Government’s 110% Green Campaign, which was launched by Premier Helen Zille on World Environment Day, on 5 June 2012. 36 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 37 C MANAGEMENT The CTICC management team strives to provide a service that demonstrates the APPROACH values of the business, namely integrity, The last fiscal financial year the CTICC generated revenues of passion, innovation and excellence. This section provides a brief disclosure R137 million on management’s approach, including internal policies, organisational responsibility and training. BUILDING OUR BUSINESS income from food and beverage, added a Number of direct and indirect jobs created Economic growth further R54 million to the total revenue. 7 082 Since its inception, the CTICC has made Although the purpose of a convention a significant impact on contributing centre is not to make a profit, the CTICC to economic growth, and driving job has demonstrated with the current creation in the province and South business model that it is a profitable asset. Africa, as a whole. The CTICC is the only municipal entity that is self-sustained. The value-add of a convention centre is Over its nine-year history, the centre to contribute to the GDP of a city and The venue rental contribution to total revenue R65 million has made a profit year on year and to create jobs. The CTICC’s contribution displayed growth in the areas of both to the National GDP for 2011/2012 was revenue and profit. R2.55 billion, while it facilitated the creation of 7 082 direct and indirect jobs. During the 2011/2012 financial year, The centre also generated a positive cash the company generated revenue of balance year on year. R137 million with a profit before tax By the end of 2015 the CTICC intend to of almost R11 million. The centre’s As a municipal entity, the CTICC is not have a overall energy reduction of primary source of income, venue rental, only governed by the MFMA, but also contributed R65 million to the total adheres to the Standards of Generally 25% revenue. Its secondary revenue source, Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP). The appropriateness of accounting 38 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 39 C policies and procedures is reviewed A price-yielding policy has been imcontinually, along with compliance to plemented, which was approved at GRAP and overall accounting standards. board level. Customer health and safety Marketing and communications The CTICC received ISO Integrated A marketing plan is prepared based Management System accreditation in on budget and senior management 2009, which is audited annually by interventions. Each department head is external auditors. This system includes responsible for the official process flow Health and Safety, Environment Awareness document. This is reviewed annually, in and Quality Assurance. accordance with ISO requirements. A training plan was developed for the new financial year 2012/13 and All members of the approved by all relevant senior managers. management team The custodian of this training plan is the Human Resources Manager. Training have approved Key interventions planned for next year Performance Areas, include courses related to health and safety, fire-fighting, ISO, sustainability, which are assessed event-greening and other producttwice a year. This related training. is directly linked to All members of the management team remuneration and have approved Key Performance Areas, which are assessed twice a year. This bonus structures. is directly linked to remuneration and bonus structures. Product and service offerings Product and service offerings are reviewed annually. The management team determines pricing, while the relevant collateral is updated annually. 40 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 41 C ENHANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT year. This target was initiated in 2010 Materials and is set to run until the end of 2015, Materials are procured from various which will result in an overall energy suppliers and used to support the delivery reduction of 25%. of hospitality, and exhibition and eventrelated services, in accordance with the In terms of electricity, the CTICC CTICC’s core business operations. has a range of initiatives in place to reduce consumption, including, but The procurement and use of materials not limited to: within the organisation take place • motion sensors and timers on from component level to delivery to light circuits the end customer. It is necessary to • automated control of building broaden this perspective of supply operations through a central BMS This energy-reduction philosophy is monitored and managed, and reported chain management to include design • improvement of the sub-metering of entrenched within the CTICC’s strategic on as a standard business practice. activities, dealing with by-products of individual circuits, with special planning processes and operations, and manufacture or use and the end-of-life emphasis on air conditioning benefits include mitigating rapidly rising The CTICC proactively encourages processes of recovery or disposal. • enhancement of the existing costs, organisational resilience and the water conservation for business design to achieve a more electrically associated need to reduce greenhouse operations. These initiatives include The Operations Department encourages efficient building by employing gas (GHG) emissions. more efficient water consumption the use of environmentally conscious multiple initiatives to reduce through reduced use, increased event-related equipment and strives to consumption and costs Water recycling and a rainwater-harvesting implement waste-minimisation practices. The CTICC recognises that water is an initiative, which is presently under Energy conservation and management, Although the key focus area of reducing increasingly scarce and critical global investigation. Through these initiatives, sustainable supply chain management energy consumption is primarily electricity, resource. The centre is committed to the CTICC strives to minimise the risk and product end-of-life management, as the use of fuel for power generators being a responsible conserver of water of any future water constraints and well as reverse logistics, are encouraged. and vehicles is also taken into account. resources through ensuring that water realises the commercial benefits of In terms of fuel consumption, the consumption is accurately measured, effective and efficient water usage. Energy running hours of generators are The use of electricity is central to the kept to a minimum and the use of operations and, being a responsible fuel-efficient vehicles is encouraged. Energy conservation and management, organisation, the CTICC is aligned with Regular maintenance on generators international best practice. The centre and vehicles ensures that engines sustainable supply chain management has set a target of reducing consumption run optimally. and product end-of-life management, as of non-renewable energy by 5% each well as reverse logistics, are encouraged. 42 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 43 Emissions identified by the CTICC More accurate data is needed, in respect as being released from its premises, of local staff transport, which should be due to operational activities, include addressed in the near future with more R22, R134A and R401A, as a result of accurate reporting. occasional accidental leaks from the airconditioning and refrigeration systems, Waste and carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide The CTICC strives to achieve synergy and methane from the combustion of between the personal aspirations of its petrol vehicles, and diesel generators, employees, the needs of clients and its EN and from the purchase of electricity. responsibility towards the environment, Biodiversity Service providers and contractors, 20 This is appropriate, given the nature of through the provision of responsible, safe The CTICC does not have a material who perform work on the centre’s airits operations and the sources of the and sustainable solutions, with regard to impact on biodiversity. This is due to its conditioning and refrigeration systems, centre’s emissions. It is important to waste management. An Environmental location within the urban boundaries are contractually obliged to conduct note that there are no other significant Management Plan (EMP) was introduced of the Cape Town CBD and the nature weekly operation system checks and, ozone-depleting substances, such and implemented and is monitored at of its business. However, should one when repairs are necessary, to recover as emission sources, in the centre’s monthly intervals to ensure that waste of the suppliers, for example, the and reuse, or to responsibly dispose of operations. management objectives are realised. waste management company, be the contaminated refrigerant. In line deemed to have a severely negative with its non-renewable energy efficiency Effluents, beside normal sewage, which impact on an area of high biodiversity improvement target, the CTICC has set a are disposed of through the municipal The CTICC’s value and, therefore, be in breach of 5% GHG emission efficiency improvement sewage network, emanate primarily reduction the CTICC’s own code of ethics, the target for each year, commencing in 2010 from the kitchen (immediately captured CTICC would consider an appropriate and concluding in 2015, resulting in an in grease traps); the cleaning of of emissions response and actively distance itself overall reduction of 25%. This target is equipment; and the cleaning of the plant is primarily from the company. entrenched through strategic planning and vehicles. All cleaning contractors are processes and operations. contracted to use only biodegradable achieved through Emissions and effluents cleaning chemicals and the extracted its concerted The CTICC’s reduction of emissions The CTICC has initiated and implemented grease, and waste material, is disposed is primarily achieved through its a number of energy-reduction initiatives of through legitimate contractors at effort to reduce concerted effort to reduce its electricity to reduce GHG emissions. These include certified waste disposal facilities. its electricity consumption. Emissions are also establishing the NOW task team, with reduced by running generators, when the role of effectively communicating Transport is minimal, due to the nature of consumption. absolutely necessary, and using less action, and monitoring and reporting on the business, although records are kept fuel in vehicles. the developments, and progress made, in of all flights, both local and international. terms of sustainability. 44 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 45 C The key elements of the EMP are: Products and services • Adherence to permit requirements The CTICC recognises the potential • Waste minimisation, reuse, recycling environmental impact of its operations. and target setting Through its NOW initiatives, the centre, • Waste identification, categorisation, therefore, aims to assist, reward and classification and quantification provide leading solutions to clients when • Internal and external reporting hosting their events. The CTICC works • Responsible waste disposal and closely with its suppliers, service providers, treatment contractors and clients to ensure that • Ensuring safe, effective handling the centre’s sustainability objectives are of waste, in compliance with all met. In this way, the CTICC’s competitive relevant, prevailing legislation position is strengthened. • Optimal hygiene at CTICC, as far as it relates to the management of waste Energy, and emission efficiencies and waste product disposal are some of Training on the centre’s policy and the the core aspects being addressed. The relevant regulations (OHS Act, 1993 CTICC has contracted the services of [Act 85 of 1993], ISO 14001, National a number of sustainability specialists Environmental Management: Waste Act, to provide advice and guidance on 2008 [Act 59 of 2008]) takes place on the latest sustainability technologies. a quarterly basis, in order to inform This information is shared with the CTICC’s employees and raise awareness centre’s suppliers, service providers and of the importance of the environment. contractors. Monitoring and follow-ups are Compliance continuously being carried out by The requirement to obey the law and means of internal and external audits. protect the environment is entrenched These audits are conducted to ensure in the CTICC’s values, code of ethics compliance with existing environmental and code of conduct. CTICC’s view of certification. On completion of an audit, sustainability goes beyond the obligation management holds a debriefing, during of a responsible corporate organisation which the results are discussed and and encompasses embedding sustainable corrective actions implemented. business practices to ensure future profitability. 46 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 47 C CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE Policies and procedures The South African Constitution has been As the CTICC makes use of various credited as one of the most progressive in suppliers, it is important that its policies the world. Therefore, it is only appropriate and procedures are readily available. that, in keeping with international best These policies may be obtained from practice, the spirit of the Constitution the Human Resources Department is carried through CTICC’s policies and and are posted on the staff intranet. procedures, to ensure that the human The Board of Directors approves all rights of all the centre’s employees and policies and procedures before they are suppliers are protected. communicated to staff. Once this process has been completed, a complete booklet Employment with all the policies will be distributed CTICC’s human resources policies and to all employees. This will be done in procedures are currently being reviewed. conjunction with information sessions to These policies include, but are not limited ensure that all stakeholders understand to the following: the implementation of these policies. • Employment equity • Conditions of employment Training and education • Disciplinary procedure and code The CTICC is an organisation that fosters • Rewards and recognition learning and development, which is (including employee benefits) achieved through various training • Procurement policies courses and initiatives. Employees (financial policies) can realise their personal growth • Security policy potential and positively contribute • Health and safety to the organisation’s skills pool by The CTICC is an organisation that fosters lear ni ng an d de ve l o p m e nt , whic h is achieved through various training courses and initiatives. 48 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 49 C participating in, among others, on-theAssessment of performance The leadership team’s KPAs are in line Diversity and equal opportunity job-training, an employee job shadow Being a performance-driven organisation, with items related to training, and The CTICC complies with Broad Based and exchange programme, various the centre realises the importance managers are required to ensure that Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) short courses and undergraduate of evaluating and amending its a minimum of 25% of all staff learning legislation in South Africa, which makes diploma/degree courses. One of the performance management system, and development courses take place provision for equal opportunities, postgraduate programmes is the event which incorporates clear and during the year. The CTICC has also with a focus on skills development management course, which is offered measurable goals. These goals are committed itself to ensuring that the and preferential procurement. Equal by the University of Cape Town’s set annually and evaluated quarterly. equivalent of 5% of its salary costs opportunities and remuneration are Graduate School of Business. The KPAs identified are measured is allocated towards learning and provided for women and men, while no and incorporated into individual, development initiatives. form of discrimination is tolerated. All training is accessible to all employees. departmental and organisational line Service providers wishing to provide items. Line managers allocate scores, a training service to the CTICC are based on general attitude and work required to submit customised proposals ethic in discretionary line items, for that meet the centre’s needs. These each staff member. All line items take proposals also include quotations, in into account the goals set by the line with stringent procurement policies, stakeholders, which are filtered down as prescribed by the MFMA. As the to all staff. CTICC is a multicultural organisation, it is important that service providers are cognisant of the cultural diversity within The CTICC has the organisation and that the different needs and backgrounds are taken into committed itself consideration during the training process. to ensuring that Occupational health and safety the equivalent OHS training, ISO 14001, 18001 and of 5% of its salary 9001, as well as hazard analysis and critical control points training is provided costs is allocated to all staff. The CTICC also runs a successful towards learning internship programme, where students from local, national and international and development institutions spend between six to twelve initiatives. months gaining practical experience. 50 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 51 D PERFORMANCE Our aim is to ensure maximum resource management through the implementation INDICATORS of effective monitoring and management systems throughout the CTICC. Furthermore, Contribution to National GDP we aim to ensure that environmental, safety, R2,55 billion and health considerations are included in the key operations and communications of the CTICC. The CTICC promotes triple bottom line the CTICC contributed R2.55 billion to The amount of diesel used for testing and use of generators accounting, which includes economic the national GDP and R902 million to the 2,2 kilolitres development, environmental protection Western Cape Gross Geographic Product and social development. The NOW team (GGP). As a direct result of the existence reviewed the CTICC’s sustainability and operations of the CTICC, 3 103 people strategy and identified the most relevant were employed in the Western Cape issues to be reported. This section provides and a further 3 979 indirectly across the an overview of the performance of the country. In each of the macroeconomic Secure on-site parking bays for visitors CTICC during the year under review, based contributions, delegate expenditure 1 400 on the GRI core indicators. accounted for between 53% and 64% of the contribution, and induced tourism by BUILDING OUR BUSINESS a further 30%. This expenditure included Business development accommodation, meals, travel expenses, EC9 ’We aim to develop products and services tours and souvenirs, but excluded interAmount of CTICC goods which address the needs of our clients, national air travel.1 and services procured while also encouraging local economic Electricity concumtion increase in June locally development.’ Visitor days comprised the major 15,08% 75% due to manual operations mode component of the macroeconomic One of the objectives of the CTICC is to contribution by the CTICC. In 2012, there maximise economic spin-offs and job were 1.13 million visitor days, comprised creation. During the fiscal year 2011-2012, of delegates and visitors to the CTICC, 1 Extract from the CTICC Economic Impact Report 2012 by Barry Standish and Anthony Boting, Strategic Economic Solutions 52 52 2012 2012Sustainability SustainabilityReport Report 2012 Sustainability Report 53 Since its inception, the CTICC has made cumulative contributions of R19.4 billion to the national economy and R6.8 billion to the Western Cape GGP. EC6 Building the local economy calculated, based on surveys undertaken We strive to support the procurement of by the CTICC to determine overall local goods and services, whenever possible, exhibitor spending patterns.2 because we are Proudly South African. of which 381 000 (34%) were visitors practice. We strive to provide a platform The second economic benefit is due to from other countries. It is estimated that that will encourage all stakeholders, such As a ‘Proudly South African’ trademark expenses incurred by delegates outside induced tourism added a further 449 000 as staff, service providers, customers company, the CTICC strives to support conventions or exhibitions on, for example, international visitor days. Projections for and visitors, to provide feedback and the development of the local economy, accommodation, travel, sightseeing, meals the next five years indicate that visitor encourage innovation. We provide staff and encourage the procurement of local and souvenirs. Typically, this spending is numbers will increase to 1.72 million over with the opportunity to interact with goods and services, wherever possible. determined by means of general spending the next five years. management, if they have any concerns Preferential procurement is also reflected surveys of delegates attending a range of or innovative ideas. through compliance with the MFMA, conventions hosted at the CTICC. There are, Since its inception, the CTICC has made which requires procurement scoring, based however, two potential types of spending cumulative contributions of R19.4 billion The Innovation Programme encourages on BBBEE. It is estimated that about 75% that are unlikely to be identified through to the national economy and R6.8 billion staff members to offer innovative ideas of the CTICC’s goods and services are such surveys: to the Western Cape GGP. It is expected and suggestions around the operational procured locally. • Anecdotal evidence suggests that that the centre will contribute a further management of the CTICC. Senior many delegates from other countries R20.8 billion over the next five years. A management and a selected staff team There are numerous economic benefits on the continent make large purchases total of 2 688 direct jobs were generated take these ideas into consideration, and to hosting successful conventions and of consumer durables. by the centre during construction and vote for their possible implementation. exhibitions, the first of which is due to • Some international delegates return about 2 300 during the first three years Incentives are also provided, such as the expenses incurred by organising as tourists with their families. Some of of operation. the opportunity to have lunch with and running such events. This includes these tourists, in turn, become regular the CEO, in order to become well spending by organisers, exhibitors, visitors to South Africa. These trends International leadership and innovation acquainted with the leadership team delegates to conventions and visitors have been quantified, using survey We aim to encourage industry leadership and discuss the implementation of the attending exhibitions. This spending was results from a range of conventions through innovation and good business suggested ideas. hosted at the CTICC. 2 Extract from the CTICC Economic Impact Report 2012 by Barry Standish and Anthony Boting, Strategic Economic Solutions 54 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 55 There may be additional benefits from The CTICC prides some specific types of events: • Business-to-business benefits. itself on integrity Business-to-business conventions and transparency, and exhibitions are a key meeting place, where agreements may be and reviews its reached on a wide range of different compliance with types of potential business issues. These may be orders, co-operation these standards agreements or foreign direct or codes on a investment. In turn, the deals may be closed between businesspeople from regular basis. the Western Cape, other provinces or other countries. all formal and informal communication • SMME business development. Small with its stakeholders, suppliers and business development is a key the public. The CTICC prides itself on component of poverty alleviation integrity and transparency, and reviews its policies. SMMEs offer economic compliance with these standards or codes empowerment as a way out of on a regular basis. poverty, which is far more efficient than reliance on handouts. All marketing collateral is currently printed on Sappi Triple Green paper, with an Marketing and brand identity ongoing shift towards more electronic PR6 We aim to market the CTICC as a venue collateral, and the use of the Internet and with sustainable business practices. Our e-mail to communicate with clients. values are innovation, passion, integrity and excellence, which are encouraged Customer service excellence through continuous improvement. We value the feedback of our clients and conduct regular surveys regarding As a state-owned entity, the CTICC their experience of the centre and its needs to adhere to stringent reporting service delivery. frameworks, as outlined in the MFMA. Therefore, the CTICC subscribes to An independent customer experience rigorous reporting directives throughout specialist company performs a quarterly 56 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 57 D review of customer satisfaction, based on services, event service managers, event specific questionnaires sent out to clients. coordinators and cleanliness of the venue. The data is analysed and compiled in a Less positive comments recently related to quarterly report with graphs, indicating finance, parking, safety and security, the trends and frequently made comments. explanation of the servicing process and IT or telecommunications. The graph below Fifteen different indicators are provided. provides a percentage score for each of the Most of the positive feedback is on the different indicators. hotel services, conference and exhibition SERVICE EXCELLENCE FEEDBACK 100 90 80 70 Conference & Exhibitions Percentage 60 Explanation Process 50 Event Co-ordinator Sales Consultant Safety & Security 40 Hotel Services Event Services 30 Cleanliness Coffee Shop Waitrons AV Alliance IT/Telecoms 20 10 Cuisine Pariking Finance 0 The resulting client satisfaction index is service-level target of 75% across the updated quarterly, and provides valuable entire CTICC for the previous two years insight into ways in which the CTICC might was met and exceeded, with an average enhance service delivery and produce of 81% for the year under review. It consistently excellent guest experiences. is recommended that some additional The feedback also includes a summary of indicators related to sustainability be the respondents interviewed. The average included in the questionnaire, in future. 58 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 59 D ENHANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT electricity consumption since April (April: The following measures have been introduced to enhance energy efficiency: Energy efficiency 12.87%; May: 17.3% and June: 15.08%), • Proximity sensors on escalators, so that they only work when needed EN3 We focus on energy efficiency through due to the fact that the building had to be • Electrical metering installed in halls to allow accurate billing of client usage providing the latest technology, complaced in manual operations mode. • The optimisation of cooling of the IT-server room and server virtualisation, EN5 bined with optimal management of which is 50% complete energy requirements. Where practical, It is anticipated that the new BMS will be • The trial installation of sensor lighting in some of the restrooms. we encourage the use of natural light in place by the end of the 2012 calendar • Energy-efficient audiovisual and lighting equipment installed by preferred contractors and ventilation. year. Once fully operational, this system will significantly address the power ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh) The main energy source used at the consumption challenges and reduce 1 400 000 CTICC is grid electricity from the City of overall consumption, while providing Cape Town, with diesel generators as enhanced monitoring capability. 1 200 000 backup. It is notable that, while most large kitchen facilities use gas, the CTICC The following standard operating 1 000 000 kitchen is located underground and, for procedures encourage energy efficiency: safety reasons, uses only grid electricity, • Ongoing monitoring 800 000 as opposed to gas. Based on the utility and maintenance bills for the reporting period, a total of • The centralised management 600 000 11,03 GWh of electricity was used. of heating, ventilation and air Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun conditioning (HVAC), and lights kWh 2008/9 kWh 2009/10 The operations team has been working on in various venues kWh 2010/11 kWh 2011/12 the installation of an updated BMS that • Setting of HVAC to suit would allow for advanced management seasonal conditions ENERGY REQUIREMENT (kVA) and metering of electricity consumption. • Staggered start-up times of equipment to reduce KVA 3 500 To build a new BMS, the old system had to be effectively decommissioned and • Lights being set to 50% during 3 000 the building placed in manual operations build-up and strike, with only mode. The new system is, therefore, ventilation, instead of full 2 500 currently being built while normal service air conditioning is still being delivered. This is proving to • Use of natural light, where possible 2 000 be a challenging process, due to the fact • The inclusion of stipulations on that the contractors are only able to install energy efficiency in procurement 1 500 equipment during periods when the venues specifications Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun are vacant. There has been an increase in kVh 2008/9 kVh 2009/10 kVh 2010/11 kVh 2011/12 60 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 61 The energy consumption graphs for and commissioning of the new BMS. It The total amount of GHG emissions tonne and 74 gigajoules. No energy was 2008 to 2012 reflect that the amount is anticipated that energy consumption prevented, due to the retrofit of the lights produced on site or exported outside of energy required is influenced by will drop, as soon as the BMS and and hot-water cylinder, was, therefore, the reporting boundary. delegate participation, with September energy-efficient light retrofits have calculated at 67.89 ton CO2eq. and May being the busiest months at been implemented. The total amount of direct energy the CTICC. The overall consumption Over the past year, the CTICC used consumption by primary energy source pattern for electricity usage was on a When considering the energy savings a total of 2.2 kilolitres of diesel for (diesel and petrol) was 160 gigajoules. par with previous years, with the usual over the past year, the main focus is testing and to fuel the generators. This The indirect energy consumption by drop in January. There was, however, lighting retrofits and the replacement amounted to 1 965 tonne (metric) and primary source (electricity) was 11.03 an increase from March 2012, when of hot-water cylinders. 85 gigajoules. In addition, a total of gigawatt hours, which, when converted, building management had to be 1 908 kilolitres of petrol were used for amount to 39 708 gigajoules. executed manually, during installation vehicles. This amounted to 1 688 metric 62 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 63 D Case Study – Energy Efficiency Hot-water cylinders With the continuous increase in electricity costs, the CTICC has made a concerted During the fiscal year 2011-2012, two large hot-water cylinders were replaced effort to improve energy efficiency. At macro-level, this will be achieved through with smaller units. The initial hot-water cylinders of 5 000 litres each were replaced the replacement of the BMS, which will ensure more accurate management with cylinders with a capacity of 4 600 litres each. and monitoring of resources, including electricity for lights, ventilation and air conditioning. The initial two hot-water cylinders had elements of 81 kW each, which would have required about 648 kWh per day, based on a four-hour work cycle. These new hotBelow is a summary of the calculations for the savings related to the retrofit of the water cylinders, which also require a four-hour work cycle, have 60-kWh elements hot-water cylinders and the ongoing upgrade of the lighting. and would require an estimated 480 kWh per day. This is a calculated saving of 168 kWh per day or 5 208 kWh per month. Lighting The CTICC has a total of about 2 000 down lights, of which 90% were Savings are based on a total o 11 months, because the first re-placements were replaced with more energy-efficient units over the last six years, as part of the done in October 2011 and the second, in May 2012. Calculations were done for maintenance programme. An average of 300 lights are changed per year and, the period August 2011 to end June 2012. Based on the calculation of 5 208 kWh in the last year, the 50-watt down lights were replaced with 35-watt units. per month and an 11-month saving, it is estimated that 57 288 MWh of electricity was saved, which relates to a saving of 56.36 tons of CO2eq during this period. The impact of switching to more energy-efficient lighting is that, if there are 300 lights of 50 watts each, burning 14 hours a day, 210 kWh/day will be The total amount of GHG emissions prevented, due to the retrofit of lights and required. However, if these lights were replaced with 35-watt units, only 147 hot-water cylinder was 67.89 ton of CO2eq. kWh/ day will be required. Replacing the 50-watt lights with 35-watt lights will result in a saving of 63 kWh per day, which is, on average, a 1 935-kWh saving per month. Over a period of six months, this will result in a saving of 11 718 MWh. Over six months, this saving would equate to a saving of 11.53 ton of CO2eq. If 300 lights were replaced with 8-watt LED lamps, instead of the 35-watt lamps, it would provide an estimated saving of 32 810 MWh over six months. The CTICC is currently exploring options for a major lighting retrofit, in order to further reduce its energy consumption. 64 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 65 D EN8 Water conservation The graphs below indicate the water We encourage our clients and staff to save consumption by the CTICC for the last four water through the provision of efficient years, reflecting the four different metering taps and ongoing awareness. points. It should be noted that water consumption has dropped, compared to Water consumption at the CTICC is previous years. relatively low, and water is mainly used in the kitchens and restrooms. The • Meter 136405: situated in front of ongoing management and maintenance the coffee shop and servicing the plan aims to ensure that any leaks are main building detected and fixed, as soon as possible. • Meter 59323: situated in front of the The two high-capacity conveyor-driven coffee shop and used for irrigation dishwashers in the kitchens save time, • BMXM200: situated on the corner of water and energy, while the main hotCoen Steytler Avenue and Long Street water pipes are insulated to reduce • BMXB299: situated on Convention Proximity sensor taps were installed in the of the vegetation currently on site is not loss of heat. Square at the metered taxi parking public restrooms, as part of the continuous water wise, because the current plant improvement programme. The toilets in palette is being maintained. However, public areas all have dual flush systems and when there are any requests for new ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION BY THE WHOLE CENTRE several urinals are waterless. The showers plants or trees, whether indoors, in the staff restrooms will be replaced with outdoors or potted, only water-wise 70 water-efficient showerheads. plants are suggested and selected. Only organic pesticides, fungicides and 60 All laundry, such as uniforms and table fertilisers are used for both indoor and Thousands linen, is collected and laundered by an outdoor plants. 50 outsourced contractor. A cleaning service contractor provides in-house cleaning The plants are predominantly on drip 40 services in public areas and back of house. irrigation, although several potted Eco-friendly cleaning products are used, plants at the entrance and indoors are where possible. Material Safety Data watered by hand. Although potable Sheets (MSDS) are clearly posted on the water is used for watering plants, Period Period Period Period wall in the chemical storeroom. the irrigation system is switched off 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 2011/2012 manually during the winter rainfall The landscaping team endeavours to season. Indoor garden areas, such as BMXB269 BMXM299 promote or replace certain plant species the Atrium, are on a timer switch and 59323 136405 with more water-wise vegetation. Much watered three times a week. 66 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 67 D EN22 Waste reduction cannot be reused or recycled. Reusable WASTE RECYCLED Throughout our operations, we encourage plates and glasses are provided, instead 60 effective resource management through of disposable items. our waste management system. Where 50 practical, we prefer to have reusable, Recycling: 40 instead of disposable products, while On-site recycling is a critical aspect of the Tonnes 30 our recycling programme monitors our waste management process at the CTICC, with separation into different receptacles 20 efforts to reduce waste to landfill. for plastic, paper, cardboard, glass, metals, 10 Reusable products are actively being other recyclable items and waste to landfill. 0 preferred over disposable ones, where This waste is measured, prior to being Paper & Board Glass Plastics Metals possible, with a specific focus on items collected, and the service provider provides 2010/11 2011/12 where large quantities are required. a weigh bill. The recyclable items are sold Reusable sleeves are used to cover food to appropriate recyclers, while the waste trolleys, instead of plastic wrap that to landfill is delivered to a municipally The statistics related to recyclables are Non-hazardous waste to landfill: approved and operated landfill site. similar to those of the previous year, with There was a slight reduction in the ratio a total of 103 tons of waste recycled, of recyclables versus waste to landfill, according to the categories outlined in the which is good, with a total of 281.3 tons graph above. Although clearly marked bins of non-hazardous waste sent to landfill. were provided back of house, subsequent Most of the non-hazardous waste to to the previous sustainability report, recent landfill is food waste or contaminated inspection showed that a better bin type recyclables from the kitchen, such as and location would be more beneficial. oil-saturated paper. More details are also required related to the different types of waste, the bins There is, however, room for improvement in which they should be placed and why regarding the overall reduction of waste, there is a differentiation. It is essential to and the diversion of waste from landfill ensure that employees are familiar with the to recycling and composting. This different recycling requirements. could be achieved through greater staff education initiatives and clear signage Additional recycling bins have been placed on bins, as well as investigations into in public areas to allow for separation at the option of composting food waste. source, although the waste collected in these bins is minimal, in comparison to the overall centre. 68 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 69 D WASTE VS RECYCLABLES 300 250 200 Tonnes 150 100 50 0 Landfill Recyclables 2010/11 2011/12 Hazardous waste: the MSDS. The respective MSDS Comprehensive systems and processes requirements are strictly adhered to are in place for the disposal of in the handling and disposal of hazardous waste, although the volume these substances. A series of and type are not significant, as this is universal spill kits are provided not a manufacturing process: for oil, water, coolants and solvents. Auxiliary waste: food distribution and food waste, the • Grease traps are regularly serviced, Waste-management and cleaning Surplus food that can still be consumed waste collected in the skips is usually while residual grease (totalling staff have been trained in the is either sent to the staff kitchen or not contaminated with food and has 4 506 litres) has been treated as deployment of these kits. collected by Foodbank South Africa high-grade recyclable content. hazardous waste. • Electronic waste, including for redistribution to those in need. • A fluorescent lamp crusher is computers, LCD/CRT screens, Appropriate regulations and guidelines Used cooking oil (around 45 kg) was used on site to crush and store office equipment, mobile phones are carefully observed in this context. collected by an appointed service spent fluorescent lamps, prior to and printer cartridges, are provider and used for the production safe disposal as hazardous waste, segregated from the normal waste Clients presenting exhibitions or trade of biofuel. while controlling the release of stream and safely disposed of as shows may request a skip for bulk waste hazardous mercury vapour hazardous waste. Disposal removal. CTICC does not have control A recycling campaign was launched emissions. A total of 476 litres procedures for assets such as over the actual waste content, although during National Recycling Week, with of crushed fluorescent tubes were computers are complicated, due the skip is taken away and sorted off the focus on encouraging the recycling disposed of as hazardous waste. to compulsory compliance with site by the CTICC waste service provider. of plastic bottles and paper in the • Hazardous chemical substances regulations for disposal of Due to the fact that the CTICC is the administration block. are stored, as stipulated in government assets. sole food supplier, and carefully controls 70 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 71 D EC6 Eco procurement Transport EN29 We aim to encourage the inclusion of Our premises can be easily reached by environmental and social criteria in all local public transport, and are within procurement, and supplier requirements. walking distance of a range of hotels. We give preference to the procurement Non-motorised transport is encouraged by, of local goods and services, whenever among others, providing safe parking for possible. bicycles. The largest operational expenditure by Car hire and parking: the CTICC is the procurement of food and The City of Cape Town boasts a plethora beverages, which is done through serviceof car-hire companies and services, with level agreements. The procurement of vehicles to suit every taste, preference and local3 goods and services is the first option, budget. There are 1 400 secure on-site whenever possible. This ensures that the parking bays for visitors, with additional client receives the freshest food available, overflow parking available, if required. while the local economy is being supported and food miles are reduced. Public transport: Cape Town’s sophisticated bus transport The following initiatives are aimed at system, the MyCiTi shuttle service, offers encouraging eco procurement principles: efficient and safe public transport across • Menus are designed to cater for local the city. The CTICC is located on one of and seasonal preferences, through the MyCiTi routes, which runs from the non-specific recipes. airport to the nearby Civic Centre station • Procurement preference is given to and, from there, to the Waterfront. A local organic food, whenever possible. rail system connects the city centre with • Seafood suppliers are all required the rest of the region and the greater to participate in the SASSI Retailer Western Cape, with the Cape Town & Supplier Participation Scheme, Central Station conveniently situated in which was developed to engage the heart of the city. key strategic role-players in driving the required transformation in fisheries. The Green Cab Company is Cape Town’s • Freshwater fish, such as trout, is first eco-friendly transport service, offering sourced from local farmers. shuttles and tours to the tourism industry. The petrol vehicles were converted to run 3 Local is firstly Cape Town, then Western Cape an South Africa, followed by Africa 72 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 73 D on Liquefied Petroleum Gas, while the CTICC vehicles: diesel vehicles use a blend consisting of During the year under review, the CTICC 50% biodiesel, which is significantly less owned a small petrol pick-up truck harmful to the environment than regular and an electronic forklift. The cherry fuels. In the year under review, Green picker was decommissioned, while the Cab transferred staff and clients some motorcycle has not been operational for 519 km. This number is significantly lower the last year. than the 8 171 km of the previous year. The reduction does not, however, reflect Staff transport: a reduction in kilometres driven, but only While many of the staff members that alternative transport was used. There use their own vehicles or public was no indication whether this alternative transport to travel to work, outsourced GHG emissions According to the property utility records, a EN16 transport offset the reduction in kilometres. staff transport is also provided for As a leader in our field, we aim to measure total of 11.03 GWh of electricity was used permanent and temporary staff and manage our GHG emissions in a during the year under review. Based Non-motorised transport: members, who need to work late and proactive manner, as well as encouraging on the conversion factors provided The centralised and compact nature of rely on public transport. Ten different our clients and suppliers to do the same. by Eskom (June 2009), an estimated the city means that walking is often the routes are serviced, with 13 people amount of 10 851.09 tonnes of CO2eq transport mode of choice for visitors. The in each of the mini-bus taxis. It is An overall calculation was made of GHG was generated through electricity conpopular and frequently visited tourist recommended that a survey be done emissions, based on the GHG Protocol sumption, which is slightly higher than attractions and destinations in Cape Town, to obtain more accurate statistics, and using the financial control approach. the 10 195.42 tonnes of CO2eq generated including the CTICC, are all within walking because the transport between home Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) from during the previous year. The upgrade of distance from each other, allowing visitors and office may have a significant sources owned or controlled by the CTICC the BMS will assist in the reduction of the the opportunity to explore the Cape Town impact on the overall carbon footprint are minimal. Only emissions resulting from electricity consumption and, consequently, city centre by foot. of the company. the operation of the petrol vehicle (a small of the carbon footprint of the centre. pick-up truck) and diesel generators are Given the temperate climate and Staff flights: considered here. Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) abundance of safe routes around the city, The CTICC accumulated 120 local shortfrom sources not controlled by the CTICC, bicycles are fast becoming a very popular haul flights and 10 international shortThe indirect GHG emissions (scope 2), such as transport of participants to the mode of transport for visitors. As part of haul flights, as well as 42 long-haul associated with the generation of purchased venue, are more difficult to determine. its commitment to minimising its carbon flights over a period of 357 travel days. electricity used by the CTICC, can be calculated, However, comprehensive records are kept footprint, the CTICC encourages the use More details about the environmental based on the electricity consumption figures. of local and international business travel of bicycles and provides secure bicycle impact of these flights are indicated in These emissions physically occur at the facility by staff. The number of short-haul flights parking, which is currently being upgraded. the section on GHG emissions. where the energy is generated. undertaken by staff doubled from the 74 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 75 previous year, from 32 to 64 return in terms of international standards of Protocol), with a total of 10 926.62 CO2eq for the previous fiscal year. The trips, with travel days increasing from best practice, in a practical way. ton CO2eq for the period under review, largest contributor to the carbon footprint 75 to 148 for local travel. International compared to a total of 10 195.42 ton (99%) is electricity usage. travel increased from 22 to 28 return Green Cabs provided airport and local long-haul flights, plus 33 additional transfers, which totalled 519 km. However, Scope 1 international short-haul trips. The the carbon emissions (138 kg CO2eq) were Petrol usage – vehicle 1 908 litres 4,29 ton CO2eq international travel days increased calculated and offset by Green Cabs, as from 185 to 266. part of their service. It should be noted that, Diesel usage – generator 2 221 litres 5,94 ton CO2eq although the number of flights increased, Scope 2 The actual number of people travelling the use of Green Cabs was reduced, which Electricity usage 11 030 MWh 10 851,09 ton CO2eq locally increased from 18 to 26, led to an increase in carbon emissions Scope 3 while the number of people travelling related to airport transfers for CTICC staff. Flights – short haul (local) 161 820 km 14,96 ton CO2eq internationally increased to 12. This is These transfers were not accounted for. Flights – short haul (international) 33 000 km 3,05 ton CO2eq due to a strong focus on encouraging staff to travel and visit other convention In terms of the GHG Protocol, the table Flights – long haul (international) 572 254 km 47,28 ton CO2eq centres, in order to raise the benchmark, below provides a breakdown of the three Total different scopes (as defined by the GHG Total estimated carbon emission equivalent 10 926,62 ton CO2eq 76 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 77 D CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE The CTICC employs a total of 140 staff Workforce composition members, including ten temporary LA1 and employment equity staff members and interns. The centre We are an equal-opportunity company that continues to embrace and encourage LA2 meets world-class standards with a local diversity across the organisation. flair. The management team have an openDifferent ethnic groups and both EC7 door policy and innovation is encouraged. genders are equally represented, as the graph below indicates. The majority During the 2011/2012 fiscal year, of staff members are hired from the the CTICC contributed directly to the local community in and around Cape The graph below depicts staff representation in each of the different departments. creation of 3 103 jobs in the province Town and come from historically and, indirectly, to a further 3 979 jobs disadvantaged groups. DEPARTMENTS throughout South Africa. 3 12 58% Operations 6 21% Commercial STAFF ETHNIC GROUPS 58 6% Departemental 13 21 4 3% HR 35 35% African 12% Finance 48% Coloured 4% Indian 48 13% White The majority of staff members are skilled or semi-skilled and are categorised as general staff, as indicated below. Some 14% of staff members occupy middle management positions, with only 4% representing senior managers or executive staff members. STAFF GENDER 4 STAFF LEVELS 14 59% Female 4% Senior Management 41 41% Male 14% Middle Management 59 82% General Staff 82 78 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 79 D The ratio between permanent and contract staff fluctuates continually, depending on the nature and size of events at the convention centre. The graph below provides an overview of the costs associated with event-related staff and also reflects the venue occupancy. STAFFING COST FOR EVENTS 1 400 000 1 200 000 1 000 000 Rands 800 000 600 000 400 000 200 000 0 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 2011 2012 LA2 New employees and staff turnover: • During the same period, 12 staff During the reporting period, a total of 42 members resigned. The majority of new staff members were appointed. The these members fell within the demographics are as follows: coloured male category, in the 31-40 • Sixty-four per cent females and age bracket. 36% males • Fifty per cent African, 40% coloureds Employee wellness and injury rate LA7 and 10% whites Employees at the CTICC have access to • Fifty per cent of these staff members facilities that promote their continuous fall within the 20-30 age bracket growth and development. The CTICC • One person (2%) falls in the resource centre is one such example, where over 40 age bracket employees have the opportunity to advance • The remaining staff members fall within their knowledge of computers and utilise the age bracket between 31 and 40. the Internet facilities during their free time. 80 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 81 This facility is made available at no cost A CTICC soccer team has also been to the employee and informal training is established to encourage healthy living. provided on site, when required. The CTICC team competes in friendly matches against other venues such as Staff members also have the privilege the Cape Grace Hotel, which they beat of utilising the services of the on-site during a recent soccer match. Staff clinic during working hours, from 08:00 members are encouraged to participate to 17:00. All injuries and accidents are and support the team during matches. recorded by the medic and forwarded to the Safety, Health, Environment and Operational committees LA6 Quality officer for record purposes. The CTICC has established three Events that attract more than 2 000 committees, comprised of only trained people must, however, deploy their own members, who have current certificates medical staff. of competence. Members have all signed an appointment letter, in accordance The employee injury rate was determined with the OHSAS 18001:2007. The total from data collected between December percentage of the workforce represented 2011 and July 2012, over a period of in these committees is 25%. 195 000 hours. The injury rate for female staff was 3.07 and for male staff, 5.12. The three committees are as follows: No occupational diseases were recorded • First Aid and there were no fatalities. Reporting • Fire-fighting and recording of incidents, accidents • Health and safety and diseases are in accordance with the OHSAS 18001:2007. The teams are comprised of representatives from all departments Discovery Health and Virgin Active within the organisation. The health hosted a staff wellness day at the CTICC and safety committee team meet every on 23 February 2012. This gave staff the three months, in accordance with the opportunity to have their blood pressure, OHSAS 18001:2007. cholesterol and blood glucose levels checked, and have a weight assessment done, at no cost. 82 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 83 D LA6 Employee relations forum Extensive policies and procedures ensure Towards the end of the reporting period, an the fulfilment of this commitment, and the LA4 employee relations forum (labour council) protection of human rights of all CTICC was established under the umbrella of the employees and suppliers. These include: South Africa Commercial, Catering and • Conditions of employment Allied Workers Union, with representation • Business practices and procedures from CTICC employees, elected by and • Security, including health and safety representing their peers. • Employee rights and disciplinary code • Employee benefits The purpose and objectives of the forum are • Financial policies, including supply to ensure that the employees of the CTICC chain management have a representative body of the entire workforce. This council advocates collective Skills development, training LA10 action, in order to enhance employees’ and awareness bargaining power, in respect of working We aim to integrate sustainability issues LA8 conditions, conditions of employment with all staff orientation programmes. In • Negotiation and presentation skills for itself to make a significant contribution and wages. They represent and act in the addition, we provide ongoing, appropriate the sales team, event coordinators and towards the hospitality and events talent interests of all employees, in respect of training and awareness programmes to all event services managers pool throughout the Western Cape, and matters related to employment conditions. staff members. • Associate in Management for selected further afield. senior staff members The employee relations forum is comprised Staff training is available to all staff In addition to the internship programme, of six staff members: four females and two members, either on an individual level The CTICC sponsored 47 staff members the CTICC is also involved in a males. The ethnic groups are represented or in groups. A total of 94 staff members to participate in short courses, learnership programme through the as follows: four coloureds, one African and participated in training programmes over workshop-based training and diplomas Department of Tourism and the one white. Their ages range across the the past year, with a total of 1 556 hours in purchasing management, Microsoft Networks group. Students from the different age groups. of training. management, event management, hosMitchells Plain School of Skills, Eziko pitality and corporate governance, as Cooking School and False Bay College’s Human rights The following internal training initiatives well as ISO and secretarial courses. Khayelitsha campus receive practical, HR1 The CTICC is committed to entrenching were hosted during the year under review: on-the-job training while completing and promoting respect for human rights • Employee relations for all levels Through the training interventions a certificate course in hospitality HR2 and freedom in every facet of its business of management offered by the Experience Academy, management. Participation in these operations, as stipulated in the Constitution • Fire-fighting and first aid the CTICC is not only developing its programmes allows students to gain of the Republic of South Africa, as well as • Frontline etiquette for the existing talent and attracting the best useful practical experience and helps the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. receptionist team new employees, but is also positioning increase their future employability. 84 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 85 STAFF TRAINED PER ETHNIC GROUP 12 6 31 31% African 51% Coloured 6% Indian 12% White 51 Training initiatives implemented over of the leadership team in experience STAFF TRAINED PER 5 the past year laid the foundation economy – aimed at equipping them MANAGEMENT LEVEL for the CTICC to be recognised as a to drive the embedding of a 25 5% Senior Management centre for training excellence. These customer experience and care culture initiatives include: throughout the organisation 25% Middle Management • Improvement of the training 70% General Staff application process to assist The following graphs provide a breakdown 70 employees with motivations for of staff training per gender, ethnic group, their involvement in training and management level and function. job-rotation opportunities • Enhancement of the centre’s STAFF TRAINED PER GENDER recognition and reward policy to include opportunities for further STAFF TRAINED PER development, and training 10 4 DEPARTMENT • Updating of all employment, training 6 and development policies to align 46 56% Operations with international best practice • Employee relations training for 54 56 24% Commercial management and human resources 24 6% Departemental staff, to equip them for managing 4% Human Resources issues related to employees 10% Finance • Two sessions of focused training 54% Female 46% Male 86 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 87 D HR8 The training of security officers aligns on site with a minimum requirement of with the CTICC human rights policy, Grade C, in accordance with the Private and its commitment to the fair and Security Industry Regulatory Authority sustainable employment of personnel, of South Africa. as well as the maintenance of good relationships between management Although there is currently no specific and staff. emphasis on human rights policies, it is proposed that staff training be reviewed All security staff members are contracted to include this. During the reporting through an external service provider, period, an informal session was held and are trained in the relevant CTICC with staff about HIV Aids. However, policies and procedures. Currently, no formal training sessions were held there are 67 security officials employed related to other serious diseases. employed as a parking warden. Not one to let any obstacle stand in his way, he enthusiastically took on the job and was excited when the CTICC opened its doors a year later, providing new job opportunities. Case Study People Development ‘My dream is to have my own events company someday’ – Zano Zano started his career at the CTICC as a Parking Warden, when the centre was opened in 2003. Within a year he was promoted to Parking Controller. His Zanoxolo Filifili, more affectionately known as Zano, was born in Middledrift, dedication to service excellence and passion for learning resulted in him quickly in the Eastern Cape, where he attended school and matriculated in 1997, at moving up the ranks and, in 2006, he assumed the position of Office Assistant. Gama High School. Being raised among five sisters made him realise from an A year later, he was promoted to Conference and Exhibition Services Assistant. early age that, in order to succeed, it was important to grab every opportunity Zano embodies the centre’s core values of passion, integrity, innovation with both hands. and excellence. By demonstrating these traits, he was recently promoted to Conference and Exhibition Services Manager. His passion for the hospitality industry stems from working in restaurants, while completing his studies at the Russell Road College in Port Elizabeth. He saw his Besides his passion for his work, Zano is an keen soccer fan and is actively stint at the restaurant as an opportunity to meet people and gain experience, involved in the CTICC soccer team. He also serves as a staff representative on while funding his studies. Zano’s passion is learning and he taught himself to the CTICC Labour Council. He has twice gained recognition for his dedication: drive a car by sitting in the front seat of the taxis and observing how the taxi when he clinched the Employee of the Month title in 2009 and, again, in 2012. drivers drove. Movies are his secret passion and he is an avid fan of action and Bollywood In 2001, he moved to Cape Town and, to his dismay, discovered that he would movies. His favourite actor is Jet Li in the film, Bodyguard from Beijing, which be requested to conform and remove his dreadlocks, should he wish to be he has seen more than 20 times. He knows the dialogue off by heart. 88 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 89 CTICC COMMUNITY PARTNERS Abalimi Bezekhaya Harvest of Hope Foundation for Alcohol Related Research Mitchells Plain School of Skills The Haven Night Shelter Welfare Organisation SO1 Corporate social responsibility • Primary community partners: The CTICC such as working with a supplier to paint • The activity should have a long-term We aim to coordinate a CSR programme selects four organisations annually, as a school or providing a music system for impact, such as education or that includes both social and environmental part of its primary CSR programme. an old-age home. The centre engages awareness-raising. requirements, to assist with building a These organisations need to provide with the community through different stronger local community. motivation for their involvement, as initiatives on a quarterly basis. Community partners: well as annual feedback on the benefits • Urgent: Where there is an urgent need, The following four community partners On a corporate level, the CTICC teamed to their community. this can be motivated and support were identified and a needs analysis up with Table Mountain National Parks, • Organisational: A variety of different provided, as required. This relates to performed to determine how the CTICC on Mandela Day 2011, to plant 38 trees organisations receive ongoing or ad hoc local disasters or tragic events. could best assist them: in the Tokai plantation forest, thereby support, as part of the organisational • Mitchells Plain School of Skills offsetting its carbon footprint related to activities at the CTICC. This could include Criteria: • Harvest of Hope at Abalimi Bezekhaya flights. The shade tree-planting project donations such as computers, leftover The following criteria are used to assist with • Foundation for Alcohol-related Research forms part of the management framework food or reusable items after an event, the selection of primary organisations for • The Haven Night Shelter for Tokai and Cecilia plantations, such as carpets or wood. It could also the CTICC corporate social responsibility Welfare Organisation towards the fulfilment of their vision for include the procurement of goods or programme: the rehabilitation and recreational use of services from organisations benefiting • The aims and objectives of the NOW International access these areas, once mature pine trees have a specific community, for example, strategy should be supported. We strive to provide equal opportunity been systematically harvested. purchasing baskets as corporate gifts • There should be a link to the needs of to people with physical disabilities and from a non-profit organisation. CTICC stakeholders, namely staff, to comply with international access The CSR guidelines were reviewed, in line • Community connection: The aim is to clients and suppliers. requirements. with the strategic objective to coordinate provide a link back to the local • Benefit should be added to the a programme incorporating both social community through staff members, broader community and not only to The CTICC disability access facilities have and environmental requirements. It was who make suggestions about local an individual. been formally passed by the disability desk agreed that the following four categories community initiatives that need support • Opportunities should be provided for of the City of Cape Town. The centre is of community engagement should be in a certain way. The CTICC links up with public relations or raising awareness. disabled friendly, with wheelchair access implemented as part of the CSR programme. a partner to support these initiatives, • A mix of social and environmental that is compliant with international initiatives should be incorporated. standards, and designated drop-off points 90 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 91 D and parking bays, as well as toilets for Auditor-General of the Republic of South the physically challenged and elevators Africa and submits an audit report to with Braille characters. Professional sign National Treasury. language personnel are available, on request, for hearing-impaired audiences, as Local community engagement SO1 are a range of other amenities, conveyances The convention centre is actively involved and professional services, to accommodate in advancing professional cookery. All and cater for disabled guests. students need to complete one month of in-service training at the False Bay Anti-corruption College, before they can qualify for We strive to prevent extortion, bribery the National Certificate Vocational, and corruption among our employees and National Diploma: Hospitality and and directors. Catering Services. As a municipal entity, the CTICC must The training programmes are aimed at comply with the MFMA. preparing students for employment within the hospitality industry and include the In compliance with this legislation, the following training: CTICC has a comprehensive supply chain • Food preparation and cooking management policy that ensures that all (bread, fruit and vegetables) contracts or business agreements are • Knife skills awarded by means of a fair, equitable, • Food menu – setting tables, serving transparent, competitive and costfood to customers and effective process. The CTICC’s code of customer service conduct serves to prevent extortion, • Menu planning, recipes and costing In addition, the CTICC manages its own The training successful internship programme. This bribery, and corruption among its of recipes includes eight six-month internships offered programmes are employees and directors. • Basic entrepreneurial skills such as marketing and costing to students from the Durban University of aimed at preparing Technology; five one-year internships to Compliance with all relevant legislation, • Communication students in the Western Cape; and one students for codes and policies is closely monitored, with any exceptions or irregularities Students are admitted on a quarterly basis international internship to a student from employment within Stenden University in Amsterdam. being reported directly to the Audit with a six-week rotation to equip them the hospitality Committee and the board. The CTICC is with valuable skills and experience. also subject to an annual audit by the industry 92 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 93 D LOOKING AHEAD Water The following has been incorporated into The shortage of accurate water metering is the action plan for the year ahead. currently being investigated to assess the best way of collecting data and how best Energy to implement water conservation projects. With the continuous increase in electricity costs, it is essential that energy efficiency is Waste a constant focus of attention. The following The overall waste management process measures are currently being implemented, can be enhanced. The following initiatives planned or investigated: are recommended: Transport Carbon footprint • Completion of the installation of • A waste audit should be performed • The CTICC needs to explore ways to Relevant systems have been implemented thenew BMS, to allow for better in each of the key areas to determine make the venue more accessible for for continuous monitoring of the different management, daily monitoring the different types of waste generated, non-motorised transport. factors impacting on the centre’s carbon and sub-metering and ensure that the bins and signage • More accurate statistics are required footprint, so that accurate measurements • An extensive retrofit, to allow are appropriate for each key area, i.e. on staff transport to and from work. may be made. The centre’s strong focus for more energy-efficient lights there are different requirements in on energy-efficient retrofits will assist throughout the centre each of the different kitchens. Eco procurement with reducing the carbon footprint, while • The purchase of renewable energy • Staff members should receive training • The CTICC is currently busy evaluating innovative ways will be explored for certificates (RECs) for the on waste minimisation and recycling. the City of Cape Town’s Green offsetting it. administration block, as well as This needs to be included in their Procurement Strategy to determine offering RECs as an option to clients weekly programme to ensure how this could also be incorporated Closure • More efficient and accurate billing constant awareness. into the existing legislation The CTICC strives to continuously through the internal organic network • Cardboard waste should be reduced of the CTICC. improve its service and deliver a world• Manual intervention of heater banks through the use of reusable crates • The CTICC will be joining the SASSI class conference facility, in line with for the air-handling unit or pallets, which may be returned to Restaurant Participation Scheme, international best practice. This includes • The installation of boiler suppliers through reverse logistics. thereby becoming more proactive, ongoing monitoring, and evaluation of the cylinder cut-off sensors • Organic waste to landfill needs in terms of phasing out unsustainable processes and practices that are in place, • The replacement of carbon monoxide to be reduced through advanced seafood practices and promoting and constantly seeking new opportunities (CO) sensors in the parking garages, separation techniques and through sustainable choices through educating for improvement. It is proposed that the which were not functioning optimally the implementation of a customers on sustainable options. next sustainability report is externally composting solution. audited to allow for a B+ reporting level. 94 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 95 E REPORTING GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE The following GRI indicator table is based on the guidelines for sustainability reporting, as issued by the GRI. This is the CTICC’s second Sustainability Report, based on the GRI FRAMEWORKS Framework, and we are confident that this report will meet the requirements for an application level B. Wherever possible, we have attempted to exceed the requirements, and will endeavour to further enhance and extend our reporting initiatives in the future. The number of people employed directly since establishment 3 103 G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Application Level B STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION GRI-checked Not Assured Electricity used during the year in review 11,03 GWh 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Disclosure Direct answer 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionFully 4-5 maker of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Fully opportunities. The amount of local short-haul flights required 2. Organizational Profile 120 Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Disclosure Direct answer 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 7-8 Electricity is the largest 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Fully 9 contributor to the CTICC including main divisions, operating Average service review last year carbon footprint companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 82% 99% 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 7 96 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 97 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continued) REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION (continued) REASON FOR OMISSION (continued) 2. Organizational Profile (continued) 3. Report Parameters (continued) Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Disclosure Direct answer Disclosure Direct answer 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully 7 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Fully 108 operates, and names of countries with either report or its contents. major operations or that are specifically 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 18-21 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Fully 18-22 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 27 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Fully 8 Protocol for further guidance. breakdown, sectors served, and types of 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope Fully 18-23 customers/beneficiaries). or boundary of the report (see completeness 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 9 principle for explanation of scope). 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Fully 14 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Fully No joint ventures, period regarding size, structure, or subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced subsidaries, etc ownership. operations, and other entities that can 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 12-13 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3. Report Parameters 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Partially 52-93 Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ of calculations, including assumptions and Disclosure Direct answer techniques underlying estimations applied 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) Fully 14 to the compilation of the Indicators and for information provided. other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 14 diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 14 98 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 99 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continued) REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION (continued) REASON FOR OMISSION (continued) 3. Report Parameters (continued) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement (continued) Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Disclosure Direct answer Disclosure Direct answer 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reFully No restatements 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Fully 27-30 statements of information provided in structure, state the number and gender of earlier reports, and the reasons for such remembers of the highest governance body statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change that are independent and/or non-executive of base years/periods, nature of business, members. measurement methods). 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Fully 27-30 3.11 Significant changes from previous Fully 14 to provide recommendations or direction to the reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or highest governance body. measurement methods applied in the report. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members Fully 27-30 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully 97-110 of the highest governance body, senior Disclosures in the report. managers, and executives (including departure 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to Fully 15 arrangements), and the organization's seeking external assurance for the report. performance (including social and environmental performance). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Fully 27-30 Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Disclosure Direct answer 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Fully 27-30 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, Fully 27-30 qualifications, and expertise of the members including committees under the highest of the highest governance body and its governance body responsible for committees, including any consideration of specific tasks, such as setting strategy or gender and other indicators of diversity. organizational oversight. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Fully 18 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Fully 27-30 or values, codes of conduct, and principles 27-30 governance body is also an executive officer. relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 100 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 101 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures (continued) REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION (continued) REASON FOR OMISSION (continued) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement (continued) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement (continued) Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct Disclosure Direct answer Disclosure answer 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Fully 27-30 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully 31-33 for overseeing the organization's identification organization. and management of economic, environmental, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Fully 31-33 and social performance, including relevant stakeholders with whom to engage. risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Fully 31-33 standards, codes of conduct, and principles. including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Fully 27-30 governance body's own performance, 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been Fully 31-33 particularly with respect to economic, raised through stakeholder engagement, environmental, and social performance. and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Partially 30 through its reporting. precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Fully 34-36 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Fully 36 industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 102 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 103 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (continued) REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR EACH CATEGORY. REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR EACH CATEGORY. YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO DISCLOSE THIS INFORMATION ON THE ASPECT LEVEL FOR EACH YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO DISCLOSE THIS INFORMATION ON THE ASPECT LEVEL FOR EACH PERFORMANCE INDICATOR THAT YOU HAVE REPORTED FULLY ON. PERFORMANCE INDICATOR THAT YOU HAVE REPORTED FULLY ON. (continued) G3.1 Description Reported Cross-reference/ G3.1 Description Reported Cross-reference/ DMAs Direct answer DMAs Direct answer DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Economic performance Fully 39-40 Aspects Investment and procurement practices Partially 48-51 Market presence Partially 39-40 Non-discrimination Partially 48-51 Indirect economic impacts Fully 39-40 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Not DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Child labor Not Aspects Materials Fully 42-46 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Not Energy Fully 42-46 Security practices Not Water Fully 42-46 Indigenous rights Not Biodiversity Fully 42-46 Assessment Partially 48-51 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 42-46 Remediation Not Products and services Fully 42-46 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Compliance Fully 42-46 Aspects Local communities Not Transport Partially 42-46 Corruption Not Overall Partially 42-46 Public policy Fully 48-51 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Anti-competitive behavior Not Aspects Employment Fully 48-51 Compliance Not Labor/management relations Fully 48-51 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Occupational health and safety Fully 48-51 Aspects Customer health and safety Fully 48-51 Training and education Fully 48-51 Product and service labelling Fully 48-51 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 48-51 Marketing communications Fully 48-51 Equal remuneration for women and men Partially 48-51 Customer privacy Not Compliance Partially 48-51 104 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 105 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators (continued) REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) (continued) Economic Environmental Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Indicator Direct answer Indicator Direct answer Economic performance Energy EC1 Direct economic value generated and Partially CTICC Annual Report EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully 60 distributed, including revenues, operating 2012 energy source. costs, employee compensation, donations EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Fully 60 and other community investments, retained source. earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Fully 60 efficiency improvements. Market presence Water EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Fully 55 and 72 on locally-based suppliers at significant EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 66 locations of operation. Emissions, effluents and waste EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Fully 28 and 78-79 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully 75 of senior management hired from the emissions by weight. local community at significant locations of operation. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Partially 45 by type and weight. Indirect economic impacts EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully 68 EC9 Understanding and describing significant Fully 53 method. indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Fully 72 transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 106 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 107 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators (continued) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators (continued) REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) (continued) WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) (continued) Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work (continued) Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Indicator Direct answer Indicator Direct answer Employment Training and education LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully 78-80 LA10 Average hours of training per year per Fully 84-88 employment contract, and region, broken employee by gender, and by employee down by gender. category. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee Fully 78-80 Diversity and equal opportunity hires and employee turnover by age group, LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Partially 28-29 gender, and region. breakdown of employees per employee Labor/management relations category according to gender, age group, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Partially 84 minority group membership, and other collective bargaining agreements. indicators of diversity. Occupational health and safety Social: Human Rights LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Fully 83-84 Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Indicator Direct answer in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and Investment and procurement practices advise on occupational health and safety HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Partially 84-88 programs. investment agreements and contracts that LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Fully 80 include clauses incorporating human rights days, and absenteeism, and number of workconcerns, or that have undergone human related fatalities by region and by gender. rights screening. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, Fully 84-88 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Partially 84-88 and risk-control programs in place to contractors and other business partners that assist workforce members, their families, have undergone human rights screening, or community members regarding serious and actions taken. diseases. 108 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 109 E G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B (continued) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Application Level B GRI-checked Not Assured The following table outlines the specific pages of this report that contain information on the CTICC’s Communication on Progress (COP) made over the last year, in terms of the STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators (continued) key principles contained in the UNGC. REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) (continued) UNGC Principle Page(s) Social: Human Rights (continued) of report Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ covering Indicator Direct answer CTICC’s COP Freedom of association and collective bargaining Business should support and respect the protection of internationally 48, 78 HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified Partially 84 proclaimed human rights. in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may Business should ensure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. 48, 78 be violated or at significant risk, and actions Business should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of 83-84 taken to support these rights. the right to collective bargaining. Security practices Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 48,78 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in Fully 88 labour. the organization's policies or procedures Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. 48 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Business should support the elimination of discrimination, in respect of 48 Social: Society employment and occupation. Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental 39 Indicator Direct answer challenges. Local communities Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 94 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Fully 90-91 responsibility. local community engagement, impact Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 52-93 assessments, and development programs. friendly technologies. Social: Product Responsibility Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and 48,78 Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ bribery. Indicator Direct answer Business should support and respect the protection of internationally 48 Marketing communications proclaimed human rights. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully 57 and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 110 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 111 Convention Square, 1 Lower Long Street, Cape Town 8001, South Africa GPS co-ordinates: 33° 54’ 56” S by 18° 25’ 36” E Tel: +27 21 410 5000 Fax: +27 21 410 5001 E-mail: info@cticc.co.za Website: www.cticc.co.za 112 2012 Sustainability Report
