om m u CA n RL SB ic ER a G GR t OU io P /2 n 01 ON 1 PR OG RE SS Corporate Social Responsibility is an important element in our business' success. By implementing sustainable solutions across our business we can address challenges, create new opportunities and contribute to the communities where we operate. In 2011 we continued to do that – despite challenging times 2011 was a difficult year due to the economic uncertainty, rising costs of materials and a challenging Russian market. However we didn't compromise our CSR ambition to grow our businesses in a responsible way. During the year, our Group companies and functions continued to implement solutions in every part of our value chain to reduce the environmental and social impact of our operations. In turn, these solutions created new opportunities for us as a group as well as our stakeholders, and I am pleased that many strong CSR initiatives were implemented during 2011. Using natural resources efficiently is one of our main priorities. Our energy and Jørgen Buhl Ramussen water use in our breweries fell by 9.3% and 5.6% respectively compared to CEO and President Carlsberg Group 2010. This firmly establishes us as the most efficient global brewing company in terms of use of water and energy in production. Clearly, our significant efforts to use natural resources in our breweries efficiently are paying off and we continue to strive for further improvements. We have also decreased our CO2 emissions and increased our share of renewable energy. Our brew masters have begun to use the new energy saving Null-Lox Barley Malt, developed at our laboratories, to brew our Carlsberg beer. We are proud of the recognition we get for these environmental efforts. The Carlsberg Group was included in the top five of the food, beverage and tobacco category in the 2011 Newsweek Green rankings – a global comparison of companies' environmental performance. Another key CSR issue for us is responsible drinking. The majority of consumers enjoy beer in moderation as part of a healthy and social lifestyle. But as a responsible brewer, we are committed to playing our part in addressing misuse of alcohol. In 2011 our group companies continued to implement initiatives promoting responsible drinking and discouraging irresponsible behaviour. Where possible, we partner with stakeholders such as, health organisations, restaurants and public transportation companies. Good progress was also made in other CSR areas. We significantly reduced accident figures in our breweries and logistics operations, and increased training initiatives to continue integration of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) into our business operations. We also contribute to society through the taxes we pay and the jobs we create. Our local companies support a wide variety of local initiatives, ranging from cleaning up eco-zones to contributing to healthcare and sponsoring charity sports events. Sustainability is and will remain key to our long-term business success. In 2012, we will focus our efforts on addressing specific sustainability risks and opportunities related to both our production and entire value chain. Key priorities will include promoting responsible drinking and developing a sustainable packaging strategy. In Asia, we will address water risks through selected operational and community activities. We are focussing our efforts on those initiatives that are most relevant to our business and stakeholders and I therefore encourage you to share your views on how and where we can do better. Cheers, Jørgen United Nations Communication on Progress 2011 Since the Carlsberg Group joined the UN Global Compact in May 2008, many Group initiatives have been carried out underlining the commitment to support and advance the 10 principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption within our sphere of influence. Read the message from our President and CEO Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen As part of the Carlsberg Group's commitment to the United Nations we have prepared a 'Communication on Progress' (COP) to offer our stakeholders a progress update on the practical actions, targets, performance indicators and outcomes from our work with implementing the 10 UN Global Compact principles in our business. The COP table also contains links to our CSR website, where additional information on our work with CSR can be obtained, as well as links to relevant GRI indicators and case stories. Further we will be referring to our Policies and our Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct to show how we work with the 10 principles. Our Policies set out the requirements we expect our majority-owned companies to live up to. We have developed policies within: Labour & Human Rights, Business Ethics, Health & Safety, Environment,Marketing Communication and Community Engagement. The Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) is included in all global supplier agreements with the aim of minimising the level of business risk within the supply chain, build closer relationships with our suppliers and licensees and safeguard future supply. It is currently available in English and simple Chinese. Global and local Communications on Progress The Carlsberg Group has joined the UN Global Compact on behalf of all our subsidiaries and this COP covers all our subsidiaries progress reporting, however, four of our Group companies have decided to join separately, to highlight their local commitment to the UN Global Compact, and these companies are: SvyturysUtenos Alus in Lithuania (2006), Carlsberg Srbija in Serbia (2009), OJSC Olivaria Brewery in Belarus (2009) and Slavutich in Ukraine (2010). Their progress communication can be found on the UN Global compact website. Principles Summary Relevant GRI indicators Human Rights and Labour Introduction to Human As a global business, we are committed to create an environment where people enjoy the same HR 4 Rights and Labour standards and opportunities wherever they work. Our Carlsberg Group Labour and Human Rights HR 5 (principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6) Policy, which has been in effect since the end of 2009, sets the labour standards all our employees LA 4 must enjoy LA 7 SO 5 & We are strongly committed to high standards that create a fair, respectable and safe workplace for all employees in the Carlsberg Group. We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Principle 1: Businesses Rights and the International Labour Organisationl’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights should support and respect at Work. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Our work with implementing our Labour & Human Rights Policy as well as our Supplier & Licensee Code of Conduct is part of our effort to prevent that our Group companies, suppliers and licensees are complicit in any human rights abuses. & Unfortunately, we did not deliver on our group commitment that we set out for the year, namely to Principle 2: Businesses conduct internal audits in selected countries, due to internal re-prioritisation. We are now developing should ensure that they are auditand compliance mechanisms across our companies related to the Labour and Human Rights not complicit in human Policy. This work will continue in 2012. rights abuses The re-prioritisation also led to that we did not complete the planned training concepts/materials for our HR community, with the goal to strengthen and support the Policy Implementation. We have renewed and adjusted our commitments for 2012 to re-focus the implementation process. Locally we continued our pursuit of improved work environments. One example is our efforts in the Beer Selling Industry in Cambodia to improve the health, safety and working conditions of sales promoters. 2011 commitments and achievements 2011 commitments 2011 achievements Develop training material for the HR not fully achieved training materials community and people managers developed for 61% of managers Carry out internal audits in selected Not achieved countries to record compliance Our 2012 plans • Conduct policy training sessions for HR in countries with less than 100% completion on implementation • Perform internal audits in selected countries to document compliance (transferred from 2011) • Build global LHR training materials to be used for inclusion in local training • Employee Engagement introduced as a KPI for all Top Executives Our 2013 targets • Specific E-learning module developed for LHR for use in induction training & management development • All People Managers are automatically trained in LHR when hired/appointed as a new People Managers • Employee Engagement introduced as a KPI for all managers • Specific targets for diversity will be set during 2012 Relevant downloads: • Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) • Labour & Human Rights Policy • Case stories Aldaris nominated as top employer in Latvia Creating a culture of safe labour Visit the Labour & Human Rights section of our website for additional information on the Carlsberg Group's work within this area Labour Principle 3: Businesses • In the Labour and Human Rights Policy Carlsberg Group's support to freedom of HR 3 should uphold the freedom association and right to collective bargaining, including our employeesâ€™ rights to LA 4 of association and the form, join or not join a labour union or other organisations of their choice, and to SO 5 effective recognition of the bargain collectively in support of their mutual interests without fear of punitive actions rights to collective such as intimidation, harassment or termination of employment is clearly stated. This bargaining also means that in situations where no legally recognised union exists in the area of operations, or if only state-authorised organisations are allowed, the Carlsberg Group responds favourably to initiatives supporting the establishment of alternative means of achieving effective representation of workers’ interests. • The Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) includes requirements on freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses • In the Labour and Human Rights Policy it is clearly stated that forced labour in any HR 3 should uphold the form is not allowed in the Carlsberg Group, including bonded labour, indentured labour, SO 5 elimination of all forms of slave labour, or human trafficking. Employees are allowed to move around freely and forced and compulsory leave their place of work when their shift ends. Furthermore, Carlsberg Group labour companies will not ask workers to submit their original identity papers or any other original official documentation or to pay a deposit as part of their conditions of employment. • The Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) includes requirements on forced labour, including bonded labour, indentured labour, slave labour, or human trafficking Principle 5: Businesses • The Labour & Human Rights Policy underlines that the Carlsberg Group does not HR 3 should uphold the effective condone the hiring of child labour under any circumstances. The minimum age for fullSO 5 abolition of child labour time employment is 15 or the legal minimum age for employment, whichever is greater unless the local minimum working age is 14 and in accordance with the ILO exception for developing countries, where minimum working age is accepted under the previously mentioned conditions. The Carlsberg Group must not hire workers under the age of 18 for positions that require hazardous work that could jeopardise their health, safety or morals. • The Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) includes requirements on child labour, which amongst other criteria, determines that suppliers must ensure that where permitted by national laws, suppliers may allow children aged 12 to 15 to perform a few hours of light work a day. The prerequisite is that the work must constitute simple tasks of a limited nature and not interfere with the children’s educational responsibilities. Furthermore, the work must not be harmful to their health or development. It is also stated that the suppliers shall refrain from hiring workers under the age of 18 for positions that require hazardous work that could jeopardise their health, safety or morals. Principle 6: Businesses • The Labour and Human Rights Policy reflects the Carlsberg Groups position on HR 3 should uphold the discrimination. This includes that no employees must experience any form of HR 4 elimination of discrimination discrimination based on race, colour, gender, language, religion, political or other LA 2 in respect of employment opinion, caste, national or social origin, property, birth, union affiliation, sexual SO 5 and occupation orientation, health status, age, disability, or other distinguishing characteristics. • The Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) includes requirements on nondiscrimination, which are in line with the Carlsberg Group Policy. Environment Introduction to The sustainability of the environment plays a vital role within our business. Most of our raw EC 2 Environment (principles 7, 8 materials and ingredients are sourced directly from nature. The continued success of our EN 1 & 9) business is directly linked to the health of the environment and the communities where we EN 3 operate. EN 4 EN 5 Principle 7: Businesses EN 6 should support a Through the standards set out in our Environmental Policy, we aim to use natural resources more EN 7 precautionary approach to efficiently and minimise the negative impact of our operations. Further we have also joined the EN 8 environmental challenges CEO water mandate and Caring for Climate initiatives, both initiatives supported by the United EN 16 Nations. EN 18 & EN 19 We measure our environmental performance through various indicators relating to our production EN 20 EN 21 sites. This is one of the areas where we have a significant environmental impact and where we can Principle 8: Businesses EN 22 directly improve our performance by installing new equipment and changing our operational should undertake initiatives EN 26 procedures. Assessing the performance of our different sites helps us to identify where to focus our to promote greater EN 27 efforts in order to continually improve. environmental responsibility SO 5 In this regards, all majority-owned production sites are required to obtain the environmental & ISO14001 certification. Those sites currently not certified have a plan in place to achieve this within the next three years. As of 2011, 60 out 75 sites are now ISO 14001 certified (2009: 44, 2010: 47). Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Within our environmental strategy, we are focusing our efforts on three priority areas that are the development and diffusion most relevant to our business: Water, Energy and Emissions, and Packaging. of environmentally friendly technologies • Our ambition is to be the industry leader for efficiency in water and energy consumption and CO2 emissions on our production sites. • We want to reduce the amount of packaging we use and promote the reuse and recycling of packaging material • We want to engage with the communities where we operate and work together with our agricultural suppliers, particularly in relation to water management. Our ambition is to remain the most efficient global brewing company in terms of water and energy efficiency within our production sites. During 2011, we lived up to this commitment by significantly improving our energy and water efficiency and reducing our CO2 emissions within our production across all our regions compared to 2010 levels. In our Group production sites we managed to reduce; • specific thermal energy by 10%, to 21,1 kWh/hl • specific electricity consumption by 7,4%, to 8,1 kWh/hl • specific CO2 emissions by 8,6%, to 7,9 kg CO2 /hl • specific water consumption by 5,6%, to 3.3 hl/hl Overall we are making good progress towards meeting our 2013 targets, and based on our strong performance in 2011, we have revised our specific CO2 targets for 2013 to 7,5 kg CO2 /hl (previously 8,2 CO2 /hl) 2011 commitments and achievements Energy & emissions 2011 commitments 2011 achievements Continue implementation of Lean utility Programme continued, 25 sites implemented program across the group the programme Increase best practice sharing across the Internal energy experts teams established group to implement best-in-class practices across sites Assess possibilities of renewable energy use Group wide assessment carried out Renewable energy research project to use Pilot plant commissioned and first tests spent grain as energy source carried out Water 2011 commitments 2011 achievements Continue implementation of Lean utility Programme continued, 25 sites program across the group implemented the programme Carry out a risk assessment on all our An in-depth risk assessment was sites performed at our breweries Identify key challenges for Carlsberg and Key challenges identified but in-depth the communities in which we operate watershed assessments needed for high-risk sites Packaging 2011 commitments 2011 achievements Train users in Northern and Western Europe Environmental managers and innovation regions to use packaging tool managers trained Use input from Carbon Calculator to provide Tool applied in some European markets to environmental information for packaging assess different packaging solutions decisions Logistics 2011 commitments 2011 achievements Network optimisation Continued efforts to obtain synergies across breweries and logistics to reduce energy and carbon emissions Introduce route planning in logistics Route planning optimisation tool introduced operations in Nordic region Introduce environmental guidelines for Not achieved. Local initiatives to improve warehouses environmental performance of warehouses in completed in Denmark and UK Our 2012 plans Energy & emissions • Continue lean utilities programme with particular focus on Asia, Eastern Europe • Further trials in the new pilot plant at our research facilities will be conducted with the purpose of generating energy from by-products Water • Initiate local production and site water management activities at high-risk sites Packaging • Continue training and implementation of LCA tool in EE and Asia. • Develop a Group strategy for Packaging Sustainability Logistics • Focus on including environmental considerations in purchasing related to distribution (warehouse related and freight) • Expand route-planning tool to other European markets Our 2013 targets Energy & emissions • Specific Energy Consumption: 29 kWh/hl (2010: 32,3 kWh/hl, 2011: 29,2 kWh/hl) • Specific CO2 emissions: 7,5 kg CO2/hl (2010: 8,6 kg CO2/hl, 2011: 7,9 kg CO2/hl ) Water • Specific water consumption: 3,2 hl/hl (2010: 3,5 hl/hl, 2011: 3,3 hl/hl) • Long-term strategic approach to water risk management in place • New technologies for re-use of water inside and outside our breweries explored Packaging • Targets will be developed base on outcome of packaging strategy (1st half of 2012) Relevant downloads • Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) • Environmental Policy Case Stories • Baltika obtains ISO 14001 Certification for environmental management • When green production and good business go hand in hand • Feldschlösschen becomes the first Swiss brewery to offer a CO2-neutral delivery • Carlsberg Danmark: Rail transport makes sense for business and environment • Carlsberg China’s CSR efforts receives public recognition • Supplier partnership drives down carbon footprint Visit the environmental section of our website for additional information on the Carlsberg Group's work within this area Anti-Corruption Introduction to AntiAt Carlsberg, we are committed to being a reputable business partner and employer wherever corruption (principle 10) we operate. Our business ethics standards will help us to achieve this goal by striving for fair and responsible practices in all our companies & We believe that acting responsibly and fairly are important factors in achieving long-term business success. Many of our Group companies have incorporated business ethics into their everyday Principle 10: Businesses processes for a long time. Our Group Business Ethics Policy, which was launched in 2010 as part should work against of our Group CSR approach, sets common, group-wide standards for business ethics. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Business Ethics Policy bribery Our Business Ethics Policy, and the supporting Handbook, Guidelines and E-learning, are designed to help employees resolve day-to-day ethical dilemmas, such as situations involving potential corruption issues, breach of confidentiality, the misuse of company assets for personal advantage and limits for donations and gifts. We are developing training materials and e-learning, as well as new reporting procedures, to foster transparency and improve our performance in these areas. The principles of the Business Ethics Policy are included the introduction course for new headquarter employees and must be an integral part of employment contracts for employees. Sharing knowledge on complex challenges To implement our Business Ethics Policy we have established a network of in-house local legal advisors throughout the group who besides being individually responsible for introducing the policy to the group companies coordinate efforts and share issues and experiences across the Group. This network is key to the further development of our anti-corruption and other business ethics measures and to increasing the level of awareness in Group companies. We recognise that there are challenges relating to business ethics and that these vary in different parts of the world. By sharing best practices and identifying possible issues early, we can continue to increase our understanding of the complex global issues. Whistleblowing system The Carlsberg Group Whistleblower System enables employees to report activities that may involve criminal conduct or violations of our company policies and guidelines. It consists of a website and a hotline phone number, which are managed by an independent third party to ensure the highest level of security and confidentiality. Reports filed through the Whistleblower System are handled by a few designated employees within Carlsberg Group Internal Audit which is responsible for evaluating the potential violation. 2011 commitments and achievements 2011 commitments 2011 achievements Roll out e-learning programme A comprehensive E-learning module was rolled-out to central functions and a number of group companies Continue training and communication to Train the trainer sessions were carried out and facilitate implementation a toolkit was introduced Initiate integration of Business Ethics into Business ethics has been defined as a criteria performance management systems in our performance review system to come effective during 2012 Our 2012 plans • Prepare introduction of audit and selfaudit for selected countries • Develop the e-learning programme in other language • Continue awareness and training with focus on high risk countries Our 2013 targets • Business Ethics Policy is communicated to all employees • 100% of key employees are trained in Business Ethics • Relevant key employees and top management are measured on Business Ethics compliance • Introduction of audit and self-audit for selected areas. Relevant downloads: • Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct (SLCC) • Business Ethics Policy Case Story • In 2011, more than 500 key employees participated in and passed the Carlsberg Group Business Ethics E-learning Programme Visit the section on Business Ethics on our website for additional information on our work with the environment
