2011 Green Development & All Win in Harmony Sustainable Development Report 1951-2011 Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co.,Ltd. Yulin·China Group Logo—YC The Group Logo YC is designed based on the acronym of the English name of the company. YC represents initials of Yuchai and Yulin China, demonstrating that Yuchai is firmly determined to build an internationally recognized Chinese brand. The letter C is like the earth movement trajectory in the space, symbolizing Yuchai Group's global development trend and that it is on the road of becoming a multinational conglomerate. The dynamic letter Y conveys the Group's strategic objective and pursuit of excellence. The shape of the Logo is mature in shape, sober mixed with dynamic, plain but passionate. It incarnates that Yuchai is a group full of passion and is pursuing Green Development and Allwin in Harmony as the most complete spectrums of internal -combustion engine manufacturing base and the most complete spectrums of excavator producer. The logo highlights Yuchai Group's global brand image of Excellence in Quality & Global Yuchai .  General Note In order to facilitate presentation and reading, Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. in this report is also referred to as Yuchai Machinery Group , Yuchai Group , the Group corporation , Yuchai , the Group , the Company and we or us . Report Coverage The report mainly covers Yuchai Group's sustainable development activities from January 1st to December 31st, 2011. Moreover, it gives a brief historical overview of Yuchai for 60 years and also covers relevant information on subsidiaries. The Release of the Report The Sustainability Report was firstly released in June 2008Sustainable Development Report 2007 , and has since been running for four consecutive years. The Report 2011 is the fifth of its kind. Note on the Statistics in the Report The Report reflects sustainable activities of Yuchai Group. Data comes from official documents and statistical reports released by the Group and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Financial figures come from Annual Financial Report 2011 of the Group. Availability of the Report This report is published both in Chinese and English: To obtain a printed report, please write to Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co. Ltd. You can also find the PDF version of Reliability Commitment of the this document on the group’s website. Report Group Board of Directors Company Name: Guangxi Yuchai Machinery and all directors promise that Group Co., Ltd. the Report does not contain Address: 1# Yuchai Road, Yulin City, Guangxi any false records, misleading Website：http://www.yuchai.com statements or material Post Code：537005 omissions; they will shoulder Telephone：0775-3228884 individual and joint liability for Fax：0775-3226887 violation of the truthfulness, Service No.：95098 accuracy and completeness of the Report.  Contents Chairman's Message 4 2011 Highlights 6 Looking Back Over 60 Years 9 On December 18, 2011 when Yuchai's 60th anniversary conference was held, Yuchai Group's new mission—Lead Our Partner and the Public's Trust Much More Valuable—was put forward, which expresses Yuchai's solemn promise for the partners, public and social communities and Yuchai's determination of leading the development of national industrial with excellent and straightening the backbone of national industry. I.Yuchai Philosophy 12 II.Responsibilities Governace 16 2.1 Perfecting Strategic System while Strengthening Brand Management 18 2.2 Strengthening Manufacturing Execution System, Innovating Quality of Management 19 2.3 Deepening Cultural Construction while Promoting Social Responsibilities 21 III. Sustainable Operation 24 3.1 Sale Income Realizing Jumping Increase 25 3.2 Sustainable Expanding Overseas Business 27 3.3 Satisfactory Progress of Projects Constructed 29 3.4 Developing Technology and Tamping Foundation 32 3.5 Continuously Leading Industrial Status 35  IV. Green Manufacturing 36 In 2011, Yuchai Group launched the first vehicle diesel engine in China that conforms to Euro VI Emission Control Regulation by cooperating with the State Key Laboratory of Internal Combustion Engine, Tianjin University. 4.1 Strictly Controlling the Emission, New Products Constantly Coming Out 37 4.2 Reusing Waste Materials through Remanufacture 41 4.3 Technological Innovation Improving Working condition 44 4.4 Energy-Material-Saving further Reducing Energy Consumption 46 V. Employee Development 48 5.1 Safeguarding Employees' Basic Rights and Interests 49 5.2 Promoting Employees' Development Planning 52 5.3 Implementing Fair Distribution Mechanism 55 5.4 Reinforcing Safety in Production 55 5.5 Caring for Employees' Life 56 VI. Promoting Services 58 6.1 Service System Further Improved 59 6.2 Service Network Further Expanded 60 6.3 Special-Service Succeeded in Supporting Service Brand 61 6.4 Skill-Contest Promoting Service Level 62 6.5 Satisfaction Improved by Active Service 62 VII. Harmonious Communities 64 7.1 Boosting Regional Development of Economics and Social Communities 65 7.2 Rewarding Social Communities 66 VIII. Outlook of 2012 68  Chairman's Message  Chairman's Message This is the 5th sustainable development report published by Yuchai Group. On behalf of all the employees of Yuchai Group, I would like to take this precious opportunity to express my sincere thanks to our leaders at all levels who have showed great concern, trust and support to us over the years, our new and existing customers, all stakeholders and the readers of this report. The year 2011 is the 60th Anniversary of the foundation of Yuchai Group and it is significant to us. In the past 60 years, Yuchai Group has been developed from small to large, from weak to strong, from a small workshop to a large-scale modern corporation group which implements a strategic pattern of Two product chains and diversified industrial clusters , has leading engine technologies in the world, and is striding forward to a company with annual sale amount of RMB 100 billion Yuan. I firmly believe that in the future, Yuchai Group will become the backbone of China's national industry. In 2011, Yuchai adhered to its core philosophy Green Development & All Win in Harmony . Guided by our business policy maintaining the openings, laying emphasis on the projects and nurturing our advantages , Yuchai accelerated our pace of technological innovation and research and development, implemented a project to enhance our product quality by further 50%, introduced lean manufacturing throughout the production process, and built a lean operating system (YCOS) with Yuchai's feature. We have continued to seriously fulfill our corporate social responsibility, intensified our efforts on building our corporate culture, and made great efforts to enhance our core competitiveness. Thanks to the great efforts of our staff, we have made a breakthrough in our sales revenue in 2011, which has exceeded RMB 40 billion Yuan and reached to an amount of RMB 42.921 billion Yuan. We have sold 716,900 engines in the whole year. In the past 60 years, our cumulative output and sales volume of engines has exceeded 4.6 million sets. In 2011, despite the volatile market conditions at home and abroad, Yuchai continued to make great efforts on selftechnological innovation. Yuchai has made a new breakthrough on R&D and manufacturing of environmental-friendly products. We are the first enterprise in China that has launched a diesel engine product that conforms to Euro VI Standard. We officially launched our own low speed and high power marine diesel engine products and broke the pattern that Chinese marine diesel engine market was dominated by foreign products. A new stage for China's development history of marine diesel engines has been created. We began the mass production of engines that conform to National IV and National V Emission Control Standard. We have made a breakthrough in excavators manufacturing and chemical products. In the future, we will continue to make self-innovation on our products, and thus motivate the Yuchai products to climb to new peaks. In 2011, Yuchai has continued to intensify its efforts on green manufacture. Yuchai's awareness of environmental protection has deeply rooted in its long-term pursuit of green products. Yuchai casting center put into operation reflects Yuchai's progress on environment governance throughout the entire manufacturing process, powerfully interpreting Yuchai's unremitting efforts on environment protection. In today's Yuchai, the working environment is cleaner and the manufacturing processes are safer. In this way, we ensure the safety and occupational health of our employees. In 2011, the relation between Yuchai and its stakeholders has been more harmonious. Our employees have acquired broader space of career development. We have protected the interests of our suppliers and they have achieved a better development. We provide better service to our customers. All of our stakeholders have achieved a harmonious development. 2012 is the second year for Yuchai to implement its 12th Five-Year strategy. Based on its firm ground of great achievement accumulated by the last 60 years and the joint efforts of various aspects, Yuchai will make more efforts on technological innovation, turn our technological innovation achievements into productive force, develop more outstanding and suitable products, further enhance the quality of our products, and build core competitiveness on our manufacturing processes. We will also make more innovations on service pattern, construct the advantages of Yuchai services, and maintain our leading position in marketing service. We will intensify our construction of corporate culture, turn cultural consciousness into cultural confidence and make progress to cultural self-improvement. We will tenaciously strive to succeed, continue to make progress, and achieve a sustainable development by making ceaseless self-improvement. I firmly believe that in the future, Yuchai will make more outstanding achievements, create new magnificence and take a leading position in the global market. Bureau of Directors, Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Chairman of the Board  2011 Highlights An Inspection Visit at Yuchai by Jia Qinglin, Member of the Political Bureau of the Standing Committee of CPC and President of CPPCC Jia Qinglin, Member of the Political Bureau of the Standing Committee of CPC and President of CPPCC, accompanied by Guo Shengkun, Secretary of the Party Committee of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, etc., visited Yuchai on November 19, 2011 and inspected Yuchai's status of development and independent innovation. Jia Qinglin has appreciated Yuchai's 60-year developmental achievements and made important instructions on its development and technological innovation while encouraging Yuchai to conquer more core technologies and build itself into a world class engine production enterprise. Grand Celebration of 60th Anniversary of Yuchai's Foundation On December 18, 2011, Yuchai Group held conference to celebrate its 60th anniversary at Yuchai's headquarter in Yulin, Guangxi. This has been Yuchai's largest-scaled and highestleveled historical event of commemorative activities with maximum participants and the most abundant elements, revealing Yuchai's glorious achievements of development over 60 years.  2011 Highlights New Mission Put Forward: Lead Our Partner and the Public's Trust Much More Valuable On December 18, 2011 when Yuchai's 60th anniversary conference was held, Yuchai Group's new mission—Lead Our Partner and the Public's Trust Much More Valuable—was put forward, which expresses Yuchai's solemn promise for the partners, public and social communities and Yuchai's determination of leading the development of national industrial with excellent and straightening the backbone of national industry. Management Goal of RMB 40 billion Yuan Achieved on time In 2011 when facing severe the market situation, Yuchai successfully completed its management goal of RMB 40 billion Yuan planned at early 2011 and realized its spanning development. The annual accumulative total sales income is RMB 42.921 billion Yuan, up by 15.86% over the previous year. The sales volume of engines is 716,900 sets and engineering machinery is 8,527 sets. China's First Diesel Engine for Vehicles Meeting the Euro VI Emission Regulations was Made by Yuchai Since June 29, 2011, Yuchai has revealed a new page in the R & D history of internal combustion engines since it had developed China's first diesel engine for vehicles meeting the Euro VI emission requirement-YC6L-60. Only 2 years after the release of Euro VI Standard, could Yuchai take the lead to develop out the Euro VI Standard diesel engine not only filling the blank of efficient cleaning diesel engine to promote Chinese technological level for developing engines of high emission level, but meaning that Yuchai has had independently capability to synchronously develop advanced efficient cleaning diesel engines with the international level and mastered the most up-to-date core technologies for diesel combustion.  2011 Highlights Yuchai Marine Power Co., Ltd Put Into Production to Press onward to International Ocean Shipping Power Industry On July 13, 2011, the first manufacturer of low-speed high-power marine diesel engine in South China, Yuchai Marine Power Co., Ltd., started its formal production at its newly built workshop in Zhuhai, Guangdong, which marks that Yuchai made another solid step along the process towards international ocean shipping power industry. National Laboratory of Efficient Energy-saving and Environmentprotection Internal Combustion Engine Settled in Yuchai On November 2nd, 2011, approved by the National Development and Reform Committee, the national engineering laboratory of efficient energy-saving and environment-protection internal combustion engine, which represents China's highest level of internal combustion engine industry, was formally settled in Yuchai, and its construction will be undertaken by the Yuchai Group. Such a laboratory will be built into a technological R & D platform as well as a platform for the transformation of R & D achievements, a platform opened for the entire industry which will play a key role in the enhancement of technological innovation capability for China's internal combustion engine and the core competitiveness of the relevant industries. Besides, it will fill the blank of zero national engineering laboratory of efficient energy-saving and environmentprotection internal combustion engine.  Looking Back Over 60 Years From a Small Workshop to an International Enterprise Group 2011 Yuchai's industry layout of Two product chains and diversified industrial clusters has been realized while services and sales covered all continents of the world. Put forward the operation philosophy Green Development & All-Win in 2006 Harmonious which was confirmed as strategic thinking and as core philosophy in 2007. The international stocks of 1994 Yuchai-China started their official listing onto the New York Stock Exchange. Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. was reformed into a 1993 stock-system sinoforeign joint company. Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co. Ltd. and Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. were 1992 established upon their completion of stock system reform. 1970 Yulin Diesel Engine Factory was founded. 1951 Yulin Quantang Workshop, as former of Yuchai, was founded.  Looking Back Over 60 Years Sales Revenue from Tens of Thousands of RMB Yuan to Today's Sale of over RMB 40 Billion Yuan Unit: RMB 100 million Yuan Exceeded 500 40 Billion Exceeded 30 Billion 400 Exceeded 20 Billion 300 Exceeded 10 Billion 200 Exceeded 100 Million 100 Tens of Exceeded Thousands 10 Million 0 1951 1984 1989 2004 2008 2010 2011 Engines Engineering Machinery Logistics & Automobile Trade Energy & Six Business Chemical Industry Sectors Parts Special Purpose Vehicles 10 Looking Back Over 60 Years From Single Production of Engines to a Development Pattern of Two Product Chains Single Production of Engines Product Chain of Product Chain of Engines Construction Machinery Passenger Car Small Hydraulic Engines Excavators Medium Hydraulic Excavators Truck Engines Large Hydraulic Engines for Engineering Excavators Machinery Slip Reproduced Machine Marine Engines Rotary Drilling Rig Power Generation Engines Mine Cars Generator Sets Agriculture Hydraulic Grab Feeder Engines 11 I Yuchai Philosophy 12 Core Philo sophy Green De & All Win veloping Harmony in n t ner s s io r Par ic's Mi d Ou Publ Lead the uchable an ust MValu Tr ore M Vision To Build Famou a World e ss hy and Lars Brand u sin sop ing l B hilo nd ba Multinage P utsta y Glo Enterpr tional O ualit i ise Grou Q cha p Yu Yuchai's Mission: Lead Our Partner and the Public's Trust Much More Valuable On December 18, 2011, Yuchai Group put forward industry while paying attention to sharing benefit with its new mission—Lead Our Partner and the Public's Trust partners; Much More Valuable. For natural environmental circumstances, Yuchai The Partners include all Yuchai's staff interrelated would continuously improve its ratio of input-output by flesh and blood, business partners in the same boat resources so that the gifts of natural environmental and the nature closely related. The Public includes both circumstances can benefit in maximization. Besides, those users who directly or indirectly choose Yuchai’ Yuchai would stick to the road of developing in green s products or services and the social public directly or environment and spare no effort in the maintenance of indirectly support the development of Yuchai. better environmental circumstances; To gain the trust from partners and public is the For users, Yuchai has kept innovating tirelessly and target Yuchai people have been striving for and it is updating the related industry standards continuously also a solemn commitment of Yuchai. More Valuable is to meet not only the needs of users, but also the needs the terminal aim of Yuchai’s mission since Yuchai has created for users, by which users may perpetuate their been existed and developed to better return to trust , expects from Yuchai; which is reflected as follows: For the general public, Yuchai has contributed a For all staff, Yuchai would provide the business great deal to the country by acting as China's national platform with infinite space where they can have their pride. Meanwhile, Yuchai has actively contributed to career climbing to the peak; social communities by bringing more enterprise citizens For all partners, Yuchai would fully arouse the involved in the related participation to favor the public related industrial potential to create more value of the mass. 13 Yuchai Philosophy Stakeholders Stakeholders Stakeholders' Expectations Responses and Measures ies, te polic . nd sta s t th e CPC a re g ulation ress. e n an d prog Implem ly with laws rt work n and Re al comp to repo tio Co mp Im ize o lay P e in it iatives ted informa urate way. ly pro pen the Take th it work-rela ely and acc strategy Pr ov w ith ve t an role Subm orts in a tim ufacturing an ide Str lab he w d d of cal rep n man ent Im elopm d e em en or o em tra p statisti ent the gree h and dev ation. na pl gth con rker ocr de k co lem p le m re s e a rc in n o v ble oy en tra s' ati un st e a S th mp en Im then ology e d ct co c m ion Streng hance techn more jobs. em s e e plo wi uca s an ngre ana . Im tist ub e i ly t th pl ica mi nit wit e C and en ive to create t ye h d tion d co ss s gem S tr es St eme l re t wo iativ h la PC to evel and llect yste ent r an eng nt por rkes ws an gr op tra ive m. . . d th the ts i re to an d s ervisions, ow m in c en en g n lat re d ta ent sup n wi ent ing. ont a St han re ree tim ed ort eg te p p r ce pt g overnm and regulatio. Ma th the opp rac Ac s w inta ts. riv c se n in w u e e t ar ma ely for or latio lici o with law ing to la Im D ev in o co rtu to ec ch n an m k Comply taxes accordce emission, pro elo sta mp ni cr hn a ufa d atio pro s. s, n e pay y, redu nvironment. ve and p e ble an iest en erg S o d e y. Bu e n a at olo d ctu cc n a gre Save rotect the e yment an afeg ccup voca ucati mpl de ild e g de ri m y i v ng ura nd ss. and p and emplo intain d i ua at tio on oym nte rd ion na , tr a or nn elo s te Exp nities, ma tions. e s. Re velo Sup ha Bu H rest the l al sa l skil ainin nt. e jo ova pm trat wa opportus industrial rela ctive of obje ervision Ta du pm po rmo ild av s o eg fe ls. g bs ti e eg y. iou ns in sm e C f th itim ty a c rt in e e ent loc iou n . on nt y harmoneep innovatio and oo are e e ate nd ess up ement busin the s tors. pr m a a s . K me th c er mp rig he ph Sup odu issi nd s l ec com manag nology. ch om Plan loy hts alth ieve ept s ila po cti on oc on m nth rt on s a ia om u tech an mu s ee ism ni s. . Ach sly acc y's inve nce of . u n e nfer basis al . cati ro co pr nd l pr ic nity scio mpa Con the co eral co gular py m oc p og . on Actively participate in relevant meetings. ac mu es ollu res ate on t nati gen e tiv nity s. tio s. incre. nar Hold lders o carry ou . itie n s. ent Emp and e Governm erve set valu and eho tiously ies ant loy Pres s shar n polic v the acredibilityusiness ins. scie dustrial lish rele . Actively offer advice and suggestions. Co ee s Con pub rmation Keep close contact with n in an mm b Keepoperate regulatio Pu d th unity ularly fo Reg siness in holders rity, with rs. integ pliance to investo bli e c bu social organizations, Pay dues. Social Share com Return mutually support and Organizations Stakeholders Keep liaison channels open achieve common development. Supp liers Stab Equa le l pa try Tecprocurertnersh abli us rs sh Y Indartne s hnic me ip. c C yer rs) Holdommu strate h , wit ies er P ply olic eth Bu tome al S nt p om d p tog me y Serv s upp olicy Pro high nicate gic all ly c an rk sa lth ict ns wo he ea t. rn Providice (Cu ort. for vide -le tim ian Str latio and s in t e a h men lea ers . Red new spe vel m ely. ce u te er at on nd c e reg pe artn cre nvir es a r. m p e na l Sha uce co produ ial pro eting co ith try to erly ang otheo the atio re c s ct t s ost t via jo s of su ection w us rd ch ch it t n o x ind nd e e ea mm f the ry. on soc int dev ppliers a nc om co o st ha fr tly nt du es ty En oin e r in nc uali Est ial r e . J m lop ow e re ion son of q y. tee. esp lopm ve p nfe at liai very uantit aran ons ent. de co nic nd Mainta in stab li de ll q gu ibilit try mu a s ili ely in fu vice us om tion Provid ervice polic ty of Tim and s ser y. ind c a e tech y nical s . in nd nic sale te st a mu upport . eripa nte om Aft rtic co y c Pa kill dail S in a . int ion ucts. Ma rat o pe prod es. lity co lity ervic qua gic ua s t Build ate h q cal duc Y Estab C service Str e hig chni pro lity. lish enti i d t e for ua v e q Build training ne ties. s Pro rovid visit vice a serv tw P ing ser ice ne orks. y nd twork. p a a Re 14 Yuchai Philosophy Sustainable Development Performance 2011 ● Improving；○Maintain； Worsening Sustainable Operation Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2010 Main businesses revenue raised remarkably ● Operation Capacity Income taxes increased continuously ● Total assets increased constantly ● Strengthen anti-corruption ● Strengthening quality management ● Enhance lean management ● Management Capability Strengthen closed-loop management ● Comprehensive budget management ● Improve internal auditing management ○ Develop new products on continuous basis ● Patent number has been increasing ● Innovation ability Research team expanding constantly ● Stable growth in R & D funding ● Strategic partnership has been strengthened ● Partner's Responsibility Information communication with upstream and downstream partners has been enhanced ● Push partners to implement CSR ● Customer satisfaction has been improved ● Customer service Service capabilities have been improved ● Environmentally Friendly Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2010 R&D breakthrough in green products ● Green Products Reduce noise of products ○ Reduce energy consumption ● Green Manufacturing More renewable materials are used in R&D and production ● Reproduction capabilities are upgraded greatly ● Reduce discharge of wastes(oil, water and materials) ○ Reduce use of dangerous chemicals; Environmental Governance ○ categorized management Enhance reuse of wastes(oil, water and materials) ● Care for Staff Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2010 Increase communication and consultation channels between staff and management ● Democratic Management Improve system of Workers Congress ● Improve staff productivity ● Increase ratio of highly skilled personnel ● Capacity Management Provide multi-layer and multi-channel training opportunities ● Improve career development platform ○ 100% labor contract signing ● Wages and benefits grow at the same pace with financial performance ○ 100% social insurance coverage ● Rights and Interests Protection Prohibit discrimination & promote fairness in employment ● Further improve staff welfare ● Organize colorful staff activities ● Low work safety incidence ● Occupational Safety and Health Zero major safety accident ● Continuous reduction of occupational disease incidence ● Social Harmony Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2010 Help with community employment ○ Improve Community Development Localized sourcing ● Promote local economic development ● Make donations ● Public Welfare School donations ● Volunteer activities ● 15 II Responsibilities Governance 2.1 Perfecting Strategic System while Strengthening Brand Management 2.2 Strengthening Manufacturing Execution System, Innovating Quality of Management 2.3 Deepening Cultural Construction while Promoting Social Responsibilities 16 Trade Union Guangxi Yulin Yuchai International Tourism Co., Ltd. Service Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Packaging Materials Co., Ltd. Industry and Others CPC Committee Youth League Committee Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Property Management Co., Ltd. Guagnxi Yuchai Special Purpose Vehicle Co., Ltd. Special Purpose 2011 Yuchai Group Organization Chart PR Office Vehicles Discipline CPC Committee Yulin Chengxin Machinery Co., Ltd. Office Committee Guangxi Yuchai Bright Electric Appliances Co., Ltd. Guangxi Jinchuang Automotive Parts Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Yuchai Huayuan Machinery (Yulin) Co., Ltd. Parts Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Parts Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Monopoly Development Co., Ltd. Training Center BOS Zhejiang Haihong Hydraulic Science and Technology Co., Ltd. Dept. of Legal 17 Counseling Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Electromechanical Co., Ltd. Logistics & IT Center Automobile Guangxi Yuchai Logistics Group Co., Ltd. Trade Safety Monitoring Office Corporation Office Guangxi Yuchai Oil Products Co., Ltd. BOD MD Maoming Changsheng Grease Industry Co., Ltd. Turbo Technology Energy & R & D center Guangxi Yuchai Petroleum and Chemical Co., Ltd Chemical Industry Guangxi Nanning Yuchai Lubricant Co., Ltd. Dept. of Cadre Management Guangxi Beihai Yuchai Hing-grade Lubricant Co., Ltd. HR Dept. Guangxi Yuchai Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. Engineering Machinery Dept. of Auditing CSR Yuchai Sichuan Engine Co., Ltd. Dept. of Finance Yuchai Marine Power Co., Ltd. Dept. of Planning Engines Guangxi Yuchai Power Machinery Co, Ltd. Dept. of Financing Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. and Investment Responsibilities Governace 2.1 Perfecting Strategic System while Strengthening Brand Management Perfecting Strategic System Yuchai is one of the four enterprises under the strategic implementation ledgers and make clear those key matters planning of 10 Billion Goal of the 12th Five-Year Plan put and nodes, stress business planning implementation and forward as a whole by Guangxi Autonomous Region. In order promote the landing accomplishment of business planning to promote the implementation of such strategic planning, measures; and promote the formulation and release of Yuchai has further adjusted its strategic management functional planning to realize the replenishment and perfection system, strengthened its functions corresponding to strategic of five major functional planning. The Group has the contents work and improved its efficiency of strategic management modified and perfected for several times before the present by strengthening the five-link work on strategic analysis Guangxi Yuchai Machine Group's Strategic Planning for strategic decision strategic planning strategy Investment and Financing in the 12th Five-Year Plan was implementation strategic control in the loop management. officially issued, which would provide the guidance function The Group is about to establish business planning for Group's investment and financing work. Strengthen Brand Management Having Yuchai Group's brand status summarized and identified and released Yuchai's new mission; refined and given diagnosed, it has made clear the focus of brand building, made connotation to Yuchai's new logo of Yuchai Machinery; organized clear the use scope and responsible authority of each business the first seminar on brand communication, carried out in-depth brand and regulated the subsidiaries'use of VI at large-scale investigation on brand communication system and perfected exhibitions to ensure that VI of Yuchai Group is presented clearly. brand communication system; and carefully plan to promote In 2011,Yuchai further strengthened the brand management and high-end brand construction. Yuchai's Brand Value and Rank Enhanced Year Brand Value（RMB 100 million Yuan） Rank 2011 98.69 107 2010 80.09 109 2009 71.19 111 2008 63.58 112 2007 53.36 117 2006 46.82 119 Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Launched its New Brand Logo Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. had its grand launch of its new logo YC Diesel at the 2011 Marketing Service Conference, of which the color of red represents passion and China while the blue represents science and technology and the world . The colourful combination of Chinese Red and World Blue implies Yuchai’s international strategy based on markets of China while aiming at the world (Former Logo) by devoting passion to expand the market space abroad. The English word Diesel represents that YC Diesel would carry forward the innovation spirit of Rudolf Diesel inventing the first engine and the eternal power of Diesel engine would inherit passion while driving excellent achievements. Of the six English letters, D means devote , I represents international , E refers to environmental , S represents science , E represents excellent and L represents leader . All of the six letters together reflects (New Logo) that Yuchai would devote itself to the internationalization way and create powerful circumstances for environmental protection, science and excellent achievements to become a market leader under sustainable development strategies. 18 Responsibilities Governace 2.2 Strengthening Manufacturing Execution System, Innovating Quality of Management Introducing Lean Manufacture Yuchai has designed and forged the Lean Operation made clear in their periodical goals. By December 2011, system, clearly illustrated long term plan and goals for 3 to upon the continuous improvement, each project had kept its 5 years. Started Lean Manufacture Project, determined the momentum up to the rated standards and some items had Overall Design—Step Execution—Pilot Promotion , and made realized the rated standards in advance. Lean Manufacturing it clear eight major pilot programs to build the organizational has begun to form its atmosphere among all employees, structure and management mode for projects. which has laid the foundation for a comprehensive According to the planning schedule for Stage-I of introduction in relation to the gradual building of Yuchai’s Lean Manufacture Project, eight major pilot projects are Lean Operation System. Yuchai Chart for Yuchai Lean Operation System Yuchai Chart for Yuchai Lean Operation System YCOS Lean Lean R & D Lean Supply Lean Manufacture Chain Marketing Lean Design for Supply Chain Theory of Lean Six Sigma Lean Six Management Constraints Sigma Theory of Constraints Methodology Cornerstone Overall Quality Management 2011 was the quality year of Yuchai when the company control requirements, and to ensure the quality consistency of proposed a strategic target of promoting the quality by 100% in products. Having the professional teams of technician playing three years, for the year of 2011 the quality promotion shall be 50%. the leading role, the quality competition activities as zero error , Being guided by the goal of quality promotion by 50% zero wrong inspection , zero fault and others were started, and decomposed the target indexes at different levels, the which are related to quality improvement participated by workers senior/middle leadership of company signed the responsible involved in every link of quality. Meanwhile, by strengthening agreement on quality objectives with a view to promote all quality the quality responsibility mechanism, the quick quality-issue responsibility units to improve product quality by concerted closed loop processing has also been drawn. In order to meet efforts. During the establishment of targeted indexes based clients' excelsior demands on quality, the company has set up early process-preventing warning system, more than 2000 39 product quality improvement groups which have used quality key process-preventing warning QC points have been set statistics techniques, organized various resources of expert up in the entire company; at the same time, by integrated all teams, customers, suppliers, etc., to conduct joint efforts to workers' posts into the quality early preventing and warning solve those difficult problems. These project teams have totally system as well as the requirements of PFMEA, all aspects from formulated quality promotion projects items up to a number of people, machines, materials, methods, links and measuring 694, of which 634 items have been finished that is a completion could be controlled during the whole working process so as rate of 91.4%. Among the total of 4520 plans formulated, 4035 to promote the process consistency control, to perfect quality items have been finished, a completion rate up to 89.2%. 19 Responsibilities Governace New Quality Concepts and New Quality Policies 2011, Yuchai put forward its new quality ideas of Zero Defect, Zero Tolerance , by which the quality culture and quality management of the company have been closely combined. Zero Defect is ultimate goal of quality work for the company, which reflects that Yuchai people are featured by confidence and persistence in their pursuit of excellence. For Zero Tolerance , there are two meanings. Firstly, one should do things well from the very beginning. It requires quality links like market research, product planning, product development, process development; manufacturing process and after-sales service to be completed properly by every staff the first minute doing them. Secondly, no employees are allowed to accept, to manufacture or to deliver any defects, i.e., every post is requested to do without accepting, manufacturing or delivering quality defects. Yuchai’s new quality policies issued simultaneously: professional, lean, innovation, and pilot . Yuchai has also established a special column of Quality Window to promote quality control related activities, produced quality educational warning film for all employees to improve their quality consciousness. Besides, there have been organized quality competitions for all workers, which were participated actively by departments’ personnel, and an atmosphere stressing quality, pursuing quality and advocating quality has been formed throughout the company. Deepening Order Management Holding profound analysis on existing problems related to which takes ten-day forecast accuracy as main body, on-time order management over years, reformation measures have been storage-delivered rate and production & sales forecast accuracy put forward and Order Business Management System was as supporting, and purchasing forecast accuracy and sales revised and perfected. At the same time, in order to strengthen planning forecast accuracy as auxiliary base. In 2011, loss ratio the decision and guidance roles played by purchasing planning for 3-guarantees was 1,503 PPM (expected target was 1,022 ability and sales planning on the company, 2011’s Order Index PPM), whose year-on-year drop reached 4.46%. System was optimized and adjusted to form a new System, 20 Responsibilities Governace Constructing 3-level Inspectors System By further constructing the 3-level inspectors system formed by integrating. YC6K. YC6MK, casting center, phase-II composed of company inspectors, cross-department inspectors and other major quality projects were overseen according to the and unit inspectors, there organized to revise the inspectors idea of One center, one major line, level-to-level management management system, integration of platform, key projects and inspectors' evaluation . All of these have effectively promoted management, etc. Then, Inspectors Management System has the execution of business plans and project closed-loop been revised and OA Business Planning platform has been management efficiency. Norm Management and Control of Internal Audit Yuchai's internal audit focused mainly on two aspects, i.e. suggestions were made for new management groups to consider. the risk management and internal control in 2011, with a view to Second, following audits were conducted to subsidiaries as control management, control behavior and reduce the operating energy, chemicals, packaging, Chengxin, Jinchuang and Zhuanqi risk of subsidiaries. First, contract normative special audit and audit companies, the role of which is to promote those subsidiaries to for board chair leaving position were conducted against Logistic implement related rectification in respect to the problems found so Group and Beihai Yuchai Hing-Grade Lubricant, and improving that the role of audit has truly realized. 2.3 Deepening Culture Construction while Promoting Social Responsibilities Further Deepening Culture Construction of Company In 2011, Yuchai continued to deepen the promotion of strategies and related work; releasing Yuchai Group's new enterprise culture construction. The main activities carried mission—contributing partners and public trust more value—to out include: implementing Yuchai Group Enterprise Cultural further enrich and perfect Yuchai's ideas; organizing activities Strategies , breaking down and implementing the main points such as Yuchai workers visiting Yuchai , Yuchai in my heart of 2011 strategies; holding the meeting of enterprise culture signatures, all employees visiting Yuchai enterprise culture and oriented research work to discuss the dissemination and products displays etc to increase their collective sense of honor penetration of enterprise culture, the construction of suband belonging. Yuchai Group was awarded titles of Excellent culture, the construction of enterprise culture demonstration Enterprise Cultural Construction Unit and Demonstration Unit of base, the assessment of implementation of enterprise culture Enterprise Cultural Construction in 2011. 21 Responsibilities Governace Technical Quality Internationalization Market Six Oriented Culture Human Resource Value Interoperability Major Points for Enterprise Culture Oriented Research Work: (1) Narrowing four gaps in Yuchai Enterprise Culture: positioning gap, cognitive gap, construction gap, sustained construction gap; (2) Paying special attention to two key points , i.e., paying attention to market-oriented cultural construction and quality-oriented cultural construction ; (3) Stressing eight-word request in enterprise culture work: deepening, supplementing, consensus, consolidating ; (4) Each project team is requested to pay more attention to their strict observation of the overall scheme and promotion plan to organize their promotion in relation to the improvement of enterprise culture to a new level under the leadership of the expert panel(s). 22 Responsibilities Governace Yuchai Group Awarded Titles of Excellent Enterprise Cultural Construction Unit. 2011 Beijing Summit of Sino-foreign Enterprise Culture was held from 12th to 14th, at which Yuchai Group won the award of Excellent Enterprise Cultural Construction Unit , Mr. Yan Ping, chairman of the Board of Yuchai Group, won the title of 10 Model Characters Practicing Enterprise Culture Over 30 Years , and Mr. Guo Deming, Vice Secretary of Party Committee of Yuchai Group, won the title of 2011 Annual Advanced Workers of Enterprise Cultural Construction . Guo attended the summit and accepted the awarded prizes on behalf of enterprises and individuals, giving a speech about the Construction of Characteristic Culture to Promote Yuchai Realizing Enterprise Spanning Development which caused a strong reaction. Promoting Organizational Construction for Social Responsibilities Based on the performing social responsibilities, its crucial step towards the social responsibilities in the compiling and releasing reports on social responsibilities, systematical implementation and management, which has Yuchai established in 2011 the Social Responsibility Office laid a good foundation for the comprehensive integration of and set up special posts responsible for the promotion of social responsibilities into enterprise's activities. social responsibilities. This marks that Yuchai has made Yuchai Won Model Practice Award at 3rd Session of Global Compact Chinese Enterprise Social Responsibility Model Report On November 22, 2011, the 1st Conference of Sustainable Development and Competitive Power of Enterprise was held in Beijing. The ceremony of Model Practice Award for Chinese Enterprise Social Responsibility was held at the Conference and Yuchai Group, as the only one enterprise from machinery industry won this Award took part in the event. 23 III Sustainable Operation 3.1 Sale Income Realizing Jumping Increase 3.2 Sustainable Expanding Overseas Business 3.3 Satisfactory Progress of Projects Constructed 3.4 Developing Technology and Tamping Foundation 3.5 Continuously Leading Industrial Status 24 3.1 Sale Income Realizing Jumping Increase In 2011, influenced by China's domestic macro-policy of the total sales income of Yuchai Group, becoming another adjustment and other factors such as U.S. debt and European sector exceeding RMB 10 billion Yuan after the sector of debt crisis, market of China was weak and the internal engine. The sector of Yuchai Heavy Industry continued to be combustion engine industry appeared overall decline. Facing developed by leaps and bounds. In face of the influence of such severe market situation, Yuchai, under the guidance Japanese earthquake on engineering machinery market, it of management policy of start-assured, project-assured, actively developed new products and opened new market advantage-assured , made crucial efforts to realize a jumping potential in 2011, by which its sales income had the growth increase in sale income. rate of over 60%. The sector of special vehicles was adjusted In 2011, Yuchai Group's accumulative total sales income in its structure of products, whose market sales income of was RMB 42.921 billion Yuan, reaching a year-to-year 2011 was increased, reaching 24.08% of year-on-year growth of 15.86% smoothly exceeding RMB 40 billion Yuan, growth. Facing the downturn of automotive industry market, Completed 107.18 % of the goal signed with the government. the sector of auto parts were actively pioneering the external In 2011, Yuchai sold 716.9 thousand sets of engines, market in 2011 and its sales income was RMB 3.759 billion whose sales returned to the first position of the domestic Yuan, a year-on-year increase of 9.13%. The sector of field. For market share from 18.18% in 2010 to 19.23% in logistics and auto trade were perfected in their project 2011, there is a 1.05% increase. Then, the sectors of energy management and their annual sales income of 2011 was and chemicals sprung up, whose annual sales income of RMB3.232 billion Yuan, accounting for 7.53% of the total sale 2011 was RMB 10.519 billion Yuan, accounting for a quarter income of Yuchai Group. Yuchai Group Sales Income and Total Assets, Yuchia Group Sales Income Proportion of 2007-2011 Each Business Segment, 2011 Energy & Chemical Industry 24.51% Unit: RMB100 million Yuan 429.21 450 400 370.46 350 327.96 Engineering Machinery 300 271.97 10.86% 251.13 250 209.88 183.59 200 175.03 150 119.13 129.66 Logistics & Engines Automobile Trade 100 7.53% 47.81% 50 Parts 0 8.76% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） Special Purpose Vehicles Sales Income Total Assets 0.54% 25 Sustainable Operation Sales Income of Six Segments of Yuchai Group's Business in 2011 Energy and Engineering A u t o T r a d e SpecialEngine chemical Parts Machinery logistics purpose auto products Sales in 2011 205.19 105.19 46.6 32.32 37.59 2.32 (RMB100 million Yuan ) Increased Compared 0 61.38 60.41 -6.91 9.13 24.08 with Last Year （%） The 4600000th Engine as well as 300000th New Energy of Engine Yuchai Rolled Off the Assembly Line On December 18th morning, Yuchai group saw its successful referrals of 4600000th engine as well as 30000th new energy engine-China-V Gas Engine. rolled off the assembly line successfully. Huang Daowei, member of the Standing Committee of Party Committee of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Vicechairman of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Government, and Yan Ping, Chairman of the Board of Yuchai Group jointly pressed the start button of referrals and unveiled the event for this engine. This is a an important moment of milestone significance in the history of Yuchai, marking that engines made by Yuchai has not only seen the breakthrough in quantity, but furthermore, realized a leading position in professional new energy power, which has laid a solid foundation along its green development road. 26 Sustainable Operation 3.2 Sustainable Expanding of Overseas Business In 2011,without Cuba project, Yuchai realized an HFF6121GZ-4 a school bus was the record refreshing export of 27033 sets of engines, presenting a year-on-year Yuchai's largest export orders this year, which is also the increase of 2.45%. Yuchai's overseas supporting export saw biggest order of the Chinese vehicle exports. its speedy growth and its cooperation in relation to Dongfeng In respect to engineering machinery, it continued to system, Fukuda system and three major auto makers in export implement the construction and promotion of overseas market business. Besides, its cooperation relationship to Enyka, channels by successfully opening sales channels of Russia, Zhongtong and Xugong manufacturers in export cooperation Brunei, Turkey and several other areas and achieving larger has made new progress while there has been a substantial sales growth in Finland, New Zealand, etc., where there had growth in sales. Then, new breakthrough made into overseas been less sales in the past. Since 2011, Yuchai has its first engine markets developed, including not only the Russian where awarded with authentication of E-mark for exporting to European warmed up and South America that continued to grow, but engineering machinery, which symbolized that YC6J-T30 series also Myanmar, North Korea, Chile, Macau, West Africa and may enter Europe engineering machinery industry based on other potential markets entered in batch. In the Middle East, such authentication of E-mark while filling the blank of Yuchai's Saudi's order of 3000 sets of YC6A260-20 engine supporting engineering machinery in the European market. Engine Products Global Network Yuchai Headquarters Domestic Service Office Service Office Abroad and Sales & Service Network Technical Service Station/Accessories Monopoly Authorized Outlet Market share of Yuchai Engines has been the top of the list in the market of the motor of medium size trucks, passenger cars and 30.Wheel Loaders. Among them, the passenger car powers count for 55% domestic market, Euro III engines count for 50% of the domestic bus market. Yuchai service enjoys very high reputation among costumers. Its service semi-diameter is the shortest, the free service mileage is the longest and the reaction to requirement of the customer is the shortest. Now, Yuchai service offices have covered all provinces in China, the number of service stations are more than 2500. Yuchai sets up a telephone service short number 95098 providing service for 24 hours a day, which is the unique in the industry. 27 Sustainable Operation Construction Machinery Products Global Distribution Map Europe: Asia: Russia, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic, the China, North Korea, South Korea, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Portugal, Spain, Vietnam , Myanmar , India, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Philippines, Iran, Turkey, Ukraine, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Romania, Iceland, Maldives, Cambodia, Qatar , Lebanon Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Norway, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, San Marino, Greece, Ireland, Lithuania, Latvia, Americas: Cyprus, Estonia United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Barbados, Guadeloupe Africa: South Africa , Guinea, Congo, Egypt, Ghana, Reunion, Algeria, Oceania: Seychelles, Angola, Malta, Morocco New Zealand, Australia, Guam, Polynesian, New Caledonia Significant Breakthrough Yuchai Machinery Enjoys Reputation in Saudi Market in ASEAN In 2008, Yuchai supplied its engines, for the first time, The ASEAN market is the earliest overseas market for Yuchai. to Zhongtong’s 1,600 passenger coaches exported to Saudi Starting from 1960s, Yuchai diesels have been exported to Vietnam Arabia, which won the praise of the Saudi market. Since and now Yuchai has its possession of machinery units of more than then quite a lot of such supplies have been provided to 50000 sets in ASEAN, which have been deeply trusted by ASEAN Zhongtong’s coaches exported to Saudi Arabia with Yuchai countries. In October, Wu-Ding Angminwu, Myanmar's Vice engine. In 2011, Yuchai had its new breakthrough in Saudi President, led the Burmese government delegation visiting Yuchai’ market. After supplying 700 of its engines to Zhongtong’ s production lines of processing, assembling and testing of heavy s coaches for exported orders, Yuchai received in May machinery when they paid a visit in Yuchai. the export order of YC6A260-20 engines for 3,000 Ankai As a diesel engine production enterprise having the most passenger coaches exported to Saudi Arabia. Such an order extensive service network in China, Yuchai has built 13 overseas is the largest export order of Yuchai’s coach engines in 2011, offices, including five in ASEAN countries where there have been which has greatly promoted the development of Yuchai’ 30 Yuchai’s sales service network agents and nearly 100 service s overseas market of passenger coaches. Since then, Yutong networks, occupying 50% of Yuchai’s global sales service network bus, Large Golden Dragon bus and Small Golden Dragon agents. In addition, Yuchai has put 50% of its funds for overseas bus have also gradually established their relationship with brand construction into the ASEAN market and Yuchai sales of Yuchai in their export business overseas. products in ASEAN are accounted for half of Yuchai’s sales abroad. 28 Sustainable Operation 3.3 Satisfactory Progress of Projects Constructed Since 2011, Yuchai has carried out a number of major projects whose construction progress is satisfactory and actual effect has been obtained. South Locomotive & Yuchai, Successfully Developed.NY9320, China's First Hi-power Medium-speed Engine On March 7, 2011, there inaugurated in Beijing the medium-speed engine, which has fully independent South-Locomotive-Yuchai Sichuan Engine Stock Co., Ltd. intellectual property rights, independently researched jointly invested by a power-and-power union of Yuchai and developed by South-Locomotive-Yuchai Company, Group, China South Locomotive and Sichuan Nanjun. This passed its trial completion and won the first batch of newly established joint-venture will be engaged in the orders over one hundred million Yuan. This type of engine R&D of high-speed and medium-speed engines applied applies EFI technology, whose cylinder power is up to to four major fields of automobiles, locomotives, ships 500kW or above, which is featured by high power, high and land used power generation of western mainland. Its strength, low noise, low emission, low maintenance, long registered capital for phase-I is RMB 300 million Yuan service life and other advantages. It can use 700cst and the total investment amount is RMB 3 billion Yuan, by heavy oil, with fuel consumption only 183g/kW.h, and the which the annual output capacity of high speed will be emissions meet the TierⅡ Standard stipulated in IMO. 200000 engines while that of medium-speed 700 engines. All of these specifications have reached the international On December 18, 2011, NY9320 high-power advanced level. 29 Sustainable Operation Yuchai Marine Power Company Formally Put into Production and the Successful trial Actuation of its First Global W-6x35 Low-speed Diesel On July 13, 2011, Yuchai's first low-speed hidepth development , actively expands its industrial chain power machine power production enterprise in southern while actively participating in international competition. China, Yuchai Marine Power Co., LTD. was formally put The first global W-6x35 is a global brand new in production in its newly built assembling and testing design type of low-speed marine diesel engine produced workshop at Zhuhai City, Guangdong Province. On and completed at China's newly built factory, which has November 11, 2011, Yuchai Marine Power held a grand marked that the production of low-speed diesel engine actuation ceremony at Fushan Mountain Industrial Park of has achieved its breakthrough in south China to open Zhuhai for its first global W-6x35 low-speed diesel. a new chapter of the development of Chinese shipping RT-flex series of fully electric controlled CR common industry. At the same time, Yuchai Marine Power has rail used low-speed diesel is a project cooperated between also set two records in the history of Chinese shipping: and by Yuchai Marine Power and Wartsila Corporation, Setting the fastest global construction speed of low speed the world's top manufacturer of marine diesel engine. machinery industry, which only took eight months from 70% of China's shipbuilding sector has been relying on plant construction to operation put into production; and foreign suppliers to provide high-power diesel engines. setting the fastest global output speed of low-speed To promote the national shipbuilding industry, Yuchai machinery industry, which only took twelve months from Group positively responds the Adjusting and Revitalizing plant construction to successful commissioning. These two Plan of Shipbuilding Industry and, under the guidance of records have added new luminescent spots onto China's the strategic policy of Aiming one main sector integrating marine power sector. 30 Sustainable Operation “ Petrochemical is a sector featured by high investment, high risk and high return. When we are engaged in such a business, if we do not consider environmental protection, we would make money very quickly. Nevertheless, Yuchai pays much attention to social responsibilities and our orientation is in green energy chemicals. So “ far from the starting of the project, we have been attaching great Chen Qiuping, National May importance to wastewater treatment, resource conservation and Day Labor Medalist, President of safety in production. We should put funds into these aspects since Guangxi Yuchai Petrochemical social responsibilities can not be finished today or tomorrow and Co., Ltd. they require long term responsibilities and obligations. Successful Trial-production for Annual 200000-ton Megilp Project of Petrochemical Sector of Yuchai The annual 200000-ton solvent project of chemical sectors. Petrochemical sector is an important Petrochemical sector of Yuchai was constructed for 14 step of the three-step layout construction of Yuchai's months. Then, on September 7, 2011, it was succeeded petrochemical industrialization chain. The project took only in its feeding trial production to have product output that 14 months from the day when equipment were formally day and each product has its indexes meeting the national started to the day when it was completed and put into standards. The success trial-production of this project production, which is far shorter than 18 to 24 months of marks that formal production has been transferred from construction period, the average level for a petrochemical its construction into production and operation, which has project in the field. Therefore, the project has created been the first petrochemical enterprise put into production Yuchai Speed . By the end of 2011, the said petrochemical in Guangxi to support the undertaking of downstream company put into production for nearly four months industry of Petro China, thus laying a solid foundation for achieved its sales revenue exceeding RMB 500 million the subsequent development of Yuchai’s energy and Yuan. 31 Sustainable Operation 3.4 Developing Technology and Tamping Foundation Setting up the High-standard Technological Platform in the Industry Yuchai has been developed towards the building of core development, Yuchai has owned 5 major mature hydraulic technological brand instead of just developing new technological system technologies like loading sensor, cocurrent-flow control, products. At present, Yuchai has owned three core technological regeneration oil makeup, maintaining valve, straight-line treading platforms including Technological Platform of High-temperature Air valve and other advanced technologies like streamline and animal Combustion (HTAC), Technological Platform of Electronic Control emulation oriented design of mainstream appearance, intelligent and Technological Platform of Power Train and the technological electronic control system , etc.. platform of product structure is building, now. In 2011, Yuchai At present, Yuchai has led tide in China's technological developed China's first V-type engine and horizontal engine. innovation of auto power system and realized five aspects taking In respect to engines, Yuchai has owned several leading the lead: taking the lead in supporting China-made systems, taking new technologies like European-III ~ European-VI emission the lead in putting forward the idea applying electronic combination control technology, hybrid power train technology, twopumps to medium-weighted and light-weighted diesel engines, stage supercharging technology, air hybrid technology, diesel taking the lead in introducing after-sale diagnostic instruments, petrol mixed HTAC technology, emulation technology, posttaking the lead in achieving autonomous calibration, and taking the processing technology , etc.. In respect to engineering machinery lead in promoting and pushing heavy diesel engine SCR technology. Setting up the High-standard Trial Platform in the Industry On November 2nd, 2011, the national engineering laboratory engine technologies, to shorten the technological gap with that of of efficient energy-saving and environment-protection internal developed countries, and to strengthen the industrial competitiveness combustion engine, which represents China's highest level of internal of internal combustion engine industry and other sectors taking internal combustion engine industry, has been formally settled in Yuchai, combustion engine as core component, such as vehicle industry, whose construction is undertaken by the Yuchai Group. engineering machinery industry, farm machinery industry, shipping or It would be built to become a R & D institution in accordance with shipbuilding industry and other pillar industries of national economics. the highest standard and the highest level, which would be focused Such a laboratory built as the R & D platform where on solving industrial energy conservation, emission reduction, noise achievements researched and developed will be truly opened to all in reduction, lightweight, control technologies and other aspects of key the field, which would play an important role on the enhancement of common technologies so that the innovation achievements of Chinese China's internal combustion engine technology innovation capability independent intellectual property rights can be formed and promoted and the enhancement of core competitiveness of relevant industries. as well as the industrial technical route and the industrialization After its completion, it will become the first-class R & D experimental standards can be created to lead the industrial progress of base of the internal combustion engine industry, the first-class talent technologies, to improve the overall level of China's internal combustion training base and the first-class industrialization base. Yuchai's 5-dimensional Honorable Technologies Enjoying Continuous Escort of China's Coach Industry On May 12, 2011, the opening meeting for three-day 2011 Beijing Exhibition of International Road Transport, Urban Buses and Parts was held at the Chinese National Convention Center of Asian Sports Village in Beijing. Yuchai held its news conference there on the theme of strength• honorable enjoying about the upgrading power for buses and released four groups of powerful data and 5-dimensional honorable technologies, which have created new vitality into China’s bus power to continuously lead in the field in the future. 5-dimensional honorable technologies enjoying Yuchai’s technological strength and market experience condensed for years: 1) Two-stage supercharging technology succeeded in solving the power contradiction of high and low speed of engines used in highway passenger vehicles, which has created great value for nearly 100000 users every year; 2) Hybrid power train technology helping Yuchai become an outstanding supplier of China’s hybrid power train industry; 3) Intelligent electronic control system providing the core basis to intelligent vehicles; 4) Electric autonomous calibration technology by which Yuchai’s power for passenger vehicles would meet the customers’ diversification demands; 5) Application integration technology for the purposes to be more simple and more efficient. At present, the hybrid combination of Yuchai engine + generators + control system + transmission system + Yuchai conference on upgrading power for buses batteries has become standard and direction for cross-border supply of new generation of hybrid commercial applications. 32 Sustainable Operation Strengthening Cooperation between Enterprise, University and Research Unit while Establishing Technological Alliance Yuchai continue to strengthen technological cooperation of technology R & D center; On March 29, 2011, the forums of Internal domestic and international well-known universities and research Combustion Engine Institute of German Aachen University (FVK) institutes and increase R & D investment to create its core was held at Yuchai; And on June 17, 2011, Yuchai Heavy Industry technologies while promoting the development of Yuchai Group. and Beijing Science and Technology University jointly signed Yuchai has been maintaining a long-term friendly and their strategic cooperation agreement on overall development. cooperative relation with Bruner University UK, Tsinghua University, Conducting thoroughly the technological exchanges and services Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Huazhong involved in the field and the increasing the transformation of all kinds University of Science and Technology and Tianjin University. Yuchai of technological achievements researched and developed and and Guangxi University jointly signed their agreement on a strategic force of application and promotion, Yuchai has effectively realized cooperative frame to have a joint laboratory built by both parties the circulation of production, study, research and application, by on February 18, 2011. On March 18, 2011, Yuchai and Dalian which China's technological strength of internal combustion engines University of Communications jointly signed to build turbocharging has reached the international advanced level. 46 International Famous Germany Experts of Internal Combustion Engines Gathering at Yuchai On March 29, 2011 Annual Forums of Internal Combustion Engine Institute of German Aachen University (hereinafter called as FVK) was held at Yuchai; 46 German experts and professors like Franz Pischinger and Stefan Pischinger, who are famous in the world for internal combustion engines, gathered atYuchai.This was the first time for FVK to be held in Asia. FVK is composed mainly by learnt scholars led by two generations of Professor Pischinger and part of personnel related to the Internal Combustion Engine Institute. Two generations of Professor Pischinger are all international well-known masters of internal combustion engines, who have had their students everywhere. They and their students, FVK members, have made outstanding contribution to the international industry of internal combustion engines. All the professors of German Aachen University participating in the present activities are the top international experts representing Germany's top manufacturing and even the world’s most advanced design and development level of diesel power. This FVK currently has more than 300 members. 33 Sustainable Operation Remarkable Achievements in Scientific Projects Researched Yuchai has continuously increased the investment put into all its 26 declared projects among which, six projects including scientific research. In 2011, the funds investing research reached YC135 Platform Subject Baseboard Welding Deformation Process RMB 717 million Yuan, a year-to-year growth up by 32%. By Improvement and Robot Cutting Machine Dust-removed System 2011, Yuchai had undertaken_189 research projects, including Reform won first prizes and YC230LC Hydraulic Excavator was 9 national projects. On November 26, 2011, two of Yuchai’s awarded as the national key new product project. undertaken topics on heavy commercial diesel engine technology In 2011, Yuchai's performance of patents declared made development and car engine development technology smoothly another historical high record, and a total number of patents passed the technical acceptance organized by the Modern Traffic declared reached 414 items and 258 of them have been approved Technology Office of Plan-863 of the Ministry of Science and as patented items. Among these items, 283 were declared by Technology. At 2011 Guangxi Annual Heavy Industry Advanced Yuchai Stock Company and 199 of them have been approved as Process, Tooling and Excellent Equipment Reform Achievement patented items and 127 were declared by Yuchai Heavy Industry Evaluation Conference, Yuchai Heavy Industry was awarded for and 57 of them have been approved as patented items. 2004-2011 R&D Investment Unit: RMB 100 million Yuan 7.17 7 6 5.43 5 3.79 4 3 2.14 2.32 2.01 2 1.34 1.39 1 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） R&D Investment Number of Patents Applied and Awarded of Yuchai, 2004-2011 （Number） 450 400 350 300 250 200 100 50 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） Applied Awarded 34 Sustainable Operation 3.5 Continuously Leading Industrial Status Yuchai ranked China Enterprises' top 500 Yuchai ranked China Machinery's top 500 (12 positions ahead of the last ranking) (one position ahead of the last ranking) Ranked 215 in 2011 Ranked 19 in 2011 Ranked 227 in 2010 Ranked 20 in 2010 Ranked 265 in 2009 Ranked 21 in 2009 Ranked 257 in 2008 Ranked 22 in 2008 Ranked 269 in 2007 Ranked 24 in 2007 Ranked 249 in 2006 Ranked 25 in 2006 Ranked 255 in 2005 Ranked 37 in 2005 Ranked 334 in 2004 Ranked 39 in 2004 List of Awards and Honorary Titles Awarded to Yuchai Group in 2011 Sort Descriptions Awarding Rewards Units/Issuing Authorities 2011 China Enterprises' top 500 China Enterprise Confederation China Enterpreneur Association 2011 China Manufacturing Industry Top 500 China Enterprise Confederation China Enterpreneur Association 2011 China Machinery top 500 China Machinery Industrial Enterprise Management Association Comprehensive Equipment China Exploit Enterprise China Machinery Industry Federation Awards China Industrial Pioneer Demonstration Unit China Industrial Forum Organizing Committee 2011 Internal Combustion Engines and Parts China Industry Press Manufacturing Industry Leading Enterprise 2011 Guangxi Top 10 Enterprise Guangxi Enterprise and Entrepreneur Federation National Engineering Laboratory National Development and Reform Commission National Technical Innovation Demonstration Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Enterprise 2011 2nd China (Kunming) New Energy Bus Science & Technology Branch of China Urban Public transportation Technological Series Excellent Power System Award Association, Kunming Bus Group Co., Ltd., Hangzhou Bus Group Co., Ltd., Tianjin Bus Group (holding) Co., Ltd., Jinan Public Transportation Awards Corporation, Ningbo Public Transportation Corporation China Road Transport Cup' 2011's Best Coach Organizing Committee Parts Award 2011 Beijing Exhibition of International Road Transport, Urban Buses and Parts 2011 Guangxi Annual Special Scientific and The People's Government of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Technological Contribution Award China's 500 Most Valuable Brands World Brand Laboratory Users' Most Satisfied Internal Combustion Engine Industry and Market Research Institute of Machinery Industry Information Brand Research Institute China Auto Engine Enterprises' Ten-year China Auto Press Influential Brand Brand Awards 2011 China Top 10 Bus and Parts Brands China Urban Public Transport Association China Top 10 Engineering Machinery Industry China United Commercial Newspaper, Brand Magazine, Chinese Wisdom Influential Brands Research Association, China Management Science Institute, China International Brand Society, National high-tech Industrial Brand Promotion Council China Engineering Machinery Industry's Most Industral Economic Research Center of China Industry Newspaper Competetive Brands Association, China Competitiveness Forum Summit Organizing Committee National Machinery Industry Outstanding China Machinery Industry Quality Management Association, National Enterprises of Quality Management Activities Committee of Trade Union of China Machinery, Metallurgy, Building Materials, etc. National Model Enterprise for Harmonious Labor Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of People's Republic Relationship of China, All China Federation of Trade Unions, China Enterprise Confederation, China Enterpreneur Association, All China Federation of Management Industry and Commerce Awards 2011 Enterprise Culture Construction Excellent China Research Institute of Enterprise Culture Unit 2 0 1 0 2 0 11 N a t i o n a l E n t e r p r i s e C u l t u r e China Enterprise Confederation, China Enterpreneur Association Outstanding Achievements 2011 Global Compact·China Enterprise Social Global Compact China Network Center Office Responsibility Model Report Model Practice Award Educational 7th Session of China Top 100 of Enterprise China Top 100 of Enterprise Education Organizing Committee Award Education Advanced Unit 35 IV Green Manufacturing 4.1 Strictly Controlling the Emission, New Products Constantly Coming Out 4.2 Reusing Waste Materials through Remanufacture 4.3 Technological Innovation Improving Working Condition 4.4 Energy-Material-Saving Further Reducing Energy Consumption 36 4.1 Strictly Controlling the Emission, New Products Constantly Coming Out In 2011, Yuchai Group has made new progress in green product development and manufacturing, and has further Yuchai Engine's expanded its scale and types of green products. All the engine products of the company conform to China 4 Emission Control Emission has Standard. The company has started the mass production of been Reduced by 20% engines conform to China 5 Emission Control Standard and the batch production of hybrid engine facilities. Apart from these products, Yuchai Group has developed several green products. For example, Yuchai Group has completed the mass production Compared with of YC4DN natural gas engine, launched the first YC6L-60 vehicle diesel engine in China that conforms to Euro VI Emission Standard, that of 1990 and developed its first YC6T510L-C31 autonomous electronic controlled marine diesel engine. In the past two decades, Yuchai Group has reduced the carbon dioxide emission of its engine products. The sales volume of engines has increased 8 times compared with that in 1994, but the total emission of particles has basically remained the same as in 1994. Yuchai Group plays an important role in controlling dynamic pollution sources and has The Total Particles become the backbone force in pollution control. Emission of Yuchai Engines has Basically Remained the same as in 1990 The Changes on Emission of Yuchai Engines (g/kw·h) 800 600 400 200 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 （Year） CO2 Emission Sales and Particulate Emission of Yuchai Multi-cylinder Engines (Unit) (t) 600000 600 400000 400 200000 200 0 0 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 （Year） Sales of Engines Particles Emission 37 Green Manufacturing Leading Domenstic Level of Emissions Control Natioanl I Natioanl II Natioanl III Natioanl IV Natioanl V Natioanl VI 7 years in advance 4 years in advance 2 years in advance 2 years in advance Time of Yuchai Engines Put into Market Time of National Implementation of the Standard Hybrid Power and Gaseous Fuel Engines Dominated the Market Yuchai Group has started its R&D of mixed-power for buses in Beijing, and became the first enterprise in China for engine and gas engine since 1998. In 2001, Yuchai Group successfully developing the engine products that conform to Euro V launched the first LPG gas engine on the domestic engine market Emission Control Standard. So far, buses with Yuchai hybrid power in China. Currently, Yuchai Group has started the mass production and gaseous fuel engines are available in many cities in China, and commoditization of this product. This product is very popular including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Sanya and Chongqing. among the customers, and its sales volume has been increasing with over 80% market share on the domestic engine market. The by several times year on year, from only 119 in early 2009 to 30,000 mixed-power engine and gas engines have excellent professional currently. In May 2011, Yuchai Group successfully won the orders performance and take a leading position in China's passenger cars of National V Emission Control Standard natural gas engines industry. Two Gas Engines of Yuchai Displayed on the Exhibition of Achievements on Constructing Ecological Civilization in China On July 15, the Exhibition of the Achievements on Constructing Ecological Civilization in China & China-Guiyang Energy-Saving, Green Products and Technology Exhibition opened in Guiyang City of Guizhou Province. Two gas engine products of Yuchai Group, YC6G230N and YC6L260N were displayed. These two engines conform to China 4 Emission Control Standard and China 5 Emission Control Standard respectively. They are compressed natural gas engines (CNG/LNG), which were specifically designed for buses in cities. As the main products of Yuchai Group, these engines are energy-saving, environmental-friendly, reliable, with long service life and low fuel consumption. The tail-gas pollution of buses, as well as the fuel costs of transportation companies can be greatly reduced by these engines. The Yuchai gas engine is energy-saving and environmental-friendly. Thanks to these advantages, 175 gas engines were purchased by Guiyang PublicTransportation (Group) Co., Ltd on the exhibition.These engines installed on the company’s vehicles for transporting passengers on the 9th National Ethnic Minorities Sports Meeting. 38 Green Manufacturing Stunning Debut of Yuchai New Green Products In 2011, Yuchai Group has completed more than 140 R&D projects. The company has launched a lot of new products on the market. Among these the most representative products are shown as follows: The First Vehicle Diesel Engine in China that Conforms to Euro VI Emission Standard In 2011, Yuchai Group launched the first vehicle diesel engine in China that conforms to Euro VI Emission Control Regulation (refers to the EU 595/2009 Regulation) by cooperating with the State Key Laboratory of Internal Combustion Engine, Tianjin University. The Euro VI Emission Control Regulation, which will be implemented by EU in 2013, is regarded as one of the most stringent regulations in the world on controlling the hazardous emission of vehicles. Nowadays, many automotive engine manufacturers in Europe are developing similar products in accordance with this new regulation. The successful launch of this diesel engine signifies that Yuchai Group has been able to develop its own highly-effective clean diesel engines that conform to the most advanced standard. The company has grasped the most advanced core technology of diesel engine combustion, and can develop products as fast as those global leading corporations can. 39 Green Manufacturing YC6MK Diesel Engine YC6MK is a new-generation type of 10L automotive heavy diesel engine which was developed by Yuchai Group. This engine has an integrated cylinder head, with a uniformly-distributed cylinder block of 6 bolt holes. With this innovative design, the diesel engine not only conforms to the China 4 Emission Control Standard, but can also be updated in accordance with the China 5 Emission Control Standard and Euro 6 Emission Control Standard. This product was developed by strictly following the YCEDP procedure, and advanced technologies were introduced to increase its reliability. The B10 service life of YC6MK diesel engine can be extended to 1 million kilometers. Currently, this product has been launched on the market in batches. Compared with other 10L automotive diesel engines in China, this product has good fuel economy and outstanding dynamic strength. YC6LN-50 Natural Gas Engine YC6LN-50 is the first natural gas engine being developed by Yuchai Group that has adopted its solely-developed gas burning system and conforms to the Euro V Emission Control Standard. Based on the mature technologies of 4-valves YC6L diesel engine, this engine has outstanding performances that conform to international standards thanks to its optimization on control system, controlling strategies, burning system, and the adoption of lean combustion technology. The engine has adopted a self-developed selective reduction after-treatment system, which enables the product to conform to the Euro V Emission Control Standard, and has low gas consumption, low noise and high reliability. Yuchai Group has independent intellectual property rights on the design of YC6LN-50 engine, integration and strategic development of gas control system and after-treatment system. Yuchai Group is the first enterprise in China that has successfully developed a natural gas engine that conforms to the China 5 Emission Control Standard. 40 Green Manufacturing Yuchai C Series: YC6C Marine/Power-Generating Diesel Engine YC6C marine/power-generating diesel engine, a self-developed product of Yuchai Group, is the company’s first high power marine/power-generating diesel engine with a 200mm cylinder bore. The generator power of a single engine is 780kW. This engine has adopted cast iron crank shafts, high-intensity cylinder head made of high-quality alloy cast iron, highintensity cylinder block, impulse type exhaust pipes, and other light-weight and energy-saving technologies. Compared with the products under the same categories (200mm cylinder bore) in China, this diesel engine has the smallest size, lighter weight than the competitor’s products. Currently, the YC6C diesel engine has been launched on the market in batches. 4.2 Reusing Waste Materials through Remanufacture As a socially, environmentally responsible corporation, and a recycling and industrialization project of foundry Yuchai Group is willing to shoulder the responsibilities for waste sand. Thanks to these projects, the company has the society, environment and its employees. Yuchai Group generated good social and economic effects, saved much attaches great importance to the transformation of economic energy, reduced the consumption of raw materials, protected development pattern, and has made great efforts to develop the environment, created a huge amount of wealth for the circular economy. Yuchai Group is focusing on implementing company and the society, and provided clean, effective a remanufacturing project of engines and their spare parts, green power to its customers. Remanufacturing of Engines The remanufacturing project of engines is the most effective method for Yuchai Group to develop circular economy and can effectively reduce energy consumption and emission. In the past 3 years, Yuchai Group has been capable of disassembling and remanufacturing 30,000 engines and spare parts annually. Compared with a newlymanufactured engine, the design indicator of energy consumption is 68.42% lower on a remanufactured engine; the design indicator of energy consumption is 41.54% lower Remanufactured engine per ten thousand Yuan output. In 2011, Yuchai Group has provided several product series to its customers, including high quality cylinder blocks (short stroke engines), high workers. 1,044 tons of coals were saved and 3,000 tons of quality cylinder heads, basic engines (long stroke engines), carbon dioxide emission was reduced. Meanwhile, other remanufactured engines and spare parts with over 60 types. auxiliary factories were encouraged to implement projects The total output of these products is as highly as 4.8 billion on remanufacturing engine products. Another 200 new jobs Yuan. 95 million Yuan of economic efficiency was created were created by these factories, achieving good social and for the company. More than 200 jobs were created for the economic benefit. 41 Green Manufacturing Engine Remanufacturing Process Diagram Disassembly Cleaning by Category Remanufacturing and Processing Assembly Experiment 42 Green Manufacturing Recycling of Foundry Waste Sand Recycling and industrializing of foundry waste sand is The castings being produced by recycled sand have a another important project of Yuchai Group to ensure a smooth higher quality than those being produced by new scrubbed development of circular economy. In 2011, Yuchai Group sand, with fewer quality defects, such as grooves and completed its test base for the industrialization of recycled agglomeration. In 2011, the recycling and industrialization sand, in which 100 ton sand can be recycled every day. The project of foundry waste sand has created an output value of comprehensive utilization rate of waste sand has exceeded 3 million Yuan. 99.5%. The recovery rate of recycling sand accounts for 80% of the total volume of waste sand. All recycled sand products have passed the batch production verification by the casting plant of Yuchai, and conform to the company’ s specifications and requirements for resin sand. So far, the recycled sand can be sent back in continued, largescale amounts to the casting factory and casting center for a secondary usage. The recycled sand products of Yuchai Group take a leading position in China in terms of several comprehensive indicators. When using 100% recycled sand and adding the same quantity of resin into it, the strength of core sand equals to that of the new scrubbed sand. Mud core produced by reclaimed sand Recycling of Waste Water, Waste Oil and Waste Residue In recent years, Yuchai Group has been continually In 2011, 79.8% of industrial water can be repeatedly used. Water implementing circular economy developing projects involving consumption and wastewater discharge has been reduced to a in the recycling of waste water, oil and residue. In 2011, most great extent. Yuchai Group has also made great achievements units, subsidiaries and factories affiliated to Yuchai Group have in recycling waste oil and waste residue, and has made great completed the renovation of its water recycling system. After the achievements on this aspect. renovation was completed, more than 400 ton of water could be saved every day. After the wastewater was treated, it will be intensely treated for a second time (being filtered with quick sand and disinfected with chlorine dioxide). In this way, the recycled water will be up to the national standard and can be used in boilers and cupolas. The recycled water can also be sprayed in factories to reduce dust hazards. It can also be used for washing waste cleaning clothes and in the cooling test of diesel engines. Water consumption for each product is decreasing year by year. Sludge drying equipment Water recycling pipes Quick sand filter 43 Green Manufacturing Recycling of Waste Oil, Waste Residue and Waste Water in 2011 Item Unit Price of Recycling Quantity of Recycling in 2011 Amount of Recycling (Yuan) Waste Oil 2,850 Yuan/ton 360.515 ton 1,027,468 Waste Residue 18 Yuan/ton 11,696.20 ton 210,531.60 Waste Water 1.22 Yuan/cubic meter 27,589 cubic meters 33,658.58 4.3 Technological Innovation Improving Working Environment In 2011, Yuchai has made a structural adjustment were used in several manufacturing processes. In this way, on technique management. Yuchai has combined its the working conditions in work place were greatly improved. technological department with its material department, and The labor intensity of workers was greatly reduced. The has established a new technological managerial department. workers are no longer exposed to the occupational health New technologies, new equipment and innovative processes hazards and few of them will suffer from occupational were adopted in the entire manufacturing process. Robots diseases. Water-curtain Spray Painting In the past, a dry-spray painting method was used and quality of spray-painting on engines has also been for all engines before they left the Yuchai Engine Factory. improved to a great extent. The workers will not be exposed Air exhausters and filter screens will be installed in the work to occupational health hazards and eliminate the possible place to extract the paint spray out of the plant. However, this suffer from occupational diseases to workers. method has low efficiency and the filter screens will easily be clogging and harm the effects of air draft. Moreover, the paint powder on the filter screens might drop down on the Robot Spray Painting floor. Consequently, the air quality in the work place will be lowered and the working conditions will deteriorate, and it Yuchai Group has purchased two robots in 2011. Now the will be harmful to the workers' occupational health. In 2011, company has used robots to replace the artificial painting approach. a water-curtain spray painting method was adopted in the In this way, the diesel engine products made by the plant have factory. Air exhausters and water curtains have been used to an aesthetic, better appearance and improved the efficiency. The bring the painting spray rapidly away from the work place. In production efficiency of workers can be greatly enhanced. More this way, the air quality and the working conditions in the work importantly, the working environment will be greatly improved. The place have been greatly improved. In addition, the effects workers will be liberated from the bad working conditions. 44 Green Manufacturing Online Cleaning of Casting In the approach of online cleaning of casting, the process the manufacturing process. In this way, the labor intensity can of manufacturing and storage will be synchronized during the be reduced to a great extent. The collision between different entire process of core-making, molding, melting, cleaning castings can also be avoided and the quality of castings can be and storage. In this way, the castings will not be piled up or enhanced to a great extent. Potential safety hazards and pollution detained in the warehouse. A one-stream production can be can be reduced, and the sanitary conditions in working place achieved in which the castings' circulation cycle will be reduced can be greatly improved. The logistics process will be smoother, and it is unnecessary for workers to manually flip the castings and the on-site conditions will be cleaner. In summary, this over. Workers will stand on a most suitable working height in method has satisfied the demands of lean manufacturing, achieved a transition of management concepts from an outputoriented one to a quality-oriented one, and greatly enhanced social and economic benefit. Before improvement After improvement 45 Green Manufacturing Adopt the Lost Foam Casting Method Yuchai Group officially launched the first-stage construction for its lost foam casting production line on February 1, 2011. The capacity of the production line is 800 pieces/day and 10,000 ton finished products can be produced annually. The technological process of lost foam casting is easy to grasp, with low finishing allowance and high dimensional accuracy. There is no limitation for the shape and structure of castings. The labor intensity for workers is low. The working conditions are favorable. Much energy can be saved and much emission can be reduced during the manufacturing process. Lost foam production site 4.4 Energy-Material-Saving Further Reducing Energy Consumption In 2011, Yuchai Group further strengthened its efforts by 25.97% compared with that in 2006; water consumption on saving energy and raw materials. New technologies, reduced by 59.36%; coal consumption reduced by 57.60%. equipment and processes were adopted to save energy and Iron containers is gradually introduced and reused to reduce emission in the manufacturing process. In this way, the gradually replace the original package of products. Compared energy consumption, raw material consumption, and water with wood containers, iron containers are recyclable and can consumption for producing each engine was greatly reduced. reduce the consumption of wood and lower the pollution to the In 2011, the energy consumption ratio for each engine declined environment as well. Adopt Frequency Inversion Techniques for High Flow Water Pumps In 2011, Yuchai Group initiated a project to renovate and consumption in peak hours can be adjusted automatically to save energy for high flow water pumps. An intelligent motor ensure a stable pressure in the water supply line. The power electricity-saving system was installed. After the renovation, the consumption of water pumps can be greatly reduced by control system will determine how many water pumps will be satisfying the water flow of each water pump unit. 15%~25% of needed by examining the demands of water supply. The water electricity can be saved based on different working conditions. Adopt an Intermediate Frequency Induction Furnace Smelting Technology In 2011, Yuchai adopted an intermediate frequency loss was 2% and the energy charge was 60 Yuan for one ton induction furnace smelting technology. By adopting this of liquid iron. Compared with cupola, 26 Yuan/ton of liquid iron approach, no hard coke and limestone would be contained in could be saved in terms of the operational costs. the furnace charge. After charging materials into the furnace, the furnace charge will not be exposed to external impacts. Few dusts will be produced by the furnace. It will be relatively simpler to install a de-dusting system and it is unnecessary to pelletize the furnace slag. Therefore, less investment should be made on environmental protection facilities and it is beneficial for environmental protection. Scrap steel could be added during the smelting process in a single electric induction furnace. In this way, the costs can be reduced further. When this project was implemented in the factory, much space of storage yard could be saved, the surrounding environment of the factory would be improved, and the quality of liquid iron would be enhanced to a great extent. According to initial statistics, when smelting iron in a single intermediate frequency induction furnace, the power consumption would be 550kWh when each ton of liquid iron was heated to pouring temperature; rate of iron Intermediate frequency induction furnace 46 Green Manufacturing Adopt an Air Energy Heat Pump Scheme Yuchai Group began to implement a heat pump scheme to of an electric heating device under the same conditions. When replace coal furnace in 2011. Yuchai Group is the first machinery calculating from the production scale, 3 million Yuan could be manufacturing enterprise in China using heal pump on machining saved annually after reforming the heating facilities. Supposed works. The heat pump scheme proves to be successful in the that the service life of an ordinary device is 10 years (12 years past year. It has not only satisfied the manufacturing requirements according to the design of the factory), 30 million Yuan could of the factory, but has also saved much energy for the factory. be saved in the next 10 years. Heat pump can also reduce the The heat produced by a heat pump is 2.71 times higher than that emission of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide. Energy Consumption per Unit Product over Past 6 Years Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Consumption per Engine 151.86 136.30 150.41 119.80 112.59 112.42 Produced (kilo standard coal/engine) Water, Electricity and Coal Consumption over Past 6 Years Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water(cubic meters/engine) 6.57 3.21 3.55 2.23 2.39 2.67 Electricity (KWH/engine) 351.09 390.82 436.71 349.09 429.24 449 Coal(kilo/engine) 55.72 36.68 51.49 28.38 21.31 23.62 Note: Water, electricity, coal appeared a slight increase compared to 2000 due to the commissioning of Casting Center Project Phase I and an increase in dust removal equipment, etc. Energy Consumption per Ton of Molten Iron over Past 6 Years Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Consumption per ton of 308.00 311.18 315.51 294.15 265.22 276.29 Molten Iron (Kilo Standard Coal/Ton） Note: Energy consumption per ton of molten iron appeared a slight increase compared to 2000 due to the commissioning of Casting Center Project Phase I and an increase in dust removal equipment, etc. 47 V Employee Development 5.1 Safeguarding Employees' Basic Rights and Interests 5.2 Promoting Employees' Development Planning 5.3 Implementing Fair Distribution Mechanism 5.4 Reinforcing Safety in Production 5.5 Caring for Employees' Life 48 5.1 Safeguarding Employees' Basic Rights and Interests To fully protect employees' basic rights and interests, contracts with management, and have equal employment and Yuchai Group has always strictly implemented Chinese labor career promotion opportunities. The company respects and laws and regulations which include the Labor Law of the People's safeguards the other basic rights and interests of its employees, Republic of China , Labor Contract Law of the People's Republic including their legal rights in the labor hour, time for relaxation and of China Employment Promotion Law of the People's Republic holiday, salary allocation, social security, occupational security of China and Trade Union Law of the People's Republic of and health, and their legal rights to participate in the democratic China . The company also safeguards its employees' rights to management of the company. hold collective bargaining via the trade union, sign collective Workers Conference Representatives Actively Participate in Corporate Management Activities On February 26, 2011, the 3rd Session of the 16th Workers the end of the company's “12th Five-Year Strategy”. On the Conference was held by Yuchai Group Co., Ltd. Several topics conference, the factory leadership submitted their work report were discussed on the conference, including the specific for scrutiny, and the workers held a democratic appraisal for the measures for Yuchai Group to complete its “RMB 40 billion factory leaders. Yuan Goal” in 2011 and its “RMB 100 billion Yuan Goal” at 49 Employee Development Signing A New-round Collective Contract Yuchai Group has signed collective contracts annually with laws and regulations of China, and these contracts were drafted its employees in accordance with the Labor Law of the People's after careful discussions and seeking the opinions from the Republic of China' since the 1990s. Since 2008, collective representatives of workers. These contracts will play an important contracts have been signed every three years. In 2011, Yuchai role to improve the worker's labor and living conditions, enhance Group signed a new-round of collective contracts and special their enthusiasm towards work and working efficiency, guarantee collective contracts with all of its female employees. The new the legal rights of the company and its employees, and establish contracts were modified in accordance with the latest labor a stable, harmonious labor relation within the company. Yuchai Group's Total Number of Employees and its Composition in 2011 Number of Women Minorities Employees Number Percentage Number Percentage 23,454 4,935 21% 1,739 7.42% 50 Employee Development Reducing Labor Intensity by Applying Ergonomics In 2011, Yuchai Group applies the science of Ergonomics in its workshops. This measure aims to stimulate the worker's creativity, make their work more comfortably with satisfaction, and encourage them to study the problem of coordination between The old tool handle is short, time-consuming the machinery and the working environment. By applying Ergonomics, the environment in workshops has become more comfortable and employees' working conditions were greatly improved. The new tool handle is long, Labor-saving Encouraging Employees to Make Reasonable Suggestions In 2011, Yuchai Group has received 7,520 reasonable example, after the company adopted a small-scale reform pieces of suggestions submitted by its employees, in which 3,806 measure of building the facilities for the lifting and lowering were accepted by the company, and 557 small-scale reform functions of drive power head on imported final assembled floor measures, in which 516 were completed by the company. Thanks chain cars by self-inspection , the acceptability of repairing for to these useful suggestions and small-scale reform measures, small cars' drive power head has been enhanced from 30% to Yuchai Group has reduced its production cost and enhanced 90%. The Installing Stability Device on Final Assembled Small the workers' work efficiency and product quality. Meanwhile, the Cars project has stabilized the final assembly of small cars and workers' labor intensity was also reduced and the work safety enhanced the efficiency and quality of assembly. coefficient in the factory was enhanced to a great extent. For Number of Rationalization Suggestions and Small Scale Reform Measures, 2009-2011 Rationalization Suggestions Small Scale Reform Measures Year Submitted Adopted Declared Completed 2011 7,520 3,806 557 516 2010 4,428 2,588 495 471 2009 1,608 590 199 141 “ In 2010 and 2011, I was awarded as an Outstanding Worker in Yuchai Casting Factory for Giving Reasonable Suggestions for two consecutive years. 62 suggestions of mine have been accepted by the factory, more than a dozen of them are small-scale reform measures, covering various aspects, such as safety production, improvement of equipment, technical innovation, energy saving and emission reduction. These measures have reduced the labor intensity of workers and enhanced the company’s economic “ efficiency. In my opinion, individual wisdom is limited. More economic efficiency can Xuan Yi: An Outstanding be created only with collective wisdom. I wrote several articles based on my own Worker for Giving Reasonable experiences, such as My Opinions on Reform Measures , How to Build a High-quality Suggestions Maintenance Team and My Experiences on Making Reforms . I hope to encourage my fellow workers to provide better suggestions to the factory. 51 Employee Development 5.2 Promoting Employees' Development Planning Yuchai Group has made its “12th Five-Year” human assess their management level, effectively manage their total resource strategic plan, development goals and main tasks to amount of salary, modify their salary allocation system and provide more talents for the Group to implement its developing enhance their overall level of salary management. Subsidiaries strategies. Yuchai Group has provided regular guidance to its are encouraged to take measures to regulate their human subsidiaries on how to reserve and provide trainings to talents resource management. Legal risks should be avoided, and prepensely. Yuchai Group also helped these subsidiaries to a harmonious labor relation should be created in the entire enhance their level of performance management, scientifically organization. Improving Human Resources Management System The Yuchai Group made a human resources reserving exploration will be made on the new mechanism for reserving and a salary policy for recruiting human resources to guide the and nurturing reserve leaders. The existing career planning subsidiaries on reserving sufficient talents. An innovative talent measures will be modified to create a new mechanism for construction mechanism was made to explore new measures nurturing innovative talents. A new mechanism for nurturing highfor talent construction. A program was made and implemented level technical staffs will be established on the basis of a staff for selecting and training reserve leaders for the company. More career planning method and platform. Educated Background of Yuchai Employees Year MA and Above BA College 2011 1.77% 18.44% 24.09% 2006 1.02% 13.01% 17.35% Skill Structure of Yuchai Workers Year Senior Masters Masters Senior Medium Junior 2011 2.96% 12.62% 33.14% 37.28% 13.99% 2006 0.48% 4.20% 12.03% 26.70% 19.74% Establishing a Mechanism to Nurture Innovative Talents A new, all-round pattern for training talents will be master degree on engineering science. The company attaches established which covers diversified channels, different great importance to the employees' professional ethics, and categories and multi-levels. Yuchai Group has fully integrated has made great efforts to nurture high-level, application-based its educational and training resources, and actively expanded its and interdisciplinary talents, technical and managerial staffs. training channels. The company has strengthened its cooperation The company helps its employees to plan their careers, create with universities, trade associations and training institutions a comfortable, relaxed and harmonious working environment for nationwide. For example, in 2011, the company has organized them. In this way, the employees would live, study and work in an on-job training class by cooperating with Hunan University a happy mood. A harmonious development could be achieved and Guangxi University, which aims to help employees to get a between the company and its employees. 52 Employee Development The Yuchai Group's Employee Training, 2007-2011 Year Training Terms Training Persons/Times Total Training Hours 2011 1,934 262,083 1,212,417 2010 1,899 218,055 760,523 2009 1,668 154,211 755,055 2008 1,577 143,639 728,623 2007 1,455 120,279 527,594 Building an Outstanding Talent Team A situational education was carried out in the entire emphasis should be laid on decision-making ability, innovation company. All the managerial staffs and employees are required ability, implementing competence, coordination skills and to understand the current situations in social and economic balancing capability . In terms of team construction, the company development. In this way, they would be more confident to seize will encourage its employees to be devoted to their work, and the opportunities on market. A program was made to enhance enhance their innovation ability, implementing competence and the capabilities of leadership. Training sessions were provided communication skills . In terms of management construction, to managerial staffs and reserve leaders for enhancing their Yuchai has made a new strategic plan and a strict assessment professional skills. Factory leaders were encouraged to learn mechanism, to form a core management team in which every the valuable, advanced managerial experiences from other member would be prepared for crisis and unexpected situations, corporations and further enhance their management level. Much robust working style, and are willing to take responsibility. Improving the Mechanism for Introducing High-end R&D Talents A joint conference system was established to strengthen the communication between the Group and the returned overseas Chinese students, particularly those returned overseas talents who are originally from Guangxi Province. The company has organized a joint recruitment group to recruit high-end talents from abroad, and encourage them to work in China. By adopting these measures, Yuchai Group would further enhance its research and development capabilities in its factories and subsidiaries. Implementing a Career Development Channel that is Beneficial to Employees' Transverse Growth and Promotion In 2011, after several years' trial and promotion, Yuchai resource department if appropriate. In Yuchai Group, all highGroup began to fully implement its career development skilled talents who have made outstanding contributions to the planning for employees. So far, 15 post sequences, including company can be appointed as Chief Skill Masters, On-post Skills 35 subsequences have been established in the entire Group. Masters or Outstanding Skill Masters, and they would be paid Different standards have been established for different with high salary and enjoy appropriate benefit packages. Skilled sequences and levels. Employees would be able to understand workers can be appointed to managerial posts. For example, their own career development orientation according to these Lin Jiejun, a “master of testing machines”, is now the Deputy standards. Human resource authorities in the Group would Director of Yuchai No.2 Engine Plant. Su Wei, a skill master organize targeted training sessions for employees based on on electrical maintenance, is now the Deputy Manager of the these standards. Employees would be able to get a promotion Production Department. or work under different shifts under the instructions of the human 53 Employee Development Contestants of Yuchai Group Achieved Success in the Guangxi WULING Cup and YUCHAI Cup Professional Skills Contest WULING Cup’ and ‘YUCHAI Cup’, a professional skills contest was closed on Oct. 31. Yuchai workers achieved outstanding results on different subjects. Zheng Tianshu, Yang Jian,Mo Hanzhong, Deng Yuanyun, Li Haifei, Zhong Yuejiang, Lu Yaogan, Lu You, and Chen Xingyu achieved a good result at pre-nine places in fork lifter project. Liang Hua won the car welding project in fourth, and at the same time, Yuchai captures forklift worker groups first, automobile industry group second. The Glory of Industrial Workers: Yuchai Technicians Exhibit Their New Technical Achievements On Dec. 7, 2011, Yuchai Group held a technicians exhibition to display the latest achievements of its technicians. 29 material technical objects and 28 categories of photographs were displayed on this exhibition. Technicians displayed their excellent machinery operating skills to visitors. Yan Ping, Chairman of the Board of Yuchai Group, attended the exhibition and praised the achievements of technicians. He said, “I appreciate the outstanding achievements made by our industrial workers and skilled masters. Based on our existing institutional foundation, we would establish a series of incentive mechanism that will advance with times. Under such mechanism, all industrial workers and skilled masters would have the same respect and payment just as our engineers and R&D experts had.” 54 Employee Development 5.3 Implementing Fair Distribution Mechanism Yuchai Group has established and implemented a relatively entitled to the salary, which is no less than that of a middle level perfect allocation system based on the workers' performance manager. Yuchai Group will assess the values of all posts and and capabilities. Yuchai Group has distributed allowance for further optimize its salary structure. Meanwhile, the company will its scientists and engineers on professional technical posts, strengthen the control of the secondary salary allocation among incentive annual pension to technical staffs, and commission different units. An internally equal, externally competitive salary reward to workers who have invented new products. 'Yuchai allocation system will be established to encourage the sound Reword Project on Technological outcome of High Skilled development of the enterprise. This system should be established Tanlent', and 'Yuchai Group Measure on Outstanding Technology on the basis of various factors, including the value of posts, Assessment was made for high skilled talents and their output. individual capabilities, performance, and the salary level on the Thanks to this measures, Yuchai's outstanding skilled masters human resource market and in the entire industry. Yuchai Group Rewarded Million Yuan to High-skilled Talents In 2011, Yuchai Group once again spent RMB million Yuan to reward its high-skilled talents. This measure aims to praise the great achievements that the ordinary skilled workers have made to the company. It also aims to encourage talented workers to enhance their professional skills on their posts, enhance their skills by learning from other senior workers, and teach their own professional skills to their apprentices. In this way, an innovative labor group would be built in the factories. Talented, high-skilled workers would be more respected by others. A technician team with high skills, creativity and good professional ethics would be built in which everyone would be able to display their talent and make more contributions to the factory. 23 projects were awarded the High-skill Talent Award on Technological Achievements . Among these projects, the Improvement on Core Setting Methods , which is invented by Li Guohua, the Optimizing the Manufacturing Techniques of Hydraulic Excavator Arm , which is invented by Ou Jinyong from Yuchai Heavy Industry, and the Reducing the Rejection Rate by Turn-broaching Machine , which is invented by Liang Jiajian from Yuchai Cold Processing Factory, won the first prize. 6 projects won the second prize, e.g. the Molding Application of Lost Foam , which is invented by Chi Zhaojiu from the Craft Equipment Factory; 14 projects won the third prize, e.g. the Enhancing the Performance of Second Cylinder Body Line OP90 by Deep Hole Drill , which is invented by Lin Yongxian from Yuchai No.2 Engine Works; 5.4 Reinforcing Safety in Production Improving the Company's Existing Safety Production System and Enhance the Worker's Safety Awareness Safety production, occupational safety and occupational safety production in all workplaces. Organizations should be health is not only closely related to the manufacturing techniques, established and the allocation of staffs should be further improved. procedures and environment of a company, but also related to An additional security officer should be appointed to each working the life, safety and physical health of workers. Yuchai Group has team in the factory. The existing security system should be attached great importance to occupational safety. Yuchai has further improved by strengthening supervision, examination and taken effective measures to ensure the worker’s safety and modification. The security funds should be included in budget these measures proved to be very successful. In 2011, Guangxi management to ensure the investment of security facilities. More Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd has implemented a “Work efforts should be made on on-site safety management. A security & Implementation Program for Safety Production” to further officer should be appointed to supervise the safety conditions in all strengthen its standards on production safety and product quality. the functional areas in the company. All safety devices should be The safety concept that “everyone should be responsible checked and maintained by professional technicians on a regular for safe production” should be implemented. The workers’ basis. A personal responsibility system should be made and safety awareness should be enhanced on an ideological level. everyone should fulfill their own responsibility on safety. Diversified Positive actions should be taken and specific measure should be training sessions on safety production should be provided to made to implement safety measures in the factory’s work places. employees. Emergency drills should be organized on a regular A leadership working group should be established to ensure basis. 55 Employee Development Laying Emphasis on Enterprise Security and Precaution “Precaution should be taken as the priority and effective measures should be taken in various sectors.” Yuchai Group has adhered to this concept and laid much emphasis on constructing a safety culture within the company and enhance the employees' awareness towards safety. Strict measures have been taken on safety management and the following measures have been taken to ensure the enterprise safety: 1．Measures have been taken to prevent “flood, electric shock, fire and burglary” and eradicate potential safety hazards. 2．Fire department has been invited to provide trainings to employees on theoretical knowledge and how to use fire-fighting equipment. 3．Fire drills have been organized on an irregular basis for security guards and employees. 4．In addition to its existing fire-fighting equipment, the company has built more effective fire-fighting facilities within the factory facilities. 5. A security system has been constructed to achieve a seamless defense network. In 2011, Yuchai Group has eliminated all the potential safety created a health document for each employee, particularly for hazards within the company and has achieved all of its security those workers who were exposed to the hazards of occupational targets. Meanwhile, the company has fundamentally controlled disease. In this way, the company would better supervise the the hazardous factors of occupational disease from the sources occupational health of its employees. In 2011, no fatal accidental by actively adopting new technologies, equipment and improving work injury, fire disaster, fatal plant accident, motor vehicle the working conditions of employees. Yuchai Group has also accident and occupational disease were detected in the factory. Safety Indicators in 2011 Indicator Target Performance Note Fatality 0 0 Major Accidents（Equipment and Fire） 0 0 Major Injury ≤0.30‰ 0 Minor Injury ≤3‰ 0 Correction 100% 100% Discharge of Wast Air, Water and Slag Reach the Mark Reach the Mark Workers handling toxic and hazardous Occupational Diseases Prevention Rate 100% 100% materials undergo full medical examination Strengthening Hazardous Material Management and Risk Assessment The company has strictly followed the systems, rules and assess hazardous materials in its various affiliated units, and regulations for managing hazardous materials, including and manage these hazardous materials by making procedure the Control Procedures for Flammable & Explosive Chemical documents, management programs and emergency response Materials , Control Procedures for Wastes and Control plans. The company's hazardous disposing departments also Procedures for Waste Oil . Appropriate environmental cooperated with professional units that are qualified for disposing management system and occupational health management hazardous wastes in accordance with environmental laws and system was established by the company and was under constant regulations to dispose hazardous wastes properly, without update. The company has also made great efforts to identify causing any secondary pollution. 5.5 Caring for Employees' Life Yuchai Group adheres to a People-oriented principle. sporting events to enrich workers' amateur life. In addition, the Yuchai Group takes care of the employees' life and development, company also annually held sunset red Old-Age Culture and by providing comprehensive services to all employees. For Art Festival for retired workers. All these diversified, rich and example, the company has established a canteen for employees' colorful recreational activities and initiatives greatly benefit Yuchai lunch during their working hours, organized youth culture and employees and fully stimulated their enthusiasm to love home Art Festival, family culture and Art Festival and other various and work hard for the company. 56 Employee Development Enriching Employees' Spare Time via Sports and Recreational Activities Employees enjoy rich leisure activities. Except organizing events. In addition, the Trade Union of the Group also weekly matches on football team, basketball team, volleyball and projects popular movies in the Cultural Center for all employees swimming teams, the company also organizes festival celebrating and their family members and holds various reading activities so games and garden-visiting activities on the important celebrating that enrich cultural life of Yuchai workers. To Organize Health Rehabilitation and Study Visit for Outstanding Employees In recent years, Yuchai Group has organized its model make more contributions to the company. In 2011, 200 Yuchai workers, outstanding technical staffs and advanced workers, who Group organized advanced technicians and workers, advanced have devoted to the company on ordinary frontline posts, to go CPC members and outstanding team leaders to Deqing County out for a trip of health rehabilitation and study. This approach aims of Guangdong Province for a rehabilitation and study trip. This to stimulate the enthusiasm of the staffs and encourage them to shows the company caring for its employees. Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd Awarded A Model of National Harmonious Labor Relation Enterprise On August 15 and 16, 2011, a commendation and experience-exchanging conference opened curtain in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. In the meeting, Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd was awarded A Model of National Harmonious Labor Relation Enterprise . 8 enterprises in Guangxi Province have won this honorary title. Li Tiansheng, Deputy Secretary of CPC Committee of Yuchai Group and Secretary of CPC Committee of Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd, attended the meeting and accepted the award on behalf of the company. He also made a speech titled “Build a Harmonious Enterprise by Taking 4 Drastic Measures”on behalf of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. 57 VI Promoting Services 6.1 Service System Further Improved 6.2 Service Network Further Expanded 6.3 Special-Service Succeeded in Supporting Service Brand 6.4 Skill-Contest Promoting Service Level 6.5 Satisfaction Improved by Active Service 58 6.1 Service System Further Improved Yuchai Group provides all-round service to its comprehensive efficiency of service, in 2011, Yuchai Group customers. First, Yuchai Group has initiatively enhanced its completed a new building of customer service center. In consciousness of service and its overall image of service. this way, Yuchai Group's comprehensive service efficiency, Second, Yuchai Group has moved forward its service position as well as its customer service capabilities was greatly by strengthening communicating with its service objects, enhanced. As a comprehensive service base of Yuchai understanding the customer's needs and providing highGroup, the new customer service building covers an area quality service to them based on their needs. Third, Yuchai of 42-mu, with a floor space of 12,000 square meters, and Group has enhanced its speed of response, focused on combines several functions together, including office, training the specialized services to its customers, and enhanced and technical analysis. its service quality on grand events. To strengthen its Yuchai's newly completed customer service center building To Enhance Service Quality by Providing Training to Ten Thousands of Service Station Staffs Yuchai Group has organized an internal training program within its service stations nationwide, which aims to fully implement the company’s service concept and requirements, and enhance customer satisfaction by making a targeted improvement on service quality. From April 1 to July 31, 2011, a meticulously organized internal training program was launched within 2,263 service stations nationwide. Ten thousands of staffs have attended the training sessions, which aim to enhance their service quality and customer satisfaction. The contents of training include: Analyze what kind of problems existed in customer satisfaction and how to solve these problems; what are the specific measures to enhance service quality and customer satisfaction, and examples should be given to explain these specific measures. The training program was divided into two phases: Phase 1 includes lectures, discussion meetings and written tests; phase 2 includes statistics, return visit, examining and solidifying the effectiveness of training. 59 Promoting Services 6.2 Service Network Further Expanded In 2011, Yuchai Group's customer service capability made great efforts to construct its capabilities of electronichas been rapidly enhanced. So far, the company has controlled services. After several years' efforts, Yuchai Group established 2,757 service stations nationwide, providing has established 1,240 electronic-controlled service stations delicate, sophisticated services to customers. The company's nationwide. The company's service capabilities on electronicservice category covers trucks, passenger trains, mechanical controlled equipment have been greatly enhanced. Yuchai engineering, agricultural engines, and marine electric Group is also stably expanding its overseas service network equipment and passenger cars. A 4-tier management mode in the world. So far, the company has established 13 offices, has been applied in all service stations, providing diversified 77 service agencies and 132 service outlets in 32 countries services to customers via key service stations and being in South-east Asia, Middle East, North Africa, East Europe, supported by professional service stations. Yuchai Group has Central Asia, Central and South America. The Change Chart of Number of Yuchai Global Service Stations in Recent Years (Number) 2,757 3000 2500 2,303 2000 1,476 1,369 1500 1000 1000 500 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） The Number of Yuchai Global Service Stantions Yuchai technicians are guiding Yuchai Cuba service station staff to installate Yuchai engine 60 Promoting Services 6.3 Special-Service Succeeded in Supporting Service Brand Yuchai Group Initiates “Heavy Machinery Service Month” In May 2011, Yuchai Group initiated its “Heavy Machinery Service Month” nationwide. This event has been initiated in large scale with all service stations nationwide being participated in this grand event. The executives of Yuchai Group organized 10 working teams to visit building sites, mines and wharfs where the users are most concentrated in, and held user’s forums in 10 regions in China, such as Qinghai and Shanxi province, to provide on-field question solving services, track down services for users. 15,000 users have benefited from this series of special service campaigns. To Serve the Farmers in Summer Harvest by Providing Agricultural Engines In May 2011, a cross-regional machine harvest ceremony for harvest by providing agricultural engines and machines to the “three-summer” wheat was held in Tongzhaipu Town of Tanghe farmers. The company has fulfilled their promises by taking specific County, Nanyang City, Henan Province. Yuchai Group attached actions for supporting the summer harvest. So far, the reserve of great importance to the annual summer harvest in rural areas. The Yuchai agricultural engines has exceeded 100,000. The agricultural Yuchai Service Center, together with its 20 branch offices and 103 machinery products of Yuchai Group have become the preferred service stations nationwide, provided warm support to the summer dynamic power of farmers nationwide. 61 Promoting Services 6.4 Skill-contest Promoting Service Level In 2011, Yuchai Group held its 1st Service Skills Contest, including principles of internal combustion engine, failure with 1,060 contestants nationwide participated in the contest. diagnosis and troubleshooting for internal combustion engine, All the participants are from the service stations nationwide BOSCH High Pressure Common Rail System, DELPHI High that are qualified for the maintenance of Yuchai electronicPressure Common Rail System, principles of close-coupled controlled engines. After a strict qualification confirmation and pump, failure diagnosis and troubleshooting. Contestants selection, 142 service engineers participated in the selective have demonstrated their excellent professional skills to the trials and 38 of them were selected to the finals. On the judge panels, as well as the high service standards of Yuchai finals, engineers competed with each other on several items, Group to its customers. The elegance of the players in the game scene 6.5 Satisfaction Improved by Active Service In 2011, Yuchai Customer Service Center has made Yuchai Service Satisfaction Index over the Years great efforts to enhance its level of customer satisfaction. (Point) Actions were taken from factors, such as service attitude, efficiency, promptness and management, which are critical factors that will determine the level of customer satisfaction 100 in the end. The Yuchai Customer Service Center has made a year-round working plan to enhance its service 95 standards and implement effective policies for supervising its service quality. 90 87 84.2 85 78.4 78.5 80 77.6 75 70 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011（Year） 62 Promoting Services Yuchai Machinery Co.,Ltd Awarded “The Most Satisfactory Internal Combustion Engine Brand among Customers” In October 2011, the 4 th (the 5 th Outreach) Leadership Session of China Internal Combustion Engine Industry Association & Internal Combustion Engine Summit, were held in Beijing. Due to the excellent technology, quality, quick service and satisfaction of the customer, Yuchai Group was awarded “The Most Satisfactory Internal Combustion Engine Brand among Customers”. 63 VII Harmonious Communities 7.1 Boosting Regional Development of Economics and Social Communities 7.2 Rewarding Social Communities 64 7.1 Boosting Regional Development of Economics and Social Communities Yuchai Group adheres to its core philosophy Green contribution. Among these parks, Yuchai Heavy entered Development & All Win in Harmony . The Group has not Industry concentrated area in north region Luchuan only achieved outstanding performance in leading the county, and strongly drive industrial economy development development of national machinery industry, but made in the region, makes it become a major production site. important contributions to promoting local economic The machinery industry in Luchuan developed from few to development. 28 companies in few years, the industry output increased Based on Yuchai's industry and brand advantage, from few hundred million to 7.5billion, account for 40% of the industrial parks such as Luchuan Yuchai Industrial total industry output in the county. The industry become Park, Yuchai heavy Industry Park, Bobai Yuchai Assort the NO. one pillar industry in the country and employees Industry Park were built up, they all made a important are over 10,000. Yuchai Industrial Park Accelerates Urban-Rural Integration in Yulin City In the past five years, Yuchai Industrial Park is Promoting Social and Economic Development in Guangxi undergoing rapid development. The total area of the Province”. The Yuchai Industrial Park will further industrial park is nearly 6,000-mu. RMB 6 billion Yuan implement Yuchai Group's strategy: “Making the Yuchai of investment have been made in the park as fixed Group stronger and Yulin City more prosperous”. It will assets. The industrial park has mature supporting also play a more and more important part in accelerating facilities, including roads, water pipes and electricity. the social and economic development in Yulin City. Currently, among the 46 projects being implemented in the industrial park, 25 have been completed and put into operation, with a total contracted investment of RMB 8.462 billion Yuan. In 2011, the gross industrial output value has reached RMB 29.03 billion Yuan and the industrial added value was RMB 6.102 billion Yuan, with a yearon-year growth of 32.57% and 7.2% respectively. So far, Yuchai Industrial Park has become a State-Level Demonstration Base for Innovative Mechanical Industry, a key industrial park and urban functional area in Yulin City, a representative area for coordinating urban-rural development and integration, a Class-A Key Industrial Park in Guangxi Province, and a critical industrial park being mentioned in the “Opinions of the State Council on Create More Jobs for the Society Yuchai Group has been developed rapidly and annually. Yuchai Group has not only provided stable jobs has created a huge amount of high-quality jobs for the to its employees, but also made active contributions for Yulin city. From 2005 to 2011, Yuchai Group has created constructing a harmonious society in Yulin City. 5,673 jobs for the society, with 945.5 jobs being created New Job Creation by Yuchai over the Past Seven Years Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Num. of Jobs 1,076 496 872 0 1,258 1,222 782 65 Harmonious Communities 7.2 Rewarding Social Communities Yuchai Group actively supports and participates in its core ideology: “To achieve harmony and a win-win community construction. The Group has implemented situation through green development” and its concept of a community policy of “mutual construction, resource humanities: “philanthropy and wellbeing”. sharing, mutual benefit through mutual aid” to manifest Donate Money for Education Yuchai Group continued to actively donate money for helping 500 poor girls in Yulin City to go to school. Yuchai educational assistance. In 2011, Yuchai Group has been Group has also provided 833,000 RMB to 357 employees donating educational-assistance funds to the “Spring as financial aids for their children to finish school. Yuchai Buds Program” for 6 consecutive years. Since the “Spring Group has set up a scholarship in Haerbing University and Buds Program” was launched in 2006, so far, Yuchai Tianjin University, providing scholarship to students who Group has donated 1.53 million RMB to the program, are outstanding both on study and behaviour. Yuchai Group Held the “2011 Spring Buds Program” Donation Ceremony Yuchai Group held its “2011 Spring Buds Program” donation ceremony at Yuchai Cultural Center. Li Tiansheng, Deputy Secretary of the Party Committee of Yuchai Group, attended the ceremony and donated 150,000 RMB to the representatives of the municipal Women’s Federation. He also donated stationery and books to 51 “Spring Buds Girls” from various counties and districts in Yulin City. Each girl received donations worth 300 RMB. After the ceremony, these “Spring Buds Girls” were invited to visit the factory of Yuchai Group and the product display area for the 60th Anniversary of the founding of Yuchai Group which improved their understanding of the company. “Spring Buds Girls” visited the factory of Yuchai Group 66 Harmonious Communities Volunteer Services Yuchai Group is always encouraging its employees to home schooling service to the children of Yuchai Group's participate in volunteer services. Many young employees employees, give volunteer medical consultation to elderly enthusiastically responded the company's initiative by people or give them a haircut free of charge. So far, more organizing their own volunteer groups. In their spare time, than 80 employees have joined the volunteer groups. 505 volunteers would visit childless elderly people in nursing volunteer activities have been organized in 2011, 1,637 homes and orphans in charity houses, offer “one to hours of volunteer service were provided one” help to poor families in the community, provide International Volunteer Day: Yuchai Volunteers in Action On December 5, which is the 24th International Volunteer Day , volunteers from Yuchai Cold Machining Factory visited the rural areas of Yulin City and provided volunteer services to elderly people. The volunteers, led by Chen Tinghan, the leader of the volunteer group, and Qin Shoudun, the deputy leader of the volunteer group, departed from the factory at 8:30 a.m. They went to Renhou Township and the locomotive depot respectively for visiting the elderly people.Chen Tinghan and his volunteers sent milk and noodles to elderly people in Cenmao Village of Renhou Township. They also helped the elderly to open up soils in vegetable fields. The other volunteer group, led by Qin Shoudun, sent cotton-padded shoes and clothes to the elderly people, ensuring them to live comfortably in winter. Volunteer team member grow vegetables for the elderly Volunteer team visited the elderly 67 VIII Outlook of 2012 68 Overall Objective In 2012, Yuchai Group ushers in the second year for company, accelerate its steps of personnel construction, implementing its “Twelfth Five-Year Strategy”. Yuchai promote its product brands by implementing its strategic Group has accumulated much strength over the past 60 planning, further enhance its overall management level years and based on the solid foundation of this 60 year’s and ensure that it matches the company’s pace of power, the company has laid a solid foundation for future scale expansion. We are not afraid of difficulties. We will development. Yuchai Group will continue to observe the work hard despite much difficulty and we will overcome state policy of “Scientific Outlook on Development” the difficulties as best as we can. We will try to make our and implement its strategy of “making the Yuchai Group sales revenue exceed 46 billion RMB in this year, and stronger and Yulin City more prosperous”. Meanwhile, make more contributions to the social and economic Yuchai Group will explore new forms of investment for its development in Yulin City. projects, nurture new points of economic growth for the General Idea Yuchai Group’s strategic positioning, Two product the principle of solidifying our foundation and focusing on chains and diversified industrial clusters should be the key points . We would further improve our standard of taken as our guidance. Yuchai Group’s management business operation, strengthen our existing management principle, Improve product quality, maintain business system and enhance its efficiency. Meanwhile, we would growth, and stimulate development by widening make more efforts to supervise the implementation of our sources , should be observed by everyone to implement key projects, make innovation on our investment forms the Group’s functional strategies in various business and improve our industrial layout. In this way, we would sectors and subsidiaries. In 2012, we would adhere to our make more progress and achieve a breakthrough in our management principle and business objective, as well as daily business operation. Management Principle and Business Objective Management Principle: Improve product quality, Business Objective: The sales revenue would maintain business growth, and stimulate development by exceed RMB 46 billion Yuan, and the total profit tax would widening sources. increase in pace with the sales revenue. 69 70
