14 August 2012 Message from the Chairman Advancing Possibilities Dear Global Compact Stakeholders, It’s my pleasure to share with you our activities in the last year following the Global Compact principles. From the beginning of the journey with Global compact, ACI has played significant role in improving the living standard of local community by employing its business competencies in an efficacious manner. ACI believes that best way to improve the living condition of country people is to help them in improving their knowledge and skills. Fortunately ACI with a large pool of technologically qualified people is in a position to impart training, share knowledge and through allowing community in improving their own status. With this aim in mind, our “Adopt-A-Village” program has passed two successful year. We are now in a position to use our experience to expand this program in other 10 villages. It gives one great pride and intense satisfaction to announce that the evaluation of the pilot project “Adopt-avillage” has successfully completed and now ACI is going to expand the project into ten more villages of the country. We plan to continue this sustainable project along with other CSR projects . United Nation Global Compact ACI hopes to enhance its sustainable development projects by embracing all the principles of UNGC. Best Wishes, Communication on Progress, July 2011 June 2012 M. Anis Ud Dowla Chairman, ACI Limited About ACI Limited Scope of the COP 2011-2012 Advanced Chemical Industries (ACI) For the period of July 2011-June 2012, the scope of the Communication Limited is a conglomerate that has on Progress is directed towards enhancing the awareness programs relatspread its wings in pharmaceuticals, ing to healthcare, development of the community and the surrounding consumer, commodity , agricultural environment. ACI Limited concentrated on the principles relating to huand packaging products. It also has man rights and environment, for exampleextended into retail business. Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internaWith seventeen SBUs and eight functionally proclaimed human rights. tions, it has a employee strength of around eight thousand. The yearly Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment revenue of the company is more than and occupation. USD 216 million. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Inside this issue: Contact Point: Special points of interest: Muallem A. Choudhury Employment Generation 2 Global Hand Wash Day 3  ACI will Execute Adopt-a-Village project in Executive Director 10 more villages. ACI Limited Raising Awareness for healthy and safe life 3  ACI generated employment for 7657 245,Tejgaon I/A, Adopt-a-Village 4 people. Dhaka, Bangladesh My Health (Amar Shashthya) 6  Amar Shashthya served 1207 people in E-mail: edfp@aci-bd.com Training for Farmers and Mechanics 6 Marshlands (Haor).  Around 1017 patients got medical service from medical camps in Ghonapara. Measures for Anti-corruption Compliance 7 Employment Generation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights In a country like Bangladesh where per capita income is only US $1400, getting a job means not only ensuring his/her better living condition but also ensuring education and health facilities for the children and the family. Bangladesh is a developing country starving to achieve the status of middle income country by accelerating the economic growth and poverty alleviation. It has experienced a solid average annual growth of 6.3 percent between 2004 and 2008. In fiscal year 2009, despite the global financial crisis, Bangladesh recorded 5.9 percent real GDP growth. In 2011 the GDP growth rate increased to 6.7 percommunity development, cent. Three fifths of Bangwomen empowerment ladeshis are employed in and youth development the agriculture sector and through the massive emthree quarters of exports ployment generation prorevenue comes from gargram. ments industry. For a country like Bangladesh, ACI not only generates employment is the key employment but also cretool for bringing economic ates better working envigrowth and reducing povronment for the employerty. ees. It successfully provided a secured work Since its establishment, place for both male and ACI has been working for the socio-economic developfemale employees. ACI believes in the talent of all emment of the country by taking initiatives to improve the ployees. So it motivates, encourages and appreciates quality of life of the common people. ACI constantly enthe new and creative ideas of employees. deavors to behave as a responsible entity and in this regards, ACI considers employment generation as a major initiative to improve the economic Growth of Employees in ACI condition of the people. Aided Year Growth (%) by this philosophy, ACI invested 2007 47 in pharmaceuticals, consumer 2008 66 brands, agribusiness and retail chain business. Through the es2009 19 tablishment of new enterprises, 2010 26 ACI creates job opportunities for 2011 4 people of the country. ACI considers the development of different entities i.e. urban and rural Page 2 U N I T E D N A T I O N G L O B A L CO M P A CT Celebration of the Global Hand-Wash day Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Global Hand Washing Day is a campaign for raising awareness among the people regarding washing hands with soap and hand wash to protect people from diseases. In appreciation of the concern for health and hygiene, Bangladesh celebrates Global Hand Washing day with school going children and their parents and thus raising awareness among the community at large. ACI, in conjunction with Smiling Sun Franchise Program (SSFP), arranged an awareness program of hand washing with soap and hand wash to celebrate Global Hand Washing Day held on 15 October 2011. Through the association of SSFP, ACI distributed Savlon hand wash and bar soap among the all divisional school. Advisory leaflet has also been distributed to inform children the proper way of washing hand and protect themselves from diseases. Through SSFP and its 323 static clinics, a total of 1 million people washed hands in appropriate way. Raising Awareness among Employees for Healthy and Safe Life Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ACI organized several training program for the healthy and safe life of the employees. An in-house training of total 464 man-hours was provided to the factory employees on Fire and Safety awareness. The program includes the usage of fire extinguishers, its placement identification, possible sources of fire and safety measures. Written and oral assessment on fire and safety awareness and first aid treatment was also conducted among all workers. ACI always considers its employees as the most important stakeholder. It arranges continuous health related programs for the healthy life of their employees. It organized seminar on “Infection by Hepatitis B viral and Prevention for it” and the motive of these programs was to create health awareness among the employees. Other activities like blood test and vaccination were also conducted among the employees. Page 3 Adopt-a-Village Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ACI has been working in the rural areas of Bangladesh to provide community development services where poverty, unemployment, malnutrition and other health related problems are outrageous. Adopt-a-Village is an initiative of ACI to meet the basic needs for community development, improve living standards; endow better education, alternative income, health care, fresh water supply and proper sanitation. In 2008, ACI initiated “Adopt-a-Village” program endeavoring to improve the economic and social condition of some of the most remote parts of Bangladesh. There are some stirring factors which motivate ACI to participate in the CSR activities and inaugurate the project. The stirring factors are:  Continuing ACI’s operation as a responsible corporate citizen of the country  Improving the living standard of the people by using ACI’s core competencies from different business sectors like Pharmaceuticals, consumer and commodity products, and Agribusinesses.  Motivating the villagers to improve their fate on self-help basis; where ACI only works as a catalyst, standing beside the villagers to assist them to change their own fortune  Achieving the trust of the customers to build good corporate image of ACI and uphold strong relationship to increase customer loyalty. In 2008 ACI inaugurated its adopt-avillage program as a pilot project in Ghonapara, a village in the district of Gopalgonj. ACI has taken many initiatives to solve the major problems of the people of Ghonapara village. A base line survey was conducted to rectify the major issues causing intensive problem to the villagers. 2009 was a significant year when ACI did its strategic planning to make the project sustainable. In 2010 and 2011, ACI took many actions for implementing the plans. After the end of the year 2011, ACI has successfully done an evaluation to find out the effectiveness of the project. Guided by the philosophy of using ACI’s competence in different fields, Number of Beneficial People following programs were conducted during the period with the help of ACI’s own people and expertise. Primary Diagnosis Number of Cases Health Care Services: ACI Pharmaceutical, a business unit of ACI limited, Eye problem 125 person provided massive health care service to the village people of Ghonapara through medical camps. Different medical camps were conducted with Hyper Acidity 166 Person different agendas and for different diseases. DM Cases 11 Person Medical Camp on general disease and eye problem was an eminent iniRespiratory Distress, 130 Person tiative of ACI. Many people suffer or even die because of lack of awareHTN, Allergy, Dysness and lack of access to the medical services. Free medical camp thereentery & Tumor fore creates an opportunity for people to avail the quality service and Cases get health education. The key objectives of the medical camp on general Hip joint Pain 80 Person diseases and eye problem are to improve access to primary health care Headache 20 Person among needy people and to treat minor, common illnesses. Through this General Weakness & 80 Person medical camp, people of Ghonapara got specialized consultation and Cough with low great counseling about health care and get health education also. fever. Page 4 U N I T E D N A T I O N G L O B A L CO M P A CT Medical Camp for Diabetes Awareness: In Bangladesh, diabetes is a particularly daunting challenge, with more than 12% of the adult population affected by diabetes or pre-diabetes. Nearly half of the population with diabetes is undiagnosed. Among those with diabetes, only 1 in 3 people get treatment, and roughly 1 in 13 achieves treatment targets. Awareness could go a long way towards fighting and preventing diabetes. ACI, along with some registered qualified doctors, provides medical service, advices and medicines to the people of Ghonapara. ACI endeavors to generate diabetes awareness among the villagers about the prevention of this disease. Eye cataract remove by free operation is another health care initiative taken by ACI. The underprivileged people of Ghonapara are not financially well off to carry out the cost of eye cataract operation. Therefore ACI sort out some eye cataract patient and remove eye cataract by free operation. 16 people regain their eye sight through the eye cataract operation and they are now having a luminous life. ACI provides treatment to the people who have hearing impairment. Under this program 1 person get opportunity to avail the treatment and hearing aid from ACI. Skilled Development Program: ACI conducted skill development training program for the farmers helping them to improve agronomical practices leading to higher crop production. Through the training program, ACI made the farmers of Ghonapara acquaint with the use of modern equipment and materials. By using the new technology and equipment, farmers will be able to increase the crop production rate and take necessary steps for crop protection. ACI conducted day long training session in 4 separate baths consists of 119 farmers of Ghonapara village. About 100 percent farmers expressed their positive view toward the training program. They expressed that they are now able to protect their crops from pest and grow more crops with the technical assistance from ACI. Safe and Judicious Use of Pesticides and Film Show: ACI, along with some other entities, has organized a day-long training program on “Safe and Judicious Use of Pesticides and Film Show” where 34 farmers received training and certificates from Bangladesh Crop Protection Association (BCPA). Looking Forward: With the success of this pilot project, ACI aims to extend its services for the development of community at a larger scale. Now, ACI has decided to execute the same project in 10 more villages and improve the social and economical structure similarly. ACI has already conducted the base line survey in Baborgati, Bijoypasha, Dalnia, Sareshpur, Golabaria, Gopalpur, Modhupur, Nilokhee, Shibpur and Tebaria and all of these villages are situated in Gopalgonj district. Adopt-a-Village project was taken in one village aiming to improve the living standards of under-privileged people in rural regions. For the sustainable development of the community, ACI hopes to replicate the project in remotest areas across the Bangladesh and uptake several CSR activities ranging from medical aid services to community based training and development programs aligned with its business practices. Page 5 Training Programs for Farmers and Mechanics Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ACI Agribusinesses, the leading agriculture integrator in Bangladesh, is dedicated to gaining prosperity of Bangladesh through food security. ACI Agribusinesses offers complete solutions to farmers and also educates them about the technical know-how. ACI provides total solution of agribusiness to the farmers through six business units i.e. ACI fertilizer, Seed, Animal Health, Crop Care and Public Health, Motors and Cropex. ACI with the help of its different agribusiness units organizes massive training programs for the farmers and mechanics across the country. ACI employed dedicated team members who conduct the training programs and transfer the modern technology allied to agriculture. They suggest the best possible ways of using balanced fertilizer for successful crop production and maintenance of soil health, appropriate use of hybrid seed for high yielding variety’s crops, using insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides for crop protection and identifying the appropriate crop protection chemicals to ensure the greater variety and adaptability to the farmers etc. Field team members of ACI Motors Limited also instruct the farmers about the modern devices, mechanical cultivation and usage of agro-machineries. In 2011 ACI organized extensive training programs for farmers and mechanics. Around 24 training programs were conducted for more than 1000 mechanics and almost 800 thousand farmers were participated in different training programs arranged by all units of agribusiness division. My Health (Amar Shashthya) Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ACI in association with CARE Bngladesh, funded the Tori” or Information Boat carries information and medical camp named “Amar Shasthya” (My Health) services close to remotest and most marginalized since 2009 aiming to facilitate medical service to the people of Bangladesh to alleviate their misery. All people who were suffering from health problems in boats were equipped with doctors, medical attenthe marshlands (Haors) in Bangladesh. dants, medicines and other essential utilities that were necessary to serve the patients in the eastern Generally, the status of health services in Haor areas and northern part of the country. is lower than that of other regions. An overwhelming majority in Haor areas depends on traditional healIn the year 2011, as part of continuing with the proers. Common diseases among the Haor people are gram, twelve camps were arranged in different vilhigh mortality rate of children and mother, the problages of Rangpur, Bogra and Thakurgaon districts. lems of malnutrition, the problems in birth control, About 1207 people were served in these medical Pelvic infection, nutritional disease especially among camps and received medicines and consultation serthe children and pregnant women, chronic respiravices from the medical teams. tory infections and weight loss. There is also lack of medicines in the hospitals of Marshlands. “Tothyo Page 6 U N I T E D N A T I O N G L O B A L CO M P A CT “Equal Opportunity Policy” and “Sexual Harassment Policy” Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACI is an equal employment opportunity company and is ties is nondiscriminatory and based upon an individual’s committed to create a healthy working environment that development needs, potential, business need and the enables employees to work without fear of prejudice, availability of appropriate work-related courses. gender bias and sexual harassment. The Company also Last year Company has widely circulated its policies rebelieves that all employees of the Company have the right garding sexual harassment and equal employment opto be treated with dignity. According to “Sexual Harassportunity. An email has been sent to all employees to ment Policy” in ACI sexual harassment at the work place make them aware about “Sexual Harassment Policy” or other than work place if involving employees is a grave and “Equal Opportunities policy” offence and is, therefore, punishable. As a case in this point, ACI Sanitary Napkin factory arAccording to Equal Opportunity Policy, ACI recruits, hires, ranged a performance award program for the employees trains, pays, promotes, and disciplines employees without to recognize the best performance on a periodical basis. regard to race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, naIt created inspiration among the factory members and tional origin, marital status, family status, age or disabilreward has been provided based on the employees perity. The criteria for selecting staff for training opportuniformance regardless their gender. Measures for Anti-corruption Compliance Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption measures prevent and reduce the risks of corruption. Corporate brand and the sustainability of the company largely depend on the anti corruption measures, but continued efforts are required to turn anticorruption policies into effective programmes. Hence corporate should have integrated anti-corruption efforts in the company’s values, management and operations to ensure compliance with the codes of conduct of the company. For preventive measures in support of anti-corruption, last year ACI has included the following terms and conditions in its Loyalty and Secrecy agreement as a proactive approach –  It is prohibited to solicit, accept or retain personal benefits from supplier, individual or organization in case of doing or seeking business with ACI.  Immediate reporting is must with respect to any fraud, theft or illegal activity committed within the office.  Disclosure of any confidential information of ACI in public domain or to unauthorized persons without the expressed and written permission of management is not permitted.  Taking or giving bribe is completely prohibited.  Misuse of power and authority for personal gains is forbidden for every employee in ACI. ACI has a strong commitment from its board of directors and CEO to attain the combination of high performance with high integrity. This commitment helps ACI to prevent bribery, extortion and misappropriation. ACI keeps fair and accurate records of financial transactions which would prevent improper dealings and disguising the nature of an inappropriate transaction. Employees needs to report to their superior for every transaction which ensure accountability and transparency in business. Violation of the codes of conduct is punishable for all employees. ACI also provides motivational reward to encourage employee commitment to honesty. In a country like Bangladesh where corruption is rampant, ACI maintains ethical business practice, a full compliant of country’s law and regulation and follows act in its role as a conscious corporate citizen in preventing and raising voice in different platform against the menace of corruption. Page 7 U N I T E D N A T I O N G L O B A L CO M P A CT
