careers contact us --search-go Advancing each generation. Worldwide Safety Markets About Community Environment Sustainability News Invest Products Innovation Careers Vision and Values Vision and Values United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Alcoa is a values-based company, and we uphold the highest standards of respect for the UN Global Compact protection of human rights for all stakeholders. Millennium Development Goals Report In 2009, we became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact. The compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Statement of Support Alcoa is fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact. Integrity and respect for people are core values for Alcoa, and we believe that financial success, social responsibility, and protection of the environment are totally aligned and absolutely essential for long-term sustainability. The Alcoa Guide to Business Conduct outlines our commitment to be open, honest, and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures specifically incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, and excellence in environment, health, and safety. Our policies clearly communicate that we will not tolerate forced, compulsory, or child labor, discrimination of any kind, or any forms of corruption and bribery in our global operations. Our corporate policies apply to Alcoa-controlled operations globally. Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2011 Communication on Progress The following overview of our 2011 progress against the 10 principles is supplemented by references to information contained on our external website, www.alcoa.com. Principles 2011 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Alcoa’s Human Rights Policy is Vision & Values and respect the protection of available in 20 languages on go internationally proclaimed our corporate intranet and human rights. internet sites. We respect all Human Rights Policy go internationally proclaimed human rights standards in our operations throughout the world. Treating each person with dignity and respect is one of our core values. We value diversity and inclusion in all of our operations. In 2011, 10% of incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. We have a mandatory human Human Rights Policy rights training course that key go managers must complete as part of their standard curriculum. In 2012, we are rolling out human rights training to supervisor-level employees who have direct supervisory management over employees in our plants. 2. Make sure that they are not We seek to understand fully all Human Rights Policy complicit in human rights aspects of how business is go abuses. conducted where we have our operations throughout the world. Our standard is to contractually require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same internationally proclaimed human rights protections and guarantees to which we hold ourselves. We implemented a Global Supply Chain Supplier Sustainability Program go in 2011 that assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include human rights components. We continued the global Stakeholder Engagement implementation of the Alcoa go Community Framework, which requires each of our locations to engage with key stakeholders in and around our facilities. Human rights is a critical component of the framework, which we further refined in 2011 to raise the standards for compliance. At the end of 2011, 61% of our manufacturing locations had implemented the framework and met with key stakeholders to review common initiatives, including human rights protections. Labor Standards 3. Businesses should uphold We fully support an Human Rights Policy the freedom of association and employee’s right to choose go the effective recognition of the whether or not to join a union. right to collective bargaining. In 2011, we worked Employee Relations cooperatively and in good faith go with many labor unions that represent groups of our employees in various facilities throughout the world. 4. The elimination of all forms We forbid the use of any Human Rights Policy of forced and compulsory forced or compulsory labor go labor. within our own operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. We implemented a Global Supply Chain Supplier Sustainability Program go in 2011 that assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 5. The effective abolition of We forbid the use of any child Human Rights Policy child labor. labor within our own go operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. We implemented a Global Supply Chain Supplier Sustainability Program go in 2011 that assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 6. The elimination of Alcoa’s recruitment processes Human Rights Policy discrimination in respect of and practices ensure the go employment and occupation. protection and respect for all people and ensure that no individual is discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran status, genetic information, sex, or age. We value diversity and inclusion throughout our worldwide operations, and we have set aggressive targets to improve the diversity of our workforce. In 2011, 10% of our incentive Inclusion compensation for managers go and executives was based on meeting targets to improve the diversity of our workforce with respect to representation of women and protected class employees in our global operations. Environment 7. Businesses should support a We support the precautionary precautionary approach to approach to environmental environmental challenges. challenges. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability Targets 2030 goals to drive our go environmental performance against a 2005 baseline. During 2011, we achieved a Climate Protection 23% reduction in carbon go dioxide intensity against a 2005 baseline in our Global Primary Products business. We reduced our freshwaterWater use intensity (consumption per go unit of production) by 21% versus 2005 levels, exceeding our 2020 goal of 10%. 8. Undertake initiatives to We have a Global Sustainability Strategy promote greater environmental Sustainability Working go responsibility. Committee and an executivelevel Global Sustainability Steering Team. Our chief sustainability officer reports directly to our chairman and chief executive officer. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability Targets 2030 goals to drive our go environmental performance against a 2005 baseline. We use Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Scorecards to measure each go business’ progress against key near-term sustainability metrics. We included an annual carbon Energy dioxide reduction target as a go component of our 2011 incentive compensation program. In 2011, Alcoa Foundation Alcoa Foundation contributed 44% of its total go giving dollars to environmentally focused programs around the world. (Among all corporations, the average allocation was 4% based on a 2010 survey conducted by the Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy.) More than 31,000 employees Month of Service from 24 countries participated go in our 2011 Month of Service employee outreach campaign. Many of the activities were focused on the environment, including planting 34,000 trees, conducting 130 environmental workshops, and recycling more than 87,300 aluminum cans. We participated in the Product Design and Life Cycle development of the Product go Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard published in October 2011 by the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The standards cover accounting and reporting greenhouse gas emissions across a product’s life cycle. Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation are Product Design and Life Cycle founding members of The go Sustainability Consortium. More than one quarter of our Make an Impact Australian workforce and 3,500 go of our U.S. employees were participating in our Make an Impact program at the end of 2011. The program empowers our employees, their families, and their neighbors to actively reduce their carbon footprint. We supported various Recycling consumer recycling programs go around the world. In March 2011, we announced a US$10 million investment in Electronic Recyclers International (ERI), one of the nation’s largest collectors of electronics waste (e-waste). We implemented a Global Supply Chain Supplier Sustainability Program go in 2011 that assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include environmental performance. Case Studies go 9. Encourage the development We continued Red Sand Case Study and diffusion of commercialization of Red go environmentally friendly Sand™, which is derived from technologies. bauxite residue. We introduced EcoWise™ Consumer Electronics aluminum sheet, which go reduces the carbon footprint of consumer electronics. We also introduced Reynobond with EcoClean Reynobond® with EcoClean™, go the first coil-coated architectural panel that helps clean itself and the air around it. Case Studies go Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work Our global Ethics and Ethics & Compliance Line against corruption in all its Compliance Line provides go forms, including extortion and employees and external bribery. stakeholders with the opportunity to report confidentially any potential violations of law or company policy. Our Anti-Corruption Policy Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits facilitation, or go “grease” payments, and commercial bribery in addition to bribery of public officials. Through the end of 2011, Ethics & Compliance Program employees and select go contractors have completed more than 26,000 anticorruption and anti-bribery courses through our online ethics and compliance training program. At the time of hire, all employees are expected to complete “Do What’s Right!” training, which contains anticorruption elements. Since the 1990’s, our Legal Department has offered formal preventative law training programs and brochures covering numerous topics, including gifts, conflicts of interest, anti-corruption, and anti-bribery practices. Two awareness courses on the FCPA and OECD’s anti-bribery provisions are made available electronically to employees. Archived Reports 2010 Communication on Progress 2009 Communication on Progress Copyright © 2012 Alcoa Inc. country sites customer login Sitemap | Privacy | Legal Notices
