Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Contents 2 Foreword 4 Strategy and stakeholder engagement 9 Acting responsibly 10 For our customers 14 For our employees 22 For our environment Dominic Jennewein, 30 For our community Fire supervisor undergoing advanced training, Trafﬁc and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG 36 For our owners 38 Sustainability management and corporate compliance I-XII Sustainability program 2011 41 Appendix 41 Principles of Reporting 42 Content overview of GRI and Stefan Grimm, Fire Supervisor, UN Global Compact principles Trafﬁc and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, 48 Glossary Fraport AG 49 Publishing information Rolf Hornung, Senior Fire Supervisory, Trafﬁc and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG Roman Sommer, Trainee Fire Supervisor, Trafﬁc and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG The sustainability report can be accessed online by going to www.sustainability-report.fraport.com. The online version Sustainability needs change includes all the information in this report and also provides more 75 years of Frankfurt Airport – this is certainly the time for Fraport to salute its heritage in-depth, detailed information. We refer you to additional information at the appropriate places in the document with numbered and look to the future. Germany’s biggest airport has been connecting up cities and quick links 1 2 3 . You will ﬁnd an overview in the list of quick people that are far apart for three generations. It links up business centers and markets. links on the home page. Click on the relevant link to go directly As a sustainability-centric company, we also want to harmonize contradictory objectives to the information you require. such as individual mobility and global environmental protection, and responsibility for Any use of the male form is for purposes of readability and the people we employ and the residents living in the region. Corporate responsibility includes female and male genders throughout. demands action all the time, the requirements are undergoing continual change. By rising to the challenges, we too undergo a gradual process of change. Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Proﬁle Proﬁle Fraport statistics Employees (annual average, persons/2011 share in %) Revenue (€ million/2011 share in %) EBITDA (€ million/2011 in %) Our business activities are repre2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 sented by four segments: Fraport Group 19,792 20,595 2,194.6 2,371.2 710.6 802.3 Aviation, Retail & Real Estate, Aviation 6,074 6,088 29.6 % 693.9 774.9 32.7 % 131.6 187.8 23.4 % Ground Handling and External Retail & Real Estate 606 596 2.9 % 403.1 444.7 18.8 % 294.7 305.3 38.1 % Activities & Services. Ground Handling 8,564 8,899 43.2 % 658.6 655.5 27.6 % 44.1 54.5 6.8 % External Activities 4,548 5,012 24.3 % 439.0 496.1 20.9 % 240.2 254.7 31.7 % Aviation & Services The Aviation segment is responsible for the business activities trafﬁc and terminal operations, and airport safety Majority shareholdings in airports and security at Frankfurt Airport. This segment is also responsible for expansion of the airport. EBITDA for the Frankfurt *, Germany Lima, Peru Varna, Bulgaria Burgas, Bulgaria Antalya, Turkey segment is €187.8 million, representing a contribution of 23.4 %. Frankfurt Airport with around 56 million passengers was one of last year’s the Top Form of shareholding Form of shareholding Form of shareholding 10 airports in the world. On a European comparison, it was ranked in third place for Majority holding Majority holding Majority holding the year 2011 after London Heathrow and Paris Charles de Gaulle. Frankfurt is the only airport worldwide which – including the volume of cargo transported – ranks Shares in the company Shares in the company Shares in the company Retail & Real Estate 70.01 % 60 % 50 % among the world’s biggest hubs. It also ranks among the Top Ten here. The Retail & Real Estate segment pools all activities and Number of employees ** Number of employees ** Number of employees ** Number of employees** expertise of Fraport AG for commercial development and 18,124 503 1,084 211 marketing of ﬂoorspace not used for ﬂight operations at Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) Passengers (persons) Frankfurt Airport. EBITDA amounted to €305.3 million in 56,443,657 11,795,862 1,181,832 2,253,320 24,964,219 2011. This segment has the biggest margins and earnings Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) Airfreight (metric tons) 2,251,618 286,641 41 5,991 – and contributed a share of 38.1 % to Group EBITDA. Ground Handling St. Petersburg The business of the Ground Handling segment covers serHanover vices revolving around passengers, baggage and cargo in Frankfurt Frankfurt. Groundhandling services are a very personnelVarna Burgas intensive area subject to international competition. Margins are modest. However, the high quality of the services proAntalya Xi‘an vided from a single source represents a major competitive Cairo advantage for the quality of the hub at Frankfurt. EBITDA Riyadh amounted to €54.5 million and this corresponds to a share Delhi Jeddah of 6.8 % in the Group EBITDA. Dakar External Activities & Services The External Activities & Services segment is responsible for Central Infrastructure Management, and IT and facility management services at the Frankfurt site. It also bundles all Fraport activities outside Frankfurt. Global marketing of airport know-how and the operation of 13 Group airports Lima have now become a signiﬁcant factor for revenue and earnings. The segment generated EBITDA of €254.7 million and this represents 31.7 % of the corresponding Group value. Additional investments in airports Dakar, Hanover, Cairo, St. Petersburg, Jeddah, Riyadh, Delhi, Xi‘an, Senegal Germany Egypt Russia Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia India China Form of shareholding Management contract Shareholding Management contract Shareholding Management contract Shareholding Shareholding 1 Products & Services Shares in the company – 30 % – 35,5 % – 10 % 24.5 % 2 Fraport Worldwide Number of employees ** 3 659 3 3,658 23 1,326 2,215 Passengers (persons) – 5,341,017 13,021,395 9,610,767 – 35,063,961 21,163,130 Airfreight (metric tons) – 16,956 281,253 – – 596,239 172,568 * Employees for the Group in Frankfurt ** Annual average according to IFRS 2 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Foreword 3 Foreword A majority of people in Hesse who were recently in Antalya, Turkey, was awarded the Airport Caris inexorable and we will have to continue recruisurveyed gave an assessment for Frankfurt Airport bon Accreditation Level 2 in 2011. The terminals ting personnel in the future. We therefore additioas “very important” for employment and the ecoare saving energy and the advanced district heatnally conducted an age structure analysis in 2011 nomy. ing power station operates at a much higher level and the results will be channeled into personnel of efﬁciency compared with conventional power development. Concrete goals have been derived These positives are balanced against the impact of plants. It also generates signiﬁcantly lower levels from the ﬁndings. They include measures for the start-up of the northwest runway in October of CO2. structuring work to meet the demands of older 2011 on local residents who are experiencing more employees and a workforce that is aging in general. noise or coping with noise for the ﬁrst time. We The objective of the expanded infrastructure in They will help people to learn over their entire life take the concerns and complaints of local residents Frankfurt is to generate a positive effect for our cuscycle, assist in increasing the proportion of women very seriously and we understand if they are angry tomers in every respect. The airlines are our main in management positions, and promote the careers about the situation. We also take action. Measures customers. The “Operational Excellence” project of employees with a background of migration. for passive noise abatement are given top priority. has been tailored to their needs. Major efforts have The Casa Program offers residential owners the been made to increase our operational efﬁciency We are well aware that our drive to change and opportunity to sell us their homes if they are living and maintain this level even when airtrafﬁc voluimprove must be a continuous commitment. If we very close to the runway and aircraft ﬂy low overmes increase in the future. The project “Great to are to compete successfully over the long term, we head. We also work intensively with air trafﬁc conhave you here!” takes account of the expectations must remain a company that is open-minded and trol, the airline companies and the Government of air passengers and develops the facilities in our engages in meaningful dialog with its stakeholders. to develop proactive noise avoidance. The “Airport terminals and the processes associated with air This is something we have been doing for a very and Region Forum” is also involved in this work. trafﬁc. long time, but we also developed new forms of The aim is very clear. Any action the airport can communication in 2011. We celebrated the landtake to reduce the impact on residents is impleOur “Service from a Single Source” plays an impormark 75 th anniversary under the slogan “3 x 25” from left: Dear Readers, mented. tant role here. This is why we are deﬁnitively oppowith young employees of Fraport. The celebration Herbert Mai sed to the plans of the EU Commission to separate focused on a debate about the issue of “sustainabiMember of the Executive Board The year 2011 marks the launch of a new runway We support the expansion of Frankfurt Airport grounds services at the airport from the parent lity” and our future-proof capability. This publicaand Executive Director Labor Relations at our main location in Frankfurt. This is an imporwith the aspiration to maintain high environmental company in legal terms. They are an integral part tion also reﬂects the views of the members of our Dr. Stefan Schulte tant milestone on our future roadmap. We also standards. We have invested some €160 million of the transport chain at the airport and they are workforce – across all age groups through to our Member of the Executive Board looked back on our heritage last year to salute in mitigation measures. After this action has been also important for the job security of the people retirees. and Chairman of the Executive Board 75 years of this global airport. Our landmark celtaken, we will focus on achieving our goal of reduwho work there. ebrations focused on the sustainable development cing CO2 emissions caused by the operation of the We view 75 years of Frankfurt Airport as a commitPeter Schmitz of our company. Our fundamental principle is airport to the level of 2005 by 2020, despite the In 2011, we grouped our targets together in an ment. We are dedicated to putting the right builMember of the Executive Board more appropriate than ever before: We continue increase in the volume of air trafﬁc. We achieved expanded sustainability program. They have now ding blocks in place for the next generation so that and Executive Director Operations with things we do well but we are committed to the demanding Level 3 in the Airport Carbon been documented for all 17 ﬁelds of action in the our position at the Frankfurt hub and all our investDr. Matthias Zieschang innovation and change where improvements are Accreditation Scheme at the beginning of 2012. Fraport sustainability matrix. Parallel to this, we ments abroad remain a beacon of progressive Member of the Executive Board and necessary to develop further. This demonstrates that we are on the right track. have also driven forward the integration of our governance for our sector. I commend this report Executive Director Controlling and Finance We also decided in 2011 to introduce systematic governance procedures, as well as our systems for to you and hope that you will ﬁnd it informative As we expand our capacities, we are acknowledCO2 controlling. The groundwork has already been risk and compliance management. They ensure and an enjoyable read. We look forward to receiging the importance of Frankfurt Airport as a key completed. Over the course of 2012, the concept that Fraport AG complies with national and interving constructive criticism and positive ideas. factor for the economy. The prosperity – and of will be reﬁned and implemented. national standards for good governance and they course the academic research, art and culture of will gradually be introduced for our subsidiary the Rhine-Main Region, the State of Hesse and Buildings and facilities that have been made companies. This process of integration also fosters the entire Federal Republic – all derive signiﬁcant maximally energy-efﬁcient contribute signiﬁcantly compliance with our in-house commitments, parbeneﬁt from the strength of the international airto reducing CO2 emissions. External critics and ticularly our compliance with the principles of the transport hub in Frankfurt. This is tangibly evident experts are also invited to discussions at “round UN Global Compact. Dr. Stefan Schulte Herbert Mai for many people. Indeed, it is a vital asset for many. table groups” which aim to structure the planned Frankfurt Airport is Germany’s biggest workplace Terminal 3 to be as energy-efﬁcient as possible. Our ambitious programs and targets can only be with a workforce of some 76,000 1 employees. In We are also continuing the systematic conversion of achieved if our employees perceive us to be an at2011, Fraport alone recruited employees for 645 our vehicle ﬂeet to electric utility vehicles and cars. tractive employer. It is important that they want to new jobs, and many people found a new job at work for us. We hold regular surveys of employee Peter Schmitz Dr. Matthias Zieschang one of around 500 companies based at the airport. Our foreign companies are also making substansatisfaction to identify the areas and issues that we There are also positive spin-off effects in the region. tial progress on environmental issues. Our airport need to work on. The demographic development 1 Including 4,800 employees in The Squaire, Gateway Gardens and Mönchhof-Gelände. 4 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Strategy and stakeholder engagement 5 Strategy and Materiality matrix very high stakeholder engagement Noise abatement Safety and security Climate protection Air quality Over the long term, the upward trajectory of air been developed in an interactive process inclutrafﬁc looks set to continue. This was the concluding important stakeholders groups. Internal and Conservation sion reached, for example, by the “Global Trafﬁc external experts reviewed and rated various asof nature and Focus on Forecast 2010 – 2029” of the Airports Council pects which were identiﬁed from guidelines on resources – strategic development International (ACI). The global annual growth rates sustainability reporting in the Global Reporting Compliance/governance – risk control are estimated at 4.1 % for passengers and 4.8 % Initiative (GRI) and in stakeholder dialogs. The refor airfreight. Against this background, safety and sult is a Materiality Matrix with 17 ﬁelds of action. Appeal as employer security in air trafﬁc, noise abatement and climate These matrix shows that Fraport is taking a balanSustainable construction Retaining and protection remain the key challenges for our inced approach to social, ecological and economic Relevance for creating jobs Customer dustry. The inﬂuence of Fraport as an airport opedimensions of corporate governance. Each of stakeholders satisfaction Diversity rator is limited when it comes to noise abatement the aspects is described by its position within Proﬁtability and climate protection. Nevertheless, as part of the two dimensions “Relevance for Fraport” and Regional of investments the airtrafﬁc industry we believe that we have a “Relevance for Stakeholders”. An additional ascommitment Occupational responsibility to be a good role model when it sessment of the signiﬁcance trend was implemenhealth and safety comes to activities within our direct sphere of inted for each aspect to take account of the fact that Training and career development ﬂuence. We also want to make use of our leading the relevance of these aspects changes over time. Procurement Intermodality position in the airport sector in order to contribute to development focused on sustainability. 3 Strategy and targets of Fraport AG Intensity of 4 Global Reporting Initiative current discussion Since sustainability has already been established as one of our core corporate principles with the While this matrix continues to be relevant, we low high Agenda 2015, we summarized our objectives and supplemented the program drawn up in 2010. the measures that have been taken to achieve This only related to the ﬁelds of action with the In the future those goals for the ﬁrst time in a sustainability very highest priority: safety and security in air high increasing program in 2010. Our strategic alignment has trafﬁc, noise abatement, climate protection, high eleva Re ance for Frraport very high customer satisfaction, appeal as an employer and proﬁtability of the investments. Over the course of 2011, targets and measures were formulated economies like Brazil, Russia, India and China will long-haul ﬂights depart Frankfurt and the proporSustainability for all other ﬁelds of action. These include air be particularly important and the increasing glotion of passengers travelling on intercontinental quality, conservation of nature and resources, balization will increasingly be key determining ﬂights is around 40 %. There are no alternative program retaining and creating jobs, occupational health factors. This statement is generally applicable for methods of transport available for these ﬂights and safety. The Sustainability Board of Fraport AG the airport sector but is particularly apposite for and large aircraft are the primary means of transThe sustainability program includes the schedules for the deﬁned measures adopted the targets and measures at the end of Fraport. The diversity of its business and locations, port. These aircraft are signiﬁcantly quieter beas well as listing the current status. 2011. A comprehensive overview of all the issues and the strength of Frankfurt Airport mean that cause they have advanced engines and they are This information is used by the is provided on pages I to XII of this report incluFraport is likely to beneﬁt from this trend. particularly energy-efﬁcient with their greater Projected growth rates for global air trafﬁc each year over Sustainability Board for purposes of ding the associated targets and measures. passenger capacity and airfreight capability. the period years 2010 – 2029 monitoring and controlling. The This trajectory could be put at risk by additional Long-haul aircraft transport around 50 % of all sustainability program is accessible in the public domain and is published in this report and on the Internet (see 4.1 % Creating long-term value is a strategic goal of Fraport. This is where the Materiality Matrix makes a contribution to assessing the future opportuniregulations which are initiated by the players on the political stage against the pressures being exerted by noise pollution and climate change. the freight that leaves Frankfurt (known as coloaded and belly freight) and this further enhances their efﬁciency as a means of transport. Sustainability Program, p. I-XII). Key Passengers ties and risks for Germany and monitoring the This could impose ﬁnancial burdens and distor4.8 % critical measures on targets such a approach taken. tions in the competition. The demands for airport We take the burden of aircraft noise seriously and noise abatement, CO2 reduction and operators to become more energy-efﬁcient could address it working together to some extent with enhancing employee satisfaction are The opportunities for Fraport are in increasing also increase. politicians and players in the airtrafﬁc sector to presented in the individual sections of Airfreight air trafﬁc, in particular long-haul ﬂights, which formulate measures contributing to the reduction this report. estimated by the Airports Council International (ACI) will increasingly be deﬁned by positive economic However, Frankfurt Airport is already very well of noise (see section “For the community”, p. 31 ff). development. The dynamic growth of emerging positioned from this perspective. Firstly, many We enter into this debate with a nuanced approach 6 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Strategy and stakeholder engagement 7 The vehicle ﬂeet is gradually being converted to and are impacted negatively by aircraft noise are with opinion formers, political decision-makers, Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder dialogue run on energy-efﬁcient power units. Already 10 % particularly important. And ﬁnally, we have a big and the public domain. In particular, it focuses on 114 Forums Sustainability? of the Fraport vehicles operating at Frankfurt Airport run on electricity and this includes a large commitment to more than 70,000 employees who work at Germany’s biggest workplace. These initiating cooperation between the members. In 2011, Fraport organized forums with internal and external stakeholders for We asked: number of energy-intensive special vehicles. naturally include members of staff at Fraport who 7 Federation of the German Air Trafﬁc Industry we are directly responsible for. young people to swap more ideas and Campaign “23 x 25” As demographic changes continue, the competiAn innovative platform for dialog between acadeopinions than in previous years (+18). tion for good skilled employees and managers Fraport builds on a wide spectrum of well-establimic institutions and business was created a few Under this slogan, young people joined together in expressing their opinions on “Sustainability” in will increase signiﬁcantly. Fraport must offer atshed forums which engage in a regular exchange years ago with the House of Logistics and Mobigeneral and speciﬁcally the extent to which our tractive conditions so as to attract and retain the of ideas and opinions. These are supplemented by lity (HOLM). Fraport AG has supported this initia75-year-old company was ﬁt for the future. The employees to deal with the anticipated growth. informal events. In 2011, the landmark 75th annitive since it was founded. HOLM is dedicated to debate was held with the General Secretary of the Our staff are therefore also a top priority for the versary of our airport formed a particular focus of interdisciplinary and applications-based project Council for Sustainable Development, Members of targets and measures in our sustainability proattention. The sustainability management asked work, research, and training and further training the Executive Board and the Sustainability Board. gram (see section “For our employees”, p. 15 ff). 25 young employees for their ideas on sustainarelated to the issues of logistics and mobility. This The exchange of views focused on the issues of bility and asked them to comment on their expecplatform provides universities, companies and training and further training, management deveOur Annual Report 2011 provides an overview of tations of Fraport in this respect. It is particularly other institutions with access to excellent knowlopment, job security and social engagement. the economic risks and the Risk Management at important for young people that we chart the right how and new joint ventures. The special structure Concrete proposals were also made on how operaFraport on pages 69 ff. course for the future and for the coming generaof HOLM provides the platform for networking tions could be made more efﬁcient and resources tions. A six-part poster series was created from between companies, public institutions, acadecould be conserved. The event was an initial step Planning, implementing and ﬁnancing of measthese ideas. Each poster shows three 25-year-old mia and educational facilities that is needed in and the aim is to continue the dialog with memures within the framework of our sustainability Fraport employees. These posters were then disorder to address these social issues of the future. bers of staff and expand it further. program and Risk Management are the responsiplayed at the airport. At the same time, a video The “HOLM Laboratories” represent the user bility of the specialist sections. Fraport has estaclip with the statements was shown on the Fraport groups. They serve as project and knowledge blished structures and processes that promote a Intranet. incubators and generate quantiﬁable, accelerated strategic, coordinated approach. The Central Unit knowledge transfer. A dedicated building with to the information available. The Internet portal “Sustainability Management and Corporate Com6 Campaign “3 x 25” ﬂoor space up to 20,000 square meters is being www.ﬂughafenregion.de is new and was set up pliance” was set up in 2010. It has identiﬁed the constructed in Gateway Gardens at Frankfurt speciﬁcally to address this issue. It went online in sustainability issues that are crucial for Fraport Our employees also have the opportunity to exAirport and is scheduled for completion by 2013. February 2012 and supplemented the range of and is focusing on progress in these areas. This press their opinions in the annual employee surinformation available, including Fraport noise Central Unit is also responsible for environmental vey. The majority of staff make good use of this 8 House of Logistics and Mobility Stakeholder dialogue monitoring. Expansion of the airport has been a management, sustainability reporting and moniopportunity. Fraport uses this Opinion Barometer continual subject of dialog with a range of diffetoring, coordination of stakeholder dialogs, and as a basis for introducing improvement measures, The “Stakeholder Engagement” table on the Customer rent advocacy groups for many years. The Forum Airport and Region plays a signiﬁcant role in facilicompliance management. The Sustainability Board is headed by the Executive Director Labor for example in relation to staff promotion and management development (see section “For our Fraport Home Page provides a comprehensive overview of the existing contacts and types of Service Index tating constructive engagement with the burdens Relations and includes senior managers from all employees”, p. 16 ff). stakeholder forums. Fraport systematically and continuously imposed by expansion through its committees divisions. The Board is responsible for the central records the customer satisfaction of passengers, airlines, and retail and and the Environmental and Neighborhood House. controlling function associated with rolling out The airlines are our most important customers 9 Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG realestate customers. Following the launch of the new runway, these the sustainability program (see section “Sustainaand we maintain numerous contacts on an instiinstitutions are continuing to serve as platforms bility Management and Corporate Compliance”, tutional level for regular exchange of information for dialog and the development of initiatives to s. 38 ff). and to implement operational measures. The create solutions. dialog with passengers and customers from the Systematic communication with our most imretail sector takes place through joint Advisory 5 Forum Airport and Region portant stakeholders supports Risk Management Boards and surveys. The objective of the engageand generates initiatives for the strategic direction ment is to develop packages tailored to needs The buildings of Fraport AG are planned and of our company. We believe that this exchange is and to enhance customer satisfaction. built to high standards. The criteria of sustainable a necessary precondition to make us ﬁt for the construction are increasingly being incorporated. future. As a “learning organization” we want to The German Federation of the Air Trafﬁc Industry They are intended to ensure energy efﬁciency, focus on progress in science and technology and (BDL) was launched in 2011 and this has provided functionality and a comfortable environment learn from the debate with internal and external a new, integrating voice for the air trafﬁc industry. for our customers and staff. This is also in the stakeholders. Our key stakeholder groups include The airlines, airports – including Frankfurt – and economic interest of the company because the passengers and airport visitors, airline companies, air trafﬁc control are represented in this organizaReal Estate and Retail business contribute signiﬁbusiness partners, investors, Supervisory Board, tion and the objective is to establish common cantly to safeguarding the earnings of the Fraport the community, politicians and government agenpositions and present them in the public domain. Group. cies. Those people who live near to the airport The Federation engages in a constructive dialog Acting responsibly 9 Acting responsibly We want to create value added for our Patrick Spijkers, Deputy Trafﬁc Manager, Trafﬁc and customers, employees and neighbors. Terminal Operation, Trafﬁc and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG Ute Pohl, Head of Airport Retailing, Retail and Properties, Fraport AG We need to avoid impacts on the Sandra Naumann, Head of Group environment and nature or keep them Reporting, Controlling, Fraport AG as low as possible. Peter Schmitz, Executive Director Operations 10 For our customers 11 Safety and security in air trafﬁc 12 Customer satisfaction 14 For our employees 15 Attractive employer 17 Retaining and creating jobs 17 Diversity 19 Occupational health and safety 21 Training and career development Structuring the future with diversity 22 For our environment An airport leaves an impression on everyone. Whether you are a traveler, 23 Climate protection 27 Air quality neighbor or employee, everyone has their ideas and aspirations on how 28 Conservation of nature and resources you can make an airport better and on what exactly is meant by sustainable. That’s where opinions start to differ and become contradictory. All the 30 For the community different opinions are important for Fraport – including critical opinions. 31 Alliance for more noise abatement 75 years of Frankfurt Airport provided an excellent occasion for asking 31 Noise abatement 34 Community responsibility employees and retirees as well about their opinions on what makes us future-proof from their perspective. Three generations of Fraport and lots of different opinions – some of those opinions are expressed here. 36 For our owners 10 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our customers 11 For our customers As an airport operator, we are confronted with a University of Applied Sciences and Arts Northwest Target attainment 2011: large number of partly diverging aspirations and Switzerland was commissioned to conduct the Satisfaction with ideas from our various customer groups. Airline study under Adrian Schwaninger, a well-known security check companies expect to be given adequate capaciauthority on issues of aviation security. The conWaiting time ties in terms of slots, fast handling and efﬁcient cept comprises preparatory analyses on structure, 74 % processes so that aircraft spend as little time on processes and staff, visual inspection of the spe“ High quality and low prices – these are the ground as possible. Passengers hope that ciﬁc workplace situation, also in the form of parthe expectations of our customers. There their journey will be free of stress. They look ticipatory observation, and surveying all the staff (target 72 %) forward to a streamlined start and end to their at the security checkpoints. The physical and menis a great deal of pressure but we have Friendly approach of personnel journey and an enjoyable stay at the airport. tal responses given by deﬁned groups of people always come out on top so far. I like 76 % And the operators of the businesses and restauand activity groups were also investigated on the playing my role in the logistic challenge rants at the airport, our retail customers build basis of cortisol levels taken at regular intervals of a ‘Global Airport”, in the Ground their business on buoyant customer numbers during working hours. The ﬁrst results from the (target 80 %) Services Team.” and a decent amount of time spent at the study are expected in July 2012. Jan-Philipp Somogyi, Controlling Ground Handling, airport to generate good sales. We aim to ensure Ground Services, Fraport AG that all our customers have a high level of satisParallel to this, we are continuing to work on faction. However, the safety and security of all our self-imposed targets of achieving a maximum our customers and air trafﬁc is the top priority waiting time of 10 minutes for 90 % of security in accordance with our Materiality Analysis. checks and a minimum 80 % level of passenger satisfaction with the friendly approach of our personnel. As analyses in the summer of 2011 “ Frankfurt Airport is big and intriguing. Safety and security in air trafﬁc demonstrated, short waiting times result in much Embarking on a journey is an exciting higher levels of satisfaction with travelers (comprospect for a lot of people. We can A high level of internationally recognized safety pare Sustainability Program, Safety and security contribute to ensuring that everyone has and security is provided at Frankfurt Airport. in air trafﬁc, p. II ff). Our objective must be to retain this. Against the a great travel experience by providing background of continuously rising passenger It is also important that the personnel teams support, for example helping people numbers, it is particularly important to incor poworking at the security checkpoints are adjusted to find their way around, at check-in rate security checks in the trafﬁc ﬂow in such a to reﬂect the varying levels of passenger volumes and when they go through the security way that travelers are inconvenienced as little as throughout the day. The ﬂuctuations must be checkpoints.” possible and there are no delays in the operation anticipated so that terminal processes operate Herbert Kühn, Terminal Duty Manager, Trafﬁc an Terminal of ﬂights – with passenger numbers of up to efﬁciently and waiting times and interruptions are Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG 150,000 people daily this is a big challenge. avoided. The PAARIS simulation and forecasting The requirements for security checks are increasoftware – initiated in the area of air safety and sing because the danger of terrorist attacks on security but developed for all process points – airports has not receded. is intended to support the appropriate planning. PAARIS uses historical and current trafﬁc data The employees working in this area are subject to (volumes of passengers for departures, transit high levels of stress. Apart from the responsibility and arrivals, etc. based on ﬂight number), in order “ ’Great to have you here!’ is an exceptiofor conductions careful security checks, they have to predict process points with spare capacity or nally successful project. We are achieving to work in shifts, their job is physically tiring, and overloaded points in advance, etc. Harmonization the stress levels caused by loud ambient noise with sensor systems (counter units, capacity our goal: Our passengers are more satisshould not underestimated. Even though they displays, Bluetooth measurements, etc.) can facified. This can be quantified and expehave to cope with all these demands, aviation selitate proactive measures to increase processing rienced through sentiment. I also think curity assistants have to remain friendly capacities or control the ﬂow of passengers. The it is great that this is having an effect on at all times and work in a very concentrated way. software is already being tested. our employees. They are more motivated A stress study was commenced in 2010 with the than they were previously.” aim of gathering evidence-based ﬁndings about All security measures in air trafﬁc are deﬁned the burdens involved and using the results to by EU regulations. EU Regulation 300/2008 and Annegret Reinhardt-Lehmann, Manager Passenger Experience, Fraport AG reduce stress levels, if possible. The institute the associated implementation speciﬁcations “Humans in Complex Systems” (MikS) at the form the basis for all the functions that have to 12 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our customers 13 be carried out by airport operators in Germany connecting passengers in our passenger proﬁle. Another ﬁeld requiring essential improvements in accordance with Article 8, Air Security Act We have also deﬁned concrete service targets for was clearly revealed during the harsh winter of Passenger complaints on an annual comparison (absolute / % share) (Luftsicherheitsgesetz). These include access many individual aspects, such as waiting times at 2010/2011. Improvements are needed in the 2010 2011 checks, personnel and goods checks, allocation security checkpoints, friendly approach of peroperational processes both inside and outside Safety procedures 1,114 861 of airport ID cards, training for employees, and sonnel, and design of waiting areas (see Sustainathe Terminal. We have initiated a package of patrolling and securing the airport perimeter. bility Program, Customer satisfaction, p. III ff). measures to ensure that we continue to meet Personnel 573 526 16.0 % our obligations to provide regular ﬂight operaInfrastructure 318 213 6.5 % The implementation of this function involves the We have pooled the corresponding activities in tions even under extremely adverse conditions. Corporate Safety and Security Department of the initiative “Great to have you here” since Additional winterservices vehicles were purInformation / Orientation 392 338 10.3 % Fraport AG continuously monitoring the training 2010. The focus of action in 2011 was to reduce chased and auxiliary personnel were recruited. 9.9 % Passenger service 320 324 status of the personnel deployed, the quality of waiting times at security checks and baggage Other employees received supplementary traithe security measures provided and the longcollection by optimizing processes and infrasning to qualify them for emergency duties such Retail/Parking 294 234 7.1 % term suitability of the technology being used. tructures. We also deployed additional personnel. as fuelling, snow clearance and deicing operaPassenger ﬂow/Waiting times 453 388 11.8 % An innovative perimeter fence was built around A number of different pilot projects were launtions. This was implemented under the specially Miscellaneous 408 396 12.1 % the new northwest runway, which registers every ched in order to improve the ambient conditions, developed “Winter Ops” simulation. Aircraft attempt to penetrate the perimeter and triggers for example two new rest and waiting areas. deicing operations, surface clearance and taxiing an alarm automatically. Contactless readable More of these Leisure Zones are planned for the were simulated in a game scenario geared to chips in RFID technology have been integrated in airport ID cards. These can be securely checked using recently introduced portable ID reader future. Our WC facilities will also be gradually equipped with a new quality system star ting in 2012. Over the next two years, a large number prepare employees for real problem situations. Fraport and Lufthansa joined forces to develop a 50 % of the passengers at Frankfurt Airport devices without inconvenience to customers. of new children’s play areas will be created, for concept that will help passengers from all airline are transfer passengers and this example in Area B of Terminal 1 and in the transit companies to cope well when the Terminal is exrepresents the higher proportion at Under EU regulations, lawmakers give suppliers area of the new A-Plus Pier. The Pilot Plus project periencing extreme situations. This new concept a European hub airport. to the airport the opportunity to put their airport will simplify the signage system and routing. was tested for the ﬁrst time on 16 November 2011. deliveries through security checks themselves These are measures that will make it much easier Color codes are going to be used in the Terminals before shipment (for example all deliveries for for passengers to ﬁnd their way around. E-shuttles and on monitors in emergency situations. The DutyFree shops, retail businesses, restaurants and are also being introduced to take passengers free Blue Zone, for example, is reserved for the checkAirport moved several places up the ranking in buildings). Companies like this must comply with of charge to the C/D pier in a smooth and relaxed in area and rebooking of business class ﬂights the quarterly survey of passenger satisfaction standards deﬁned under statutory regulations journey. This will enable connecting passengers within the EU. Employees in appropriately colored data which also compares us with our main comand be designated as “known suppliers of airport to reach their connecting ﬂight quickly and withwaistcoats will assist passengers, others will help petitors. Frankfurt Airport: deliveries”. When these conditions have been out any hassle. At the moment six e-cars are used to direct passengers to the right queues or assist Each month, complied with, their deliveries are not subject to to make this journey. And the new FRA Airport them at the self-check-in machines. Passengers The projected increase in passenger volumes at any other physical security checks at pedestrian App gives smartphone users the opportunity to will also receive clear information on posters, Frankfurt Airport will present a major challenge 2,000 and vehicle access points. Starting on 29 April 2012, all other supplies have to undergo extensive checks at pedestrian and vehicle access points. have their very own personal airport guide at their ﬁngertips. ﬂyers and from training personnel about organization and operational processes under extreme conditions. over the coming years. The “Operational Excellence” project will prepare all those members of staff likely to be affected so that we will be able passengers are surveyed about their The necessary preparations to ensure smooth 11 „Great to have you here!“ to guarantee our main customers – the airline level of satisfaction and asked about options for improvement. By 2015, we operation at the checkpoints after the reference Key factors for overcoming difﬁcult situations as companies – streamlined processes even though want to raise customer satisfaction date have been a focus of operations for Airport Fraport is committed to optimizing workﬂows well as during routine everyday operations at the passenger volumes are increasing. A total of by 10 percentage points to Safety and Security for several months. within its area of responsibility and additionally airport are motivation and a professional approach 16 core processes were identiﬁed – for example to support speciﬁc groups of passengers. Since to dealing with passengers. We are launching a vehicle movements on the apron and runway 80 % 10 Safety and Security services May, 2011, we have been taking part as project coordinators in planning and preparing the integrated project “Personalized Assistance System comprehensive training program to promote a customer-centric approach among all our members of staff. The events organized in the “Service system, aircraft positioning, personnel at the gate, conveying baggage, and security checks. They were analyzed in close cooperation with all Customer satisfaction and Services for Mobility for the Elderly” (PASS). Academy” are intended for all levels of the hierarthe process partners and redesigned as necessary. The objective is to bring about a permanent chy, in order to enable managers and employees Comprehensive training measures were introduThe satisfaction of our annual volume of more than enhancement of the mobility of retirees within to develop a common understanding of the serced and the level of success is being quantiﬁed. 56 million passengers also has a top priority in our the complete travel chain, i.e. from their home vice concept. In 2011, a total of 1,087 colleagues Apart from recording quality indicators, for materiality analysis. By 2015, we want to increase to their destination – and back home again, and from Fraport and the Group subsidiary Fraport example punctuality, connectivity, or customer the general satisfaction of passengers with Frankimprove it sustainably overall. The project was Security Services (FraSec) GmbH participated in satisfaction, we are also deﬁning benchmarks furt Airport by 10 percentage points to 80 % (baselaunched on 1st February, 2012. It will run for 114 training and personal development measures. for process details compared with other major line 2010). Our aim is also to create a distinct and 30 months and was recently granted government airports in the “Operational Excellence” project. clearly deﬁned service proﬁle. The structure of this sponsorship by the Federal Ministry of Education Progress on our route to exemplary service qualiservice proﬁle will match the high proportion of and Research (BMBF). ty is now discernible. For the ﬁrst time, Frankfurt 14 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our employees 15 For our employees Fraport is one of the biggest employers in the Rhine-Main region. It also has 16 sites on four Fraport Group: Employees continents. We are therefore committed to ap(Average annual number of persons according to IFRS and shares for 2011 in %) plying ethical principles when dealing with our employees and we are dedicated to complying 2010 2011 with international standards, guidelines and principles. This relates in particular to the prinFraport Group (total) 19,792 20,595 ciples of the UN Global Compact, the ILO core Fraport AG subsidiaries, 11,122 11,226 54.5 % labor standards and the OECD guidelines for afﬁliated companies 8,670 9,369 45.5 % “ My job is extremely physically multinational companies (see section “Sustainademanding. But Fraport offers bility Management and Corporate Compliance”, in Frankfurt 17,479 18,124 88.0 % p. 38). 95 % of the employees at Fraport are outside Germany 2,046 2,204 10.7 % me opportunities to keep fit and employed and paid under collective agreements. provides someone for me to talk For example, the payscale agreement for publicto if I have any problems.” service workers applies to our parent company Ahmet H. Taskin, Loading Service, Ground Services, Fraport AG Fraport AG. Cooperation with the local works councils and the Group Works Council is a key Appeal as an employer element of the proactive communication with our employees. As far as Fraport is concerned, its appeal as an employer is one of the key aspects for ensuring Fraport employs temporary workers through the the long-term achievement of business success. Group’s own subsidiary company Airport Personal We will only be ﬁt for the future if we succeed in Service (APS) in order to accommodate ﬂuctuabeing perceived as an attractive and fair employer “ I started my time at Fraport with a tions in trafﬁc volume during the day and over in the competition for qualiﬁed and motivated training as an automobile mechanic, the course of the year. The APS employees are paid employees. Against this background, the project on the basis of a company agreement concluded “Act today – Fraport 2015” was launched in 2011. now I’m Team Leader in the bus and with the ver.di United Services Union. The pay This is a basic building block for developing transit section responsible for drawing development in this agreement is linked to the our personnel strategy. It deals with future up roster plans. The opportunities for collective agreement for public service workers challenges taking particular account of democareer training have been a considerable (TVöD) that applies to the workforce employed in graphic change. An age structure analysis was help in advancing my career.” our parent company. The employees also receive done in 2011 as an initial step. This was intended Bettina Kindgen, Team Leader Passenger Transport, voluntary non-payscale beneﬁts, such as the Job to provide a comprehensive picture of the comGround Services, Fraport AG Ticket for free public transport between home position of the workforce and deliver a projection and work and subsidized meals in the canteen. for personnel requirements over the next ﬁve to 50 % of the employees have a permanent employten years as well as identifying potential problem ment contract, new appointments are on a ﬁxedareas. Strategic concepts were developed for term basis during the initial years. APS is very three ﬁelds of action. committed to providing long-term jobs for its In 2011, employees and supports the sections in Fraport One of these concepts addressed the fact that using their workers in providing further career training opportunities. the next ﬁve years will already see every second employee at Fraport being over the age of 50. Structuring work to meet the needs of older 300 employees were taken on at APS 12 Working conditions and co-determination people and an aging workforce therefore has a on the basis of the qualiﬁcations “ I’ve experienced a lot of changes high priority. The work conditions must meet the they had obtained. Specialist and at Fraport during my time here, Five ﬁelds of action in the Materiality Matrix requirements of a workforce that is aging overall. safety training is provided by the but one aspect has been entirely relate to our employees: the appeal of Fraport Concepts such as mixed work and job rotations, specialist areas taking on the consistent: The company does a lot as an employer is and remains the top priority. and hybrid-age teams will be introduced in 2012 employees. The content of the training for its employees.” Other important areas for action identiﬁed were to facilitate knowledge transfer. Programs for is the same as the training provided retaining and creating jobs, diversity, occupatiomaintaining the health of older managers will for core employees. Heide Zibner, former employee now in retirement, formerly secretary to the Executive Director Labor Relations, Fraport AG nal health and safety, and training and career also be tested. development. 16 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our employees 17 The second focus is a concept for learning based The detailed results indicated a need for the deveby individual members of the Executive Board Diversity on life cycle. The aging of the workforce means lopment of additional measures. As far as pay is to different company sectors promote direct Workplace survey 2011 75,800 it is increasingly important to recognize the fact concerned, Fraport has been working for some communication with employees on the ground. The platform for diversity management at Fraport that learning behavior changes over the course time on achieving a position that meets the requiThe page “Questions to Schulte” on the compais the Group Company Agreement entitled “The of a lifetime. Appropriate qualiﬁcation measures rements of employees and the marketplace. For ny’s dedicated Intranet provides a direct line to Conduct of Partnership, Diversity and Equality at and platforms for knowledge transfer are necesexample, Fraport AG is increasingly making pay the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Employees can ask the Workplace”. This agreement states that the There are 75,800 jobs at Frankfurt sary to ensure that people remain employable in reﬂect individual performance. Payments amountheir questions anonymously or giving their company is committed to principles such as no Airport including 4,800 staff at The Squaire, Gateway Gardens and their different life phases. ting to €3.7 million above the payscale were made name. The answers are then published online. discrimination, equal opportunities and coopeMönchhof site. in 2011. During the coming years, this approach is rative behavior with the aim of promoting futureThe personnel strategy is also directed towards to be expanded continuously. The pay scale budget proof development of global business and fosteensuring that we will be able to cover our need is being doubled incrementally from 1 % of annual Retaining and creating jobs ring a culture of motivated employees. The for expertise and human resources in the future pay to 2 % during the period 2010 to 2014. Ofﬁcer for “Diversity and General Equal Opporif the number of people in the job market declines As the airport expands, up to 25,000 new jobs tunities” was created as a function to highlight along the lines that have been forecast. StrengAll the employees of Fraport AG and many subsiwill be created at Frankfurt Airport as capacities the importance of this area. Claudia Briem was thening the employer brand is a key factor in diaries also receive additional beneﬁts such as become fully utilized. 6,000 of these jobs will appointed to this post on 1 November 2011. Her this equation. Attractive remuneration, innovative the Job Ticket for free use of public transport for be created at Fraport alone. If an event in a crisis function is to guide the strategic direction of working-time models and exciting opportunities commuting between home and work, through situation put jobs at risk, our “Company Agreediversity management, promote its conceptual for further training and career development are the family service, to company health management for Emergency and Preventive Measures development, provide the Executive Board with some of the factors that are being pursued intenment. Staff also receive bonuses linked to the sucfor Crisis Events with Disruption at Work” has appropriate advice, and support the divisions sively by human resources. cess of the company. Fraport provided beneﬁts to created a mechanism for retaining these jobs when it comes to implementing measures. As a employees amounting to €9.4 million through the and avoiding redundancies. qualiﬁed lawyer, Claudia Briem is also a contact The annual survey of all Fraport employees “Cafeteria System”. for complaints from employees in cases of discri(Barometer 2011) measuring the latest status of The “Pact for the Future 2018” is extremely immination, disadvantagement and harassment employee satisfaction indicated a slight upward 13 Our beneﬁts portant for our employees in this context, partibased on the provisions of the General Equal trend in the overall score. This meets one of the cularly in the area of ground services. The agreeOpportunities Act. These provisions also include objectives in the Sustainability Program 2010. The Barometer Survey also includes an assessment reached here was able to circumvent the gender, ethnic origin, race, religion, beliefs, The responses by 59 % of the workforce measument of the management expertise of supervisors. loss of jobs and guarantee secure jobs until 2018. sexual orientation, disablement and age. red employee satisfaction at Fraport AG at 2.96 Although these scores improved by comparison The intention of the European Commission to furcompared with 3.06 in the previous year (grade with the previous year, we are continuing to prother deregulate the market for ground services The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been system with score 1 (best) and score 6 worst). vide managers with systematic support in develagain puts jobs at risk. If the draft regulation, deﬁned by strategic development to promote The result of the survey therefore fell slightly oping their management skills because we believe which is currently before the European Parliament diversity. Fraport AG intends to use these indicashort of the target value of 2.90. Improvements this factor plays a key role in the satisfaction and is passed, this will lead to Frankfurt Airport being tors for target attainment, monitoring success were achieved in a series of assessment aspects; motivation of our staff. Managers at levels 1 to 5 opened up to other competitors. This would and controlling. The corresponding KPIs are being job security achieved the highest score. Pay is an are required to undertake appropriate measures make operating processes relating to passengers, adopted during the course of 2012 (see Sustainaaspect that achieves a low score in the Barometer. to improve management and communication aircraft and airfreight more complicated and bility Program, Diversity, p. V). Satisfaction with the Group increased from 2.94 skills in their personal attainment target if their Fraport AG believes it would also be a safety risk. in the previous year to 2.76. scores fall below deﬁned limits. This turns manaFrankfurt Airport is particularly dependent on A top priority of diversity management is to gement skills and their perception into an increastreamlined, networked and integrated workﬂows increase the proportion of women in managesingly important factor for variable pay elements due to the relatively small apron area. Opening ment positions at Fraport AG. Over the next ﬁve in managers pay packages. up the market further in the area of ground serto seven years, this percentage is to be increased vices would also mean more competition for emat Fraport AG from around 20 % to 25 to 35 %. The employee share program provides an In 2011, 360° feedback was also introduced for ployees, deterioration of working conditions and The change process required for this will concenopportunity to participate in the ﬁnancial the management levels 1 to 4. This requires pressure on salaries. This is demonstrated by the trate on selective training of women, proactive success of Fraport: super visors, colleagues and employees to provide experiences with Directive 96/67/EC adopted mediation to higher management positions and systematic and nuanced feedback on individual by the EU in 1996 whereby at least two serviceoptimization of the framework conditions. 60 % of staff at Fraport AG and strengths and development areas of people holding management responsibility. providers have to be licensed for ground services at the airport. These framework conditions also include getting the work-life balance right between career and Open and proactive communication is another family. We offer our employees a broad spectrum 65 % of the employees of the subsidiaries taking part key factor for employee satisfaction. In addition to written and electronic media, and an eight-page staff newspaper published every two weeks, of appropriate services. They range from support in structuring parental leave and various packages for childcare through family-friendly working in the scheme again participated in 2011. Fraport is committed to promoting personal comtime models, to advice on issues relating to runmunication including supervisors. Regular visits ning their household. This is a win-win situation 18 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our employees 19 provided with a special ﬁnancial allowance in projects. Health and Safety Coordinators are deFraport-Konzern: Fraport Group: Kennzahlen DiversityDiversity indicators special circumstances such as marriage, birth ployed at all our own construction sites. They look Our targets for 2012: (Personen(Number of persons onund zum 31.Dezember 31 December and Anteile 2010 inshares %) for 2011 in %) or death. Employees are also able to select from after the construction activities and scrutinize preReduction in the number of 2009 20102010 2011 different company beneﬁts available in the ventive and precautionary measures when the conaccident-related days of absence by “Cafeteria System”. They have a ﬁxed budget struction work is being organized. They also ensure 5% Beschäftigte Employees 20.488 21,124 21.124 21,662 deﬁned by the company and they can select a safe operation of machinery by keeping an eye on (zum Jahresende) (at year-end) private health or life insurance for themselves service, maintenance and repair. Frauen Women 4.705 4,903 4.903 5,060 23,2% 23.4 % and their relatives. Männer Men 15.783 16,22016.220 16,602 76,8% 76.6 % Increase in the attendance rate by Safety measures are agreed where Fraport cooperDeutsche in Deutschland KonzernGroup in Germany Nationalität German nationality 14.853 14,961 Other nationalities Andere Nationalität 5.635 4,097 14.961 15,490 4.097 4,339 21,5% 21.9% 78,5% 78.1 % Permanent integration of people with health and physical impairments in all areas of employment is an objective of our corporate policy. For many ates with external construction companies. Causes of accidents are jointly analyzed and investigated as well as exploring opportunities to prevent and 1% point 21,9% 20.6 % years, a 7.1 % ratio of disabled employees has avoid accidents. bis 30 Jahre up to age 30 3.899 4,622 4.622 4,471 31–50 Jahre 31–50 11.280 12,64012.640 12,890 59,8 % 59.5 % placed Fraport signiﬁcantly above the minimum über 50 over Jahre50 3.500 3,863 3.863 4,301 18,3 % 19.9 % statutory rate of 5 %. A total of 1,460 disabled The responsibility assumed by Fraport for occupapeople and employees with equal status to disational health and safety is also clearly deﬁned in Schwerbehinderte, Disabled employees, emClaudia Briem, Lawyer. Ofﬁcer for Gleichgestellte ployeesund with equal status1.297 1,392 1.392 1,460 7,1 % 7.1 % bled people were employed within the Fraport connection with temporary staff. They have equal Diversity/General Equality. Grew up in China, Mehrfachanrechnungen to disabled employees Group in 2011. Strategic measures ensure that priority alongside permanent employees when it and employees with Singapore and Argentina, studied law in Bonn. Frauen inmultiple Führungs-credits disability staff with impairments have the same opportunicomes to occupational health and safety and they positionen, Ebenen 1-5 166 223 23,2% ties as other employees to develop their skills and undergo a qualiﬁed induction phase. If there are Women in management positions, levels 1–5 223 225 31.3 % be promoted to appropriate positions. For examnevertheless any accidents subject to notiﬁcation to ple since 2011, we have been offering special cathe authorities, an accident analysis meeting is held reer training courses for visually impaired people. as in the case of permanent employees in order to Similar courses for people with hearing impairdetermine the causes of the accident and introduce for employees and company because the emthis information from their workplace or using ment will follow in 2012. appropriate protective measures. ployees beneﬁt from favorable working conditions their home PC, and the Internet portal offers a and the company strengthens its position in the comprehensive overview ranging from the options 17 Integration agreement Accidents are frequently the result of behaviors competition for good employees and valuable for support available to mediation of support that have not been adequately modiﬁed in unaccusknowledge. places for children and relatives needing care. tomed situations. The extreme winter at the beginOccupational health and safety ning of 2010 resulted in a signiﬁcant increase in 14 Brochure “Equal opportunities beneﬁt An increasing number of people pursuing a career accidents. The negative effect of the adverse weaeveryone” are being confronted by a rising burden of care Fraport is committed to preventing accidents and ther on ground conditions was a signiﬁcant factor 15 Work-Life Balance for relatives. Our employee survey at Fraport AG illness in the workplace. We want to structure the here. The winter service was therefore restructured indicates that 15 % of employees are involved in work of our employees so that health, well-being for 2011. As well as improving logistics – provision Workplaces at home constitute an initiative for the care of a relative or even perform this role and motivation are fostered. Two goals are a top of more grit and snow-clearing vehicles – patrol providing a family-friendly structure for work. with no support. Recent years have seen inforpriority here: steady reduction in accidents at ofﬁcers were appointed to inspect the footpaths In 2011, 127 employees were already spending mation events and advice packages on the issue work and expansion of health care programs to and roads in the zone. They are responsible for some of the time working from home. Positive of “Career and Family” being provided for emincrease the attendance ratio (see Sustainability coordinating with the winter service. A comparison experience means that Fraport will be promoting ployees of Fraport AG. These were intensiﬁed in Program, Occupational health and safety, p. V ff.). between the accident ﬁgures for 2010 and 2011 this form of working in the future. 2011: An “Info Market Care” event took place in showed positive results (see chart “Accidents at November. The “Network Care” initiative was 18 Occupational health and safety work”, below). 15 nursery places were available to support familaunched at the end of the year. It brings together lies with small children in 2011. The “Fluggi Land” people affected and promotes exchange of The extensive construction work being carried out Each year, Occupational Health and Safety joins childcare facility also provides emergency childexperience. In 2012, Fraport is organizing a care in the course of expanding the airport demands forces with Health Management, Medical Services care support for twelve to 15 children between seminar in ﬁve modules in cooperation with the increased focus on health and safety. Building work and the specialist operating areas to carry out a the ages of one and twelve years. The acquisition charity Caritas Frankfurt. is always associated with an increased risk of accihealth campaign lasting several months. The camFraport has signed the of quotas in communal nurseries and an increase dent and special protection measures need to be in paign adopted the motto “Safety First” in 2011. The Charter of Diversity, in the number of nursery places in existing faciThe philosophy of the family-friendly company place. The generally binding construction site direcmain goal is to provide information on acting safely a corporate initiative lities is intended to increase the childcare capacity is also being pursued throughout the Group. For tive provides regulations for occupational safety in their area of work. Information about the risks of under the patronage available by 25 % in 2012. Since July 2011, parents example, Fraport operates the three terminals on building sites and also deﬁnes rules for general having an accident in leisure time and at home are of the German Chancellor have also been able to make use of the packages at Antalya Airport in Turkey and various options safety and health care. These regulations have been also part of the campaign. Since Fraport AG is conprovided by our partner pme Familienservice for ﬂexible working times and different part-time providing the Occupational Health and Safety Detinually working on reducing potential hazards, safe 16 Charter of Diversity GmbH to obtain information about the best form employment packages are making it easier for partment at Fraport with support and guidance driving conditions in the operational areas of the of childcare available for them. They can access people to combine work and career. Families are throughout the construction period and all ongoing airport were a continual theme throughout 2011. 20 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our employees 21 The issue of safety is also systematically pursued A pilot project was implemented in parking-space In Varna and Burgas, all employees received a Trainee programs and international management within the Group. For example, risk factors in the management. This area is responsible for manamedical examination in 2011 and workplaces training are also extremely important if we are In 2011, workplace environment were recorded at the ging all parking areas at Frankfurt Airport. After were analyzed for speciﬁc risks. The results were to meet our goal of ﬁlling three quarters of our Group Airports at Varna and Burgas in Bulgaria. A risk management program was derived from this survey and an action list was prepared for 2012. an improvement in customer satisfaction was achieved some years ago through workshops and follow-up measures, an increase in the absence used to identify risk groups for speciﬁc illnesses. The health care status of these employees is regularly monitored. From 2012, insurance beneﬁts management positions in levels 1 to 4 from our own ranks. The Fraport Academy offers around 70 courses to prepare skilled specialists for mana70 % of apprentices were given a permanent In 2011, a training exercise was carried out for ratio again emerged in 2010. A second workshop for staff members will also be improved with the gement functions each year. The Integrated job in the second year after completing supervisors in order to sensitize them to the risks. series was therefore held from January to March aim of improving therapeutic and rehabilitation Management Development Program also offers their training. A further A program for increasing trafﬁc safety was also 2011 in order to analyze the operational consservices, care in hospital and health checks for the opportunity for more advanced qualiﬁcation. implemented on the apron. 19 Health management traints and health issues. Proposals for improvements were then worked out. Since stress was frequently cited as a cause for absences, we used individuals in the risk groups. Regular Potential Assessment Centers are carried out with managers to facilitate further career development. 14 % were employed again on a ﬁxed-term an impulse test to record speciﬁc stress. This test Training and career development contract, the remaining The project “Increasing the Attendance Rate” was is a proven questionnaire used across sectors and 21 Personnel development launched in 2011. The objective was to identify operational constraints, resources and measures to promote health and motivation throughout activities to evaluate working conditions on the basis of the potential for generating stress. The results ﬂowed into the workshops. Other projects Vocational training is regarded as a valuable tool for recruiting the next generation of employees and is ﬁrmly established as the ﬁrst stage in perIntercultural learning is becoming increasingly important for us as a Group with an international 16 % left their job on their own request. the company and with proactive integration of to improve the attendance ratio include an intersonnel development in the Group. A total of perspective. A representative of the training employees. The goal set in 2010 was to achieve net-based points and bonus system. The aim here around 350 apprentices were given training in program at Fraport AG has again led seminar an increase of 1 percentage point in 2010. We is to enhance motivation through participation in 21 vocations on a budget of some €8.5 million programs in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The delegates were unable to reach the goal and we therefore health care measures, provide individual advice during 2011. 116 of these were new. The number are interested in the issues addressed by the extended the time horizon by one year. 60 health packages for people with mental illnesses, and of new apprentices will increase to 138 in 2012 to seminar – customer orientation, communication workshops are planned for 2012 and the aim is to setting up a hotline for staff and managers who take account of the future requirement for skilled and intercultural competence – and also like to counteract factors causing absences. are subject to particularly high levels of stress. workers. take the opportunity to ﬁnd out about Western perspectives. Additional seminars are planned 20 Our training packages for this year. Around Fraport provides ﬁnancial support for 18 company sports clubs with around A company-wide survey on the need for skilled 22 Promotion of cultural diversity 2,200 employees were 950 workers has been conducted annually to improve our focus on vocational requirements since 2010. A thorough selection process for applications provided with training in and comprehensive training concepts form the members. The company also organized Apart from the specialist training platform for a high level of training quality. This 89 courses to promote safety special events and makes a sports hall available to the clubs. The sports include ball game sports, water sports, cycling and naturally aero-sports. process aims to arrive at an effective ﬁt between specialist qualiﬁcation and personal development. Foreign internships with our companies in packages offered at Fraport College and Fraport Academy, employees are also able to participate in a large range of seminars. Each employee has awareness in 2011. Europe, Africa, Asia and South America also offer a personal budget of additional incentives and opportunities for expeAccidents at work Fraport Group 2010 2011 Sickness rate and occupational diseases Fraport Group 2010 2011 rience. In 2011, 33 apprentices spent an average of eight weeks on internships. Consistently good examination results and a drop-out rate of less €600 that they can use for personal career Accidents * 669 644 Sickness rate (in %) 6.33 5.93 than 3 % bear testimony to the excellent quality development at a wide range of per 1,000 employees * 31.7 29.3 due to illness 6.09 5.79 of training at Fraport. After apprentices have seminars dealing with issues beyond with fatal consequences 0 0 due to accident at work * 0.24 0.14 completed their training, these young people are guaranteed further employment for at least their immediate area of employment. Days of absence * 11,826 9,189 Occupational diseases (number) 1 0 a year, while appropriately qualiﬁed employees In 2011, Fraport AG 2010 2011 Fraport AG 2010 2011 continue to work longer in the company if an Accidents * per 1,000 employees * with fatal consequences 361 30.16 0 292 24.16 0 Sickness rate (in %) due to illness due to accident at work * 6.49 6.19 0.30 6.45 6.27 0.18 opportunity is available. Career training is also a big focus at Fraport. The 1,186 members of staff took advantage aim is to provide an average of 2.9 career training of this offer. Days of absence * 7,960 4,763 Occupational diseases (number) 1 0 days for each core employee in all sections and at * notiﬁable * without accidents involving sport, commuting to and from work, and private activities all levels. 22 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our environment 23 For our environment Flying and airports impact negatively on our enAmsterdam, Munich, Istanbul Atatürk and London vironment. There is no doubt about that. Up to Gatwick – overall seven of the Top Ten European now, these impacts have been inseparably linked passenger airports. The accredited airports repreto the aspirations of our society for mobility and sent approximately 50 % of total European passeneconomic prosperity, alongside the increasing ger trafﬁc. globalization of our life at all levels. Fraport is an airport operator with commitment on four In 2009, Frankfurt Airport was the ﬁrst airport ever continents and its main location at Frankfurt to be accredited under the program. Reporting Airport, one of the world’s most important airwas expanded for the upgrade to Level 3 by inclutrafﬁc hubs. Fraport is therefore confronted with ding information on emission sources which have “ I think that environmental protection the challenge of meeting the demand for rising to be allocated to “Scope 3” in accordance with starts with small things: using the Job ﬂight capacities and the justiﬁed need to protect the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” (GHG Protocol): Ticket, switching off lights at lunch time, our environment. As far as we are concerned, Operation of aircraft on the ground (engine r unclosing down your computer after work.” this means minimizing environmental risks, ups and test runs, operation of Auxiliary Power Vera Steinmüller, Retail and Properties t, Real Estate Management , while at the same time meeting the needs of our Units) and in the landing and take-off cycle up to Fraport AG customers and the commercial requirements as 3,000 feet, operation of buildings and ground far as possible. Our efforts are focused on the handling vehicles of third parties, supply of airpriorities that we have set in the Sustainability crafts with ground power supply, travel to and Program (see p. VII-IX ff of this report). from the airport by passengers and employees, and business trips (see Sustainability Program, 23 Environmental management Climate protection, p. VII). 24 Greenhouse Gas Protocol Climate protection Antalya Airport started the accreditation process Climate protection is one of the top priorities for in August 2009 and was accredited for Level 1 in “ The best way of reducing environmenFrankfurt Airport and this is also increasing in 2010. Antalya was then accredited with Level 2 tal pollution caused by air traffic is to importance at our locations outside Germany. for the measures described in the Carbon ManaOne target is at the foreground of all our efforts gement in 2011. The targeted management of Higher ranking cooperate with the airline companies at Frankfurt: the reduction of CO2 emissions per CO2 emissions and their reduction and approFrankfurt now at ACA Level and all the other players in the 3 passenger and per 100 kilograms of airfreight. priate monitoring are a prerequisite. transport sector.” Another target is to avoid the generation of adErich Voss, Facility Management Fraport AG ditional CO2 emissions as a result of airport ope 25 Airport Carbon Accreditation 2 rations in spite of the expected increase in pasAntalya at ACA Level 2 senger and freight volumes (see Sustainability In 2008, Fraport already packed all activities diProgram, Climate protection, p. VII). The aim is to rec ted toward climate protection in a single proachieve this with a package of different programs. ject that focused on three ﬁelds: energy-saving 1 A third objective has already been attained. At the measures in the existing portfolio of buildings beginning of 2012, Frankfurt Airport achieved and infrastructure, efﬁcient energy use in new Ambitious climate target Level 3 Airport Carbon Accreditation, a climate buildings, and reduction of energy consumption Reduction of CO2 emissions protection program run by the umbrella associain the company’s own vehicle ﬂeet. per trafﬁc unit (one passenger tion of the European airport operators “Airports or 100 kg airfreight) by Council International Europe” (ACI Europe). Potential energy savings were identiﬁed in the “ The environmentally friendly airport first needs to be invented. But we need to make a contribution to keeping the The objective of this program is to encourage as many European airports as possible to engage in existing building portfolio totaling around 66 million kilowatt hours, i.e. nearly 10 % of the total energy consumption of Fraport AG. This corres-30 % impacts on people and nature as low comprehensive CO2 management and ultimately ponds to some 21,000 tons of CO2 which are to in relation to the infrastructure achieve carbon-neutral operation. More than 50 be saved by 2020. 40 % of these will come from of Fraport AG from 3.7 kg as possible.” in 2005 to 2.6 kg in 2020. European airports are currently already actively inrefurbishment of the ventilation systems in TermiBernd Beuchert, Facility Management Infrastrukture / Grounds and Facilities Engineering, Fraport AG volved in the program. Apart from Frankfurt, they nal 1. The potential savings were adjusted from include London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle, 17,500 tons to 8,300 tons in the course of detailed 24 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our environment 25 planning. Savings of 3,000 tons of CO2 have alreaA pilot project is to implement this system on a Total energy consumption at Fraport AG CO2 emission at Fraport AG dy been made, and savings of 1,300 tons of CO2 test basis. The new A-Plus pier is to be equipped are currently being implemented. with a pilot system which supplies “Pre-condi1,000 12 400 4.0 kWh/ kg CO2/ Relative CO2 emission (kg/trafﬁc unit) Absolute energy consumption (GWh) tioned Air” (PCA) to the aircraft at their parking trafﬁc unit trafﬁc unit Absolute CO2 emission (1,000 tons) 350 3.5 10 The energy required for heating and cooling will positions. The ﬁndings from this PCA pilot system Relative energy consumption Fuels for 750 combustion 300 Fuels for 3.0 be signiﬁcantly reduced by renovation of the tranwill be integrated in plans for Terminal 3 and the plants 8 combustion District 250 plants 2.5 sit baggage hall of Fraport AG. The baggage conongoing development of existing plants. All 28 cooling District cooling veyor facility on the lower level has a large numpiers at Antalya have already been equipped with 500 6 200 2.0 (kWh/trafﬁc unit) District heating District ber of electric motors and their heat is cur rently supply units for electricity and PCA and the expeheating 150 1.5 4 being conducted away throughout the year by rience gained from this system can be utilized.” 250 100 1.0 electrically operated cooling machines. Air from 2 Electricity 50 0.5 the outside is continually entering the building at In new buildings a maximally high level of efﬁground level through the opening of quick-action ciency is an integral element of all planning 0 0 0 0 rolling gates so that heating is required at certain measures. Innovative systems for a reduction of 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 times. around 10,000 tons of CO2 or around 40 % per year by comparison with conventional systems Optimization of energy use in the building has are being introduced for the building section Climate protection strategy – How we are going to reduce energy consumption been planned with the assistance of a dynamic A-Plus Finger at Terminal 1, which is scheduled to building simulation. The new energy concept encome onstream in 2012. The aim is to make elecFor new buildings Vehicle ﬂeet Building portfolio visages temperature control for the hall at ground tricity savings for lighting and air-conditioning level using the heat generated from the baggage units, as well as energy savings for cooling and Energy efﬁciency: The Fire Station achieves a Reduction of around conveyor system located in the underground level. heating. Targets for electromobility in 2015: The heat generated in the conveyor facility located will be transported by a fan pumping 50,000 cubic meters per hour from the underground Maximally efﬁcient lights save energy, contribute less to heating in buildings, and reduce the need 90 % energy saving compared with conventional building methods 20 % 21,000 tons of CO2 by 2020 share of electric tow tractors in baggage handling level to the ground level. Air-curtain systems for cooling in certain parts of the year. The coo(air jet from above with external air as “air gate”) ling system was also optimized so that the energy will be installed there in order to prevent the ingress of cold external air when the hall doors are opened. This will also minimize any draught volume required for cooling the air could be halved in the ventilation control center. 20 % share of electric pallet forklift loaders effect in workplaces. Compared with the original The new building for ground-handling services conventional planning system, savings of around €3.5 million of investment costs could be made with the assistance of reﬁned building simulation provides another example of successful implementation of potential energy savings in new buildings. Since July 2011, all key operational 100 % share of electric conveyor-belts and the resulting measures. Signiﬁcant savings in centers controlling the equipment for handling operating costs are also anticipated. aircraft on the ground have been located here. Fraport employees coordinate the deployment of The operation of aircraft Auxiliary Power Units baggage, freight and aircraft tow-tractor, buses CO2 footprint at Frankfurt Airport and Fraport AG (APU) accounts for a proportion of approximately and other service vehicles from this control cenCO2 footprint for 2011 at Frankfurt Airport CO2 footprint for 2011 Fraport AG (Scope 1 and 2) 10 % of the CO2 emissions in the take-off and lanter. Since these are primarily computer workding cycle. Use of APUs is virtually unavoidable in stations generating heat, centralized computer 2 1 66.3 % Electricity consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) speciﬁc short phases of the cycle, for example technology was used to reduce the cooling 2 13.7 % District heating Fraport AG (Scope 2) when starting the main engines. However, they requirement, i.e. only screen and keyboard are 3 14.9 % Operation of vehicles and equipment (Scope 1) 3 A frequently continue to run at the gate positions in located at the workplace itself. The computers 225,600 tt 000.000 4 3.9 % District-cooling consumption Fraport AG (Scope 2) order to supply electricity and provide air-condithemselves are located in the server room, which C 1,738,500 t B 1 4 5 0.5 % Operation of standby power supply system (Scope 1) 5 tioning. Switching off the APUs could signiﬁcantly can be cooled much more efﬁciently. Extensive 6 6 0.1 % Operation of ﬁre brigade exercise facility (Scope 1) 7 reduce emissions of CO2 and other air pollutants, roof landscaping also contributes to reducing 7 0.7 % Operation of fossil-ﬁred facilities (Scope 1) or indeed avoid them altogether. However, in orenergy consumption. In the winter it improves der to achieve this, aircraft also need to be supplied heat insulation and in the summer it serves as a with air-conditioning when they are stationary – heat shield. At the same time, it also improves the alongside the universally available supply of elecenvironmental performance of the building by A 2.1 % Scope 1 (own consumption Fraport AG) tricity supplied to aircraft on the ground from the ﬁltering out air pollutants and ﬁne dust, by proB 10.9 % Scope 2 (purchased electricity Fraport AG) terminal. viding water-retention capacity, and as a habitat C 87.0 % Scope 3 (third parties at the airport including air trafﬁc in landing and take-off cycle) for animals. The contribution to saving energy is 26 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our environment 27 worthwhile in itself. The energy consumption for The new Terminals constructed after Fraport took Fraport is also planning to procure electric cars for Community System. In 2011, the transport ﬂows All this new building is 50 % below the speciﬁcations responsibility at Antalya in 1998 feature good heat its vehicle ﬂeet over the coming years. Their suitawere analyzed with a view to potential for optimi28 for the Energy Directive EnEV 2007 and 20 % insulation, the use of roof areas for solar energy, bility as company cars is being tested in a pilot zation, and the pilot project with full routine, evebelow EnEV 2009 (see Sustainability Program, and automated shading systems which reduce the project for an e-car pool. The main objective in ryday operation was started up at the beginning Climate protection p. VII). need for cooling in the summer. Sensor-controlled setting up a car pool is to reduce the proportion of 2012 (see Sustainability Program, Intermodality, lighting and automated systems for heating / coolof vehicles kept available over the medium to long p. XIII). piers at Antalya Certiﬁcation of the new Terminal 3 is planned in ing along with other technical systems contribute term. This goal is initially focused on a central adare equipped with accordance with the Gold Standard of the German to additional energy savings. In other ways too, ministration building. An innovative usage concept 27 Climate protection Pre-conditioned Air systems (PCA). Sustainable Building Council and potentially furenergy saving measures are deployed at this airwill also improve the utilization of the vehicles, ther speciﬁcations deﬁned by international stanport. Energy is generated at an advanced block which will exert a positive effect on their commerdards. A “Round Table” discussion forum was heating power station which has a signiﬁcantly cial efﬁciency. This initiative is supplemented by Air quality established to achieve an optimum result. This higher level of efﬁciency compared with a convenpossibilities to supply electric vehicles with elecincludes internal and external experts – including tional power station due to the use of waste heat. tricity using a “solar car port”. Solar cells installed Fraport pursues an ongoing process of maintairepresentatives from environmental authorities – It also has signiﬁcantly lower CO2 emissions. on the roof of a penthouse facility deployed as a ning or improving air quality to enhance the lives to achieve the best possible energy efﬁciency in garage either supply electric cars directly with of residents living around the airport and staff the new building. We established an appropriate Since the beginning of October, Fraport has been electricity or the electricity generated is fed into working there. The objective is to reduce airspecialist department in 2011 with the aim of using a fuel-cell system for the ﬁrst time to back up the energy supply grid. Parallel to this project, an pollutant emissions from the operation of aircraft building sustainably and we are conducting out its electricity supply. It supplies emergency power adequately dimensioned supply network of charand the airport. life cycle analyses there. This department is a to the complex around the CD/CC car park in front ging stations at easily accessible locations is gradedicated area of action in the sustainability of Terminal 1. If the power supply fails, this backup dually being established at the airport complex. We are only in a position to inﬂuence the aircraft program (see Sustainability Program, Sustainable ensures that operation of parking ticket machines emissions indirectly. Fraport levies emission-based construction, p. VII). can continue uninterrupted and the availability of The importance of systematically recording and airport charges on nitrogen oxides and hydrocarthe IT and power supply is ensured for the control monitoring the activities and investments for rebons to give the airline companies ﬁnancial incen26 German Sustainable Building Council facility located in the vicinity. ducing CO2 emissions is increasing due to the high tives to use aircraft with lower emissions. priority of climate protection for Fraport and the The dedicated company ﬂeet is responsible for increasing complexity of these systems. Fraport 28 Airport charges around 15 % of the CO2 emissions caused by has therefore started to establish a comprehensive Fraport AG. Apart from the procurement of system of CO2 monitoring. This concept was deveAnother way of reducing the emissions from airenergy-efﬁcient vehicles, alternative power units loped in 2011 and introduction at Frankfurt Airport craft is to switch off the APUs at parking positions. 41 % are also used to reduce energy consumption. will gradually be implemented from 2012 on (see This would be facilitated by provision of statioElectromobility is the key word because electriSustainability Program, Climate protection, p. VII). nary Pre-conditioned-Air, and testing of this 39 cally powered vehicles are ideal for use at airports facility is planned at the A-Plus pier (see section of all passengers used with the large number of short journeys entailed Networking with other transportation modes – “Climate protection”, p. 24). bus and train to travel here. They also contribute to limiting the burden intermodality – is also a climate-protection objecto and from the airport of air pollutants (see “Air quality”). This power tive of Fraport, in order to ensure that the airport We are also working continuously on reducing in 2011. Intermodality technology is a particularly important option for can be accessed by as many passengers and emtaxiing and waiting times for aircraft. Airport Colis one of the key success factors the specialist vehicles used in aircraft handling, ployees as possible by public transport. We are laborative Decision Making (A-CDM) is one of the at the Frankfurt site such as tow-tractors, conveyor-belts and pallet cooperating closely with other transportation measures directed toward this. The procedure inLong-distance railway station loaders, particularly since these vehicles make up modes on this objective. We are also implemenvolves better coordination of the ground-based 174 high-speed trains each day a major proportion of CO2 emissions generated by the Fraport vehicle ﬂeets. Around 10 % of all apron vehicles are already electrically powered. ting initiatives for a more optimum freight logistics chain in CargoCity based on key ecological and commercial principles. Transfer of the airprocesses. The latest and most advanced mobile work machines are used for aircraft handling on the ground. New software tools are planned for 90 % of all conveyor-belt vehicles are electric freight feeder service from road to rail is another optimizing the handling processes and helping to Regional railway station vehicles. The electric drive is ecologically and priority. This is because the delivery and collection avoid empty runs in future. Converting the vehi223 regional and metropolitan trains each day commercially superior to the diesel-operation versions. An electrically operated pallet loader has been successfully used in ground handling since of airfreight is rising with increasing volumes – particularly using road-based transport. The aim of handling the trafﬁc volumes in and around the cle ﬂeet to low-pollutant and electric vehicles also offers further potential. 2010. During the second half of 2011, the ﬁrst tow airport efﬁciently with minimum environmental Maintaining systematic inventories of relevant airBus station tractors in baggage handling ﬁtted with serial hyimpact means that all processes need to be increapollutant emissions is important for planning and 240 departures each day in public regional brid technology were integrated in the transport system. By 2015, the proportion of battery operated electric vehicles of both types is to make up singly coordinated between all the players involved – cargo lines, freight forwarders, handling agents, customs, etc. For this purpose, Fraport has monitoring additional measures, as for CO2. An appropriate methodology is being developed with the objective of regularly and systematically and suburban trafﬁc 20 % of the total. launched a pilot project with a number of partners recording emissions from individual locations, directed toward developing an IT-based Cargo most importantly at Fraport AG. These methods 28 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our environment 29 will be based on modeling approaches deﬁned forms part of our objectives. Our objective is to Our Environment Fund also promotes various section including the planned Terminal 3, the in external expert reports on expansion, internal conserve the resource of water as much as possiprojects in the region to preserve and promote buildings located there, and precipitation water initiatives, and the latest relevant operational ble over the entire airport as well as reducing the biodiversity. with deicing agents from the aircraftmovement data. The aim is to analyze a level of detail that generation of waste and achieving a high recoveareas. permits any potential for minimization to be rability rate within Fraport AG. Managing the “resource water” involves controlquantiﬁed and the success of all measures to be ling the consumption and the quality of water In Lima, Peru, the quality of the groundwater displayed. The conceptual phase started in OctoThe environmental compatibility study during which enters the ecosystem at the airport comand drinking water is regularly monitored. Water ber 2011. Some initial results are expected in 2012 the course of the zoning procedure resulted in a plex. Fraport has decided to adopt “qualiﬁed savings – 2 % were planned for 2011 – are a key (see Sustainability Program, Air quality, p. IX). detailed record of the ﬂora and fauna living at drainage” with innovative drainable systems for environmental objective which has been achieved Frankfurt Airport and in the surrounding environthe new northwest runway. The water from rain with 8 % less consumption per trafﬁc unit. 29 Air quality ment. Population studies have also been done for and snow on the runways and taxiways ﬂows some years including the various species of bird. along slotted channels conﬁgured at the sides We are also implementing measures for separaSince 2011, Fraport AG has participated in a vointo a network of drains 23 kilometers in length ting and treating deicing agents at our airports in Conservation of nature and resources luntary Biodiversity Check, which has been conto three pumping stations. The water is then Varna and Burgas, Bulgaria. In addition to setting ducted out by the Lake Constance Foundation pumped from there into two underground reserup special deicing areas and development of The expansion and operation of the airport is and the Global Nature Fund. Their assessment is voirs each with a capacity of 12,500 cubic meters. technical systems, building modiﬁcations are also closely associated with impact on the natural based on our environmental and sustainability Subsequently, the water passes through ﬁlters being implemented, such as the construction of environment over a large area. This is why one of reports and our answers to numerous searching with a total area of 20,000 square meters and a runway drainage system in Varna. 90 % of this our corporate goals is to preserve and promote and in-depth questions. The check yielded a series deicing agents are removed during the winter system has already been completed. New methods biodiversity at the airport location and in the of recommendations which we are checking and months. Online measuring instruments contifor runway deicing are being introduced at both immediate surroundings. The airport is also a implementing. We have already implemented nually monitor the quality of the precipitation airports in 2012 as part of the environmental location where resources are used extremely insome of the results in many areas. water. If the strict quality speciﬁcations are comprogram and waste management program. tensively since it functions as a platform for tens plied with, the water can be drained away through of thousands of people, as a take-off and landing 30 Brochure “Ecological Measures for Airport two inﬁltration trenches with a capacity of more New measures and systems are being developed site for hundreds of aircrafts and as a transport Expansions – proactive for nature” than 600 cubic meters. This system allows around for the roll-out of a future-oriented waste strategy hub for thousands of tons of goods each day. 31 Biodiversity Check 4,300 cubic meters of treated precipitation water geared to conserving resources. Statutory reguUsing resources as efﬁciently as possible also to be channeled into the groundwater each day. lations required Fraport AG to introduce an elecFraport invested a total of €22.75 million alone tronic veriﬁcation system in Frankfurt for disposal for the drainage systems at the new north-west of hazardous materials. Parallel to this, a special runway. waste database was installed for all waste generated at Fraport AG and for waste taken from State-of-the-art drainage Absolute amount of waste*/ Water from winter rain and snow at the airport aircraft cabins (no catering waste). In future, this of the north-west runway Recoverability rate for Fraport AG can be contaminated with deicing agents used database will hold records and evaluate detailed *excluding soil and building rubble 30 for aircraft and surface deicing agents. The chemiinformation on materials ﬂow for waste. This sys100 cals used are biologically degradable. From 2012 tem will avoid large amounts of waste over the Absolute amount of waste (1,000 tons) Recycling 25 quota on, precipitation water with a Chemical Organic long term and improve the recycling of valuable 80 Demand (COD) of 200 mg of oxygen per liter will materials. Recoverability rate (%) 20 be retained and treated in the communal water60 15 treatment plants. The construction work necessary for this is currently being implemented. 32 Environmental Statement 2011 40 10 33 Nature and resource conservation 20 While optimizing the existing drainage system 34 Brochure “From Waste to Raw Material” 5 and expanding the airport, the retention capacity 35 Latest data on waste 0 0 for precipitation water will be increased overall from 89,590 cubic meters in 2004 to 204,190 cu2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 bic meters in 2013. Waste Fraport operates a water treatment plant in the The waste recycling quota at Fraport AG remains southern section of the airport and the capacity at a very high level around of this facility will be increased by 2013 from 83 % 11,000 population equivalents (PEs) for a wastewater volume of around 540,000 cubic meters a year to 100,000. In future, treatment will occur Source: Frankfurter Societäts-Medien GmbH here for wastewater from the entire southern 30 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For the community 31 For the community “Not in my backyard!” This is the slogan often The situation of people affected by aircraft noise applied when discussion in the community turns is taken extremely seriously. Representatives of to the topic of new technologies and facilities. the air trafﬁc industry, the state government and Airports are also part of this debate. Our world can the region presented a further package of measno longer exist without them and for many people ures at the end of February 2012. The objective a big airport like Frankfurt remains an exciting and of these measures was to reduce the effects of positive experience – whether you happen to be a aircraft noise, especially for those most seriously traveler or a visitor. Criticism and proactive involveaffected, bring down the number of people expement set in most frequently where airport neighriencing negative impacts, and reduce the level “ I believe that Fraport gives more to the bors experience the negative impacts of air travel of aircraft noise experienced: “Together for the region than is evident from the public on a permanent basis. This is where Fraport exists region – Alliance for more noise abatement 2012”. debates about the airport. At any rate, in a field of tension between the responsibility for I’m proud when I see all the good causes tens of thousands of jobs, the importance of the A regional fund totaling some €265 million was that Fraport supports.” location for Germany’s export-oriented economy, set up primarily to ﬁnance passive noise abateMaximilian Hoefﬂer, Rescue Assistant, Trafﬁc and Terminal Manageand the prosperity of the Rhine-Main region on ment in private households and public institument, Corporate Safety and Security, Medical/Rescue Service, Fraport AG the one hand, and the negative impacts of aircraft tions eligible for protection. Fraport also contrinoise that the neighboring residents have to live butes around €70 million to the voluntary real with on the other. This conflict creates a particular estate program Casa. A total of 19 individual commitment that we owe to our neighbors. measures from a spectrum of active noise abatement initiatives like “Fly higher”, “create noise 36 Airport and region breaks”, “quiet ﬂying” and “intensifying research” were agreed with the objective of reducing noise and diminishing the number of people affected. Alliance for more noise abatement Some of these measures had already been imple“ Our comprehensive program on passive mented by 2012 or were launched in that year. When the northwest runway started operating Another development in this context was the noise abatement and ongoing further on 21 October 2011, Frankfurt Airport expanded expansion of aircraft noise monitoring by the development of measures for active noise its runway system by a fourth runway. A new utiliEnvironmental and Neighborhood House to abatement mean that we do our utmost zation concept was introduced at the same time. include airline-based performance monitoring. to mitigate the impact from aircraft noise In the previous three runway system, the two parThis system creates transparency demonstrating on the people affected.” allel runways had been used equally for take-offs how good individual airline companies are at Max Conrady, Head of Environmental Impacts Noise and Air, Trafﬁc and landings. Now, the two outer runways are maintaining low-noise approach and take-off and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security, Fraport AG normally used for landings and the middle paralprocedures. lel runway and runway 18 are used for take-offs. This made it necessary to harmonize the system 37 Press release from the state government of approach and take-off routes. The shift in downwind approach routes implemented in March 2011 resulted in new groups of people Noise abatement being affected as the year progressed. The complex situation of Frankfurt Airport needs When the new runway started operations, air trafto be taken into account when looking at all the ﬁc did not increase initially but locally there were measures. The high trafﬁc density combined with “ Sponsoring and donations from companies signiﬁcant increases in negative impacts. An increathe absolute priority of safety mean that each proto support social causes are important. But se in aircraft noise pollution is primarily experienposal has to be carefully reviewed, the ﬁt within each individual, whether working or retired, ced in the vicinity of the new southern ﬂy-round the bigger picture analyzed, and a ﬁnal evaluation routes (westerly wind: Rüsselsheim South East, arrived at. For example, all the changes in Frankcan make a difference to another individual Nauheim, Trebur) and under the approach ground furt have to be assessed in the context of harmoniwith a commitment.” lines of the new northwest runway (easterly wind: zing European air space. Deutsche Flugsicherung Shivadas S. Pattanath, retired member of staff, Marketing, Fraport AG. Flörsheim North, Hochheim South, Gustavsburg, GmbH (DFS) is responsible for air trafﬁc control in He was awarded the Federal Order of Merit for his commitment to old people and the disabled in 2007. parts of Mainz; westerly wind: Frankfurt South, in Germany. DFS is working closely with the Benelux particular Lerchesberg, parts of Offenbach). countries, France and Switzerland on this project. 32 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For the community 33 Their homes are now directly below the ﬂight path. tion in the neighborhood of the airport. It is based Representatives of the airtrafﬁc industry, state Fraport purchases residential property through on the standard international noise dimension for government and the region contributed a total of the Casa Program where planes ﬂy particularly a day and night level of 60dB (A). This value is €265 low – at an altitude of less than 350 m – or it pays applied to aircraft noise in the same way as noise the owners compensation. The purchase price of generated by road or rail trafﬁc. This is a 24-hour million the proper ty is assessed by independent experts level where the noise impact at night is weighted under the package of measures entitled on the basis of conditions in the district before the by a factor of 10. The monitoring system deﬁnes an “Together for the region – Alliance for more noise expansion of the airport. The alternative of comaircraft noise contour within which Fraport is able abatement 2012”. The lion’s share of the funds pensation is determined by the position of the to calculate the number of residents each year. was used to pay for passive noise abatement. property and its distance from the core zone afFraport also contributed a further fected by the incoming ﬂights. The contours can vary as a result of operational €70 million to the voluntary Casa Program. 40 Fraport Casa Program changes (trafﬁc development, aircraft mix, use of runways and ﬂight paths). They can also be affected by measures for active noise reduction and by Fraport has also expanded the system of noise ﬂuctuations in the operating directions for the monitoring to record the new circumstances. take-off and landing systems. When we are doing In September 2011, the network of measuring monitoring measurements, we use long-term avestations was increased by two additional measurage distribution for operating direction in order Alongside the measures for active noise abatetance to the residential areas at the northwest runring stations to 28 in total. The new measuring to eliminate the inﬂuence of weather conditions ment taken when the new runway was opened, way with the aim of reducing the impact of noise. stations are located close to the approach ground on the calculated aircraft noise contours. You can new noise-reducing ﬂight procedures were line on the new northwest runway so that they ﬁnd precise information on the development of introduced for the region around the airport alFraport has already had the necessary instrument are in a position to monitor the development statistics in our accounting section on the Fraport ready from the beginning of 2011. They were delanding system installed at the northwest runway. of the aircraft noise and the effect of the noisehome page. veloped by a group of experts based within the The necessary licenses still have to be approved and reduction measures there. Mobile measurements Forum Airport and Region (FFR) made up of veriﬁcations have to be provided that the increased in the communities around the airport supple41 Aircraft noise monitoring representatives from local communities, airline approach glide angle does not put safe operation ment the monitoring. Fraport AG has been companies, air trafﬁc control, and the airport, as at risk. Our objective is to start operating with the providing comprehensive information about In view of the intensive discussions on the issue well as politicians and academics. The aim of acincreased glide angle during the course of 2012. the measuring results from its own aircraft of aircraft noise, Fraport has been intensifying its tive noise abatement is to reduce noise directly noise measuring stations, route conﬁgurations, efforts to engage more intensively in personal at its source, to reduce the noise pollution on the 38 Active noise abatement distribution of operating direction and much dialog with the people affected by the noise. ground particularly in areas severely impacted, more for many years (see Sustainability Program, We take our Infobus around the towns and local and to ensure improved distribution of noise. In October 2011, the Hessian Ministry of Econop. X, Noise abatement). Like all other information, communities located near the airport and listen An initial package of measures included seven mics, Transport, Urban and Regional Development monitoring makes a contribution to rendering to the questions asked by the local residents. procedures for reducing noise. Alongside ongodeﬁned abatement zones based on the strictest the debate more factual and hence creating the Representatives of the company regularly take ing cooperation in the expert group “Active Noise limits applicable under statutory regulations platform for our efforts to ﬁnd practical solutions part in platform debates and citizens’ meetings. Abatement”, we took responsibility for developwhere residents have a claim to passive noise or improvements for the current impacts. The Fraport Infofon hotline is available throughOver the next few years, Fraport AG will spend around ing the conceptual design and implementation abatement. Taking account of the new northout the week 24/7. €270 of two of the measures. west runway and the changed operating condiAs a complement to noise monitoring carried tions, this deﬁnes noise abatement zones which out by Fraport AG, the Environmental and Neigh42 Infoservice aircraft noise million DROps – Dedicated Runway Operations allow around 86,000 households to make claims borhood House in the Forum Airport and Region on measures for The procedure envisages bundling of take-offs for passive noise abatement protection for their (UNH) offers a broadly based package of inforWe would like to engage in more in-depth dispassive noise abatement on deﬁned runways or departure routes depenhomes. Fraport offered to bring forward measumation. The data measured by the airport, comcussion and address the factual issues more fully. and the Casa Program. ding on the direction of operations so that the res that were only applicable later under statutory bined with the data from the local-authority The effect of aircraft noise on the health and wellresidents experience the minimum feasible noise regulations for residential areas that were in the stations, the stations operated by the UNH and being of individuals has not been researched as impact and noise breaks are created. This proceapproach zone for the new northwest runway ﬂight-movement data are visualized on the Intermuch as would be desirable. Fraport AG is theredure was used before the prohibition on night and had not previously been in a ﬂight path. net. Monitoring is particularly important in profore sponsoring a comprehensive noise impact ﬂights in the period from 2300 to 0500 hours. viding information to the local population. Interstudy by the Forum Airport and Region in the DROps “early morning” is the extension of the 39 Passive noise abatement ested residents are able to trace where planes Rhine Main region and at comparable sites around original procedure until 0600 hours. Realization are ﬂying and at what altitudes. They are able the airports in Berlin, Cologne/Bonn and Stuttof the operational conditions is likely to be at the People who purchased or built a house or apartto ascertain what noise levels will be reached in gart. The study has the purpose of providing a end of 2012. ment before there was any discussion of expanvirtually real time. maximally representative, evidence-based and sion and whose homes are now directly in the scientiﬁc description of the effects of noise from Raising the approach glide angle by 0.2 degrees ﬂight path are adversely affected by the expanWe developed our own monitoring system to doaircraft, rail trafﬁc and road trafﬁc on the health compared with the previous angle increases the dission of Frankfurt Airport and changes in operation. cument the development of aircraft noise polluand quality of life of the people affected. The data 34 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For the community 35 will be processed by research and specialist instituwere educational or promoted some form of inteprovided for such initiatives. The biggest indivitional art programs for children and teenagers. tions in the areas of medicine, psychology, social gration. They included programs for educating dual project to receive funding is the Rhine-Main We sponsor a large number of recreational sports sciences, acoustics, and physics. The study has children and teenagers speciﬁcally from low inRegional Park. In 2011, we set ourselves the goal clubs with many of them in youth leagues. been designed as a long-term venture and the ﬁrst come families and measures for preventing subsof raising awareness of the proﬁle of the regional results are anticipated in 2013. tance abuse and violence. park. A campaign of activities was launched 48 Engagement and sponsoring immediately and a large number of projects is We have also sponsored media initiatives like planned for 2012 (see Sustainability Program, Relationships as a good citizen are also important Community responsibility “Newspapers in Elementary Schools”, a project Regional engagement, p. X). to as at other Group sites. Our subsidiary comparun by the media-skills IZOP institute and newsny in Peru, Lima Airport Partners (LAP), decided Fraport plays a signiﬁcant role in the community paper Frankfurter Neue Presse, and the school 47 Rhine-Main Regional Park in 2011 to pool all its resources and support the as a major employer and international company children’s competition “Youth researches – personal commitment of management and emwith ambitions of growth in the dynamic air trafﬁc future-proof air transport “ in cooperation with In future, the environmental fund will place even ployees to the Westnell kindergarten. The focus sector that is so important for the economy. By the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung more emphasis on the issues of biodiversity and of this program is on paying the school costs for generating economic value added we make an (FAZ). The latter received an award as a decade climate protection. More than half of the ﬁnancial some of the children. They come from two of the important contribution to private incomes and to project “Training for sustainable development” resources available have already been planned poorest districts in Lima and receive preschool ﬁnancing public services. In 2011, we paid out and was ﬁnanced through resources from our for appropriate projects for the period until 2014. teaching at the kindergarten. This opens up the around €900 million for wages and salaries and Environmental Fund. The fund will continue to sponsor the environopportunity of obtaining a good education at contributed some €100 million in direct taxes mental education package for schools and other school. The LAP commitment is already planned (for details see chart “Our value added). In 2011, 44 Project “Teenagers researches” institutions. for 2012. Building work and repairs are planned 55,148 orders with a volume of €926.4 million 45 Environmental Fund for the kindergarten facilities and medical checks were allocated for purposes including the expan46 Promotion of environmental education Aside from donations, an array of activities and are scheduled for the children. Many of our emsion of Frankfurt Airport and around 58 % of them associations in the region surrounding Frankfurt ployees perform important volunteer work in went to companies in the Rhine-Main area. Apart from projects related to environmental eduAirport beneﬁt from our sponsorship activities. charitable projects – at sites including the Group cation, this sponsorship tool is used speciﬁcally For example, we have been the main sponsor of airports Antalya, and Varna and Burgas. Their 43 Community responsibility to maintain and develop biodiversity in the Rhinethe German Jazz Festival for many years, we supcommitment ranges from collecting donations to Main region and ﬁnance projects on climate proport the Rheingau Music Festival, the Weilburg fostering activities in local citizens’ initiatives and We also play our role in the community with a tection and climate change. One example of this Palace Concerts, the Old Opera House (Alte Oper), organizations. comprehensive commitment of donations and type of project is a cooperative venture with the the Schauspiel theater and Frankfurt Opera. We sponsoring. In 2011, we sponsored around 580 Max-Planck Institute for Chemistry. Over the past also maintain partnerships with the museums 49 Employee engagement projects through donations. Most of the projects 14 years, funding for around €30 million has been Städel, Schirn and Liebighaus to promote educaApart from these initiatives by Fraport and our employees, Fraport’s own Erich-Becker FoundaOur value added tion founded in 1986 also does non-proﬁt work. 1 62.1 % €906.3 million Employees (wages, salaries, social deductions) The purpose of the foundation is to promote 6 7 research and academic work. The income from 2 13.1 % €191.7 million Lenders (interest expense) 5 the endowed assets is used to ﬁnance grants for 4 3 7.0 % €102.0 million Public sector (dedications, taxes) scientiﬁc studies on issues relating to air trafﬁc, 3 for promoting other projects and for allocating 4 0.6 % €8.6 million Expenses for the common good (donations, sponsoring, etc.) awards for special scientiﬁc achievements. 1 A scholar’s meeting was held for the ﬁrst time on 5 7.9 % €115.4 million Shareholders (dividends) 24 November 2011 and papers were given on a 2 6 0.7 % €10.4 million Share of profits for minority shareholders number of subjects including sustainability in air trafﬁc. Fraport established the ProRegion Foun7 8.6 % €125.0 million Company (retained earnings) dation in 1999 and the work of this institution focuses on integrating young people into the Total sponsorship for Environment Fund 1997 – 2011 world of work. Continuing the tradition of previous In 2011, Fraport employees packed some years, Fraport AG sponsored around (€ million/share in %) 400 Regional park Environmental and nature protection 13.7 7.6 45.7 % 25.5 % 5,173 50 51 Erich-Becker Foundation ProRegion Foundation Christmas packages for children clubs, events and initiatives Environmental in orphanages, homes for disabled 5.8 19.3 % during the course of 2011. education children and low income families Research 2.9 9.5 % in Romania and Hungary. 36 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Acting responsibly For our owners 37 For our owners Fraport AG is a stock company (AktiengeGeneral Meeting for 2012 that a dividend amounsellschaft) in accordance with German law. ting to €1.25 per share should be paid for the The shares are listed on the Frankfurt Stock business year 2011. This would retain the dividend Exchange and in the MDAX, the index for level from the previous year. If the earnings trend medium-sized German joint-stock companies. continues in accordance with the forecast plans The biggest shareholders are the State of Hesse and the long-term positive prospects for proﬁt are (31.49 %) and Stadtwerke Frankurt am Main taken into account, the Executive Board intends Holding GmbH (20.11 %). As outlined in our to keep the dividend per share stable for the busiSustainability Program (see p.XI ff), we have a ness year 2012. speciﬁc duty to our shareholders to safeguard the economic viability of the company and our Retained earnings are used to ﬁnance additional “ Our investments strengthen the Frankfurt investments, to achieve proﬁtable growth, and investments and hence increase corporate value. site and safeguard the future of a large to generate value added over the long term Fraport manages development of the company in number of businesses around the airport.” that is higher than the cost of capital. accordance with the principles of value-based maAlida Günther, Investment Controlling, nagement with the key core parameter of Fraport Corporate Infrastructure Management, Fraport AG Investments made in the future of the company value added. A detailed explanation of value-based during 2011 amounted to €1,440.2 million controlling and development of value added is (2010: €1,033.9 million) and were once again provided in the Annual Report 2011, p. 47 ff. at a high level. A signiﬁcant milestone for the development of Frankfurt Airport was achieved 54 Fraport value added on 21 October 2011 when the new runway was 55 Financial information and Annual opened. The launch of operations on the new General Meeting runway was already exerting a very positive effect on trafﬁc ﬁgures in Frankfurt by the end The Fraport share is listed in various sustainability “ The Fraport share remains an attractive of the year – the number of passengers alone at indexes not least due to this strategy directed 56.4 million was 6.5 % above the count for the consistently to the long term. In 2011, Fraport investment through our future-oriented previous year – and this demonstrates how was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index business model, with strong potential for important this investment is for the ongoing World (DJSI World) for the ﬁfth time in succession. growth within Germany and abroad, and development of the business location. The A-Plus This index ranks us in the 10 % best in the sector our stable earnings power even during Pier will also be starting up operations in October for sustainability performance among a total of The new runway: around phases of economic downturn.” 2012. This pier offers the most advanced terminal 2,500 companies listed in the Dow Jones Global 2.5 Christian Schramm, Corporate Finance, Treasury, facilities and multifaceted retail and gastronomy Total Stock Market Index. Membership in the Finance and Investor Relations, Fraport AG outlets for up to six million passengers a year. FTSE4Good and in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) was conﬁrmed. The sustainayears’ construction time, 52 Investments bility rating agency oekom research awarded construction costs of Fraport “Prime Status” in the oekom Corporate €600 More investments will be required over the comRating. At the beginning of 2012, Fraport was ing years in order to meet the future needs for a awarded “SAM Bronze Class” in the Sustainability forecast passenger volume of around 90 million Yearbook published by the SAM Group (Sustainamillion passengers. A new passenger terminal will be ble Asset Management, a global asset manager) “ Making the new runway in Frankfurt a built in the south of the airport. The ﬁrst section and KPMG. of the modular Terminal 3 is scheduled to come reality is another high point in my prointo operation in 2016/2017 and construction 56 Indices and awards fessional career. In a fiercely competitive work looks likely to start in mid-2013. environment, this expansion of capacity is essential in giving us the opportunity 53 Development at Frankfurt Airport for enjoying further successful years as an international air-traffic hub.” Our owners expect us to generate an appropriate return to reward their ﬁnancial commitment. Horst Amann, Vice President Airport Expansion South, Corporate Infrastructure Management, Fraport AG The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are planning to submit a proposal to the Annual 38 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Sustainability management and corporate compliance 39 Sustainability ment an integrated system for compliance management, risk management and the Internal Controlling System. The preventive character of the An important tool for preventing breaches is an efﬁcient information and reporting system. In 2009, Fraport introduced an electronic whistlemanagement and Values Management System (introduced in 2003) is complemented by the more comprehensive Compliance Management System (CMS). The furblower system (BKMS® System) at the parent company. Employees of Fraport, business partners and customers can submit information on any corporate compliance ther development of the CMS is based on the new auditing standard promulgated by the Institute of German Auditors (Institut der Deutschen Wirtperceived irregularities in an Internet-based communications platform. Access is provided on the Fraport home page. Conﬁdential information schaftsprüfer, IDW) PS 980, which deﬁnes the on corruption, business crime, and breaches of Sustainability is one of the key corporate The Sustainability Board develops the Sustainabiconditions for an appropriate framework and standards of conduct can be submitted anonytargets at Fraport. This target is represented lity Program. The annual survey on the success provides the necessary fundamental elements. mously worldwide and 24/7. The electronic in the organizational structure through the of measures and ﬁndings from our stakeholder Over the course of 2012, the further development whistleblower system guarantees the anonymity establishment of the Central Unit “Sustainabidialogs form the basis of this program (see section of the CMS at Fraport AG is likely to be completed. of the whistleblower on the system side. The facts lity Management and Corporate Compliance” “Strategy and stakeholder engagement”, S. 4). This will be followed by gradual implementation in each report are subject to intensive analysis since January 2010. The Central Unit identiﬁes in the most important Group companies. and scrutiny, and sanctions are introduced as key strategic sustainability issues across the 60 Sustainability Board appropriate. The whistleblower system was imcompany and initiates further development Fraport pursues an integrative, risk-based applemented at TwinStar in Bulgaria in 2009, at our as necessary. The unit is also responsible for Sustainability management at Fraport is based proach in developing solutions for more in-depth Antalya Group site in 2010, and at Lima in 2011. environmental management, sustainability on compliance with internationally recognized links bet ween the subsystems Compliance Marepor ting and monitoring, and coordination standards such as the principles of the UN Global nagement, Risk Management and Internal Con64 Values management of stakeholder dialogs. The compliance manaCompact, the OECD principles for multinational trolling System. This approach is based on the gement system and internal controlling system companies and the ILO Labour Standards. internationally recognized COSO II Framework. We also appointed an external ombudswoman are among the areas of responsibility. Its manaFraport’s own principles and internal guidelines Fraport AG is looking to introduce a supporting IT on 1 December 2011. The key function of the gement reports directly to the Executive Direcare also applicable. You will ﬁnd a detailed corpoTool by the end of 2012. Networking of the indiombudswoman is to receive conﬁdentially any tor Labor Relations. rate governance report, the report of the Supervidual subsystems in organizational terms will be information about serious breaches of statutory visory Board on corporate governance, and the guaranteed by the bodies Risk Management Comregulations and to subject the information to 57 Organizational structure declaration on corporate governance pursuant to mittee and Compliance Board. The latter will forintense legal scrutiny. The expert in criminal law 58 Sustainability management Article 289a German Commercial Code (HGB) in mulate uniform speciﬁcations and will address is available to anybody inside or outside the 59 Understanding of sustainability the Annual Report 2011, p. 35 ff. concrete compliance incidents. The Compliance company. We also have an internal conﬁdential Board reports to the Executive Board, which also contact at Fraport for our employees since 2003. The Sustainability Board is the executive body with 61 UN Global Compact regularly receives an overview of the material responsibility for sustainability management. It is 62 OECD principles Group risks. The Executive Board uses this infor65 Homepage ombudswoman headed by the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Board mem63 ILO Labour Standards mation to inform the Super visory Board. bers include the Executive Director Labor Relations, Sustainability management at Fraport goes the senior managers of all divisions, and some We interpret compliance to mean observing laws You will ﬁnd information and details of the Risk beyond the deﬁnition and implementation of senior managers in the Central Units of Fraport AG. and internal rules. In 2011, we started to impleManagement System and Internal Controlling standards and quality processes for internal use. in the Annual Report 2011, p. 69 ff. Minimum social and ecological standards are maintained alongside the principle of proﬁtability. The Values Management is an integral element Protection of human rights is a top priority withof the CMS. It is used to prevent and track any in our company and in all our global activities. corruption. Since 2005, it has been an integral In 2009, we signed the Business Conduct Rules element of any agreements on employment of the biggest European purchasing association, contracts bet ween employees and managers at the German Association of Materials ManageFraport AG. Over recent years, it has been grament, Purchasing and Logistics in order to ﬁrmly dually introduced at national and international establish human rights in our investment and In 2011 Group sites where there is a majority shareholding. Our investment Northern Capital Gateway LLC in St. Petersburg, for example, adopted a procurement practices. The guideline is based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and includes fundamental anti-corruption rules, antiwe started to implement an integrated system for compliance management, risk management Code of Conduct in 2011 which deﬁnes the rules trust agreements, rules on child labor and forced and the Internal Controlling System. for dealing with suppliers, customers and governlabor, and compliance with human rights, enviment agencies and speciﬁes clear anti-corruption ronmental protection and health promotion, and rules. fair working conditions. The companies signing the agreement have also made a commitment 40 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Sustainability program 2011 I Ground handling services receive are required for this, and they are directed toward maintaining the high level of service quality and Sustainability Program 2011 implementing any improvements necessary with ISAGO the responsible process owners. Fraport AG has an Environmental Management Structure Area of action Responsible business unit certiﬁcate from IATA as conﬁrmation of internationally recognized System for the activities at Frankfurt Airport. Since Customers Safety and security Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security safety and quality standards 1999, this system has been validated in conformity with the European directive on the Eco-ManaCustomer satisfaction Customer Experience on the ground. gement and Audit Scheme (EMAS). Fraport AG Employees Appeal as an employer Human Resources and most of the airports with a majority shareRetaining and creating jobs Human Resources holding have received certiﬁcation under the Validation according to EMAS Diversity Human Resources international environmental standard ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in conformity with ISO 14001 (see chart “Validation in accordance with EMAS Occupational health and safety Human Resources Validated certiﬁcation in conformity with ISO 14001“). Training and career development Human Resources Airports Subsidiary companies according to Further information on Frankfurt Airport is also Frankfurt Fraport AG EMAS/ISO 14001 Environment Climate protection Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance Airport provided on the environmental impacts and N*ICE Aircraft Services & EMAS/ISO 14001 achievements through the Environmental StateSustainable construction Corporate Infrastructure Management Support GmbH ment. Intermodality Retail and Properties Fraport Cargo Services EMAS/ISO 14001 Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security GmbH 67 Management certiﬁed by the Germany Air quality Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security Lima Lima Airport Partners S.R.L ISO 14001 Airport Technical Inspectorate (TÜV) Conservation of nature and resources Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance Antalya Fraport IC Ictas Antalya ISO 14001 68 EMAS/ISO 14001 Airport Airport Terminal Investment Community Noise abatement Traffic and Terminal Management, Corporate Safety and Security and Management Inc. In autumn 2011, Fraport AG was awarded the Regional commitment Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance; Varna and Fraport Twin Star Airport Environment ISAGO certiﬁcate by the International Air TransCorporate Communications Burgas Management AD management Airports system port Association (IATA). The ISAGO certiﬁcate – Owners Profitability of investments Controlling IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations – deﬁnes Sustainability Compliance/Governance Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance; uniform safety and quality standards for ground management Internal Auditing handling services for the ﬁrst time ever and is an Procurement Sustainability Management and Corporate Compliance; to promoting compliance with the “Business internationally recognized system for assessing Central Purchasing and Construction Contracts Conduct Rules” with their suppliers with the aim ground services providers. The objective of ISAGO of achieving the best possible effectiveness. You is to improve safety on the ground and reduce the can ﬁnd more information about the targets and risk of accidents and injury. Process documentameasures for the ﬁeld of action Procurement in tion, implementation, occupational health and the Sustainability Program, p. XII. safety have top priority and are subject to very strict regulations. The relevant process areas of 66 BME Compliance Initiative Fraport AG were successfully certiﬁed, including loading, ground movements of aircraft, and pasThe Integrated Management system (IMS) is insenger, baggage and aircraft handling. tended to guarantee high quality and continuous improvement for all internal business processes. Environmental management, job safety and quality management are handled under the umbrella of the IMS. The IMS has been certiﬁed in compliance with the ISO 9001 international standard. A number of measures including internal audits II Sustainability program 2011 Sustainability program 2011 III Customers Safety and security Customer satisfaction Duration of Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status Target Measure the Measure Status Retention of the high Training and career development ongoing Professional training by FraSec GmbH (provided by Increase in global satisService program “Great to have you here!” to to 2015 Program launch in 2010. level of safety and training providers certified by the German Technical faction of passengers by increase customer satisfaction. The focus is on the An improvement of 7 percentage points was security standard at Inspectorate TÜV Süd) at the Fraport Training Center. 10 percentage points to fields of action identified in continuous passenger achieved in 2011 by comparison with 2010. Frankfurt Airport 80 % by 2015 (determinasurveys: Quality management ongoing Internal quality assurance concept for operation, tion of global satisfaction procedures and training and career development. within the framework of _Reduction of waiting times at check-in and 2011 ff. Measure being implemented. monthly surveys among baggage reclaim through improvements in Employee motivation to 2013, Commissioning an external analysis on the mental processes and infrastructure, and additional customers with the initial and physical stress at the airport security control personnel question: How satisfied analysis checkpoint with the target of identifying and were you with Frankfurt results in eliminating stressful elements in routine work. _Simplification of the connecting processes by to 2015 In 2011, additionally six e-cars introduced free of Airport?) 2012 improving the infrastructure charge and numerous service employees deployed. Engineering/research and development ongoing Development of a “Future check” in two committees: _Facilitating orientation by a site-wide, new 2012 Measure being implemented. _Task force with Federal Police and airline companies signage system throughout the terminal and _German Air Transport Initiative reduction of “perceived” transit times Increase in operational safety ongoing Hazard identification/minimization is carried out in _Increase in satisfaction with surrounding 2012 – 2013 Pilot system set up in relaxation zone for test conformity with ICAO Annex 14. New version of ambience, relaxation areas, cleanliness purposes with passengers. A further 5 relaxation areas manual Safety Management System published. of sanitary areas by redesigning them are being planned. New sanitary model facility being “Safety Committees” established. tested in 2011. Launch of new facilities in Terminal zone A and B by 2012. Improved integration ongoing Testing of process improvements is currently being of air security checks Process analysis and optimization done in cooperation with the Federal Police and the _Increasing the friendliness and service attitude 2011 ff. Initiative “Management operative” is being in the passenger flow. airline companies, Results include: motorized infeed of personnel by service training at all levels implemented with deployment of senior manageTarget parameters: conveyor, changed tray system, quality circle. and programs where executive management ment level in the shift operation on the ground. guaranteeing a waiting is integrated in operating process within the shift Launch of specified service training sessions is being time of max. ten minutes IT-based personnel deployment planning and 2012 First module of the new IT system came into operation implemented in all areas with passenger contact in in 90 % of security checks passenger management (PAARIS) operation in 2011. Improvements in deployment the 2nd half year of 2011. and passenger satisfaction planning and passenger management implemented. of at least 80 % with the _Optimization of service and product quality for ongoing Measure being implemented. Throughput and waitingtime measurements ongoing Internal targets on waiting time and customer retail, gastronomy and services by expanding the level of friendly approach satisfaction adopted by the main customer Lufthansa range of products and services, training sessions of our personnel within the framework of a “Memorandum of and quality management Understanding”. Preparation of KPI Report with the Federal Police on waiting times for passengers and friendliness measurement parameters, as well as throughputs and productivity for checkpoints. Project “Security with a smile” 2009 – 2011 Training sessions for operational managers expanded by focus on “Customer satisfaction” and transferred to the project “Great to have you here!” (see area of action Customer Satisfaction). IV Sustainability program 2011 Sustainability program 2011 V Employees Appeal as an employer Diversity Duration of Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status Target Measure the Measure Status Further developments Strategic project with the aim of identifying areas to 2015 In 2011, age structure analysis drawn up taking Promotion of “Diversity Development of Key Performance Indicators for 2012 Measure being implemented. of personnel strategy of action and working out solutions taking particuaccount of demographic developments for and equal opportunities” measurement and control of diversity and equal lar account of demographic change, special design Fraport AG. The derived fields of action for the opportunities of working conditions tailored to specific ages, personnel strategy area as follows: empowerment of women, integration of migrants _Safeguarding appeal as an employer Increasing the proportion Continuation of the initiative to 2018 2011: Formulation of a Business Case and internal and management of mixed-age teams _Recruiting and retaining skilled staff / managers of women in management “Women and Management” communication of the target within the company. _Retaining employment capability through structure positions to 25 – 35 % by Starting 2012: Development of additional specific of working practices and lifelong learning. 2018 within Fraport AG training measures for women and adjustment of Gradual implementation by 2015. recruiting processes and succession plans. Increase in employee Annual employee survey and derivation ongoing Improvement in employee satisfaction within the Improvement in getting Acquisition of additional entitlement rights for 2012 Measure is being planned. satisfaction measured of potential improvements Group from 2.94 in 2010 to 2.76 in 2011, Group the work-life balance right kindergarten places near the workplace by the Group Barometer target value of 2.90 therefore exceeded in the between career and family Acquisition of quotas in communal kindergartens 2012 Increasing the number of kindergarten places in from 3.06 to at least 2.90 reporting year. existing facilities by 25 %. (grade system from 1 Employee satisfaction in the parent company (best) to 6 (worst)) Fraport AG was 2.96 in 2011, the target value of 2.90 Expansion and promotion of additional utilization ongoing Transfer of pilot project to the line organization in was not achieved. of alternative telework (alternating work in the 2012. Continual increase in users is currently being company and the home environment) experienced. Social benefits above the collective payscale and ongoing Continuation and as necessary adjusting to current participation in company success requirements. Packages for combining care and job ongoing 2011: First Infomarket “Combining Care and Job” Staff receive a special payment to celebrate the implemented. landmark 75th anniversary of Frankfurt Airport in 2011. Promotion of staff with a Development of a concept for skilled staff and 2012 Measure is being prepared. Gradual expansion of performance-based salary 2011 – 2014 Adjustment of payscale budget of 0.25 % p.a. from background of migration managers components 2011 (for 2010) to 2014 (for 2013). Adjustment of salary ranger and variable remuneration of non-payscale staff and executive employees is Occupational health and safety planned starting 2013 (retroactive for 2012). Duration of Integration of the workforce within the structure 2012 Integration of the workforce through an expert Target Measure the Measure Status of the new corporate headquarters team “Designing the Corporate Headquaters”. Additional communication measures are proactively Continuous reduction in A reduction in the number of accidents was achieved implemented. the number of accidents in 2011 by 37 % compared with 2010. at work: Development of a concept for increasing employee 2012 Formulation of a conceptual approach with satisfaction with personnel services by setting up a integration of key employee groups. _Target 2011: reduction of Implementation of damage and injury analyses, ongoing The process of risk analysis has been established for “Service Point” in the new corporate headquaters 5 % compared with 2010 risk assessments and derivation of prevention many years and anchored in the internal procedural _Target 2012: Improvement measures regulations for the quality management system in Link between variable remuneration of managers ongoing Improvement in management skills on the basis of compared with 2011 conformity with ISO 9001. to assessment criteria for management expertise the results of 360° feedback evaluations is included (basis: total number The focuses for prevention measures in 2011 were on in the target agreement process. of accident days at increasing safety in transport and traffic within the Ongoing development Implementation of 360° feedback for executive 2011/2012 360° feedback for management levels 1 – 4 impleFraport AG) company. of management expertise managers mented in the year 2011 (approx. 330 managers). Continuous training of managers and employees ongoing In 2011, Fraport again implemented a program of based on the results of the Implementation for management level 5 is planned in job safety training sessions on health and safety that exceeded Group Barometer and in for 2012. the statutory requirements. The focuses of the 360° feedback training sessions in 2011 included the responsibility Implementation of a group development program to 2015 Project launched in 2011. of managers for occupational health and safety and IMEPplus (Integrated Management Development raising the level of awareness for “Mental problems, Program) for managers in levels 3 and 4 stress and illness”. Regular facility inspections and derivation of ongoing Safety facility inspections were implemented Retaining and creating jobs measures regularly with the focus on the operating areas. Accident analysis meetings between ongoing In 2011, retrospective accident analysis meetings Duration of managers and employees were done for all reportable accidents with Target Measure the Measure Status the responsible manager, the employee suffering an accident and the safety officer. Creation of a further Realization of the planned airport expansion ongoing Operation of new runway launched in October 2011. 25,000 jobs at Frankfurt Increase in the attendance Implementation of Steering Committee for ongoing Steering Committee with at least four meetings Airport by expansion of the Workplace survey done annually ongoing Next survey planned for 2012. rate for 2012 by 1 percenhealth care management implemented in 2011. airport, overall calculations tage point compared with Study on direct and indirect employment effects 2013/2014 Measure is being planned. by experts estimate that the count for 2011 Joint project between company medical officer 2012 Project launched in 2011, the new advice package of Frankfurt Airport the expansion will create and special needs officer on providing individual received a positive response from employees. At the around 100,000 jobs. support for staff with mental illness end of 2012, a decision on continuing the program will be taken on the basis of an experience report. VI Sustainability program 2011 Sustainability program 2011 VII Environment Occupational health and safety (continued) Climate protection Duration of Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status Target Measure the Measure Status Increase in the attendance Pilot project advice hotline for staff and managers 2012 An expansion to the entire company is planned in the Reduction of CO2 emisEnergy optimization of portfolio buildings to 2020 _Refurbishment of ventilation control centers in rate for 2012 by 1 persubject to specific mental stress spring of 2012 on the basis of the planned pilot test in sions per traffic unit Terminal 1: total potential about 8,300 t CO2, centage point compared spring 2012. At the end of 2012, a review of success (TU: one passenger potential of 3,000 t CO2 has been implemented, with the count for 2011 will be done and a decision will be taken on the with baggage or 100 kg a further 1,300 CO2 are being implemented. possible continuation of the measure. of airfreight) by 30 %, _Energy optimization in service and administration from 3.7 in 2005 to buildings, total potential about 5,000 t CO2, Expansion of health workshops based on a pilot ongoing In 2011, the pilot project was successfully completed. 2.6 kg / TU in 2020 potential being implemented about 380 t CO2, project implemented in an operating area In 2012, the expansion of the health workshops were (Fraport AG, Scopes 1 about 650 t CO2 already implemented. continued as planned. and 2 GHG Protocol) Energy-optimized planning of new buildings 2012 Energy optimized plans completed in four buildings Establishment of reporting on the monitoring of 2012 Project being implemented. (Fire station 4, Pier A-Plus, administration center, service Avoidance of additional health care measures buildings, groundhandling services) for Terminal 3 in CO2 emissions by expansion project preparation. Strategic development of measures for prevention, to 2015 Measure being implemented within the scope of promotion of awareness and the role of managers the internal project “Increase in Attendance”. in 2020 (Fraport AG, Establishment of CO2 controlling 2011/2012 Measure being implemented und project duration in health care issues A continuous process of preparation and follow-up Scopes 1 and 2 GHG of the measure extended to 2012 compared with the is also being implemented with managers within Protocol, based on 2005) previous year. the framework of health workshops. Use of alternative drive technologies to 2015 Gradual implementation is planned until 2015. Integration of increase in attendance rate in goal 2012 Included in the goal agreement process for defining The overall potential amounts to a projected agreement process goals in 2012 for the management levels 1 to 2. 1,360 t CO2. Previously deployed: _an electric pallet loader (approx. 1 percentage point of the planned 20 %) Training and career development _four serial hybrid tow tractors in baggage handling (approx. 3 percentage points of planned 20 %) Duration of _81 electric conveyor-belts Target Measure the Measure Status (approx. 86 percentage points of planned 100 %) _four electric cars for trial operation Needs-oriented training Differentiated training package for apprentices to 2018 2011: 21 vocations, 2012: increase planned to and guarantee of at least coming from all types of schools with guarantee 26 vocations. Attainment of Level 3 Expansion of CO2 reporting in accordance with 2012 Verification for Level 3 has been successfully achieved. 110 training places each of one year’s work after completion of the 2011: 110 training places, 2012 increase planned in the Airport Carbon Airport Carbon Accreditation For this purpose, we have developed CO2 modeling year to 2018 apprenticeship to 138 training places. Accreditation Scheme in relation to of ACI Europe _the arriving and departing traffic for passengers Formulation of a concept for integration of young 2012 In preparation. and employees people with learning difficulties _the emissions of aircraft in the LTO cycle up to Trial of a model for training rescue assistants 2014 Launched 2011. 3,000 ft. _the energy consumption of the traffic caused by Further employment rate Development of a concept for integrating 2013 Concept will be completed in 2012, implementation third parties at the site of 70 % in the second qualified graduates in technical training vocations will continue. Further employment rate for 2011: _the business trips by employees of Fraport AG year after completion of Over the five-year period under review, the targeted apprenticeship training rate has been achieved for commercial training Intensification of Stakeholder Dialog ongoing Various Stakeholder Dialogs were held at Frankfurt vocations, but the targeted rate was not achieved for Airport, for example the Energy Saving Week or technical training vocations. The expanded training exchange of ideas in the fields of deployment for requirement from 2012 leads to expect that this target electromobility. will be achieved in all vocations over the medium term. Promotion of skilled staff Implementation of Potential Assessment Center for ongoing Potential Assessment 2010 and Check-up Assessment Sustainable building and managers in the management levels 2 – 4 every two years 2011 have been completed. Group with an internal Duration of recruitment of the requiLaunch of international rotation program for 2012 Development plans being implemented. Target Measure the Measure Status rement to provide staff candidates for potential program replacements in levels Further development of Definition of principles and scope for “Sustainable 2011 Principles with focus on climate protection regulated Implementation of training program 2011 ongoing Program with 16 trainees launched in autumn 2011. the concept “Sustainable Building” in new buildings and portfolio in an internal guideline of Fraport AG. 1 – 4 of 75 % Building” and integration New regulation of study grant allocations 2012 ff. Measure being planned. Establishment of organizational unit “Sustainable 2012 Organizational concept completed in 2011. in the business processes including on the basis of sustainability criteria Building” within the Corporate Infrastructure for post-graduate courses of study Management of Fraport AG Further development of specialist careers in the 2013 ff. Measure is being prepared (already implemented Conceptual approach for Life-Cycle-Costing (LCC) to 2013 Conceptual approach currently being processed. company in a systematic approach in individual areas). to provide planning and decision-making support, First IT-based tests completed for LCC assessment and implementation of an IT solution of selected buildings. Continuous career Specialist and interdisciplinary career training and ongoing Measure being implemented. training with the target: preparation for certified qualifications in the Fraport Involvement in research project Life-Cycle Benchmarto 2014 Project launched with partners. ensuring an average of College and Fraport Academy king, supported by the Federal Ministry for Transport, 2.9 career training days for Construction and Urban Development (BMVBS) each permanent employee Package of seminars for all employees to obtain ongoing In 2011, a 35 % increase in the acceptance of the of Fraport AG personal qualifications beyond their immediate area package by employees of Fraport AG was achieved Optimization of building planning processes on ongoing Use of dynamic building simulation established. of activity with provision of an annual qualification compared with the previous year. the basis of dynamic building simulations budget of €600 for each employee at Fraport AG Development of KPIs to 2013 Measure currently being planned. VIII Sustainability program 2011 Sustainability program 2011 IX Sustainable Building (continued) Air quality Duration of Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status Target Measure the Measure Status Certification of the new Preparation of energy concepts taking account of 2011 Conceptual approaches were drawn up in 2011. Reduction of emissions of Review of gradual introduction of stationary 2012 – 2013 Reviews started in the course of a pilot project 2011. building for Terminal 3 in renewable energy Completion inspections and evaluations were air pollutants due to the air-conditioning supply for (PCA) in new buildings conformity with the DGNB initiated for a final version. operation of the airport (A-Plus Pier, C-Finger, Terminal 3) Gold Standard (German Sustainable Building Stakeholder Dialog on the energy concept with 2011 Important stakeholders were involved in drawing up Introduction of electric ground handling equipment to 2015 See Sustainability Program for climate protection. Council) and possible university researchers, politicians and NGOs and evaluating the concept within the framework of a “Round Table Discussion”. Continuous monitoring of air hygiene ongoing Continuous measurements of air quality and annual international standards at Frankfurt Airport publication in an air hygiene report on the Internet. Implementation of sustainability criteria to to 2016 Bidder selection launched for supporting the support planning and construction of the new certification process. Development of a prototype for modeling air 2012 – 2013 Concept phase commenced in 2011. building for Terminal 3 for purposes of certification pollutant emissions for a) infrastructure and ground handling b) landside traffic Intermodality Maintenance of incentives Levying of airport charges for nitrogen oxides 2012 System of airport charges established. A signal effect for the airlines to use (NOx) and hydrocarbons (HC) beyond the trial for aircraft manufacturers and operators is anticipated Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status aircraft with lower phase from the jointventure project with the German Air emission levels Transport Initiative. Improvement in interRedesign of signage and routing tools to 2013 Concept for new signage and routing has been modal services and completed, introduction of new signage in the area Conservation of nature and resources services for passengers AiRail Terminal has been commenced. Further development of AiRail Check-in 2012 Number of airlines offering the AiRail Check-in at Duration of Frankfurt Airport increased by 5 % in 2011. Target Measure the Measure Status Expansion of ICE Rail & Fly and Code Share links in 2012 Code Share Agreement by 5 airlines with German Rail Continuous improvement Continuation of validation in accordance ongoing In 2011, the parent company Fraport AG and the cooperation with German Rail (DB) and the airlines (DB) in 2011, increase in service package by 2 further in environmental perforwith EMAS and certification in conformity subsidiary companies N*ICE and FCS operating at airlines planned for 2012. mance through managewith ISO 14001 at the Frankfurt site and selected Frankfurt Airport again received the ISO 14001 ment systems which are Group sites certificate and were awarded with the EMAS site Improvement in interReview of improvements in rail and bus services, 2012 Early ICE from Hamburg/Cologne (arrival FRA 4.45 am) audited by environmental registration by the Chamber of Industry and modal package for airport in particular in the marginal nighttime hours for timetabled on a test basis by German Rail (DB). auditors Commerce. The Group airports Lima and Antalya employees shift workers Review of utilization of capacity by German Rail in are also certified in conformity with ISO 14001. mid-2012. Introduction of an additional local bus route (OF 67) from the Offenbach district via Gateway Reduction of the volume Implementation of strategic status analysis of 2012 Measure currently being planned. Gardens to the airport in the marginal daytime hours of waste produced. Mainvolume of waste with derivation of potential in 2011. taining the high recoveraoptions for waste reduction and for recycling bility rate for unavoidable materials from unavoidable waste Expansion of the Initiatives with important joint-venture partners to 2015 Study commissioned under the German Air Transport waste at Fraport AG competitive position of for expanding the integration of the airport in the Initiative for usage evaluation currently being the intermodal hub at Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan processed, Presentation of results planned for 2012. Reduction of paper Implementation of a central printer concept and to 2015 Central printer concept has been successfully Frankfurt Airport in the consumption per member a project for electronic document administration implemented. long-distance passenger of staff at Fraport AG by at Fraport AG Project for electronic document administration was rail travel 25 % by 2015 started in 2011. (based on 2009) Optimization of airfreight Support for developing a Cargo Community to 2013 First conceptual phase completed in 2011. logistics chain for Cargo System to improve the workflows in airfreight Result: Launch of a pilot application with a new data City with ecological and handling platform for accelerating workflows in airfreight Reduction of the conExpansion of usage of service water in Terminal 1 to 2014 / Measure in Terminal 1 and in the southern area commercial perspectives handling planned starting spring 2012. suption of drinking water and in the southern area to 2020 is being implemented. by higher usage of not Feasibility study: Active management of traffic 2012 Project launch with establishment of a “Cargo City potable water in Terminal 1 processes within Cargo City for purposes of traffic Frankfurt Freight Task Force” was implemented with (38 % by 2014) and optimization and emission reduction the inclusion of important stakeholders. in the southern area (50 % by 2020) Transfer of the airfreight Implementation and completion of the research 2011 Research report shows: Airfreight volume alone is feeder service from road project “Air Cargo Rail Center” (ACRC) not adequate for a cost-effective shifting of freight Maintenance and if possiImplementation of a status analysis on biodiversity to 2013 Measure is being prepared. to rail transport to and from the airport from truck to rail. ble increase in biodiversity on Fraport grounds at the Frankfurt Airport site Opportunity: A potential shift might exist if landside on Fraport grounds goods traffic, which has not been shifted to date due Implementation of a Biodiversity Check (European 2011 – 2014 Biodiversity Check was carried out in 2011. to a technical solution, is included in attractive rail Business and Biodiversity Campaign, Global Final evaluation envisaged for 2012. packages combined with the airfreight volume. Nature Fund) and review/implementation of Project completed. recommendations X Sustainability program 2011 Sustainability program 2011 XI Community Owners Noise abatement Proﬁtability of investments Duration of Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status Target Measure the Measure Status Achieving a lower number Support for measures relating to active noise ongoing Monitoring for the first package of measures has Achievement of profitable Investments tailored to demand in the expansion to 2016 _Start-up of operations at the northwest runway of people impacted by abatement in the Airport and Region Forum already been done. Preparatory work on developing growth as a platform for of Frankfurt Airport in October 2011. the aircraft noise than the second packages has been started. Establishment the future viability of the _Realization of A-Plus Pier for an additional 6 million specified in the plan for of the task force for air route optimization with company passengers planned in 2012. an expansion in capacity involvement of Fraport. _Schedule adapted to take account of capacity for with 701,000 aircraft Terminal 3 with landside link through Passenger movements Selected rail and route use 2011 ff. Test operation has been implemented. Monitoring is Transfer System (PTS). (Dedicated Runway Operations, DROps) also completed within overall monitoring for active _Restructuring of Pier C being planned. noise abatement. Expansion of Airport City Mall Frankfurt, Level 0 to 2014 Measures being planned. Increasing the approach glide angle to 3.2° with 2011 ff. Study on safety and feasibility completed. Installation Redesign of the arrivals level Terminal 1 ILS (Instrument Landing System) on the new of an additional ILS (Instrument Landing System) was Reconfiguration and expansion of retail floor northwest runway completed. Measure is to be implemented according spaces Terminal 2 to plan in 2012. Enhancement of value added from real estate to 2016 In 2011, additional land purchase contracts with Support for noise impact study by the 2011 ff. 2011 first surveys completed according to plan. marketing and development at Airport City around 92,000 m2 closed and hence a marketing Environmental & Community Center The preparations for the next study period in status of around 364,000 m2 has been achieved mid-2012 have commenced. since 2007. Further development of noise measurement and ongoing Operation of two new aircraft noise measuring stations Further development of external business ongoing See Annual Report 2011, monitoring, and expansion of information was implemented according to plan and included in section “Business development”, p. 50 ff provided on aircraft noise for citizens regular reporting. The provision of information relating to passive noise abatement was supplemented. Generation of long-term Value-based controlling of business activities ongoing See Annual Report 2011, value added above the cost section “Value Management”, p. 47 ff Improvement in the noise Bringing forward reimbursement of expenses for 2011 ff. Bringing forward the reimbursements was officially of capital situation for the residents passive noise abatement to be paid to residents in announced and the entitled households were Raising landing fees to 2015 Government agency contracts and contracts with affected the areas affected informed. airlines and airline associations concluded. Program “Fitness@Fraport2011” for optimizing to 2014 Focus for 2011: Establishment of a new organizational Regional commitment business processes and cost reduction unit “Corporate Infrastructure Management” for improving efficiency in all phases of development and Duration of maintenance of infrastructure at Frankfurt Airport. Target Measure the Measure Status “Future Contract 2018” for improving the cost to 2018 Contracts concluded with employee representatives Support for community Promotion of projects with financial support: continuous In 2011, around 500 individual measures in the structure and hence the competitiveness of the and Future Contract being implemented. development in the region, a) Education inside and outside school region received financial support from Fraport AG. Frankfurt site in particular in the areas (e.g. “ZING – Newspaper in Elementary School”, education, integration, youth and children centers) compensation for social b) Integration measures (e.g. disabled workshops, disadvantage, and health Theater Laboratory Darmstadt) care c) Compensation for social disadvantage (e.g. charities Die Tafel Frankfurt (round table), Arbeiterwohlfahrt Frankfurt (workers’ welfare)) d) Strengthening of self-help groups and provision of information (e.g. assistance with needs of everyday life, Aids support) Continuation of comprehensive package of 2011 ff. In 2011, Fraport AG supported approximately environmental education from the Environment 300 environmental education events for education Fund for kindergartens, schools, associations, etc. in the region. Alignment of the sponsorStarting in 2012, the sponsorship focuses for our to 2014 Measure currently being planned. ship focuses for environEnvironment Fund will be intensified on climate mental and nature projects protection and biodiversity over an initial period from our Environment Fund of three years on climate protection and biodiversity with a sponsorImplementation of a competition for designing to 2013 Measure currently being planned. ship share of more than projects with “Beacon Effect” within the sponsorship 50 % to 2014 focuses of climate protection and biodiversity Ongoing development of Promotion of projects for regional park development 2011 ff. Project promotion realized for 2011. Conceptual regional park as a contriand measures for increasing the level of awareness of approach for increasing the level of awareness of the bution to increasing the the regional park. regional park is being implemented in cooperation appeal of the local recreawith the Regional Park Society. tion area and raising the level of awareness among the population (target review by survey) XII Sustainability program 2011 Appendix Principles of Reporting 41 Sustainability management Compliance/Governance Appendix Principles of Reporting Duration of Target Measure the Measure Status Implementation of an Preparation of a conceptual approach for 2012 Technical concept based on the internationally integrated system for integration of subsystems recognized COSO II Framework and initial implemenrisk and compliance tation of the concepts have been started. management and Internal This eighth Sustainability Report is intended We respect and support the ten principles of the Controlling System for Introduction of new IT for system-side integration to 2013 IT selection completed for 2011 and implementation of both subsystems phase commenced for parent company Fraport AG. to give our stakeholders and any interested UN Global Compact, we develop and implement improving the strategic impact of opportunities members of the public information about our measures to make them a reality and we contriand risks activities, progress and targets in the area of bute to recognition of the principles, also beyond sustainable development in the Fraport Group. the horizon of our company. This report is our Further development Introduction of external 2011 Measure was implemented and communicated to of consulting offers ombudsman /ombudswoman all employees by publication on the Intranet. We communicate the information that is necesprogress report within the framework of the UN concerning compliance Global Compact. for all employees sary in order to be able to assess our performance on the route to sustainable development for Further enhancement Training for managers in levels 3 – 4 within an to 2013 Continuous training established and launched within You will ﬁnd more in-depth information and the deﬁned scope during the period under of awareness for our “Integrated Management Development Program” the framework of the program. supplements at www.fraport.com/content/ compliance culture on compliance review in the report. fraport-ag/en/sustainability. The contents are among all employees Introduction of e-learning tools at Fraport AG to 2014 Planning and IT selection completed in 2011. updated on the Internet during the course of for training focuses on specific target groups and First training module is being implemented. Report contents and stakeholders the year. increase in the appeal of training sessions The content of the report is based on regular communication and exchange of ideas with our Procurement stakeholders. We derive fundamental aspects of Publication cycle and reporting periods our strategic direction from this information and The report is published annually in German and Duration of develop speciﬁc measures. English and covers the reporting period from Target Measure the Measure Status 1 January to 31 December of the relevant year. Ensuring cost-effectiveness Review of major suppliers on the basis of social 2011 / 2012 Supplier structure analysis carried out for major The systematic deﬁnition of our strategy was The last report was published on 4 May 2011. and compliance with and ecological aspects suppliers. Self-assessment procedure being prepared. social and ecological implemented in 2010 on the basis of a materiality standards through Inclusion of social and ecological minimum standards 2011 / 2012 Measure is being formulated. analysis in accordance with the principles of Scope of reporting allocation processes in general contractual conditions of Fraport AG materiality, inclusion of stakeholder interests The information in the Sustainability Report Definition and implementation of sustainability 2012 / 2013 Segmentation of the procurement portfolio on the and sustainability context (see section “Strategy covers the following areas criteria for individual product groups basis of defined sustainability criteria was commenced and stakeholder engagement”, p. 4). As a result in 2012 with the objective of generating a risk and prioritization matrix. Formulation of a road map is of this analysis, we have set targets for strategi_all activities, products and services planned on the basis of this platform for implemencally important areas of action as a company tation of the relevant sustainability criteria. with a long-term future perspective and deﬁned _ all companies that we included in the Group of Values management system for ensuring business ongoing Values management system introduced in 2003. measures necessary to achieve these targets. consolidated companies in accordance with the relationship based on integrity Aspects relevant to procurement: This report describes their effectiveness and applicable rules for purposes of ﬁnancial repor_Dialog with business partners _Inclusion of anti-corruption formula in consultant further development ting on the relevant balance sheet date. contracts and integrity declaration in the supplementary contractual conditions for construction, Alignment of reporting We record any deviations that we believe to be architectural and engineering services _Standard operating procedure for order embargo This report is based on the guidelines of the relevant for assessment of our performance. of contractors for construction, supply and service Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Version G 3.1. providers The Airport Operators Sector Supplement Cautionary note regarding forward-looking _Information about new ombudswoman to all dealing speciﬁcally with airport operators was statements suppliers _Compliance assessment for selected supplies on taken into account. Compliance of the GRI indiIf this report contains statements of future foretheir status relating to introduction of a values cators is presented in the GRI Content Index. casts or expectations, they are based on a series management or compliance system. The report meets the requirements for “Applicaof assumptions about future events and are subSupport for overarching initiatives and coopeongoing _Commitment of Fraport AG to comply with the most tion Level A+” and therefore fulﬁlls the highest ject to unknown risks and uncertainties, and ration in these initiatives for implementation of important, international recognized principles relating level of the GRI guidelines. standards to a code of conduct principles promulgated by the other factors, many of which are outside the UN Global Compact, OECD guidelines, ILO core labor sphere of inﬂuence of Fraport and which may standards at all Group sites. Review of compliance result in the actual events differing signiﬁcantly within the framework of quality management. _Signature of the Business Conduct Rules of the German from the statements made here in the report. Association Materials Management, Purchasing and Logistics e.V. in 2009. _Cooperation in the project “Hesse: Pioneer for sustainable and fair procurement”. Duration of the measure to 31 December 2012. 42 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Appendix Content overview of GRI and UN Global Compact principles 43 Data collection the Frankfurt site exerting relevant environmental Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status The ﬁnancial ﬁgures correspond with the data impacts and the signiﬁcant Group airports (2008: provided in the Annual Report 2011. Fraport AG Hahn, Varna, Burgas, Lima, Antalya; from 2009: prepared the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Varna, Burgas, Lima, Antalya). The environmental Proﬁle for the accounting period ending 31 December data is systematically surveyed at the Frankfurt 2011 in accordance with the standards published Airport site in conformity with EMAS-VO and 1 Strategy and analysis by the International Accounting Standards Board DIN EN ISO 14001 and is subject to external veri1.1 Foreword by the Executive Board SR 2 – 3, SR 4 – 7, SR I–XII √ (IASB). ﬁcation by an accredited environmental auditor. 1.2 Effects of the business activity, opportunities and risks SR 3, SR 4 – 7, SR X–XII, SR 23–29, SR 31–35, AR 69 √ The data is collected from the Group airports 2 Organizational profile Data on the development of personnel ﬁgures is included in the survey using systematic reporting 2.1 Name of the organization SR Profile √ recorded and evaluated using standardized perprocedures. 2.2 Brands, products and services SR Profile √ sonnel software solutions. Pursuant to the mate2.3 Organizational structure SR Profile √ riality principle, the circle of consolidated Group The presentation of the reporting data is imple2.4 Head office of the organization SR Profile √ companies is reconciled to ﬁnancial reporting for mented using the standard methods, calculations 2.5 Countries with business activities SR Profile √ purposes of determining the personnel indicaand estimates we believe to be appropriate and 2.6 Ownership structure GRI Content Index √ tors. Accordingly, we include the parent company as used in standard business practice. However, 2.7 Markets SR Profile, GRI Content Index √ Fraport AG and all the afﬁliated companies in full, it is not possible to exclude the possibility of 2.8 Size of the organization SR Profile, Indicators and facts, GRI Content Index √ and jointventure companies are included on a individual GRI indicators being associated with 2.9 Changes in the size, structure and ownership constellation AR 50, AR 98 √ proportionate basis; minority holdings are not some degree of uncertainty. An overview of all included in the calculation of the Group personnel indicators is provided in our accounting. 2.10 Awards received Indexes and awards √ data. 3 Reporting period 3.1 Publication of the last report SR 41 √ The environmental data are collected for the 69 Indicators and facts 3.2 Veröffentlichung des letzten Berichts SR 41 √ consolidated companies in the Group comprising 3.3 Reporting cycle SR 41 √ Fraport AG, the fully consolidated subsidiaries at 3.4 Contact for issues relating to the report SR 49 √ 3.5 Definition of report content and stakeholders SR 4, SR 41 √ 3.6 Reporting thresholds SR 41 √ Content overview in accordance 3.7 3.8 Restrictions on scope of reporting Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced activities GRI Content Index GRI Content Index √ √ with GRI and UN Global 3.9 Data collection 3.10 New presentation of information from old reports SR 42 GRI Content Index √ √ Compact Principles 3.11 Changes compared to previous years GRI Content Index √ 3.12 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index √ 3.13 External audit of the report SR 42 √ The following table provides a structured Legend 4 Governance, obligations and commitment overview of where information on individual black = GRI core indicator 4.1 Management structure AR 35, GRI Content Index √ topics and aspects of sustainability reporting can grey = GRI additional indicator 4.2 Independence of the Supervisory Board Chairman GRI Content Index √ be found. The structure of the tables is based on 4.3 Independent members of the highest management body GRI Content Index √ the GRI Guideline. References 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee recommendations GRI Content Index √ SR = Reference to a page in the Sustainability Report 2011 to the Executive 70 Annual Report 2011 AR = Referent to a page in the Annual Report for 2011 4.5 Link between remuneration of the Executive Board and performance AR 36 √ 71 GRI Content Index = Reference to a text on the Fraport Website of the company 72 Fraport Website Sustainability GC = Global Compact Principle 4.6 Mechanisms for avoidance of conflicts of interest GRI Content Index √ 4.7 Qualification of the members of the Executive Board in relation to AR 36, GRI Content Index √ The table also includes a column “GC” with deStatus sustainability issues tails indicating where information referring to √ = Aspect completely covered 4.8 Statements on mission or values, codes of conduct and principles 1 – 10 SR 39 √ the ten principles of the UN Global Compact can (√) = Aspect partly covered 4.9 Procedure at the level of the Executive Board for monitoring 1 – 10 GRI Content Index √ be found. Since 2007, Fraport has been commit– = No information available sustainability performance ted to the principles of the UN Global Compact. n.r. = not relevant for Fraport 4.10 Procedure for assessing the sustainability achievement of the 1 – 10 AR 35, GRI Content Index √ Executive Board We are working continuously on integrating the 4.11 Precautionary principle 7 SR 11– 12, SR 19, SR 23, SR 39 √ internationally acknowledged standards and prin4.12 External agreements and principles 1 – 10 GRI Content Index √ ciples in the areas of human rights, work, environmental protection and combatting corruption. 4.13 Memberships SR 7, Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG √ 44 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Appendix Content overview of GRI and UN Global Compact principles 45 Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status 4.14 Stakeholder groups SR 6 √ EN21 Wastewater discharges 8 Indicators and facts √ 4.15 Selection of stakeholders SR 6 √ EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 8 Indicators and facts (√) 4.16 Inclusion of stakeholders SR 6 – 7, Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG √ EN23 Significant spills 8 Indicators and facts √ 4.17 Issues and concerns of stakeholders SR 4 – 7 √ AO5 Air quality Indicators and facts √ AO6 Airfield surfaces and aircraft deicing agents Indicators and facts √ EN24 Hazardous wastes according to the Basel Convention 8 GRI Content Index n.r. Economic performance indictors EN25 Impacts of wastewater discharges on biodiversity GRI Content Index n.r. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 7–9 SR 23 – 27, SR 31 – 34, SR VII – X √ Management approach 1, 4, SR 35, SR 37, SR VI, SR 42, AR 69 √ EN27 Packaging material 8–9 GRI Content Index n.r. 6–9 EN28 Sanctions for environmental non-compliance 8 GRI Content Index √ EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Indicators and facts √ EN29 Environmental impacts of transport and traffic 8 Indicators and facts √ EC2 Financial consequences of climate change 7–9 GRI Content Index √ EN30 Total expenditure and investments for environmental protection 7–9 GRI Content Index – EC3 Scope of the company’s social benefits Indicators and facts, GRI Content Index √ AO7 Change to residents in areas impacted by aircraft noise Indicators and facts √ EC4 Significant financial government grants and subsidies SR 37, Indicators and facts √ EC5 Relation between standard entry salaries and local minimum wage 1, 6 GRI Content Index √ EC6 Site-specific selection of local suppliers 6 SR 39, GRI Content Index √ AO1 Passengers Indicators and facts √ Social performance indicators: AO2 Aircraft movements Indicators and facts √ AO3 Cargo tonnage Indicators and facts √ Working practices and decent working conditions EC7 Site-specific selection of personnel 6 GRI Content Index √ EC8 Investments in the infrastructure and services primarily provided SR 34 – 35, Indicators and facts √ Management approach 1–6 SR 14 – 21, GRI Content Index √ for public benefit LA1 Total workforce Indicators and facts √ EC9 Indirect economic effects GRI Content Index √ LA2 Employee turnover 6 Indicators and facts (√) LA3 Benefits for full-time employees 6 SR 16 √ LA15 Return to work after parental leave 6 Indicators and facts √ Ecological performance indicators LA4 LA5 Employees with collective wage agreements Minimum notice periods for significant operating changes 1, 3 3 Indicators and facts GRI Content Index √ √ Management approach 7–9 SR 24 – 31, GRI Content Index √ LA6 Employees represented in job safety committees 1 Indicators and facts, GRI Content Index √ LA7 Occupational diseases and absences 1 SR 19 – 20, Indicators and facts (√) EN1 Materials used 7–9 Indicators and facts √ LA8 Further training on serious diseases 1 GRI Content Index √ EN2 Recycled materials 7–9 GRI Content Index n.r. LA9 Work and safety agreements with unions 1, 3 GRI Content Index √ EN3 Direct energy consumption 8–9 Indicators and facts √ LA10 Training and furthertraining time per employee 1 Indicators and facts (√) EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8–9 Indicators and facts √ LA11 Programs for knowledge management and lifelong learning 1 SR 21 √ EN5 Energy saved 8–9 SR 23 – 27, Indicators and facts √ LA12 Percentage of employees with regular performance assessment Indicators and facts √ EN6 Initiatives for structuring products with higher energy efficiency 7–9 SR 23 – 27 √ LA13 Composition of employees 1, 6 Indicators and facts √ EN7 Initiatives for reducing indirect energy consumption 7–9 GRI Content Index √ LA14 Relationship of basic salary between men and women 1, 6 GRI Content Index √ EN8 Total water consumption 8 Indicators and facts √ AO4 Quality of precipitation water Indicators and facts √ EN9 Effects of water consumption 8 GRI Content Index n.r. EN10 Recycled and reused water EN11 Land used in or on the edge of protected areas 8–9 8 GRI Content Index Indicators and facts, GRI Content Index n.r. √ Social performance indicators: Human rights EN12 Impacts on biodiversity 8 GRI Content Index √ Management approach 1– 6 SR 15 – 18, SR 38 – 40, GRI Content Index √ EN13 Protected or reinstated natural habitats 8 GRI Content Index √ HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses 1–6 GRI Content Index √ EN14 Strategies for protecting biodiversity 8 SR 23, SR 34 – 35 √ HR2 Suppliers who have been screened on human rights aspects 1–6 GRI Content Index (√) EN15 Endangered species 8 GRI Content Index √ HR3 Training sessions on aspects of human rights 1–6 GRI Content Index (√) EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 Indicators and facts √ HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 1, 2, 6 GRI Content Index √ EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions 8 Indicators and facts √ HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1–3 SR 15, SR 38, GRI Content Index √ EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7–9 SR 5, SR 23 – 27 √ HR6 Principles and measures for prevention of child labor 1, 2, 5 GRI Content Index √ EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 8 GRI Content Index n.r. HR7 Principles and measures for prevention of forced labor 1, 2, 4 SR 38 – 40, GRI Content Index √ EN20 NO2, SO2 and other air emissions 8 Indicators and facts √ 46 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Appendix GRI-Certiﬁcate 47 Aspect according to GRI GC Reference Status HR8 Training of security personnel 1, 2 GRI Content Index √ HR9 Violation of rights of indigenous population 1, 2 GRI Content Index n.r. HR10 Business activities that have assessed for human rights aspects 1, 2 GRI Content Index √ HR11 Number of grievances relating to human rights 1, 2 GRI Content Index √ Social performance indicators: Society Management approach 10 SR 31 – 35, SR VII – X, GRI Content Index √ SO1 Effects on the community SR 7, SR 32 – 34, GRI Content Index √ SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts GRI Content Index √ on local communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented GRI Content Index √ AO8 Persons who were displaced by the airport operator and GRI Content Index √ compensation measures SO2 Percentage/number of departments analyzed for corruption risks 10 GRI Content Index √ SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption 10 GRI Content Index √ SO4 Corruption incidents and actions taken 10 GRI Content Index √ SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying 1 – 10 SR 6 – 7, Stakeholder engagement Fraport AG √ SO6 Contributions to political parties or politicians 10 GRI Content Index √ SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior GRI Content Index √ SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI Content Index √ Social performance indicators: Product responsibility Management approach 7–9 SR 11 – 13, SR II – III, GRI Content Index √ PR1 Health and safety impacts along the product life-cycle 7–9 SR 11 – 13, SR 31 – 34 √ PR2 Breaches of health and safety standards 7 GRI Content Index √ AO9 Wildlife strikes Indicators and facts √ PR3 Statutory information required for products SR 38 – 39 √ PR4 Breaches of standards for labeling products GRI Content Index √ PR5 Customer satisfaction SR 12 – 13, GRI Content Index √ PR6 Standards relating to advertising GRI Content Index √ PR7 Breaches of advertising regulations GRI Content Index √ PR8 Infringement of protection of customer data GRI Content Index √ PR9 Sanctions relating to products and services regulations GRI Content Index √ 48 Connecting Sustainably Report 2011 Appendix Publishing information 49 Glossary Publishing information Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) ACA is a program of ACI German Sustainability Building Council Deutsche GesellsEurope which assesses the measures taken by European airchaft für nachhaltiges Bauen (DGNB). The mission of this Publisher ports to manage and reduce their CO2 emissions council is to develop and promote initiatives and solutions Fraport AG for sustainable construction, use and planning of buildings. Biodiversity The variety of living creatures, organisms and Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide plants on earth. Science distinguishes between four aspects Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and Scopes The Greenhouse 60547 Frankfurt, Germany of diversity: genetic diversity, species diversity, diversity of Gas Protocol develops internationally recognized reporting habitats, and diversity of biological interactions. standards for reporting greenhouse gas emissions generated Telephone: 0180 5 3724636* by companies. The emissions are classiﬁed into three so-called or: 01805 FRAINFO* CO2 Footprint The CO2 footprint is a measure for the total “Scopes” on the basis of their origin. Scope 1: Emissions that amount of carbondioxide emissions which are caused direcare generated and controlled directly as part of the business From abroad: +49 69 690-0 tly and indirectly by an activity or which are generated over activity of the company (e.g. by the combustion of fuel in Internet: www.fraport.de the life stages of a product. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol company vehicles). Scope 2: Emissions that are generated forms the basis for this calculation. indirectly by third parties for the company (e.g. electricity generated by utility companies). Scope 3: Indirect emissions Compliance According to the interpretation of the German that are outside the direct control of the company but are Corporate Governance Code, compliance relates to conforgenerated because they play an important role in the business Contact Sustainability Management mity with laws and internal rules. Corporate compliance is activities of the company (e.g. travel by passengers to and Jörg Kämer Nicole Scheer interpreted to mean maintaining conduct within a company from the airport). in conformity with the laws and rules by means of a CompliSenior Vice President Sustainability Management Senior Executive Manager ance Management System. Preventive, organizational meaISAGO Certiﬁcate The IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operaand Corporate Compliance Sustainability Strategy and Reporting sures are intended to minimize the liability risk for the comtions Certiﬁcate issued by IATA (International Air Transport pany, its management bodies and each individual employee. Association) deﬁnes worldwide uniform safety and quality standards for providers of ground handling services for the Telephone: +49 69 690-60636 Telephone: +49 69 690-20429 COSO II The COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework ﬁrst time ever. (COSO II) is a model for qualitative improvement of ﬁnancial Fax: +49 69 690-60288 Fax: +49 69 495-20429 reporting through ethical actions, effective internal checks ISO 14001 The international environmental management Email: j.kaemer@fraport.de Emaill: n.scheer@fraport.de and balances, and good corporate governance. It is used for standard ISO 14001 formulates requirements which are intenthe establishment and assessment of riskmanagement and ded to support companies when building a system of enviinternal control systems. COSO II was developed by the ronmental management embedded in management. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway central focus is a continuous improvement process directed Commission (COSO) in 1985, a voluntary private organizatoward implementing deﬁned environmental targets. Specialist consultation and design tion based in the USA. phorbis Communications AG, Basel, Switzerland ISO 9001 The ISO 9001 standard deﬁnes speciﬁcations for a Council for Sustainable Development Rat für nachhaltige quality management system which can be used for internal Ent wicklung (RNE). This council is an advisory body set up applications by organizations or for certiﬁcation or contracEnglish translation by the German federal government with the commitment to tual purposes. ISO 9001 is directed toward promoting the promote the national sustainability strategy, to designate areffectiveness of the quality management system in fulﬁlling Tristam Carrington-Windo, Oxford, England eas of action, and to make sustainability an important public customers’ requirements. concern. The council is made up of 15 leading public ﬁgures. OHSAS 18001 Internationally recognized speciﬁcation for Print Diversity Variety among the employees of a company in relaoccupational health and safety management systems. This is Burger Druck, Waldkirch, Germany tion to gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religious afﬁlicompatible with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and supports the ation, beliefs, physical impairment and sexual orientation. company in efﬁciently fulﬁlling its commitments to occupational health and safety in the workplace. The Fraport Sustainability Report 2011 was Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) This important index for sustainability only lists companies which act as an exemOmbudswoman The key function of the ombudswoman Photography manufactured from 100 % recycled paper plary role model for their sustainable corporate governance (external lawyer) is to receive conﬁdentially any information Olaf Becker, becker lacour GbR, Frankfurt am Main paying particular attention to environmental in accordance with the criteria of economy, ecology and about criminal activities relating to the company and inadcommitment in the social and cultural sphere. missible business practices to the detriment of the company. Erhard Blatt, Hessian State Chancellery Ofﬁce, conser vation and climate protection. It has The ombudswoman provides an additional contact partner Wiesbaden been awarded the Blue Angel environmental EMAS The Eco Management and Audit Scheme is a system outside the company for a whistleblower, who would not developed by the European Union for voluntary environnecessarily like to take his or her concerns to the inhouse Sabine Eder, Fraport AG certiﬁcation (RAL-ZU 14), one of the world’s mental management and environmental performance. This ofﬁces responsible for such matters. The ombudswoman is Helmut Hofmann, Fraport AG strictest environmental labels. is an instrument for companies and organizations who want committed to the attorney client privilege and therefore has to continuously improve their environmental performance. an obligation to conﬁdentiality. Andreas Meinhardt, Fraport AG Stefan Rebscher, Fraport AG The Enviro Top paper used for this report was Forum Airport and Region Forum Flughafen und Region Photovoltaics Direct conversion of radiation energy, primar(FFR). This forum addresses issues connected with the ily solar energy, into electrical energy. Photovoltaic cells are Hubert Zimmerhakl, Fraport AG manufactured from 100 % recycled paper in a expansion of Frankfurt Airport, the airtrafﬁc industry and used to generate electricity and are found mainly on roofs, Fotoarchiv, Fraport AG carbon-neutral process without the additional the development of noise. The objective is to engage in at parking meters, in pocket calculators, at noise abatement establishing a constructive dialog with the region about walls or in open spaces. Julian Salinas, Basel of any optical brighteners and without bleach the development of the airport. Ralph Larmann, Ralph Larmann Company, containing the element chlorine. The paper is Population equivalent Represents the amount of oxygen FTSE4Good One of the most important sustainability inderequired by the wastewater produced by one person in one Hadamar FSC certiﬁed and has also been awarded the xes, launched by the Financial Times and the London Stock day (measured as the BOD or Biochemical Oxygen Demand). ICF Airports, Antalya Blue Angel label. Exchange in 2001. Companies are listed in this index if they demonstrate above-average performance in the ﬁelds of Rhine-Main Regional Park, Flörsheim am Main human rights, social standards and environmental protec73 Glossary Fraport has neutralized the CO2 emissions tion and continually improve their performance. generated in connection with the printing and Print compensated German Energy Saving Directive Energie-Einspar-Verordnung production of this report. The corresponding Id-No. 1218596 www.bvdm-online.de (EnEV).This directive is part of German building legislation and deﬁnes standards for property developers relating to quantity of emission rights (EU Allowance) were energy-saving heat insulation and energy-saving system eliminated on 23.04.2012 with the transaction technology in buildings. The last amendment came into force * 14 cents a minute from a German landline; on 1 October 2009. maximum of 42 cents from a mobile phone. ID-No. 1218596.
