Sustainability Report 2010 Brewing a Better Future Contents Company profile 01 Foreword: Brewing a Better Future Together 02 03 Brewing a Better Future IMPROVE 04 Introduction 05 Green Brewer 07 Green Commerce EMPOWER 08 Introduction 09 Engaging Employees 11 Karlovacka pivovara cares IMPACT 12 Introduction Karlovacka pivovara, a member of the Heineken group, is 13 Responsible Consumption a stable company and strong number two in the Croatian beer market, holding a 26,1% share in 2010 (source: Croatian Brewers Association). Karlovacka pivovara’s brewing tradition dates to 1854. Today it produces approximately 1 million hectoliters of beer annually, brewing and marketing Karlovacko (and its extensions Karlovacko Radler and non–alcoholic Karlovacko Rally), Heineken, Desperados, and two specialties (Gösser Dark, Edelweiss Snowfresh). Karlovacka pivovara is the primary Croatian beer exporter, responsible for approximately 50% of exports. The vision of Karlovacka pivovara is to become the best brewery in Croatia which means to have the best people, the best brands and the best technology. Karlovacka pivovara is continually advancing its processes and procedures. Foreword Brewing a Better Future, Together Herewith, I proudly present our second brewery. In terms of investments in the brewery, sustainability report. In 2010 we published our first we are continuously looking into ways how to sustainability report, covering various aspects of advance our processes and procedures. In 2010 corporate social responsibility (CSR) supported by we acquired the OHSAS 18001 certificate for relevant data in order to contribute to the protection of health and safety as well as renewed transparency of our activities, including the ISO 9001 for quality management. The statements regarding our environmental impact. A company is already certified with ISO 22000 (food positive relationship with our local community and safety management) and ISO 14001 the environment are key pillars of Karlovacka (environmental management system). We have pivovara’s CSR. As a result of constant efforts to also completed our waste water treatment plant reduce our environmental impact, figures show project, including reconstruction of the sewage that between 2008 and 2010 Karlovacka pivovara system and modernization of our brewhouse. has decreased consumption of electric energy by 9,6%, thermal energy by 13,4%, and water by We are focused on making Karlovacka pivovara the 27,1% per hectoliter of beer produced. Karlovacka best place to produce beer. Employees are an pivovara is not complacent about these important element of our business, and we invest achievements, rather, the company remains in their development as they are ambassadors of committed to further improvements and our company and brands. We will continue our reductions in environmental impact. efforts, building on these strong foundations and so, continue to realize our vision. Our brewery has a dedicated team in regard to the CSR agenda, I have full confidence in the positive progress of Karlovacka pivovara’s reducing Alexander Gerschbacher environmental footprint, as sustainable in the President of Management Board of Karlovacka long-term. Karlovacka pivovara is a strategically pivovara important part of the Heineken group in Central and Eastern Europe, and it has an ideal position in the very heart of Croatia. We are a strong company, proud of the achievements made in 2010. The past two years have been economically challenging generally, as well as for the beer industry specifically. The market declined by 6% in 2009 and the trend continued with figures showing an 8% decline in 2010. Croatia is still struggling with the impact of the global economic crisis, however, we are satisfied with Karlovacka pivovara’s performance in the market. We prepared well for the crisis, by managing expenses and focusing on priority projects. Despite the difficult conditions we have managed to strengthen our position from a market share of 25,8% in 2009 to 26,1% in 2010 (source: Croatian Brewers Association). The main driver of our positive results is a constant commitment to investment in our brands, our employees and the Heineken N.V. Sustainability ReportSustainability Member of the Heineken group 2010 Report 2010 1 Brewing a Better Future In April 2010, we proudly unveiled Brewing a Better Future, Heineken’s comprehensive and integrated sustainability strategy for the next decade. It increases the scope and scale of the group’s work on sustainability and gives substance to the long-term ambition to be the world’s greenest brewer. It also allows us to balance our need for financial sustainability with the role we play in society. Our journey is Brewing summarised by a Better Future To be the Our long-term World’s Greenest Brewer ambition Improve Empower Impact Three strategic Continuously improve Empower our people Positively impact imperatives the environmental and the the role of beer impact of our brands communities in society and business in which we operate 23 programmes grouped into six key initiatives Green Green Engaging Heineken Responsible Partnerships Brewer Commerce Employees Cares Consumption for Progress Five Governance, Senior management incentives, enablers Reporting & transparency, Supplier Code, Communication & engagement 2 Brewing a Better Future is an exciting journey that The Sustainability team comprises: has only just begun. To realise our vision of a more • Corporate communications manager sustainable world, we will make positive and • Corporate communications specialist long-term investment in the environment, • Quality assurance manager communities, people and partnerships. To make • Environmental coordinator sure we reach our objective, we have focused our • HR manager supply chain department actions and energy around three strategic • Group brand manager global brands imperatives: • Category manager for commercials • General manager’s business assistant • Continuously Improve the environmental impact of our brands and business All Karlovacka pivovara management team • Empower our people and the communities members have sustainability targets as part of the in which we operate programs they execute. Progress and issues in • Positively Impact the role of beer in society. relation to Brewing a Better Future are on the agenda of management team meetings From these, we have grouped 23 programmes approximately twice annually. On a daily basis, of work into six inter-related initiatives that Brewing a Better Future is governed by managers will enable us to realise our Brewing a Better of various departments while each individual Future goals. program is lead by a project leader. Karlovacka pivovara has developed it’s own three-year plan Karlovacka pivovara for achieving the goals of Brewing a Better Future, Karlovacka pivovara, as part of the Heineken rolled out in 2011. We are cooperating with our group, is committed to the Brewing a Better Future stakeholders on sustainability issues and we will strategy, and sustainability as the core of our continue to engage them in this important overall business. In order to realize our vision of sustainability dialogue. being the best brewery in Croatia, we are committed to sustainability and we are making positive and long-term investments in our local community, environment, people and partnerships. In Karlovacka pivovara, Brewing a Better Future is governed by a sustainability team, which held meetings every two months in 2010. Member of the Heineken group Sustainability Report 2010 3 Improve Karlovacka pivovara strives to continually improve and invest in upgrading its environmental protection system. Our main goals are: • Decrease in energy and fluids consumption (electricity, thermal energy, water) • Decrease of CO2 emission • Sustainable waste management. Karlovacka pivovara has already fulfilled two milestones for 2010: • Completion of a waste water treatment plant • Modernization of the brewhouse. ‘’We are proud of positive trends with regards to reducing energy consumption, as a result of our commitment to sustainability and TPM.’’ Zvonimir Nemet Supply Chain Director 4 Green Brewer Completion of the waste water Karlovacka pivovara is committed to sustainability and a positive contribution to the environment. We treatment plant are focused on energy efficiency. Karlovacka pivovara plans to gain further savings in energy consumption by optimizing all processes. The total Karlovacka pivovara has its own waste energy consumption of Karlovacka pivovara has water treatment decreased from 199.7 MJ/hl in 2009 to 189.0 MJ/hl plant. Construction of in 2010, thus our target of 191.3 MJ/hl has not only the facility, including been achieved, but surpassed. Our goal is to reconstruction of the decrease total energy consumption to 172,4 MJ/hl sewage system, was by 2013. Though our total production volume in completed in 2010. 2010 has decreased by 5.3%, figures related to The waste water treatment plant has been a priority project of energy consumption are the result of technical Karlovacka pivovara since 2003. This is the most modern system improvements and improvements in internal daily which enables high level of cleaning the waste waters on a small control systems. and compact area. This project is important for Karlovacka pivovara because it contributes to the positive impact on the environment as an important pillar of the brewery’s CSR agenda. Specific total energy consumption breweries, The project, including sewage system reconstruction, is 4,1 million soft Specific drink total energyand consumption water plants breweries, cider, soft drink euro worth so far. The completion of the waste water treatment and water MJ/hl beer plants + soft drink + water MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water plant will enable us to treat the brewery waste water and reduce 2013 172,4 COD (chemical oxygen demand) and BOD (biological oxygen 178,8 demand). 2012 2011 183,2 2010 191,3 189,0 2009 199,7 2008 213,6 Series2 Series1 The thermal energy consumption for Karlovacka pivovara has decreased from 118.2 MJ/hl in 2009 to 112.1 MJ/hl in 2010. Thus our target of 113 MJ/ hl has been achieved. Measures contributing to lower energy consumption were: • Improvement of condensate return • Renewed isolation of steam boilers • Reduced leakage of steam and hot water Specific thermal energy consumption breweries, soft drink and water plants Specific thermal energy consumption breweries, soft drink MJ/hl ciderbeer and water + soft drink + water plants MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water 2013 95 2012 100 2011 104 2010 113 112,1 2009 118,2 2008 129,4 target actual The energy reduction target of 15% between 2002 and 2010, of the Aware of Energy program, has been reached by Karlovacka pivovara. In fact, the target has been surpassed, as a 19.1% reduction was achieved within the period, 2004 to 2010. Sustainability Report 2010 5 Member of the Heineken group Brewhouse modernization beer production process, a modernized brewhouse will contribute to energy savings, allow for better sanitation and will be easier to handle because of automation. One of Karlovacka pivovara’s largest projects in 2010 was the modernization of our brewhouse. The project will significantly reduce consumption of thermal energy; we expect savings up to 10 MJ/ hl. Two main aspects will contribute to this: firstly, new technology for our brewhouse in form of energy recovery from wort boiling and secondly, new vessels with better insulation and completely renewed installations. As the heart of the brewery and beginning of the The electricity consumption of Karlovacka Karlovacka pivovara pays great attention to water pivovara has continued to decrease during recent consumption. Water is the main ingredient in beer years. It decreased from 9.1 kWh/hl in 2009 to 8.5 and is used in all phases of the production kWh/hl in 2010, as the result of optimization of process. The brewery is committed to optimizing various processes, including reduction of work the use of this resource. Karlovacka pivovara has done by air compressors (air leakage reducing, decreased water consumption from 5.20 usage of energy efficient air compressor). hectoliters of water per hectoliter of produced beer (hl/hl) in 2009 to 4.98 hl/hl in 2010. In spite of Specific electricity consumption breweries, this, total water consumption in 2010 was above soft drink and water plants target (4,70 hl/hl). The target was not met Specific electricity consumption breweries, cider, soft drink kWh/hl beer + soft drink + water and water plants primarily due to over consumption (in comparison kWh/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water with the UBM – Utilities benchmark model) by the 2013 8,6 packaging department. 2012 8,8 2011 8,8 2010 8,7 8,543503672 2009 9,064556128 2008 9,359136823 target actual The total direct and indirect CO2 emission of Karlovacka pivovara has decreased from 11.9 kg CO2 /hl in 2009 to 11.5 kg CO2 /hl in 2010. Our carbon reduction strategy is based on a change of fuel source and reduction of carbon-intensive operations. We also plan to install new automatically controlled burners. Karlovacka pivovara plans to discontinue the use of middle heavy fuel oil, in favor of gas and biogas rendered by the waste water treatment plant. 6 Specific water consumption breweries, soft packaging, cooling equipment and distribution. To drink and water plants reduce the environmental impact of our Specific water consumption breweries, soft drink, cider & hl water/hl water plants beer + soft drink + water packaging, we are focused on reducing material hl water/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water used, increasing recycle content and recycling of 2013 4,20 our materials at end of life. A waste collection 2012 4,50 system for glass, plastic (PET) and aluminium is present in the Croatian market. When supporting 2011 4,70 brand events, Karlovacka pivovara promotes the 4,70 2010 4,98 consumption of draught beer instead of bottles, 2009 cans or PET as draught packaging is completely 5,20 recyclable and reusable. Beer is tapped into hard 2008 6,83 plastic cups at all events. We also strongly support target actual separate waste collection at our brand events. The brewery made a serious effort to correct for In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara supported The Green this through Total Productive Management (TPM) City project. The main goal was to raise awareness activities, by finding and eliminating weak points. of environmental issues and encourage people to Further improvement is expected, in particular by act responsibly. Everyone who joined us at events TPM AM (autonomous management) packaging organized in the Croatian capital, Zagreb, and activities. Analysis of water consumption per line enjoyed a glass of beer, contributed to the UN and machine is now an ongoing activity. We biodiversity program of Green Action – from every continually strive to improve activities in this area, glass of beer sold, we donated 13% of profits to with a long-term goal of decreasing our water the program. consumption to 4.2 hl/hl by 2013. Karlovacka pivovara is also adopting Heineken’s The energy used in the brewery comes mostly standards for purchasing environmentally friendly from non-renewable resources. We attempt to cooling equipment, beginning with refrigerators. control energy consumption in order to reduce The company’s policy regarding cooling our environmental footprint as well as our costs. equipment is to only buy new models for which We have implemented a TPM protocol, containing energy consumption and environmental load are methods of sustainable change, and have launched as low as possible. As a participant of the Green TPM teams at important locations. TPM entails cooling program, Karlovacka pivovara purchased continuous and consistent effort, the goal of which 1220 green fridges in 2010. is to reduce and re-capture lost energy and materials. Green Commerce Karlovacka pivovara is improving the efficiency of its distribution operations. To help reduce our carbon footprint we only transport fully loaded trucks. The objective is to make transport operations more efficient. Karlovacka pivovara’s foremost dedication is to consumer satisfaction. It is thus imperative that our products reach consumers in excellent condition. We care about sustainable development and are responsible with regards to product Member of the Heineken group Sustainability Report 2010 7 Empower Karlovacka pivovara is a responsible company and employer. Employees are the key to our success and the ambassadors of the company. Karlovacka pivovara is committed to ensuring the occupational safety of its employees, and to developing competence in this field. The company also cares about the personal development of its employees though education and performance management system. ‘’Our aim is to reduce health and safety risks and to ensure a safe working environment. We are keen to engage and motivate employees.’’ Dijana Klekar Human Resources Manager 8 Engaging Employees Karlovacka pivovara is committed to introducing Code of Business Conduct constant improvements in the total quality of the company’s business. Our goal is to ensure the highest level of health and safety for our As a respected company and member employees, but also for visitors to the brewery and of the renowned international brewer external partners. To this end, Karlovacka pivovara Heineken, Karlovacka pivovara constantly organizes training for employees, the respects Croatian laws as well as aim of which is to improve occupational safety and high international standards. We to create a safe workplace. In 2010 there were no have our own Code of Business fatalities, permanent disabilities or serious Conduct. The Code contains rules accidents of contractors. which the workers have to respect when acting as representatives of Karlovacka pivovara was successful in reducing the Karlovacka pivovara. The following elements are included in the Code: severity of accidents. Accident severity decreased legal regulations, prevention of from 76 lost calendar days/100 FTE (full time fraud, conflict of interest, business gifts, corruption, aspects of equivalent) in 2009 to 66 lost calendar days/100 supply chain, advising, reporting the breaking of the rules. The FTE in 2010. This is the result of various Code was implemented in 2006 and was updated in 2010 due improvements related to occupational safety in to changes in Croatian law. After the update, internal workshops the brewery: OHSAS 18001 implementation, risk were held involving 82% of employees. All employees received assessment per process carried out, a copy of the Code, which is also published on HeiPORT. It is the implementation of Heineken procedures and policy of Karlovacka pivovara to provide a copy of the Code to all standards, training of operators and focus of new employees and to inform them of the rules and regulations. safety observation teams in the packaging Parallel with the Code of Business Conduct, an internal disclosure department. procedure is implemented, the so called “Whistle Blowing procedure” for serious breaches of company policy or other malpractice. In 2010, no breaches of the Code were reported. Accident severity Breaches can be reported to any one of six selected trusted lost calendar days/100 FTE for all sites representatives from different departments of the brewery, or anonymously via a special on-line system (Call.Heiway.com system). In 2010 the renowned international certification In 2010 there were 4 accidents amongst company SGS awarded Karlovacka pivovara Karlovacka pivovara employees in the supply certificate OHSAS 18001 (health and occupational chain. Accidents occurred mostly in the bottling safety management system). In the beginning of hall (3), while 1 accident occurred in the June 2010 SGS conducted a certification audit of fermentation and services. The number of lost Karlovacka pivovara, according to OHSAS 18001 days associated with these accidents decreased in and concluded that the brewery’s health and comparison to 2009, due to a lower accident occupational safety management system meets severity. Accident frequency increased from 1.0 the requirements of this internationally recognized cases/100 FTE in 2009 to 2,4 cases/100 FTE in norm. This certificate issued by an independent 2010. Three of the four accidents resulted in cuts certification company demonstrates that in the packaging department. Each accident was Karlovacka pivovara is proactively dealing with the analyzed and improvements were implemented, protection of health of its employees as well as new working instructions were issued and their safety at work. In order to remind employees operators were trained. of the importance of occupational safety, the TPM team placed 4 dummies dressed in protective Accident frequency clothing specified by the safety rules. The cases/100 FTE for all sites dummies are placed conspicuously, in high traffic areas of the brewery: at the entrance of fermentation, at the entrance of the bottling hall and in front of the canteen. Karlovacka brewery’s TPM team has engaged employees in the TPM program. Employees participate in motivational Member of the Heineken group Sustainability Report 2010 9 and rewarded initiatives such as an idea contest Karlovacka pivovara appreciates its employees, and quarterly TPM awards for the most successful their efforts and engagement. We are also aware individuals and teams. Programs are that the families of our employees are contributing communicated via internal channels: HeiPORT to the success of Karlovacka pivovara. In order to (intranet), an internal magazine and notice boards. express our appreciation for the families, the Ensuring the health and occupational safety to our company organizes a Sports and Family Day every employees is a priority of Karlovacka pivovara as a spring. This is a gathering of employees and their responsible company and employer. Beside annual families, a great opportunity to spend some time in medical exams for all employees, we conduct a an informal setting, having fun and enjoy sports special activity on World Day for Safety and Health activities like biking, horse riding, or playing table at Work. In association with the local Diabetes football. On the day, a special children’s program is Organization, we organized in 2010 measuring of also offered. employees’ blood glucose level. The importance of prevention of work-related injuries and diseases In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara’s quality assurance was communicated via internal channels (HeiPORT, laboratory celebrated its 50th anniversary during notice boards). which we organized an Open doors day for all employees. The quality assurance department Karlovacka pivovara had 369 employees in 2010. employees were actively engaged, presenting The company promotes a collective agreement their everyday work to colleagues from other policy, in which a worker’s council acts as a social departments. A special tour was organized for the partner to the management board. There is also a local media – with the presence of the President of Trade Union in the brewery, of which 65% of Management Board and two retired employees, employees are members. Employees are free to who took part in the establishment of the join any trade union of their choice. laboratory in the 1960’s. On this special occasion the brewery gave recognition to their work in the Karlovacka pivovara constantly invests in past. This activity contributed to a feeling of pride employees’ education. In 2010, 349 employees as a worker in Karlovacka pivovara; employees participated in various types of training (94% of working in the Quality assurance department have employees participated in 5,440 training hours). presented their work and by that contributed to better understanding of the quality control Karlovacka pivovara wants to develop a dialogue processes among the employees working in other with its employees. One of the activities that help departments. us to improve communication and the environment is the climate survey. In 2010 the In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara organized another company conducted a climate survey, in which no special event for employees a surprise Christmas less than 92% of employees participated. Results concert in the brewery. The “Karlovacko Live” showed that the direction and alignment of campaign is a traditional music platform of the employees as well as their attitude towards the Karlovacko brand. Musicians who had performed company are strong points, while reward, at “Karlovacko Live 2010” came to perform at the recognition and personal development need brewery, as a Christmas surprise for employees. further focus. The event included an official photo-opportunity with the musicians, and created a feeling of Karlovacka pivovara believes in the need of appreciation and enjoyment in an informal setting. rewarding employees who stand out as an A little fun among colleagues, but mostly it example to others. To this end, we have initiated contributed to a better understanding of our Employee of the Quarter, in which employees brand strategy. nominate a person who deserves to be awarded the title Employee of Quarter. This activity is a Karlovacka pivovara cares good motivational tool, allowing the company to As a significant part of the local economy, show it values team work and extra effort. It also Karlovacka pivovara puts strong emphasis on creates internal awareness of the qualities a good cooperation with local partners and stimulates the employee has. The activity is communicated local economy. A lot of effort is put into finding through all available internal channels including local suppliers who can compete with eastern the so called “wall of fame” with photos of the suppliers. The cost of transportation from Asia is a winners in a central and visible location of the major component of the final product cost. By brewery. sourcing locally we are tackling two problems at 10 once. Firstly by helping to improve the local local economy and community. We want to make a economy and increasing the satisfaction of local positive impact on people living here. In 2010, for stakeholders. Secondly, by sourcing locally we are the second year in a row, Karlovacka pivovara reducing costs associated with the sourced executed Donation tender. There were 326 product as well as reducing our carbon footprint. applications, of which 54 local projects in five A successful example of this is our cooperation areas were supported by an expert group: sport, with P.E.S., a factory that performs custom education, culture, environment and humanitarian. smelting, forming various products from metal. In The projects focused on development and 2010 we purchased 2,103 kg of metal POS wellbeing of the local community and its materials (key rings and bottle openers) which are inhabitants. Donation tender was a as successful produced in Croatia at competitive prices. This project, which will continue in 2011. project continues in 2011 to date we have purchased 1,025 kg of metal POSM. By Karlovacka pivovara aims to support the main local collaborating with P.E.S. on aspects of design, we events. Traditionally, Karlovacka pivovara is a are creating items that are tailor made to our general sponsor of popular beer festival, needs and those of our customers. Karlovacki dani piva. The company also supports Ivanjski krijes (John’s bonfire) – a traditional Karlovacka pivovara is a safe place to work and a celebration of the beginning of summer, conscientious neighbor. In order to improve our International Folklore Festival in Karlovac, Contest relations with the neighborhood, brewery for the most beautiful river beach in Karlovac, etc. representatives have met with neighbors several times per year, since 2007. These meetings are a We are aware that beer is a fascinating product good opportunity to present the activities and and we want to share our fascination with other development of brewery processes, but also gives people. Every year we organize an Open Doors members of our local community an opportunity Day, introducing visitors to the brewery with a tour to ask questions and receive explanations. of the brewhouse, fermentation department, filling Karlovacka pivovara is situated on a city block in house, and ending with tasting of beers from our Dubovac. In 2010 only 1 complaint was filed portfolio. against Karlovacka pivovara, due to dark smoke rising from the KaPi chimney. Information was forwarded and the Utilities corrected the situation immediately. The cause of failure was due to the burners inability to automatically adapt. The existing burners were produced in 1978, investment and replacement of the burners has been planned. Karlovacka pivovara is an important part of the Member of the Heineken group Sustainability Report 2010 11 Impact As a producer of beer, Karlovacka pivovara considers it important to encourage responsible alcohol consumption, amongst consumers in general, but especially amongst our workers. We pay a great deal of attention to responsible commercial communication. ‘’Beer is fun and exciting but enjoyment has to be responsible. So we continually find ways to include a message of responsible consumption in our promotional activities.’’ Kristijan Gregoric Marketing and Export Director 12 Responsible Consumption Who drives you home? To educate and raise awareness internally on the dangers of alcohol abuse, an Alcohol Policy booklet was published in 2006, and distributed to all In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara focused brewery employees. It is the policy of Karlovačka on a Drinking and Driving program pivovara to provide a copy of the Alcohol Policy by connecting the responsibility booklet to all new employees. This policy compiles activity to our non-alcoholic brand, with elements stated in the Cool@Work policy. Karlovacko Rally. We organized ‘’Who According to rules and regulations on availability of drives you home’’ – a BTL/marketing alcoholic drinks in the workplace, Karlovacka activity promoting responsible drinking pivovara pursues a zero tolerance policy regarding among consumers. We also presented the consumption of alcohol in the workplace. During non-alcoholic beer as an alternative 2010 we conducted a training for the high risk to alcoholic beer, a responsible beer refreshment, in particular when taking a group i.e. sales representatives and drivers, and break from work. published all relevant information on our intranet. There were three target groups: 1. business people on their launch break In order to make the responsibility message clear to 2. professional drivers consumers, Karlovacka pivovara has included the 3. people who prefer non-alcoholic drinks when spending time “Enjoy Responsibly” logo on all commercial material with family and product packaging. Information regarding moderate alcohol consumption is available on a We want to promote responsible thinking and behavior by offering website (www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com). an alternative. To this end, we have thought of a catchy and In our commercial communication we apply several thought-provoking tag line: ‘’Who drives you home?’’ which has laws and regulations including national legislation, been applied to all promotional materials. 1,200 posters were issued to retailers along with numerous incentives (6,000 decks the national advertising standard and the national of playing cards, 4,500 portable alcohol tests and 1,800 shirts), beer advertising standard. All members of our which were distributed to customers purchasing non-alcoholic marketing and sales teams, who have decision and beer during the activity. budget authority, participate in regular training to understand and comply with the Heineken Rules for Responsible Commercial Communication. In 2005 in association with other Croatian breweries, Karlovacka pivovara signed a Responsible Marketing Communication Code, including rules and regulations on responsible advertising. In 2010 the Code was updated, aligning with European standards. The Responsible Marketing Communication Code of Croatian Brewers describes marketing communication standards that must be fulfilled in order to retain consumer trust. In accordance with relevant laws and respect of the advertising codes, the aim is to actively promote high ethical standards in the Marketing Communications of Croatian Brewers. According to the Code, it is necessary to adhere to the principles of legality, honesty, and good business practice in all marketing communications. All signatories should respect morality, human dignity and integrity in their marketing communications. This is particularly emphasized because alcoholic beverages differ significantly from other products, requiring greater caution and responsibility in advertising. In 2011 we plan to establish a partnership with a NGO on the topic of responsible alcohol consumption. Sustainability Report 2010 13 Member of the Heineken group www.karlovacka.com www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com
