CSR REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND ETHICS AT PFA PFA APRIL 2012 TRANSLATION: In case of any discrepancy between the Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text shall prevail. WE CREATE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY, OF WHICH PFA IS A SUBSTANTIAL PART. FOR PFA, RESPONSIBILITY IS A VALUE – NOT A COST PFA · CSR report 2011 CONTENTS Introduction 4 New CSR policy Appendices Areas of focus and results 5 Corporate responsibility and ethics at PFA 8 CSR management and structure at PFA 28 About this report 6 Responsible corporate practice Active ownership 29 Integrity 10 Employee reporting 30 Responsible corporate culture Environmental reporting 2011 31 Committed employees create more value 12 Responsible value creation Pension and insurance are responsibilities 14 It is the customers’ money 15 Back to work 16 Responsible investments 17 Responsible investments – new initiatives 18 Improved climate – greener operations 19 Relationships and dialogue Dialogue promotes understanding of pensions 21 PFA converts knowledge into value 22 Complaints are a way to learn 23 Social commitment 24 Support for associations and voluntary work 25 The PFA Live Life Foundation 26 PFA · CSR report 2011 3 INTRODUCTION RESPONSIBILITY IS A PART OF THE FOUNDATION PFA was established almost 100 years ago bealso a customer-owned business. This means that cause employers and employee organisations took our task quite simply is to create the best posresponsibility. Responsibility for wage earners’ sible pension plans and insurance policies for our financial welfare. It was a task for the individual customers. We also accept responsibility towards wage earner and also a social task. society as both our customers and we are essential elements of society and are important to it. Ever since, responsibility for customers and for society has been an important part of the foundaWe therefore have a rule at PFA which we incortion on which PFA is built. It still is. porate fully into our daily life. A rule regarding fairness. It sounds simple, but is complex, as we PFA is Denmark’s largest and leading pension strive to live up to it in all our actions. This faircompany. We are responsible for the pension ness applies to our customers, to society and to plans of 650,000 customers and for the life and one another and is thus an integral part of our health insurance of half a million Danish people. corporate strategy. The actions we take have a decisive influence on the life of hundreds of thousands of Danish CSR, social responsibility, corporate responsibility people after reaching retirement age and their and ethics shall therefore combine with our busisecurity in connection with sickness and loss of ness at PFA. Only in this way can we achieve our occupational capacity. strategy and our corporate objectives. And only in this way can we stand firm on the foundation We are important for Danish people and therefore on which PFA is built, namely responsibility to our for Danish society as well. And with importance customers and society of which PFA is a part. comes responsibility. Yours sincerely We acknowledge and are aware of this responsibility – both in the way we operate a responsible business and in the ethics our employees at PFA abide by every day. We accept this responsibility towards our customHenrik Heideby ers. It is especially applicable to PFA as we are Group CEO and President PFA · CSR report 2011 10 AREAS OF FOCUS AND RESULTS This report describes PFA’s work with responsiPFA’s areas of focus for its work with responsi­ As part of the work with the new strategy, PFA bility, the adoption of a new CSR policy and the bility in 2011 were responsible investments, formulated a new policy for corporate responsiresults which were achieved in 2011. sustainable operations, pensions and welfare, and bility and ethics in the second half of 2011. The dialogue. Within these areas, work was carried policy is an overall value compass which provides PFA bases its work with responsibility on UN Global out to improve processes, expand knowledge and the framework for how PFA operates its business Compact’s 10 principles, and works to incorporate skills and implement the stipulated objectives. based on values such as fairness, integrity and the values and objectives of these principles in commitment. It has, as one concrete example, led PFA’s business and day-to-day activities. PFA foIn addition, PFA has worked strategically to creto the establishment of a whistle-blower scheme cuses on those areas which are the most significant ate clear coherence between the CSR policy and at PFA. The management in all areas of PFA have for the company’s corporate areas and for those corporate strategies. In May 2011, PFA launched been involved and contributed to the content of expectations that the outside world has for PFA. a new corporate strategy and market position the policy before being adopted by the Superviwhich, together with its vision, mission and sory Board in December 2011. The policy forms In 2011, PFA focused on further integration bevalues, also focussed on employee behaviour and the framework and structure of the CSR report in tween CSR and PFA’s corporate strategy. This was working culture. Fairness is a basic rule at PFA terms of its content. carried out in parallel with the continued work to and it must be well prepared when meeting with identify areas of focus for CSR. customers. PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is PFA’s third CSR report. Together with the Parallel with the development and operation of current Annual Report for PFA Holding, the intenthe CSR report, PFA is expanding and systemising tion of the Report is to comply with the Danish the scope of data so that it is more substantial Financial Statements Act regarding the reporting and reports can go into more detail in years to of the company’s social responsibility. It also come. represents PFA’s Communication on Progress report to the UN regarding its work to impleThe aim of this report is to provide a complete ment UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. PFA also description of PFA’s areas of performance, results, reports independently regarding the implementafuture challenges and objectives in the field of tion of the principles, supported by the UN, for CSR. responsible investments to PRI. The report applies to the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011 Contact for the CSR report: and concerns the PFA Group – with the exception CSR Manager Mette Vadstrup of FunktionærPension and two associates. The mev@pfa.dk CSR report is published at PFA Holding’s Annual General Meeting on 25 April. PFA still uses indicators from GRI G3 Sustainability Guidelines and Financial Service Sector Supplement (FSSS), which cover the relevant areas in UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Based on the report and the GRI indicator chart, PFA assesses that the report is at level C in relation to GRI G3’s assessment scheme. PFA · CSR report 2011 6 NEW CSR POLICY NEW CSR POLICY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND ETHICS AT PFA Fairness is a fundamental principle at PFA, and Principles 4 Relationships and dialogue In 2011, PFA formulated a the desire to provide customers with qualiPFA’s policy for corporate responsibility and PFA has an open dialogue with customers new policy for “Corporate fied advice and operate a fair and reasonable ethics follow four fundamental principles: and other interested parties and contributes, business are basic elements of PFA’s method of by means of developing market surveys, ­Responsibility and Ethics in the 1 Good and responsible corporate practice operating. This places requirement’s on PFA’s analyses and public debate, to clarifying PFA Group”. The objective is PFA’s value creation for customers must be corporate integrity. PFA must be a business matters within the company’s areas of busito ensure coherence between partner you can trust. achieved by long-term, responsible economic ness. The objective of PFA’s dialogue with PFA’s corporate strategy and growth and is based on fair and reasonable interested parties is long-term and mutucorporate practice which is reflected in all values and PFA’s work with Trust and integrity rest primarily on the personally beneficial partnerships based on trust, PFA’s corporate relationships. PFA provides its ­responsibility. al behaviour of everyone at PFA. PFA’s actions openness and transparency. customers with qualified advice based on the contribute to giving substance to regulations, customer’s needs and conditions which are news and values. In practical terms, fairness PFA responsibility model stipulated as fair, reasonable and transparent. New policy combines strategy and responsibility means that PFA carries out its business under As a customer-owned pension company, PFA fair and responsible conditions for employees, 2 Responsible corporate culture Responsible investments carries out the particularly responsible task customers and the environment. PFA complies PFA develops a corporate culture based on Customer Active of managing the pension funds of the Danish with legislation and industry standards, and claims ownership integrity and respect. The aim is a culture handling people. For this reason, PFA’s business is built also principles for social responsibility and suswhich is inclusive and contains equal opAdvisory Responsible Social on the confidence of customers, employees and tainability which PFA itself has chosen to apply. value creation portunities for all employees, promotes job services commitment society, and the company’s integrity is a core PFA takes responsibility for the social and ensatisfaction and health in the workplace and element in the corporate relationship. vironmental consequences of its business and Reencourages learning and skill development. sponsible Corporate The Customers Relationactively seeks to contribute to the creation of a in focus corporate responsibility ships and Live Life PFA desires an energetic corporate culture in practice and ethics Foundation dialogue PFA’s employees, managers and Supervisory more sustainable society. which challenges are met effectively. Board work together to create value for cusDialogue Integrity Responsible 3 Responsible value creation regarding tomers, business partners, society and for PFA PFA’s policy for corporate responsibility and corporate culture pensions itself. Value creation includes a competitive ethics is based on a set of internationally PFA combines long-term financial value Climate and Customer business model and measures which ensure recognised principles for human rights, workers’ creation in investment with responsible the environment satisfaction both financial value, consultancy value and serrights, the environment and anti-corruption as gover­nance, environmental and climate Employees vice value. PFA strives to be the best at bringformulated in UN Global Compact. PFA signed considerations and social responsibility in ing professionalism and knowledge into play. up to the UN Global Compact and a correspondthe companies in which PFA invests. PFA also ing set of principles for responsible investpromotes sustainable development through ments, PRI, in 200 9. independent operations. PFA · CSR report 2011 8 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE PRACTICE RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE PRACTICE INTEGRITY In addition to the statutory procedures, PFA has Perspectives PFA builds its business on taken a range of other initiatives with the aim PFA will continue to focus on the the confidence of customers, of contributing to further minimising the risk develop­m ent of parameters and policies employees and society, and of fraud and preventing irregularities. These which ensure that employees behave include initiatives such as the establishment of fairly and responsibly. In connection the company’s integrity is a a compliance function, which incorporates the with the policy for corporate responsi­ core element of the corporate company’s corporate procedures, and a new bility and ethics being implemented, the relationship. scheme for whistle-blowers. corporate policies will be examined to assess whether there is a need, based PFA takes its responsibility seriously and aims New whistle-blower scheme on the new policy, for changes in existing to create a framework and policies which As a part of its new policy for corporate repolicies or practice. ensure that its employees act fairly and boost sponsibility and ethics, PFA adopted a whistlePFA’s integrity. blower scheme in 2011. The aim of the scheme is to create openness and to uncover unethical Actions are carried out based on policies which and irresponsible behaviour which conflicts with are based on the company’s handling of risk. PFA’s policies and values. Policies and guidelines are adopted by the Supervisory Board, and everyone within PFA has The objective of the scheme is to create an an obligation to familiarise themselves with and alternative to the management system in which understand the policies, guidelines and regulaemployees can anonymously report reprehentions. sible behaviour which could have a negative effect on PFA and risks placing the reporter in As a part of the financial sector, PFA is covan uncomfortable situation. ered by a range of legislation and controls which minimise the risk of fraud. These apply, The whistle-blower scheme will be launched in amongst other things, to financial reporting and 2012, when employees and management will risk analysis, guidelines for a ban on speculabe informed of the scheme’s objective, content tion, a formulated IT security policy and written and possibilities. corporate procedures for all important areas of business which, amongst other things, ensure separation of functions and internal controls. PFA · CSR report 2011 10 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CULTURE RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CULTURE COMMITTED EMPLOYEES Sickness absence CREATE MORE VALUE 2011 · 3.3% 2010 · 3.5% 2009 · 3.8% The IT departments focussed in 2011 on a larger launch of PFA’s new market position, PFA formuthe working climate and job satisfaction, PFA PFA seeks to have committed skill initiative where managers worked to define lated four individual rules of conduct in 2011. It carries out a survey of employee satisfaction on ­employees who thrive in their daily roles and skills profiles. The aim is to create subsequently implemented a range of processes an annual basis. Over the last three years, PFA work and can be involved in making­ greater clarity regarding responsibility and princito create commitment to ensure that employees has achieved a high level of job satisfaction and ple tasks in the different functions and regardare familiar with and adopt the rules of conduct. above the level of the labour market in general. a difference for the many customing which skills are essential for success in the PFA focuses on health, exercise and a good workers and colleagues they come into job. This shall contribute to a goal-oriented and PFA strives to achieve a good balance between ing environment for its employees. A varied seleccontact with on a daily basis. value-creating development of employees’ skills male and female employees and managers. At the tion of healthy food is served in the canteen, and and to clarifying the development path within the end of 2011, 51.4 per cent women and 48.6 per fruit and vegetables are also served as snacks Skill development and focus on the IT departments. cent men were employed at PFA, which broadly between mealtimes. PFA has set up a childmanagement role speaking corresponds to the composition of the friendly office which can be used if an employee Knowledge and skill development is involved with 130 employees at PFA have a managerial position. Danish population. The average age of a PFA cannot arrange other suitable childcare. PFA also developing employees and supporting a positive PFA therefore focuses on the management role. employee in 2011 was 41.8 years compared with has employee clubs and associations where emand involving working culture. For this reason, Based on PFA’s strategy, managers and employ43.5 years in the industry in general. ployees can meet and participate in professional PFA continues to focus on internal communicaees were involved in anchoring the PFA scorecard and social events. tion, knowledge sharing and cooperation across and PFA transformation card in the strategy. From Overall, 2011 saw the recruitment by PFA of female the organisation. Individual employee develop2011, all managers and executives at PFA are part managers and area managers. In contrast there Working climate and commitment have an effect ment is governed by the annual personal develof a micro network which acts as a confidential, has been a slight decrease in female team leaders. on sickness absence. In 2010, PFA set a target for opment meetings and follow-up process which is interdisciplinary forum where managers discuss The proportion of women on the PFA’s Supervisory sickness absence of a maximum of 3.8 per cent. agreed with the individual employee. management development based on PFA’s manand Executive Board is one fifth and a quarter reThis objective has been fulfilled in 2011, when agement model and achieves a better underspectively. At PFA, equality is also promoted by the sickness absence equalled 3.3 per cent. PFA continued the successful pension adviser standing of the business. father’s opportunity to take paternal and parental talent programme from 2010 with a new team in leave after the birth of a child over and above the Perspectives 2011. The objective is to maintain and develop Equal opportunities and a fair working culture 14 days stipulated by law. Fathers at PFA have the In 2012, PFA will focus on well-being managetalented employees who have the potential to PFA would like all employees to have equal opporopportunity to take 10 weeks’ paid parental leave ment, and managers will receive additional provide excellent pension advice to PFA’s customtunities to develop their potential and discriminain addition to the 4 weeks’ paternal leave. In 2011, training amongst other things in handling ers. The training will be completed in May 2012 tion based on gender, age, religion, ethnicity, dis49 men and 74 women took advantage of the opstress and job dissatisfaction and creating with a test and evaluation of the talented appliability or sexual orientation will not be tolerated. tion of parental leave from PFA. increased satisfaction in their teams. PFA’s cants’ possibility of being employed as a pension PFA seeks to involve all employees and encourage objective is to continue to reduce sickness adviser at PFA. their commitment so that PFA remains a dynamic Job satisfaction, working climate and health absence, and the goal for 2012 is 3.1 per and excellent workplace. In combination with the To form an overview of employees’ attitudes, cent. PFA · CSR report 2011 12 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION PENSIONS AND INSURANCE ARE RESPONSIBILITIES pension savings. PFA’s customers paid DKK 17.7 32,000 people received treatment via PFA In connection with the economic crisis, Pensions and insurance are billion to their pension plans in 2011. Health Insurance one or more times in 2011. there has been a tendency for pension extremely important for the In 2011, PFA disbursed a total of DKK 15.4 billion 5,400 used PFA Preventive Care on one or more payments also to be affected. There has to customers in pensions and insurance. occasions, while almost 1,000 people were also been political intervention in the tax welfare and security of Danish awarded a disbursement of Critical Illness. conditions for pension savings. people. PFA makes a difference PFA works to ensure that as many people as 3,200 people had their case settled in relation PFA safeguards good conditions for for thousands of Danes. possible have adequate pension funds to ensure to loss of occupational capacity. pension savings. For example, PFA is a satisfactory standard of living after reaching especially cautious of recommending that Pension savings, for the vast majority of Danish retirement age. This requires a continued expanAt PFA, we are not content with paying out Danish people withdraw from early retirepeople, is an absolutely crucial element in ension of the pension fund in years to come, one of the amount we are obliged to. We will go the ment plans as for many people it can be suring their financial security. PFA’s core prodthe reasons being that Danish people are living extra mile to help people recovering from illness beneficial to stay in the plan in the long uct, pension savings, is therefore important. for longer. or loss of occupational capacity to return to term. In the same way, PFA warns against But importance brings with it responsibility. PFA active employment again. We have therefore political measures which restrict incenhas a responsibility for the management of the Some of the ways PFA is contributing to this implemented something we call Active Claims tives for pension savings or which limit Danish citizens’ financial security after they are by ensuring the best possible value creation Handling. In 2011, 270 people received Active the return on investments. have reached retirement age. through a high level of return, low costs and Claims Handling where we help people who customer ownership, which means that profits go have lost their occupational capacity to get Approx. 650,000 Danish people have pension to customers through CustomerCapital. Customer through their illness so that they have the opsavings with PFA. At the same time, around ownership ensures that PFA makes money for portunity to return to employment. half a million Danes hold insurance with PFA customers and not from customers. for such things as sickness, death and loss of Perspectives occupational capacity. PFA’s products, advisory Insurance with security PFA works to ensure that many Danservices and other services deal with the welfare Every year, thousands of PFA customers benefit ish people have pension savings which and security for several hundreds of thousands from their insurance policies associated with ensure them a comfortable life after reof Danish families. Around every fourth or fifth sickness and disability, for example. tirement. Payments by Danish people to household in Denmark has a customer relationpension plans have generally been on the ship with PFA which deals with financial security PFA’s insurance plans mean that people afincrease in recent years, and this means in those life situations to which we are exposed. fected by sickness or who lose occupational that pension payments for future retirees capacity in a period have the opportunity to will have increasing importance. DKK 325 billion in pensions receive quick treatment, and in this way can PFA manages total wealth of DKK 325 billion for quickly return to an active existence. PFA · CSR report 2011 14 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION IT IS THE CUSTOMERS’ MONEY customers have received. At the same time, full PFA’s expense ready-reckoner (available in Danish only) PFA is owned by its customers. comparability between other pension compaThe values which are created in nies is ensured. the PFA Group therefore go to the Low costs customers first and foremost. PFA keeps costs low to create maximum value for customers. In an impartial comparison of PFA creates maximum value for customers by pension companies mentioned in Berlingske obtaining a high return on investment and on 2 July 2011, ÅOP in pension companies’ life keeping costs low. In addition, customers are cycle products varied between 0.70 and 1.11 guaranteed the largest possible share of the per cent with PFA Plus having the lowest. PFA’s value created by saving with Customer Capital. costs ate published at pfa.dk. Openness regarding costs Reserves brought along PFA goes the extra mile to create openness when switching to PFA Plus regarding costs. PFA was one of the first penWhen individual customers choose PFA Plus and sion companies with a costs ready-reckoner. move their saved deposits from average rate Customers of PFA were some of the first to be products, they can bring along their share of the able to see, in their annual surveys, the anunallocated reserves. nual costs in DKK (ÅOK) and in per cent (ÅOP). 220 million back to the customers Perspectives This applies to both customers with market The first time round, PFA opened for a transfer PFA paid approx. DKK 220 million back to indiPFA works continuously to minimise costs rate products and customers with traditional allowance for a period in June and the second time vidual customers with fewer insurance disburseand maintain its position as the company pension savings with average interest rate around in September when customers received a ments than expected. This concerned plans with in which customers enjoy the highest value products. quotation regarding a transfer. The amount of the a special agreement with experience rating. creation. allowance depends on the interest group’s unalPFA openly publishes all its costs. In connection located reserves and will as a general rule be higher The increased focus on health and prevention In 2012, PFA will implement new initiatives with the publication of ÅOK and ÅOP for 2011, for older pension savings than for more recent appears to be working. The better customwhich make it easier to be a customer of also published are a method description and an savings. From 1 November, PFA will continue to offer ers are at taking care of themselves and their PFA and easier to understand one’s pension accountant’s statement which documents that the option of transferring deposits with reserves, health, the more money there is to distribute. plan. PFA will also continue to consolidate the costs contained in the financial statements and the allowance will subsequently be calculated its advice and ensure that PFA’s knowledge agree with the totals in the information which for a month at a time. is converted into value for its customers. PFA · CSR report 2011 15 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION BACK TO WORK PFA Active Claims Handling PFA helped him, first with an operaThrough Active Claims Handling, PFA’s Active Claims Handling scheme helps customCase 1: Preventive work tion and then rehabilitation via Health Through a pension adviser, Active Claims PFA helps customers through ers who are in receipt of a disability pension from In­s urance, then with help from Active PFA or have an illness which PFA assesses puts Handling becomes aware of a customer Claims Handling. Active Claims Handling sickness and back to work. suffering from stress and depression and them at risk of receiving a disability pension. has helped with support for his treatbeing absent from work full time due to ment and provided further help with PFA’s measures comprise amongst other things illness. After a dialogue with the cusThe number of Danish people in receipt of transfer rehabilitation, which under normal sharing knowledge with customers to motivate tomer, he is quickly offered an appointincome due to sickness has been increasing subcircumstances is not covered by health them to improve their situation, helping customment with a psychiatrist who assesses a stantially in recent years and is regarded as being insurance. ers steer their way through the Danish municipal need for a further five hours of treatan economic and social time bomb for society and system and investigating the options for and conment. Active Claims Handling approves the welfare system. When a person is affected by Kenneth was declared fit for work in tributing to concrete health and treatment offers. this treatment which assists with the illness or loses occupational capacity for some August, and PFA was able to dis­c ontinue other reason, it can be expensive for society. customer being back in work full time a disability disbursements, likewise In 2011, PFA’s Active Claims Handling scheme looked short time after. With the help of Active ­Kenneth was able to return to active at cases for 1,252 customers. Of these 1,252 customBusinesses are also affected. They lose workClaims Handling, a longer period of being parti­c ipation in the labour market – for ers, PFA has had a dialogue with 270 customers. In ing capacity, have expenses for long periods of off work due to sickness, detrimental to the benefit of both Kenneth and society. concrete terms, PFA’s contact with customers in 2011 sickness and increased insurance expenses unless the individual, the business, society and meant that 25 customers in receipt of disability penmeasures are actively deployed. If the person PFA, can be avoided. For PFA alone, such sion have recovered to such an extent that they no concerned is also insured, lasting state provision a case could result in the payment of a longer require the disability pension. 12 customers will also mean expenses for disability benefit. disability pension of DKK 7.4 million over have received preventive aid to such an extent that the course of the life of the person in they are back in the labour market and have not Long-term sick leave is a serious matter for the question. utilised their disability pension at all. individual citizen. People who are absent due to illness for a long time are at great risk of being Perspectives Case 2: Treatment of injury excluded completely from the labour market. For Against this background, PFA has been in At the age of 25, Kenneth suffered a this reason, early intervention is crucial for getdialogue in 2011 with the political system shoulder injury which put him in receipt ting people on sick leave back into work. regarding PFA’s experiences which could of a disability pension. He could have provide inspiration for new solutions in the continued on passive support from the Effective measures for getting citizens with republic sector. PFA would like to continue state and from PFA until he reached duced occupational capacity back into the labour with this dialogue in 2012 as well as with its retire­m ent age more than 40 years later. market are therefore in the interests of everyone. measures for Active Claims Handling. PFA · CSR report 2011 16 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS Dialogue and screening come into conflict with PFA’s guidelines as a result of PFA’s experiences with voting on selected cases PFA aims to create the highest In 2011, PFA continued its work to screen of the screening. The list is the starting point for and to strengthen PFA’s options to be able to expossible return on investments companies and enter into dialogue with those PFA’s active ownership and engagement. ert active ownership, we have prepared an overall which violate PFA’s guidelines for responsible Process summary policy for active ownership via proxy voting. for customers, and this shall be Responsible investments investments. PFA collaborates with the screening achieved on a responsible basis. agency GES, which has screened all the investChoice of investment The policy includes guidelines for voting at The investments are selected based on an analysis of the sector, ments in PFA’s portfolio and has been in dialogue country and various risks. A risk analysis of the company’s annual general meetings both nationally and strategy and performance for the environment, social conditions Responsibility and ethics are integral parts with approx. 250 companies regarding a total and governance (ESG) is included in the overall assessment. globally. This is implemented via the British of PFA’s investment processes. Since 200 9, of 290 different cases. The cases concerned Screening proxy voting agent The Manifest Voting Agency PFA screens its portfolio for companies which do not comply with PFA has been a signatory of both UN Global environmental and climate violations, breaches of international norms. and gives PFA the opportunity to vote at foreign Compact and PRI, and it is these international human rights and violations of workers’ rights. annual general meetings. PFA regards voting principles and recognised standards which form Event as an escalation of its engagement in those GES Engagement Company x does not comply with PFA’s policy for the basis on which PFA’s policy on responsiEngagement activities, breakdown on regions responsible investments. cases where companies have been in breach of ble investments has been developed. PFA has PFA’s policies over a longer period of time. It is Evaluation converted policy into internal procedures. AcAustralia Europe Research and analysis of the company’s situation. PFA’s RI Board which takes decisions regarding cordingly, social, environmental and gover­n ance 6 33 voting. Middle East 32 Dialogue considerations have been integrated in the Analysis and facts confirm that the company is not complying North with international norms for the environment, social conditions and investment process. America governance. A plan for engagement with the company is prepared. Promotion of dialogue Africa 29 49 PFA actively contributes to sharing knowledge Proxy voting Evaluation 10 years of positive returns PFA can vote at the In the course of the process, PFA makes and spreading the word regarding responsible company’s annual demands on the company’s manageIn 2011, PFA had investments in more than 29 general meeting via ment regarding improvements. The investments using methods including engagan agency. company’s willingness to listen and 3,400 shares and corporate bonds worldwide. Asia Latin make changes is continuously evaluated. ing in dialogue with interested parties and the 112 America Despite difficult economic times, PFA has been media and through committee work in Dansif. Further action able to achieve an extremely satisfactory return In 2011, PFA reported to PRI for the second Source: GES 2011 of DKK 27.2 billion for its customers. In so No exclusion Exclusion time in a self-assessment survey. In the spring The company has Company still breaches ESG continuously doing, PFA has been the only Danish pension Based on the screenings, PFA assesses its excluchanged its behaviour and systematically. PFA sells off any of 2011, PRI carried out an audit of replies and investment in the company. company to ensure its customers a positive sion list at least once every six months. The list is subsequently approved PFA’s report which also return on investment for 10 years in a row. This an integral part of PFA Kapitalforvaltning, PFA AsIncreased active ownership showed progress compared with the first report. is the result of an investment process based on set Management, and is also sent to PFA’s external In 2011, PFA continued to work on implementing knowledge sharing, dynamic investment proasset managers. PFA also operates with an “enthe principles in PRI and integrating ESG factors cesses and energetic portfolio administrators. gagement list” in which companies are listed which throughout investment analysis. In continuation PFA · CSR report 2011 17 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS NEW INITIATIVES The fund shall invest in energy facilities in Seeking out alternative forms of financing for with foreign governments; however, investors in In 2011, PFA contributed with Africa, where there is considerable shortage of these socially beneficial investments is increasgovernment bonds have no opportunity for acconcrete investments which energy and a substantial need for investment ingly relevant. Increased use of public-private tive ownership or to seek to exert influence in in energy. For PFA, it is a matter of a long-term partnerships is one of the solutions. another way. The influencing of foreign governpromoted social considerations as investment in necessary and profitable energy ments is foreign policy – and it is a task which well as supported the ambition of projects with prospects of achieving a solid PFA contributed in 2011 to putting the issue on is handled in political terms by the Ministry of PFA to achieve the highest return which at the same time support responthe agenda. This has been achieved by contribForeign Affairs and in the Danish Parliament. possible degree of value creation sible developments in Africa. uting to debates and interviews in the press, at for its customers. conferences, in direct dialogue with the politiAs a pension company, the fact that it has no The fund has been set up in partnership with cal system with concrete proposals and through influence does not remove the responsibility for Half a billion to growth businesses the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI), the dialogue with the Danish competition and investments being ethically responsible. For this PFA was the first commercial pension company to Investment Fund for Developing Countries, the consumer authorities and many government reason, PFA strives to ensure that PFA’s investmake a concrete commitment to invest in growth Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy departments regarding their work to develop a ments in government bonds are in agreement businesses through Dansk Vækstkapital, which is Fund and is managed by the European Investpublic-private partnership standard model. with Danish foreign policy and with assessan initiative in partnership with the government. ment Bank (the British Government’s investments from official Danish opinion regarding The commitment is for DKK 520 million. ment fund for developing countries), as well as In concrete terms, PFA has expressed an interthe situation in the individual country. the South African company Fabvest. est in participating in investments in sanitary Dansk Vækstkapital provides capital for entrefacilities, traffic installations and in the energy In 2011, therefore, PFA took the initiative to preneurs and small growth businesses. PFA is The fund’s operation has been supported by infrastructure, and PFA works actively to remove open direct dialogue with the Ministry of Forprepared to pledge a part of the amount. PFA the EU with a contribution of approx. DKK 1 milthe structural barriers for pension funds in Daneign Affairs and the Danish government regardcan in this way contribute to Danish innovation lion and by Seed Capital Assistance Facility with ish public-private partnership projects. ing investments in foreign government bonds. and growth in small and medium-sized busiapprox. DKK 5 million. The aim is to ensure that PFA’s investment nesses. It is an important task for which PFA Government bonds and ethics policy in this area is in agreement with Danish takes joint responsibility. Promotion of Public-private partnerships Active ownership is the first solution when a and international standards. This dialogue will The public sector is responsible for a very company violates PFA’s ethical standards. As continue in 2012. Energy investments in Africa considerable investment requirement within, for joint owners of a company, there is the posPFA has set aside an amount in the million range example, infrastructure, energy, buildings etc. sibility of influencing the running of the comfor investments in the investment fund DI Frontier It is a matter of socially beneficial investments pany. This is why active ownership is used. Market Energy & Carbon Fund. The money has which promote both growth and welfare, but been set aside and will be invested gradually as also investments which promote environmental In line with other pension companies, PFA also the fund locates suitable and profitable projects. aspects. invests in foreign government bonds. Compared PFA · CSR report 2011 18 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION IMPROVED CLIMATE – GREENER OPERATIONS more than 85 suppliers. The dialogue primarily possible and most profitable. Amongst other Perspectives PFA’s environmental and climate concerned promoting climate measures within things, PFA switched all its lighting equipment to In 2012, PFA intends to focus on responpolicy forms the framework for businesses. One of the consequences of this in new intelligent and programmable ceiling lights sible supplier management in connec2011 was a business starting to work towards and trimmed and adjusted the operation of the tion with an audit of the guidelines for activities to reduce the use of working environment certification. ventilation system. The initiatives resulted in total responsible procurement. resources­and make more effective savings of 10 per cent in CO2 emissions in 2011. the use of electricity and heat. PFA strives to use more environmentally-friendly It is PFA’s aim to be able to reduce CO 2 products where this is a genuine option. We have MEASURE Saving in kWh Saving emissions by up to 30 per cent in the 2010 and 2011 Electricity Heating T CO2 % therefore continued with the switching of petrolperiod 2010 -2014. PFA is well on the Switched all ceiling 249,33 5 133 6.6 In terms of climate, PFA acts both globally and based company cars to diesels cars with particle lights to new ‘intelway, with forward-looking initiatives to ligent’ programmable locally. On a global level, it is all about sustainfilters and increased the number of ecological fittings be implemented to achieve CO 2 savings of able investments. For this reason, PFA invests and sustainable products that are used at PFA. Installed 1,300 41,808 22 1.1 a more radical and long-term nature. energy-saving in the energy sector both in Denmark and PFA’s canteen supplier used 30 per cent ecologipower strips abroad. On a local level, it is about PFA saving cal products and aims to maintain this objective. Control using CO 2 88,462 286,950 87 4.3 PFA would like to gather its experiences transmitters energy at its head office in Copenhagen and In 2011, PFA covered 7,751 km with a taxi company from making the buildings at head office Switch from 29,13 9 15 0.8 environmentally screening of suppliers. which, through the purchase of quotas, has neuhalogen to LED bulbs more effective in terms of energy. These tralised CO 2 emissions of 1,035 kg CO2. Heating using 22,168 86,429 23 1.2 good examples will be promoted to the recirculation of air External efforts for climate tenants in PFA’s properties as inspiration Switch to the most 15,075 8 0.4 As a member of the international climate network CO 2 reductions in property management energy-efficient to work with energy savings coffee machines the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), PFA is workPFA is working with energy efficiency at its head Turning off toilet 12,420 2 1,033 9 0.5 ing to increase the number of Danish businesses office in Østerbro in Copenhagen, Denmark. The extraction at night which report their climate accounts to CDP. climate measures in the office building are an Fitting of on/off clocks 2,978 1 0.1 on coffee machines expression of both a commercial focus at PFA and Walkways. Switching 88,83 5 47 2.4 In 2011, PFA continued its work with responsiits responsible attitude towards the environment. off electric heat Prognosis control of 107,000 14 0.7 ble supplier management and applied guidelines the heating system for responsible procurement as a part of the PFA started in 2010 with systematic mapping of Trimming of operating 3 4,23 8 152,708 39 2.0 times and needs mandialogue with suppliers. This means a dialogue energy use and the involvement of employees agement for ventilation regarding the supplier’s CSR work together with and total savings of 11 per cent in CO2 emissions. system climate and environmental screening. PFA has, Switch to the most 37,40 6 20 1.0 energy-efficient printers over the last few years, achieved environmenIn 2011, PFA identified and implemented those Total 62 1,864 654,120 424 2 1.0 tal screening and conducted a dialogue with savings initiatives and investments which were PFA · CSR report 2011 19 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE DIALOGUE PROMOTES UNDERSTANDING OF PENSIONS • P FA has held approx. 90 50+ courses and inIn 2011, four meetings were held regarding topics PFA has the best reputation amongst pension companies PFA has an ambition to use the formation meetings for seniors approaching such as how to put together optimal pension company’s knowledge and exretirement age. At these events, they have savings, social considerations in connection with 10 received guidance and knowledge to assist new frameworks and conditions, and the analysis perience to make pensions more their preparation for life as a retiree. Close and debating of tax law changes in the pension understandable and simpler for to 2,500 seniors took part in PFA events in sector. The meetings were intended to ensure customers. 2011. that PFA knows its customers and their needs 5 Competitor 1 • P FA’s external communication occurs in a and can adjust and develop services and products Competitor 2 Competitor 3 Pensions are very important for the individual, no-nonsense world in which PFA states that which match these customer needs. but many people do not have sufficient underpensions are complicated, but important. 2010 2011 standing of their own pension plans and have PFA recommends that consumers enter into Dialogue strengthens reputation difficulty in working through the decisions that a dialogue with their pension company and PFA believes in dialogue and openness reSource: Infomedia/You Gov. need to be made to ensure the best possible pay no attention to superficial marketing. garding pensions and insurance. PFA places life as a retiree. It is for this reason that PFA • P FA has set up a new networking option importance on being well-prepared, converting makes a special effort to promote understandfor customers, PFA Morning Brief, which knowledge into value, displaying fairness and ing of pensions. is a new way of entering into a dialogue providing qualified advice. This is the heart of with current and potential decision makers. PFA’s market position. Concrete measures in 2011: The meetings shall contribute to creating • P FA has committed to providing qualified dialogue, inspiration and new knowledge for PFA’s position on the market and in Danish Perspectives advice to customers. This means that the the different areas where Danish top managsociety is reflected in PFA’s reputation. In 2011, PFA will continue to focus on a range advice has been tightened up so that cusers are invited to share their experience. PFA PFA was mentioned more in the press than its of central challenges when it comes tomers receive clearer answers from PFA. Morning Brief held two meetings in 2011 and three largest competitors put together. PFA was to pension plans, both to ensure good • PFA has developed apps for smartphones and has 12 meetings planned for 2012. mentioned a total of 2,335 times in printed and conditions for customers and to promote iPads which shall promote understanding of electronic media. The media coverage was also understanding of complex topics and pensions on those platforms users already use. PFA takes advice from its customers the most positive in the sector and means that regulation of the area. • P FA has employed a private economist PFA’s Customer Board comprises 60 top managPFA has the best reputation in the pension induswhose objective is to make PFA more able to ers from the largest customers. The Customer try. PFA’s reputation is measured by the analysis Through dialogue with the Customer communicate clearly regarding pension and Board focuses on different topics such as institute Infomedia, where measurements from a Board and other networks, PFA will gathincrease understanding of pensions through pension policy questions, new products and broad area of the population placed PFA at no. er knowledge to be in a better position analysis and commentaries in the press and services. 6 on the list of the financial companies with the to supply responsible products and advice in direct customer communication. best reputation at the end of 2011. which meets the needs of customers. PFA · CSR report 2011 21 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE PFA CONVERTS KNOWLEDGE INTO VALUE Activity 2011 2010 200 9 Customer satisfaction 2011 Development in our DNA On a scale from 1-5t How well do the following statements apply to PFA? PFA converts knowledge into value Customer 47,000 45,000 37,000 advice calls for customers and provides Number of 4.1 8.0 Gives qualified advice 197,500 183,3 85 203,779 telephone calls 4.0 4.0 4.0 qualified advice. The aim is Number of 42,500 27,408 19,761 satisfied customers. email enquiries Market average Customer 96.7% 98.2% 98.5% 6.5 availability 8.9 by 8.8 by 8.8 by Customer telephone telephone telephone satisfaction* Good advice from PFA (on a scale of 1-10) 7.9 via 7.9 via email email PFA’s Advisory Services Centre is available for 5.0 Overall Satisfaction Satisfaction with Satisfaction April 2011 January 2012 queries via telephone and email every weekday * There are no figures for customer satisfaction for email enquiries in 2009. Base: satisfaction in general and responds to approx. 250,000 queries from with attitude April 2011=232. advisory services individual customers every year. PFA’s advisers PFA has around 650,000 customers. 2011 saw Juli 2011=236. September og oktober 2011=224. assist with concrete advice regarding pensions, changes in many regulations in the pension Januar 2012=320 help with explaining terms and implement more area. It has been a particular challenge to comsimple changes to pension solutions and are municate these changes. At the same time, also able to give customers qualified advice. In many customers have chosen to transfer to line with greater focus in society being directed PFA Plus with increased need for advice as a towards pension savings and health plans, result. Despite an increase in enquiries, PFA has PFA is also experiencing an increase in daily consistently maintained a high degree of avail­e nquiries. ability and the same high degree of customer satisfaction. PFA · CSR report 2011 22 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE COMPLAINTS ARE A WAY TO LEARN plaints related to communication and advice customers so that PFA can learn from mistakes Number of complaints 2010 / 2011 Customers of PFA have ample and a smaller number to disbursements and it has made and implement changes where pos83 opportunity to submit complaints decisions. Overall, 26 per cent of the comsible. This applies to both customers dissatisplaints were granted in favour of the customer, fied with a decision taken by PFA and custom67 if they are dissatisfied with PFA’s in full or in part, while 44 per cent were not. ers who are dissatisfied with PFA in another decisions or with the advice or 43 The remaining 30 per cent were settled with respect. services received from PFA. supplementary information or advice. Four 29 23 of the complaints handled by the Complaints In 2011, the customer representative received 11 9 9 7 5 Department in 2011 were subsequently settled 67 complaints compared with 83 complaints the Complaints are a way to learn by the Insurance Complaints Board; its decision year before. PFA believes that the drop in the Total Upheld Partially Not upheld Ongoing With daily contact with more than 1,000 cuswent in PFA’s favour on one occasion while the number of complaints can partially be attribupheld tomers, situations arise in which customers are others are still ongoing. uted to concrete measures and changes which dissatisfied. Such cases must be regarded as PFA introduced based the complaints of the Complaints, broken down by topic in 2011 learning opportunities. previous year. 93 In 2010, PFA changed the complaints options Of the 67 complaints, 15 complaints were and set up a central complaints department 74 referred to the Complaints Department with and a customer representative. The aim was to simultaneous monitoring of the outcome. 12 increase customers’ confidence in PFA and enper cent of the complaints were not upheld, 13 sure uniform treatment of complaints. The new 14 28 per cent were partially upheld and 43 per cent 6 structure also provides better opportunities were fully upheld. Five cases were ongoing at Communication Products and Technology and Disbursement Supply and for internal experience gathering within PFA. the end of 2011. It is an advantage for customers, who receive registration solutions and decisions and advice IT architecture responsible handling of their complaint, and a In 2011, many of the enquiries resulted in possible critical situation is changed. learning and changes in PFA on a range of issues. For example, they related to the definiIn 2011, PFA was in contact with around Customer representative tion of standard text in the pension calculation 300,000 customers. The Complaints DepartSince 2010, PFA has had a customer representain terms of requirements for the calculation ment received a total of 215 complaints in the tive to supplement the Complaints Department. as well as the drafting of written guidelines same period, of which 210 were closed before The task of the customer representative is to on what information must be submitted with the end of the year. The majority of the comlisten to any customer dissatisfaction from telephone enquiries. PFA · CSR report 2011 23 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE SOCIAL COMMITMENT For this reason, PFA often takes the initiative to • C ommercial life must contribute to mak•PFA  is important in Danish society. enter into dialogue with the public, in connecing it possible for the retirement age to be Importance means responsibility. tion with the political system or in connection increased by making space for older people with other decision makers and opinion formers on the labour market. PFA is committed to society for in Danish society. • P ension taxation brought forward we set this reason. up a fund on behalf of the child. If we also Active in the press pinch their future tax income, we undermine A large part of PFA’s media coverage in the the welfare society. PFA actively participates in creating public depress concern socially relevant topics such as • Secure pensions on the wish list for politibate and dialogue with political decision makers CSR, health, pensions and welfare. cians. within PFA’s area of interest. • P romoting Public-private partnerships will Concrete debates in 2011: benefit the welfare society and free up PFA also supports voluntary work by employees • B usinesses should take greater responsibility resources for services. in a range of areas, and for this reason PFA has for the health of their employees. an overall strategy for supporting associations • P FA has wide experience with Active Claims There are also many socially relevant topics in and social objectives. Handling for people who have lost their which PFA has participated in both the press occupational capacity. This can be used as and in direct dialogue with the political system. Participates actively in social dialogue inspiration for the public sector. PFA is an important part of the Danish pension • O ne should not hide behind excellent system and is one of the largest investors in reports and declarations of intent. It is the Denmark. PFA is therefore extremely impordaily actions which count. tant in Danish society. This importance means • B oth businesses and society can use dediresponsibility and PFA is committed to being cated individuals. We must value, provide an active and responsible participant in Danish space for and support the extra measures society. This responsibility applies to customand voluntary work. ers, but it also obliges PFA to take part in • M any older people have to provide for themcreating the best possible conditions for penselves. This is crucial if the elderly boom is sion savings in Denmark in general. PFA must not to develop into a great burden of the also contribute to the pension sector being a welfare society. positive participant in finding solutions to the shared challenges in society. PFA · CSR report 2011 24 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE SUPPORT FOR ASSOCIATIONS AND VOLUNTARY WORK Concrete measures in 2011 PFA’s employees and PFA supported the PFA supported the following associations with PFA is a committed and active The PFA Live Life Foundation supported two following 15 primary causes: adverts in its members’ newsletter: organisations: • B ørn, Unge & Sorg (Children, • G igtforeningen partner in the society of which PFA • D anske Hospitalsklovne [Danish Hospital Young People & Grief) [The Rheumatism Association] is part, and contributes through Clowns] for the training of more hospital • La Vida recreation for seriously-ill children • LFA nyt partnerships and support activities clowns • Danske Hospitalsklovne • LEV for improvements in social condi• T UBA (treatment and advice for young • Støt kvinderne bag brysterne • B lindesagen tions both in Denmark and around ­p eople with alcoholic parents) • T UBA – treatment and advice for young [Danish Association for the Blind] the world. people with alcoholic parents • Døve Bladet [magazine for the deaf] PFA has business partnerships • War veterans and dependants • Døveidræt [sport for the deaf] with various organisations: • H jerneskadet.dk [association for people with • Kbu Kalender PFA believes that support is most effective if it • Dansk Røde Kors [the Danish Red Cross] brain damage] • Handicappede Børn [handicapped children] is provided in collaboration with partners who • Ingeniører Uden Grænser • Ventilen Danmark • LUMA focus on individual issues. For this reason, each [Engineers Without Borders] • Orchid Project • Spastikeren [cerebral palsy] year PFA selects a range of different collabora• D R Koncerthuset • L ivsnettet – Mennesker betyder alt [Life • Sim tion organisations and supports some smaller [the Copenhagen Concert Hall] Network = People mean everything] • Lungeforeningen [Danish Lung Association] associations who make it their work to create • Foreningen Fair Dog [Fair Dog association] • Lunges jul awareness for their key issues. • Information video regarding autism • Lavia • AngelKit • DHIF PFA also stimulates employees’ interest in • G iv unge en stemme med Ordskælv [Give • Muskel providing charitable services, whether this is young people with dyslexia a voice] • SBU with the work of associations of various kinds, • Hjælp Nicklas • Rygforeningen [Back Association] collections and other initiative which promote • Servicehunden [service dogs] social measures outside of working life. PFA’s • H jerneskadeforeningen employee fund contributes with support activi[Brain Damage Association] ties of various kinds. • Københavns Handicapforbund [Copenhagen’s’s Handicapped Alliance] • S cleroseforeningen [the Sclerosis Association] • G igtforeningen [the Rheumatism Association] PFA · CSR report 2011 25 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE THE PFA LIvE LIfE FOUNDATION The PFA Live Life Foundation supports one or Facts about the PFA Live Life Foundation: The PFA Live Life Foundation more issues which help others to live their Case: Danske Hospitalsklovne The foundation’s objective is to support Danske Hospitalsklovne is a charitable supports dedicated individuals who lives. These can be activities which make the dedicated individuals who help others to lives of others easier, safer or better. organisation whose aim is to spread live their lives. help others to live their lives. happiness amongst sick and vulnerable PFA has chosen Facebook as a framework for children. Danske Hospitalsklovne has The foundation was established in 2009 the foundation and the annual nominations approx. 20 hospital clowns which twice a with funds of DKK 3 million. The return on and votes. In this way, the many dedicated week on average visit 2 1 wards spread all these funds can be distributed for charitaindividuals can themselves have their say and over the country. The visits typically last ble purposes. The first donation was discreate awareness for their issues. In 2011, three hours. This is far from adequate. tributed to two causes in 2010 – Girltalk.dk almost 24,000 people voted for at least 200 More than 60,000 children are admitted and Servicehunde for Handicappede [Sernominated issues, and during the vote the page to hospitals in Denmark. With the current vice Dogs for the Handicapped]. There was was one of the fastest growing Facebook pages capacity, it is unfortunately impossible to also support from PFA to create awareness in Denmark. visit every child who has been admitted. regarding the causes. Funds from the PFA Live Life Foundation In 2011, the fund supported two main issues: in 2011 went to training more hospital Causes are set up on Facebook where Danske Hospitalsklovne [Hospital Clowns] and clowns. For more information see there is also voting regarding which causes TUBA (treatment and advice for young people www.danskehospitalsklovne.dk. should be supported. The causes with the with alcoholic parents). most support are recommended to the ”At Danske Hospitalsklovene we work to Supervisory Board, which distributes the spread happiness among sick children in grant to one or more causes. the country ’s hospitals. There is a great need for this. The work is possible due to The Supervisory Board comprises the voluntary donations and for this reason chairman of the Danish Association of it means a lot to us to be this year ’s Managers and Executives Svend Askær main charity. We will use the donation (Chairman), the chairman of Teknisk Landsto consolidate our work and train new forbund Gita Grüning, Professor Bjørn hospital clowns”, says Lea Brams Olesen, Nørgaard and Group CEO and President of manager at Danske Hospitalsklovne. PFA Henrik Heideby. Read more about the PFA Live Life Foundation at www.facebook.com/pfabruglivetfonden. PFA · CSR report 2011 26 APPENDICES CSR MANAGEMENT AND STRUCTURE AT PFA The framework for PFA’s work with responsibilResponsible investments ity is PFA’s CSR policy and guidelines. They have Responsibility for enforcement of the policy been formulated based on UN Global Compact’s for responsible investments and the work with 10 principles and the UN-backed principles for active ownership lies with the PFA’s Board for responsible investments, PRI. Responsible Investments. The RI Board meets six times a year and comprises executive emThe policy for corporate responsibility and ethployees from PFA Kapitalforvaltnig (PFA Asset ics in the PFA Group, which was formulated in Management), the Director of Public Affairs, 2011, is the result of a process in which experience with the CSR work and the work with the CFO and CSR Manager. PFA’s CFO is the Chaircorporate strategy, together with the content of man of the RI Board. the international UN principles and standards, have been converted into concrete areas of CEO focus and guidelines for PFA. Future CSR efforts at PFA will be to incorpoRI BOARD CFO · CSR · PA rate the new policy so that the management Investment managers becomes a part of delivering the values, and the employees are aware of the policy and its Portfolio Portfolio CSR / SRI content. managers managers Overall responsibility for CSR at PFA lies with the President and Group CEO. The daily work with CSR and coordination of activities, areas of focus and implementation of the policy is carried out by the CSR Department, which is a part of Corporate Communications & People Management. PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 28 ACTIVE OWNERSHIP A separate engagement strategy is developed The company manufactures land mines: NORM-BASED SCREENING for each company connected with a clear PFA’S EXCLUSION LIST process, audit criteria, objectives and plan of AT THE END OF 2011 Company Country Field Singapore Technologies Singapore Technologies action. The strategy further develops the critical PFA uses the screening agency GES, which dialogue which is already taking place between Human rights provides analysis through GES Global Ethical Exposure to Burma. This position has been PFA systematically excludes companies which owners and the company. Standard® including engagement activities and disposed of due to the human rights situation manufacture certain types of controversial risk analysis. in Burma: weapons. With this type of company, we operIn addition to the lists mentioned above, PFA ate a strategy of non-involvement and they also has an exclusion list containing businesses The method is based on a systematic screening Company Country Field are systematically excluded from all investment which are systematically excluded and not subChevron USA oil/gas activities. This applies to controversial weapons of international companies and their compliject to engagement. China Oilfield Service China oil/gas which cause disproportionately severe injury to ance with international conventions and guideTotal France oil/gas lines regarding the environment, human rights, humans and conflict with the following treaties workers’ rights and corruption. At the moment, and conventions: Cluster bombs and land mines GES screens approx. 16,000 listed companies. Manufacture components for cluster weapons: • CCW including protocols I-V The collection of information regarding events • B WC and CWC Company Country Field and businesses is managed by search tools Alliant Techsystems USA Defence equipment (biological and chemical weapons) which collect information from media and news Raytheon USA Defence equipment • The Ottawa Convention (land mines) reports, and NGO websites and databases Gencorp USA Defence equipment • The Oslo Convention (cluster bombs) General Dynamics USA Defence equipment internationally. Hanwha Corp Korea Chemicals L-3 Communications USA Technology The screening resulted in 2011 in an observaLockheed Martin USA Defence equipment tion list of around 126 businesses and a focus Poongsan Corp Korea Extraction & mining list of 27 companies associated with accidents Poongsan Holding Corp Korea Extraction & mining Textron USA Multi-technology or activities at variance with international standards, and as a result of which it is recommended they are excluded or should be subject to increased engagement pressure. PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 29 EMPLOYEE REPORTING Number of permanent employees Women are represented on PFA’s Supervisory Employee job satisfaction and well-being 3 1/12 2011 3 1/12 2010 3 1/12 200 9 Board and Executive Board with a fifth and 2011 2010 In number of Job satisfaction 72 73 1,173 1,193 1,114 quarter of the members respectively. employees Well-being 71 72 Motivation 74 74 Gender breakdown for PFA employees Recruitment Loyalty 80 80 2011 2010 200 9 in per cent Faithfulness 79 79 Number of employees 124 129 85 3 1/12 2011 3 1/12 2010 3 1/12 200 9 Commitment 81 80 Women 51.3 53.3 54.8 The number of employees remains stable No survey was carried out in 200 9. Men 48.7 46.7 45.2 Staff losses 2011 2010 200 9 Gender breakdown for managers divided over Number of staff lost 147 99 179 3 levels In figures The difference between the number of staff lost 3 1/12 2011 3 1/12 2010 3 1/12 200 9 Men Women Men Women Men Women and the number recruited is not fully covered by Level 1 the increase in the total number of employees. 11 3 11 3 6 1 Directors This may be due to the fact that retirements Level 2 Managers 27 15 30 13 23 9 are not included in the number of employees Level 3 who have left. 49 25 44 27 27 21 Executives In per cent Sickness absence 3 1/12 2011 3 1/12 2010 3 1/12 200 9 In per cent Men Women Men Women Men Women 2011 2010 200 9 Level 1 Sickness absence 3.3 3.5 3.8 79 21 79 21 86 14 Directors Level 2 64 36 67 33 72 28 Calculated as the number of working days per Managers Level 3 66 34 63 37 57 43 year less 30 days holiday/public holidays multiExecutives plied by the absence percentage. Level 1 is the group of directors, level 2 comprises the manager’s group, and level 3 are executives at PFA. PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 30 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 2011 SUMMARY NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ELECTRICITY AND DISTRICT HEATING FLIGHTS IN THE PFA GROUP SUNDKROGSGADE 4 Total CO 2 emissions for the PFA Group Average number of employees CO 2 emissions from use of electricity No calculations for CO 2 emissions from flights 2011 2010 200 9 (PFA Group) CO2 per were carried out as airlines themselves calcukWh g CO2/kWh Tonnes CO2 CO 2 emissions in employee 2,111 2,13 8 2,404 2011 2010 200 9 late and submit these. total (tonnes) 2011 1,984,878 448 889 0.74 Employees 1,202 1,189 1,205 CO 2 emissions per 2010 2,008,168 448 900 0.75 1.78 1.80 2.00 employee (tonnes) CO 2 emissions from flights 200 9 2,274,555 484 1,101 0.93 The number of employees remains stable. CO2 *the figure “g CO 2 /kWh” is supplied by DONG Energy Persons Trips Km travelled CO2 per trip The effects of one element of the activities to (tonnes) 2011 157 661 605,03 6 78 0.12 ton reduce CO 2 emissions, implemented at the end CO 2 emissions from electricity use are at the 2010 79 43 6 570,769 73 0.17 ton of 2011, will only be felt in full in 2012. same level as 2010. The effects of one element 200 9 84 3 97 528,164 69 0.17 ton of the activities to reduce CO 2 emissions, imple*Data for flights supplied by from Vejle Rejser 2011 CO 2 emissions percentage distribution mented at the end of 2011, will only be felt in Diesel cars full in 2012. In 2011, CO 2 from flights increased by 7 per 34 cent, while CO 2 per trip fell. 42 CO 2 emissions from use of district heating Electricity Tonnes kWh g CO2/kWh CO2 -emissions/m2 CO2 2011 2,078,281 132 274 11,760 g 2010 2,262,662 132 299 12,803 g 200 9 2,302,286 132 304 13,027 g 7 *the figure “g CO 2 /kWh” is supplied by Copenhagen’s Energi A/S 4 13 (kWh is adjusted per degree day cf. DMI) District heating Petrol CO 2 emissions from use of district heating fell cars by 8 per cent from 2010 to 2011. Flights PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 31 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 2011 Total CO 2 emissions and CO2 savings from driving DRIVING CO2 USE OF WASTE No. of cars Litres used g CO2/l (tonnes) 2011 155 5.61 869 47.0 2010 153 5.66 866 3 6.0 CO 2 emissions from driving (petrol cars) 200 9 160 5.82 930 2 1.7 Amounts in kg 2011 2010 CO2 Inflammable waste (comp) 158,330 141,220 * CO 2 /savings are expressed as how much CO 2 is saved No. of cars Litres used g CO2/l (tonnes) by switching from petrol cars to diesel cars. Confidential papers recycled 45,3 80 42,158 2011 14 65,800 2,272 148 Glass/bottles 180 390 2010 45 13 9,115 2,272 3 16 The total number of cars has increased and for Cardboard for recycling (16 m3) 13,410 12,890 200 9 95 251,103 2,272 570 this reason CO 2 emissions for driving in total Waste for sorting building waste 42,980 32,500 *the figure “g CO 2 /l ” is supplied by The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative has also increased. Total amount of waste 260,260 229,158 There has been a substantial decline in the 7,751 km were travelled by PFA in 2011, in which The total amount of waste has increased by 12 number of petrol-driven cars. period the taxi company, through the purchase per cent between 2010 and 2011. of quotas, neutralised CO 2 emissions of 1,03 5 CO 2 emissions from driving (diesel cars) kg CO 2. CO2 No. of cars Litres used g CO2/l (tonnes) 2011 141 268,823 2,676 719 2010 108 20 5,614 2,676 550 200 9 65 13 4,517 2,676 3 60 *the figure “g CO 2 /l ” is supplied by The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiativ. The number of diesel cars is increasing. PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 32 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 2011 PAPER CO2 -reduction SCOPE SUMMARY CO 2 emissions from use of paper Total CO 2 reduction PFA Group Total CO 2 emissions PFA Group CO2 -reduction CO2 -reduction (tonnes) Sundkrogsgade 4 2011 2011 2010 (tonnes) Paper (tonnes) T CO2/T papir CO2 (tonnes) Scope 1 869 -3 CO 2 Group 2,111 2,13 8 27 2011 532 0.78 415 Scope 2 1,164 35 *The figure CO 2 /t of paper is supplied by Ecoinvent Scope 3 78 -5 Total CO 2 reduction 27 1% Total 2,111 27 CO 2 emissions from use of paper external *Scope 1 = petrol and diesel use In 2011, PFA decreased its CO 2 emissions by *Scope 2 = electricity and district heating use Sundkrogsgade 4 *Scope 3 = flights 1 per cent. Paper (tonnes) T CO2/T papir CO2 (tonnes) 2011 43 8 0.78 3 42 PFA uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocols method *The figure CO 2 /t of paper is supplied by Ecoinvent Distributed total CO 2 reduction PFA Group 2011 2010 CO2 -reduktion (ton) and achieved CO 2 reductions in scopes. Electricity 889 900 10 District heating 274 299 24 Flights 78 73 -5 Petrol cars 149 3 16 167 Diesel cars 719 550 -169 Total 2,111 2,138 27 The reduction in CO 2 is primarily due to less use of district heating and electricity. PFA · CSR CSR-Rapport report 2011 april 2011 33
