CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 / 2012 2 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Feedback on this report is encouraged and can be directed to Alternatively, if you would like to discuss our activities or Irish enquiries: Sinead Nolan us via the following address: have a country specific question please contact: sinead.nolan@ie.rsagroup.com corporate.responsibility@gcc.rsagroup.com Group wide enquiries: James Wallace or Shafna Chowdhury Italian enquiries: Barbara Larizza james.wallace@gcc.rsagroup.com barbara.larizza@it.rsagroup.com For further information on our approach to corporate shafna.chowdhury@gcc.rsagroup.com Asia & Middle East enquiries: Matthew Lee responsibility, including policies, please visit: UK enquiries: Paul Pritchard matthew.lee@hk.rsagroup.com http://www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/corporate-responsibility paul.pritchard@uk.rsagroup.com Latin American enquiries: Gisella Erazo UK charitable enquiries: Olivia Thrasivoulou gisella.erazo@laro.rsagroup.com olivia.thrasivoulou@uk.rsagroup.com Scandinavian enquiries: Dorte Eckhoff dec@codan.dk RSA Canada enquiries: Sarah Kennedy sarah.kennedy@rsagroup.ca Johnson (Canada) enquiries: Melissa Watton mwatton@johnson.ca Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 3 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION ENVIRONMENT 4 CEO overview 44 Our environmental performance 7 Our business 52 WWF Partnership 11 Our approach 54 The Arctic challenge 12 CR governance and management SUPPLIERS 16 Materiality 58 Responsible procurement 18 Our value to society REPORTING CUSTOMERS 60 Scope and approach 26 Brilliant service 62 Environmental data tables COMMUNITY 64 Data trends 2008-2011 30 Supporting local communities 66 GRI Index 32 Secondments 72 Independent assurance statement and commentary 35 Our community work around the world EMPLOYEES 37 High standards 38 Employee engagement 4 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 CEO INTRODUCTION In 2011 we delivered a strong performance We responded to severe weather events in Thailand, insurance company’ in the Gallup database and rank in in tough economic and market conditions. Oman and the Baltics, as well as the Slave Lake the top three companies globally in Financial Services. wildfire, the second most costly catastrophe in Premiums rose by 9% during a record year Behaving responsibly begins at home with our Canada’s history. Our business helped customers of natural catastrophes and a challenging employees and we work hard to ensure this recover from these events as well as flooding in environment for investment yields. extends to how we interact with people, many locations around the world, including Ireland, communities and the environment in which we Denmark and Jeddah. operate. We endorse the principles of the UN I am proud of how our staff handled these events. Global Compact and are committed to integrating As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping people the principles in the UN Declaration of Human and businesses recover when the worst happens. Rights and the International Labour Organization Helping customers get their lives back on track is core labour standards. We are active in the UN our first priority. Environment Programme Finance Initiative. Excellent customer service is a major focus across Our approach to Corporate Responsibility (CR) all our regions. In 2011 we laid the groundwork for remains practical and focused on three key themes: the launch of a global customer engagement survey • The environment Our partnership with WWF which will give us a consistent view of how our continued to focus on key business relevant issues. customers view us in approximately 30 countries As a leading marine insurer we are a member across the globe. of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI), an Having engaged employees is vital for customer alliance of global companies and NGOs service and I am delighted that we have achieved working to deliver a vision of a sustainable our ambitious target (set in 2008) to achieve upper industry. Our Global Renewable Energy business quartile performance in the Gallup engagement is a leading insurer of wind, solar and other lowsurvey. We are now also the world’s ‘most engaged carbon technologies and we published research Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 5 Insurance plays a vital role in our economy and society. Our CR programme aims to support the growth of our business, engage our employees and give something back to our communities. with WWF on how to overcome the barriers A highlight of 2011 was the launch of our Arctic CR aligns with our core business it creates a longpreventing the widespread adoption of renewable Challenge with WWF. It encouraged more than term sustainable programme and one where we are energy. In our own operations we have increased 60% of our employees to actively participate in able to lend our expertise as insurers. As it grows the use of renewable energy, improved energy reducing their carbon footprint, develop the best increasingly important for business to be more efficiency in our offices and are building a strong business green idea and fundraise for WWF or responsible, I am confident that RSA will continue environmental culture among our employees; other green charities. The campaign increased to demonstrate the vital role insurance can play in awareness of our partnership with WWF and the a more sustainable society. • Safety In 2011, we extended our work on road role insurers can play in combating climate change. safety around the world. This included a new eyesight campaign in the UK, encouraging stronger We will continue to deliver against our strategy in regulation around eyesight tests for driving licence 2012. We will expand our road safety programme renewals. Our Scandinavian programme continued to Bahrain and Singapore, launch a Group-wide to grow with more than 170,000 high visibility Green Network of environmental champions and Simon Lee vests and reflectors being handed out in the winter continue to introduce products with environmental Group CEO months to protect members of the public; and benefits. We achieved our target to reduce the amount of carbon in relation to our net written • Social inclusion We launched a Global Charitable premium by 40% this year. The target will be Programme in 2011 to support employees and local extended to a 50% reduction to be achieved by communities. Employees anywhere within RSA can 2020, set against 2006 baselines. now apply for matched funding, a charitable grant, or up to a three month charitable secondment. Insurance plays a vital role in our economy and The programme aims to help improve employee society. Our CR programme aims to support the engagement even further, support local community growth of our business, engage our employees and organisations and promote RSA in the community. give something back to our communities. By ensuring 6 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Road Safety As a leading motor insurer we are committed to helping improve safety on the roads. Our long running reflector programmes in Scandinavia, Lithuania and Estonia have distributed more than 65,000 high visibility vests to protect people commuting to and from school and work. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 7 NET WRITTEN PREMIUMS (£m) 8,138 OUR BUSINESS 5,837 6,462 6,737 7,455 Overseas UK RSA is a leading general insurer, operating in 33 countries and providing products 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 +9% Growth and services in over 140 countries. RSA is a DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR (p) focused general insurer. Our products include: • Commercial insurance services for businesses 9.16 8.82 (e.g. property, motor, marine and energy generation); 8.25 7.71 7.01 • Personal insurance products (e.g. household, motor and pet insurance) sold directly to consumers; and • Personal insurance sold to consumers through intermediaries such as insurance brokers and agents. From 1 January 2012, the Group was restructured into four regions: Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Western Europe, which includes Ireland and Italy, and Emerging 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 + 4% Growth Markets, which is unchanged. The 2011 financial results COMBINED OPERATING RATIO (%) are prepared according to the previous structure: UK, International and Emerging Markets. 96.4 94.9 94.5 94.6 94.9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 94.9 % 1.5pt improvement 8 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 UK & WESTERN EUROPE EMERGING MARKETS 45%* 14%* NWP £3,701m NWP £1,103m Personal 48% Personal 42% Commercial 52% Commercial 58% UK AND WESTERN EUROPE EMERGING MARKETS Latin America • In the UK, we operate as RSA through intermediaries • Our main focus is on Large and Complex risks, • Number 1 general insurer in Chile. and as MORE TH>N in the Direct market. Motor, Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), • The largest private insurer in Uruguay. Marine and Affinity. • In Ireland, we operate as RSA through intermediaries • A leading Marine insurer in Brazil. and as 123.ie in the Direct market. • In Latin America, we operate as RSA in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Central and Eastern Europe • Our Italian operation is purely intermediated, Uruguay and the Dutch Caribbean. • Number 1 general insurer across the Baltics. operating as RSA through brokers and non-tied agents. • In Central and Eastern Europe, we operate as • A leading Direct writer in Poland, Russia and • We have RSA branded Specialty operations in Lietuvos Draudimas in Lithuania, as Balta in the Czech Republic. Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain Latvia, as RSA in Estonia, as Link4 in Poland, and Italy. Asia and the Middle East as InTouch in Russia and as Direct Pojišt’ovna • Largest Commercial lines insurer in the UK. in the Czech Republic. • A leading international insurer in the Middle East and number 2 insurer in Oman. • 4th largest UK Personal lines insurer overall, 4th in • In Asia and the Middle East, we operate as Home, 5th in Motor and a market leader in Pet. RSA in China, Hong Kong, Singapore, UAE and • In Asia, we have Commercial lines hubs in Hong Bahrain and we operate as Al Alamiya in Saudi Kong, Singapore and mainland China. • 2nd largest general insurer and a leading Direct Arabia and as Al Ahlia in Oman. • Royal Sundaram, our associate in India, is the 4th insurer through 123.ie in Ireland. fastest growing private insurer. • Small operation in Italy predominantly focused on Motor. *Of total 2011 Group NWP Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 9 SCANDINAVIA CANADA 23%* 18%* NWP £1,824m NWP £1,483m Personal 54% Personal 68% Commercial 46% Commercial 32% SCANDINAVIA CANADA UK & WESTERN EUROPE • We operate as Codan in Denmark and Norway • We distribute products through intermediaries and as Trygg-Hansa in Sweden. under the RSA brand. Our Direct offering EMERGING MARKETS is Johnson. • We have a multi-channel distribution model, selling our products through call centres, • Our affiliated broker network, Noraxis, is a top 5 SCANDINAVIA intermediaries and affinity partners. Canadian broker. CANADA • The 3rd largest insurer in Denmark and Sweden • In January 2011, we completed the acquisition of with a growing business in Norway. GCAN, a leading Mid-Market, Large and Specialty Commercial insurer. • Leading positions in Renewable Energy, Personal Accident and Marine. • 3rd largest general insurer overall, up from number 10 in 2005. • 2nd largest Affinity writer through Johnson. • A leading Marine insurer. 10 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 RSA and WWF Partnership We are working with WWF to investigate emerging environmental risks and explore how the insurance industry can respond to the opportunities and challenges of climate change. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 11 OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to doing the right thing A major element of our strategy is our partnership Key CR developments in 2011 were: as individuals and as a company. We seek with the environmental NGO WWF, launched in • Expanding our work on road safety in the UK 2009 in the UK, Canada, Sweden, Denmark and to manage our business in a responsible and other countries (see page 19); China. We are supporting conservation projects and ethical manner, to make a positive relevant to our business, developing new products • Developing a global employee engagement impact on the environment and support which respond to the risks of environmental change, campaign with WWF to raise awareness of the the communities in which we operate. as well as engaging internally and externally to risks of climate change (see page 54); increase awareness of environmental issues. The Our strategy • Launching a global matched funding, charitable partnership focuses on three relevant environmental We focus on three broad themes that we consider awards and secondment programme (see page 32); issues: flooding and water, climate change and the are important to our business, that differentiate us and marine environment. Examples of our work with from our competitors and where we believe we can WWF are included throughout the report. • Achieving our target to reduce gross tonnes CO2 make a significant contribution: safety, inclusion and per £m net written premiums (NWP) by 2020 the environment. (against 2006 levels) nine years early. External recognition in 2011 Achieved Platinum Named in the Received Awarded Prime Named Best Granted Caring Ranked Bronze in the status in Business in the Super Sector Sunday Times Status by Oekom Workplace in Company status for Dow Jones Sustainability Community’s CR Index; Leaders category Best Green Research; Lithuania by the ninth year running by Investor Index; in FTSE4Good Companies Ministry of the the Hong Kong Council Index; Award; Economy; of Social Service. 12 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 CR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT CR policy Risk management Overall responsibility for CR lies with The Group CR policy applies to all operations, Corporate responsibility is fully embedded in the the Group CEO Simon Lee. The Board including wholly or majority-owned subsidiaries and Group’s Risk Framework which assesses emerging associated companies where RSA has management risks across the entire business and forms part of our routinely discusses CR issues affecting the control. The policy sets out commitments to: core management processes. Environmental, social Group and conducts an annual review of and governance risks are prioritised on the likely performance and future strategy. • Improve our environmental performance financial and operational impact on the Group, such reducing our direct and indirect impacts; The Group Executive Committee acts as the as damage to our reputation, non-compliance with CR Steering Committee, supported by a Group • Support employees who want to contribute legislation and poor relationships with stakeholders, CR team. The Steering Committee meets twice a to their communities; and form part of our wider risk register. year to oversee development, implementation and • Uphold Human Rights in our operations and The main CR risks identified in 2011 were: progress of the CR strategy and monitor compliance supply chain; with our global CR, Environmental, Human Rights • Ensuring compliance with the UK Carbon and Community policies. It provides a common • Provide excellent customer service and products Reduction Commitment (CRC) Energy reference point for regional businesses, where CR that contribute to society; Efficiency Scheme; managers or coordinators are in place in all operating • Work with suppliers to improve their social and • A record year of extreme weather events countries. Country and site-based community and environmental impacts; and disasters; environment committees determine and respond • Engage with relevant stakeholders, including our • Political upheaval in the Middle East; to local priorities. peers and business partners, and contribute to CR targets are included in the objectives for all • Legislation including Solvency II capital public policy debates to encourage more Group CR Committee executives. All countries are requirements for insurers; and responsible behaviour; required to comply with Group CR, Human Rights, • Changes to the UK Corporate Governance • Regularly review our CR strategy, approach and Environmental and Community policies. Individual Code aimed at promoting greater gender performance with the Group Executive country operations set CR targets, in line with local diversity at board level. Committee and Board; and market conditions, which are then assessed by the Group CR function. See our Annual Report for • Provide an annual, independently verified report coverage of corporate governance. of our CR performance. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 13 Corporate responsibility is fully embedded in the Group’s Risk Framework which assesses emerging risks across the entire business and forms part of our core management processes. We are responding to these issues by: Asset Management Committee, which oversees Reinsurance is normally bought on a catastrophe our investment strategy. basis providing protection against losses from • RSA achieved the CRC Energy Efficiency individual catastrophic events. RSA also buys Scheme certification in 2011 and our submission Insurance risk reinsurance on an aggregate basis where appropriate, was internally audited before submission to the The insurance industry also faces specific social and which protects us from losses arising from the many regulators; environmental risks related to existing and emerging smaller, more frequent events which could result • We responded to incidents around the world issues such as climate change. These risks also from climate change. This approach helps us in 2011 including flooding in Thailand, Denmark present opportunities to develop products that minimise losses to our business in the event of and Ireland. Our emergency response and respond to the changing needs of customers. extreme weather conditions. claims handling teams ensure we reach affected We manage exposure to these risks by: customers promptly with advice and support; Investments • Developing technical expertise in our Premiums from customers are invested in low risk • We held additional high-risk country reviews to underwriting and claims teams; investments to ensure capital is available for claims assess fast-changing Human Rights issues and and customers have financial security. The majority ensure our employees were safe; • Pricing products according to the level of risk of our UK equity investments are managed by involved using evidence based modelling; • We are an early adopter of Solvency II and are F&C Asset Management. F&C applies a responsible working with regulators to pilot the legislation; and • Regularly reviewing our risk models to identify engagement overlay to RSA equity funds. F&C exposures to new and emerging risks and ensure has one of the largest Governance and Socially • Improving gender diversity remains a focus for these are priced correctly; Responsible Investment teams in Europe, enabling us and we are committed to improving female it to follow a policy of active engagement across its representation at all levels through support, • Developing and shaping products that encourage more responsible behaviour and appeal to portfolios on environmental, social and governance training and awareness. issues. In 2011, F&C engaged with 29 companies previously underserved areas of the market; A Non-Executive Director, Noël Harwerth, chairs held in our portfolios on these issues. the Board Risk Committee, which meets at least • Working with customers, civil society and quarterly. It comprises the Group CEO, other governments to raise awareness of the steps members of executive management and one other people can take to reduce their risk; and Non-Executive Director. The Board Risk Committee • Buying reinsurance to protect against claims. sets the risk limits to be observed by the Global 14 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Human rights As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact we are committed to eliminating Stakeholder Group Examples of engagement in 2011 discrimination and protecting Human Rights internally and in our immediate sphere of influence. Customers We raise awareness of our environmental products and services through customer communications We regularly review all countries to ensure they including websites and policy documents. Customers in approximately 30 countries responded to our first comply with our Human Rights policy and identify Global Customer Engagement survey that sought feedback on our service levels. those which may pose a major risk to our employees or reputation. Our Human Rights policy Communities We operate community-based road safety campaigns in Asia, the Baltics, Chile, the Middle East, Scandinavia ensures we actively monitor requests for insurance and the UK. Local charitable committees engage with communities to identify partners and channel support. in high risk countries. We have identified no risk of child or forced labour in any of our operations due Employees Our Arctic Challenge competition aimed to raise employees’ awareness of the risks of climate change. to the nature of our business, meaning that this type As part of this, employees were encouraged to consider how RSA can reduce its environmental impact. of abuse is very unlikely. Our CR strategy was also discussed at our annual Employee Consultative Forum. Stakeholder engagement Understanding risks, and how best to respond to Investors We engaged directly with major investors on CR issues and responded to investor surveys including them, benefits from engagement with a wide group Carbon Disclosure Project, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, Oekom and Vigeo. of organisations and individuals. This also helps improve other people’s understanding of our NGOs Our three year partnership with WWF continues and we sought NGO feedback on our approach approach and knowledge of the insurance industry. through our opinion leader survey. We are also a member of Forum for the Future who conduct an We gather feedback on our approach and annual materiality review for us. performance through a wide range of internal and external channels including: Suppliers We organised supplier workshops in the UK and Scandinavia to identify ways we can work together to reduce the environmental impact of our supply chain. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 15 Opinion leader survey We also collaborate with a range of industry In 2011, we commissioned research to gather Building trust and confidence in the industry also organisations and internationally agreed standards, perceptions on the insurance industry from 66 remained a priority issue. Key to tackling this is including:: external stakeholders including investors, insurance ensuring we meet customers’ expectations and brokers, consumer bodies, NGOs and other offer consistently excellent levels of customer • The Association of British Insurers (ABI); opinion leaders. We asked participants to prioritise service. In 2011, we organised our first global • The ClimateWise Initiative; what they considered to be the most important customer engagement survey and established a issues facing the industry. The top three were: new Group-wide customer service division to • The Chartered Institute of Purchasing and ensure we continue to maintain our high standards. Supply’s Financial Services Purchasing Forum CR • Building transparent relationships with customers working group; and brokers; Public policy • The Sustainable Shipping Initiative; • Building trust and confidence in the insurance We take part in public policy debates on issues industry; and relevant to our business, including through industry • The United Nations Global Compact; and bodies such as the Association of British Insurers • Identifying, mitigating and managing environmental and the Confederation of British Industry. In our • The United Nations Environment Programme impacts and climate change. engagement with policymakers we aim to improve Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI) Insurance Working Group, including participation in the working We also asked participants to identify what they their understanding of the key issues facing our group on the Principles for Sustainable Insurance. thought would be the most important issues facing business and make sure the insurance industry the insurance industry in ten years’ time. Climate can continue to play a valuable role in society change and other environmental risks were and the economy. identified by two-thirds of respondents, making this We always comply with local laws and with our the highest ranking long-term issue for the second Public Affairs Policy. We do not make political consecutive year. Sustaining profitability emerged as contributions and we receive no forms of financial a top three issue having been identified by nearly assistance from governments. half of respondents. 16 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 MATERIALITY Every year we compile a risk matrix to Issues being flagged in any of the processes are Our 2011 materiality assessment confirmed that help determine the material issues for assessed against: financial and social inclusion, flood risks associated with climate change, safety and disasters remain key our CR strategy and reporting. • Significance to RSA (including importance to issues for us. We are tackling these through our Issues are assessed through a variety of channels. stakeholders); strategic focus on safety, the environment, social These include our group risk framework, inclusion (see page 19) and community activities • Alignment to our core business; and stakeholder engagement process, external (see page 30). Rising up the agenda this year are benchmarking, investor assessments, sustainability • Our ability to influence. issues concerning the economy and public spending. ratings and the employee CR survey, as well as a While we have little control over these, they are materiality review by Forum for the Future. important considerations for the company as they will affect the environment in which we operate. Economic situation Social inclusion Flooding / Climate High priority Safety STAKEHOLDER VIEWS Disasters Ageing populations Investments Tranparency Customer service Medium priority Employee wellbeing Employee training Obesity Urbanisation Corruption Product innovation Supply chain Water scarcity Emerging markets Ecosystem decline Diversity Low priority New technology Direct environmental impact Resource prices Energy security Business ethics Limited influence or no ability Able to influence or encourage mitigation Direct control or ability to mitigate OUR ABILITY TO INFLUENCE Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 17 Work in the community Employee volunteering is a key part of our community strategy. On the hottest day of 2011, our UK Underwriting and Claims team spent the day painting and gardening at Montem Primary School, London. 18 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY RSA makes a fundamental contribution to society, and the economy, by employing Creation of Value 2011 £’m 2010 £’m approximately 23,000 people and making Net earned premiums 7,856 7,179 £310m in tax payments (see the table Net invested return 745 629 for details). Other operating income 134 116 Beyond this direct contribution, our industry is vital Net claims and benefits (5,213) (4,884) for thriving communities and businesses, providing Underwriting, policy acquisition and other costs (1, 674) (1.392) products that protect individuals and companies Additional gains, losses and other movement (96) 172 against a wide range of risks. We help people and organisations recover when the worst happens, Total 1,752 1,820 whether that is a relatively small localised incident Distribution of Wealth 2011 £’m 2010 £’m such as a car accident or a major disaster such as an Employees 982 939 earthquake or flooding. The confidence and peace Corporate responsibility 3 3 of mind that insurance provides is as important as the financial protection confidence for people to Government (taxes and social security) 310 233 travel, buy a home, ship cargo or construct an office. Servicing of finance 117 118 We can also play a part by developing products and Shareholders (dividend and minority interest) 305 257 services which respond to climate change and other Retained for investment 35 270 environmental risks, improve safety on the roads, in Total 1,752 1,820 homes and at work and which support social inclusion. Opening shareholders' funds 3,766 3,491 Retained (above) 35 270 Closing shareholders' funds 3,801 3,761 Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 19 ROAD SAFETY We operate community-based road safety campaigns around the world Safety The insurance business is about protecting people As a leading motor insurer we are committed to Night time visibility on the roads is an issue for against risk. Individuals and businesses buy insurance helping improve safety on the roads. We do this many of our markets, particularly in Northern to help them when things go wrong but it is in all through products which provide discounts for Europe during winter. Our long running reflector our interests to keep people, property and safer driving and through specific programmes to programmes in Scandinavia, Lithuania and Estonia possessions safe. encourage safety awareness among drivers and have distributed more than 65,000 high visibility vests other road users. to protect people commuting to and from school Insurance products and services can encourage and work in the dark. In 2011, we extended this to customers to adopt safer behaviours and help to For example, in the UK, we published research on the UK, distributing vests to cyclists in Manchester and identify risks so they can be prevented or mitigated. the dangers of driving with poor eyesight and called Peterborough. Through our pet insurance business We help customers manage risks with targeted for improved sight tests for drivers. The research we also helped dog owners keep their pets visible safety advice through policy documents and we found that drivers with blurred vision struggle to at night on the road with reflective coats. provide additional information for customers stay in lane and keep a consistent speed as well as through our network of brokers, websites and the finding it difficult to read road signs. The strain also media. In some cases we provide people with safety increases the risk of fatigue. Through a partnership advice about specific risks such as floods and storms with the optician chain Specsavers we make it easier via services like SMS messaging. In Canada, we also for people to obtain eye health services and glasses. conduct safety surveys to advise customers how to In Scandinavia and the UK we provide driver training protect their homes from risks such as theft and fire. and certification schemes for commercial customers. For commercial customers, our Global Consulting Our approach extends to road safety campaigns, group conducts site visits to assess the risks they face such as MORE TH>N in the UK, which works with and review their contingency plans. The Risk Managed the Children’s Safety Education Foundation to team works with large companies to develop bespoke provide safety advice in 40 schools each year. insurance products and identify risk management We will expand this programme to Bahrain and procedures ranging from routine maintenance to Singapore in 2012. management of hazardous substances. 20 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 R BIO WE RENEWABLE PO EN GY SOLA ER ENERGY R HYD For more information on Renewable Energy visit RO D PO N I www.specialty-rsagroup.com WE W R Risk mapping Environment Risks, especially from severe weather, are often As an insurer, any change in the intensity or (SSI), an alliance of global companies and NGOs location-specific. Our geographical assessment tool frequency of extreme weather conditions can founded by WWF and the Forum for the Future. SSI maps factors such as flood plains, unstable ground have a huge impact on our business and customers. is working towards realising the Vision 2040 which conditions and crime to identify levels of risk in We aim to lead our industry in responding to was agreed in 2011. The Vision sees an innovative, individual localities. This helps to set premiums environmental change, highlighting the challenges accountable industry using a diverse mix of energy so customers in safer areas do not overpay and it and opportunities, developing relevant products sources efficiently, providing safe, healthy and secure means we can give vulnerable customers advice on and services and improving the environmental work environments and contributing to the how to protect themselves. These tools also help performance of our operations. responsible governance of the oceans. customers if there is a major incident such as an Through our major partnership with WWF, we Another focus area is renewable energy. Our Global earthquake or flood. Our loss adjusters can quickly are raising awareness of environmental risks with Renewable Energy business is a leading insurer of wind, see which customers are likely to have been employees, customers and the business community. solar and other technologies which make a crucial affected and can contact them before they call us. Examples of our joint activities are shown throughout contribution to meeting energy demand and We are expanding the use of risk mapping to this report. They include research on environmental supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. cover new markets. In 2011, for example, we risks, water management, renewable energy and Our partnership with WWF is investigating how the worked with the national Insurers Association in the awareness-raising activity such as the Arctic Challenge industry can help remove the barriers facing renewable Czech Republic to introduce INTERMAP, a flood employee competition (see page 54). For more energy generation. In 2011, we published ‘Insurance risk mapping tool. In Columbia, our underwriting information see our joint website and Renewable Energy’ which looks at the issues and technical teams developed an internal www.wwfrsapartners.com preventing the widespread adoption of renewable Geographical Information System to map flood energy. The report outlines how government, insurers, The marine environment is a strong focus, reflecting hazards during the rainy season. manufacturers, utility companies, financial institutions, our role as one of the world’s leading marine insurers. environmental organisations and civil society can RSA is a member of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative work to overcome these challenges. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 21 Road safety in schools In the UK, MORE TH>N works with the Children’s Safety Education Foundation to provide road safety advice in 40 schools during 2011. 22 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Demonstrating natural flood defences in East London In 2011, we completed the phase 1 construction of an innovative flood alleviation and river restoration project at Mayesbrook Park in East London. The project aims to show how natural flood management techniques can reduce the risk of flooding in towns and cities across the UK and beyond. The concrete banks of the Mayes Brook a small stream that runs through the park are being replaced with natural banks and a one hectare flood plain to naturally store floodwater and protect local homes from flooding. Up to six ponds are being excavated which will collect rainwater runoff from the roof of a training centre being constructed for the Olympics. Some of the stored water will be absorbed into the ground with the rest channelled into the brook. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 23 We use our underwriting and risk management expertise directly to help clients seize environmental opportunities and manage their risks. We use our underwriting and risk management Customers can upgrade to more flood resistant and We have increased the use of renewable energy, expertise directly to help clients seize environmental energy efficient building materials for an additional improved energy efficiency in our offices (see page 44) opportunities and manage their risks. Examples include cost in the event of a claim. The policy builds on and are building a strong environmental culture insurance to cover the costs of accidental damage our Greener Home Endorsement policy in among our employees. Our Arctic Challenge, at sites protected under EU law, known as Natura Canada that gives customers the option to replace organised in cooperation with the WWF, challenged 2000 sites. Products such as these are increasingly damaged property with more environmentally employees around the world to reduce their carbon important in helping customers respond to legislation, friendly alternatives. footprint, raise money for charity and come up with including the European Union Environmental Liability ideas to reduce RSA’s environmental impact. The Elsewhere, Codan customers can benefit from a Directive. Operating on the ‘polluter pays’ principle, winning teams travelled with WWF to the Arctic to new energy efficient window replacement scheme, companies are responsible for the costs of remedying experience, first hand, the impacts of climate change. helping them to save energy and reduce their CO2 environmental damage that they have caused to emissions. Damaged windows are replaced with natural resources such as flora, fauna and habitats. energy efficient alternatives and customers can get a Working with WWF, we are also developing product free energy report showing how much energy they features that encourage customers to reduce their can save by replacing all their windows with energy impact on the environment. We already provide efficient alternatives. On average, customers can discounts for fuel-efficient vehicles and in 2011 save between £100 and £700 per year and reduce MORE TH>N launched a green home insurance their CO2 emissions by up to 1.5 tonnes per year. policy to help encourage customers to reduce their While the biggest contribution we can make is environmental impacts and address environmental through our business and our external activities, we considerations during the claims handling process. must also manage our own operations responsibly. 24 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Global charity secondments In 2011, we launched a global charitable secondment programme. Twenty four employees from across the Group were selected to spend between one week and three months working at a charity of their choice. Introduction Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 25 2011 In 2011 we launched a global charitable secondment programme with twenty four individuals working with charities around the world Social inclusion Some customers and markets call for a tailored Emerging markets present opportunities to extend matched funding programme. Recognising the value approach that meets the needs of particular groups insurance to previously excluded or underserved our employees can bring to charitable organisations, in and we develop products that respond to those groups. Micro insurance schemes open up 2011 we also launched a global charitable secondment needs. This is especially important for customers possibilities for people with very low incomes to programme giving employees the opportunity to who have found mainstream products unsuitable obtain protection against damage to their homes spend up to three months working for a charity of or unavailable. and their crops. These people often benefit most their choice (see page 32). from the protection insurance offers. We work with We are major insurers of social housing in the UK, government bodies and intermediary organisations and provide micro insurance services for low such as BASIX in India to meet their needs. income customers in Emerging Markets. Our community and employee volunteering Tenants in social housing tend to be on lower programmes provide financial contributions along incomes and may find it difficult to pay premiums with practical skills to foster social inclusion. We can in the usual way. Our low-cost product in the UK help to address the root causes of many claims by allows weekly premiums, payable in cash, if the focusing on poverty alleviation, education and crime customer does not have a bank account. It is also reduction. During 2011 we extended charitable possible to pay the premium as part of the rent, benefits to all employees in RSA. with the landlord passing the insurance element to us. These innovations help to make us one of the We encourage employees across the Group to biggest insurers of social housing in the UK, serving support disadvantaged groups through our global 170 housing associations. 26 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Breaking down the barriers to insurance “A lack of access to insurance is a significant factor in financial exclusion in the UK almost half of low-income households have no home contents insurance. People on CUSTOMERS low incomes often struggle to set up insurance. For example they may not have a bank account and cannot pay through credit/debit card or direct debit.” We sell protection against risk to Greener Home endorsement “Our Tenants Contents Insurance scheme is a home contents policy which aims to be affordable for social individuals and businesses in over 130 We all have a responsibility to protect the housing tenants. We understand the challenges that these countries. People buy our products environment and the growing risks of climate customers face and offer a range of options to help meet directly but we also sell through brokers change so it is increasingly important that each of their needs. This includes insurance cover for relatively us takes measures to reduce our impacts. In Canada, and other intermediaries. small sums, and no cancellation or mid-term amendment RSA is making these steps a little easier with the fees. We also offer various payment methods and flexible Our main responsibility to customers is to provide introduction of the Greener Homes endorsement. payment schedules which can be weekly, fortnightly, products and services which meet their needs at monthly or annually.” competitive prices and reflect the risks involved. In The Greener Home endorsement gives customers “Offering accessible insurance products continues to be the event of a claim, loss adjusters help customers the opportunity to do something for the environment an important and growing part of RSA’s business. As the assess any damage that has occurred and the work at a marginal cost. For an additional CAN $10 added scheme enters its 16th year we continue to review and that needs to be carried out to repair it. to their insurance premium, RSA Canada customers update it to ensure that it remains affordable to those with Platinum Plus, Comprehensive or Broad who need it the most.” Providing brilliant service is one of our Brand Beliefs Homeshield cover now have the option to replace and a major focus across all our regions. Brilliant damaged items with environmentally-friendly, nonKatie Balme, Schemes Account Manager, UK service is about building trust with our customers by toxic or energy efficient alternatives. delivering what we promise, getting the basics right, making it easy for them to deal with us and doing This means that in the event of a claim, a homeowner the day to day things well. has the option of upgrading to sustainable building materials and appliances. This helps to reduce the environmental impacts of the restoration and can also lead to future energy and carbon savings from energy efficient alternatives. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 27 Our main responsibility to customers is to provide products and services which meet Customers their needs at competitive prices and reflect the risks involved. RSA Canada has received positive feedback from In 2011, we launched our Customer & Brilliant Service • Improvements, following feedback with brokers, brokers, with one requesting a similar benefit with programme to improve customer satisfaction levels led to a 5% increase in personal lines sales in other RSA Canada products. While the endorsement across the Group by embedding a more customerIreland; is relatively new, success comes from being able orientated culture and creating a more consistent • In the UK we were awarded the Insurance Times to deliver a financially viable product which gives customer experience. We conducted our first Groupaward for Claims Initiative of the Year for our customers the option to reduce their impacts in wide Customer Engagement survey covering 30 Home Claims Customer Tracker. When dealing a simple way. countries to measure our baseline performance. with home claims there are a number of external We will use the scores to establish a common set of Customer satisfaction suppliers that we deal with to keep customers indicators to measure customer satisfaction levels in Getting clear, actionable customer feedback is moving, from booking hotels for customers to our businesses. Understanding these, and measuring essential for delivering on this commitment. We stay in, right through to getting the decorators in. them over time, will help compare performance and conduct surveys throughout the claims process to The tracker shows us where customers are on develop plans to improve target areas. understand how we can improve our service levels. this journey and helps us to offer a seamless Also in 2011 we launched a Group-wide Customer service; and Feedback shows that customers are increasingly Champion Network to share examples of best looking for a more personalised service, such as our • In Latvia, we introduced an online claims practice. For example, in the UK we produced a personal customer managers and dedicated claims application platform which allows customers to ‘brilliant service’ map which sets out guidelines to managers in the UK. Other important issues include upload and download documents 24 hours a improve customer satisfaction levels, such as being a reliable and consistent claims experience, dealing day, reducing the time it takes for us to respond. clear on what customers want. with complaints the first time and the length of time Ninety three percent of customers using the taken settling a claim. Some examples of excellent customer service from service found it “very easy” to use. across our businesses last year include: 28 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Training is mandatory for UK employees so everyone knows how to identify and handle a complaint or refer it to the most appropriate person. Treating customers fairly Treating customers fairly (TCF) is a key part of very seriously and have robust processes in place to customer's favour, putting us ahead of the general delivering excellent service, as well as being a ensure they are handled fairly and in a timely manner. insurance industry average of 48%. Over a third of regulatory requirement in the UK. It relies on the decisions overturned were cases where the Training is mandatory for UK employees so everyone having the right culture in place and equipping Ombudsmen agreed with our decision but we knows how to identify and handle a complaint or people with the skills to deliver brilliant service were required to make additional compensation. refer it to the most appropriate person. Since the and do the right thing. beginning of 2010 we have been required by the We use the lessons learnt from all complaints to An excellent service culture is reinforced through UK Financial Services Authority (FSA) to publish amend our processes and improve our customer training, internal communications and recognition of complaints data for our UK operations. service. Following recommendations from the outstanding performance. All UK employees must Ombudsman we amended policy literature to During 2011 we received just over 16,000 complete a TCF training module every year and in help draw customers’ attention to key exclusions complaints in the UK, equivalent to about 0.3% of 2011 92% of employees passed the course. at point of sale. our customers. We upheld 52% of these complaints We also have a network of TCF champions who taking appropriate action to resolve them quickly Full details can be found on our website at: work to ensure continued progress. TCF working and to the customer’s satisfaction. On average, 90% http://www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/aboutus groups monitor progress and the Executive Team of all complaints were resolved within eight weeks /commitments and Board review performance every month. which is the maximum permitted time by the FSA. In the UK, if a customer is not satisfied with the way Dealing with complaints we deal with their complaint they can refer it to Unfortunately, there are times when customers feel the independent complaints body, the Financial we have not met their expectations. If customers are Ombudsman Service (FOS). Just under 970 cases disappointed with our products or service we ensure were referred to the FOS during 2011. Of these, it is easy to raise a concern. We take all complaints 39.5% of our decisions were overturned in the Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 29 Customers Excellent service culture Providing brilliant service is one of our Brand Beliefs and a major focus across all our regions. An excellent service culture is reinforced through training, internal communications and recognition of outstanding performance. 30 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 The RSA global charity secondment programme “My secondment was spent volunteering at a home for abandoned women and children in Goa, India. Day-to-day I COMMUNITY worked with up to five other volunteers to help feed babies and handicapped children, wash mountains of clothes, and bathe those who were too old or disabled to do so themselves.” “Despite the hard work there was always an atmosphere Our global presence means we operate 2012 target: of camaraderie among the volunteers, missionaries and the in diverse communities and cultures. • Launch of new matched funding facility across residents and I looked forward to every single day. My favourite Supporting local communities engages global operations. Double the amount of money times were when the laundry had been hung out to dry on the rooftop, the dishes were clean, people had been bathed, and and motivates employees, strengthens available for matched funding. we had time to sit down and get to know the residents. The our reputation and enables us to better In 2011, we contributed £2.6 million to community women were eager to talk about what they had been through understand the markets we serve. and what they planned to do with their lives, and the children projects, equivalent to 0.42% of pre-tax profits. loved to play and revelled in the attention from the volunteers.” We support projects that align with our CR strategy We launched our global matched funding facility and where our skills and experience can have a that provides employees across the group with “Stepping away from my day-to-day life as Assistant to the UAE lasting impact, focusing on: access to centralised funds, ensuring we can help CEO & Head of the Administration function for the UAE and into a new world gave me an opportunity to reflect on how I • Safety; more people in more places. We match employee approached my professional and personal life. I always knew that donations for registered charities up to a maximum the success of my role is largely based on managing relationships. • Social inclusion; and value of £250 for individuals and up to £1000 for The secondment helped me to appreciate that every individual • Environment. teams of three of more. has their own life story no matter where they are from or what position they are in. Understanding this and appreciating both Employees are an integral part of our community 11 TOTAL DONATIONS 09 10 similarities and individual differences helps to build stronger and strategy. Our volunteering programmes help to £ Restated figures £2.8 MILLION £2.6 MILLION more rewarding relationships.” motivate employees and build valuable skills which £2.4 MILLION Nadia Bangera, PA to UAE CEO & Executive Administration can be used in the workplace. Engaging with local £1.2 MILLION Manager, United Arab Emirates communities is increasingly important in attracting £889,000 Two week’s secondment to Mother Teresa’s Missionaries charity and recruiting the best candidates. We encourage in Goa, India employees to support initiatives that use their skills and experience so that we can have a lasting impact on communities. £653,000 £480,000 £400,000 Over 5,100 employees participated in voluntary £307,000 activities in 2011, giving more than 17,300 hours. £247,000 £180,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £20,000 0 Total company Employee Volunteering Give as Employee gifts donations raised funds you earn Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 31 Community Employee volunteering We encourage employees to support initiatives that use their skills and experience so that we can have a lasting impact on communities. 32 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 CANADA CHARITABLE Cathy Kuhlmann Julie Andrew Senior Consultant, Canada Client Services Underwriting, Canada Windfall Ecology Centre Nova Scotia SPCA Metro Shelter SECONDMENTS Nicole Moore Personal Lines Underwriter, Canada Oakville and Milton Humane Society In 2011, we launched a global charitable secondment programme as part of our commitment to giving all employees access to the same opportunities to support their communities. Twenty four employees from across the Group were selected to spend between one week and three months working at a charity of their choice. To accompany the launch, we announced a Group Community Awards programme, UK following the success of a similar awards scheme in the UK. The awards recognise the exceptional efforts Sharon Harding Customer Manager, Liverpool Claire House Children’s Hospice of employees who support charities through fundraising and volunteer work. Employees can Val Frew Customer Manager, Liverpool Children’s Heart Association nominate charities they have supported for a £500 Martha Keenan Team Leader, Peterborough Sue Ryder Care donation, while outstanding contributions are eligible Lucy Isley Claims Handler, Peterborough Sue Ryder Care for a £5,000 donation. Navpreet Kaur Customer Manager, Sunderland Macmillan Cancer Support Nicholas Golding Liability Claims Specialist, Homeworker, UK Patshull Scout Camp Site Elaine Clough Team Leader, Halifax The Scout Association Julie Vincent PA, GCC, UK AidCamps International IRELAND Emma Harvey Motor Claims Handler, Ireland Barnardos Diana Doherty Underwriter, Ireland Belarusian Orphanage Project (BOP) Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 33 SWEDEN Marie Ursing Group Leader, Bodily Injury, Sweden The Swedish Childhood Foundation RUSSIA Svetlana Shustova Supplier Relationship Management Leader, Russia Karabanovo and Kostino Children’s Homes DENMARK Jette Guldbæk Madsen IT Quality Manager, Denmark True North Community LITHUANIA Kestutis Gadeikis Chief Actuary, Lithuania Junior Achievement Lithuania (JAL) CHILE Pilar Emilia Mondaca González Risk Preventions, Chile Fundación Niño y Patria SINGAPORE Raja Bahrin Marine Risk Manager, Singapore Mercy Relief Singapore Diana Thomas Communications Manager, Singapore Metta Youth Centre Malin Fredriksson Head of Property, AME, Singapore vMaD UK INTERNATIONAL EMERGING MARKETS OMAN Khawar Osama Business Development Manager, Oman Young Pakistani Expatriate Society (YPES) ARGENTINA Corina Roxana Pernas Account Executive, Argentina Fondo Verde UAE Nadia Bangera Executive Administration Manager and PA to UAE CEO Missionaries of Charity, Kolkata, India 1 2 3 4 34 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 11 12 13 14 Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 35 UK INTERNATIONAL EMERGING MARKETS OUR COMMUNITY WORK AROUND THE WORLD 1 Argentina Community 6 Chile 11 Ireland Employees raised funds to provide Christmas gift Employees at RSA Chile raised a record breaking Employees from RSA Ireland collected over boxes for low-income families. 4 million Chilean pesos during a three month €1,200 through “Daisy Day” street collections campaign to support children and young people. for Aware, the national mental health 2 Latvia support charity. For the second year running, around 230 7 Italy employees volunteered over 900 hours to clean RSA Italy supported nurseries for children from 12 USA up litter from public areas as part of the ‘The Big difficult backgrounds in Milan and Genoa through In Miami, LARO employees took a day out of Clean-up’ event. fundraising and volunteering. their busy schedules to volunteer for the NGO, Habitat for Humanity. 3 China 8 Colombia Employees organised a charity sale and RSA Colombia employees helped build a 13 Denmark volunteered to support a local school. children’s library and donated over 500 books. Employees volunteered to spend their early mornings handing out reflective vests as part of 4 Johnson 9 Czech Republic The third annual food bank donation week was our partnership with the Children’s Accident Employees organised a breakfast for a local the most successful to date with a total of 40,000 Foundation to improve road safety. orphanage and donated gifts and road safety items donated. accessories. 14 Sweden 5 RSA Canada Trygg-Hansa organised a national life buoy 10 UK Over 600 employees and their guests spotting competition to increase awareness More than 100 employees signed up to help participated in the RSA 5K Fun Run/Walk to around safety at sea before the start of the to mentor teenagers from under-privileged support WWF-Canada, raising over $15,000 swimming season. backgrounds aspiring to pursue careers in business. Canadian dollars. 36 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Canadian run Over 600 employees and their guests participated in the RSA 5K Fun Run to support WWF Canada, raising over $15,000 Canadian dollars. TOTAL WORKFORCE Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 37 37% UK 34% INTERNATIONAL 29% EMERGING MARKETS EMPLOYEES Ethics Our business depends on the knowledge, Brand Beliefs, including guidance on gifts and 2012 target: hospitality in line with the UK’s Bribery Act, to over experience and creativity of our • Roll out Code of Conduct guide and RSA 75% of our employees. The booklet is supported by employees. We expect the highest policies to all markets. a training programme to ensure employees know standards from them. Employees what is expected of them and how to behave. In return, we encourage their professional We are committed to promoting ethical conduct Our whistle-blowing policy encourages employees development, provide attractive benefits and in all our businesses and expect employees to act to report any breaches of our policy and illegal ethically, with integrity and to take responsibility for activity. We operate a 24-hour, confidential hotline support their wellbeing. Engaged employees are their behaviour and actions. for employees to raise concerns anonymously. motivated employees so we regularly seek their opinions and feedback to ensure they continue to All new employees are made aware of our Brand Employee engagement Beliefs which set out what we stand for, how we provide an excellent customer experience. should behave towards each other and the actions we 2012 targets: In 2011, we employed more than 23,100 people in must take to meet our customers’ needs. The Beliefs are supported by our Group Ambition and Purpose • Achieve an upper quartile score in our global 34 countries. Approximately 8,500 are based in the and specific policies covering fraud, confidentiality, employee survey; and UK, 7,900 in our International business (Scandinavia, market abuse, competition and money laundering. • Conduct third annual CR Survey and exceed Canada, Ireland and Italy) and 6,700 in our Emerging They are translated into the local languages used 3,000 responses. Markets business (Latin America, the Baltics, Central where we operate. and Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East). We support a culture of open and honest dialogue In 2011, we rolled out a guide explaining our principles and policies and how they underpin the in all our markets and actively encourage employees to provide feedback through surveys and meetings. We use information gathered to help guide our corporate and CR strategies. 38 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Supporting a living wage “The Living Wage campaign calls for every worker in the UK to be earning enough to provide their family with the essentials of life. An hourly rate is calculated annually according to the cost of living. This currently exceeds the legal minimum wage by 37% in London and 18% nationwide.” The Global Employee Engagement “RSA takes its responsibilities to its people and the wider Survey community very seriously and when we were approached by The annual Global Employee Survey, developed Every manager and team leader with five or the Living Wage campaign last year we were pleased to take in partnership with Gallup, is an opportunity for more employees responding to the questionnaire action. Not only are we ensuring that our own employees are fairly rewarded but we are also encouraging our employees across the business to provide receives a report on their team’s performance and contractors and suppliers to pay a fair wage to their people.” anonymous feedback. The survey enables us to track was encouraged to create a plan for tackling low and benchmark our performance against the global scoring areas. “We gathered together a number of people from across our Gallup database of over five million responses. UK operations to identify where pay was too low for our Performance Management Survey employees and our suppliers. For our own employees we We achieved world-class engagement levels with The Performance Management Survey provides an could act quickly ensuring all employees were paid at least our overall engagement score increasing to 4.34 in the Living Wage by mid 2011. Progress with our diverse opportunity for employees to express their views 2011. Our result puts us in the 75th percentile of on our performance management system. network of suppliers was more of a challenge but we have the Gallup database meaning we met our target acted with pace, aligned our own employees quickly and In 2011, over 17,300 people completed the survey of being in the top quartile in 2011. we are working with our suppliers to implement the our highest ever response rate giving us a strong same standards.” Across the Group we made progress against a insight into employee perceptions. Our overall score Ian Templeman, Head of Employee Relations and Policy, UK number of key questions, including: was 80% favourable, compared with 78% in 2010. • In the last seven days, I have received recognition The highest scoring responses were: or praise. • ‘I have documented personal goals / objectives The question in which we performed best was: relating to my work’ ( 96% favourable); • Last year, I have had opportunities at work to • ‘I have had a formal performance review in the learn and grow. last 12 months’ (95% favourable); and Our focus area for further improvement is the • ‘My leader shared my performance rating with following question: me’ (94% favourable a 14% increase on 2010). • The mission and purpose of my company makes me feel my job is worthwhile. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 39 We achieved world-class engagement levels with our overall engagement score increasing to 4.34 in 2011. Reward and recognition Areas for improvement include: • Group CR performance and strategy; and 2012 target: • Making sure personal goals are aligned with our • Group HR strategy. Brand Beliefs and our Group strategy; • Maintain 90% of employees with personal We recognise the right of employees to freedom performance linked to rewards. • More recognition of team work as well as of association and collective bargaining. We seek individual contributions; and constructive dialogue with recognised independent Remuneration plays a critical role in attracting, Employees trade unions, ensuring a regular and open dialogue retaining and motivating our best employees. • Improved coaching and development on business issues and early consultation on changes Our benefit packages are designed to be fair and opportunities. affecting the workforce. In the UK, Unite is formally competitive, based on recognising professional To tackle these we launched a new goal-setting recognised through a partnership agreement which merit. The pay of approximately 90% of employees approach that puts more emphasis on the Brand covers collective consultation and bargaining on is linked to their performance. Beliefs and team working. In 2012 we will begin a behalf of non-management employees. Managerial new round of capability reviews that will provide employees are represented under a separate In the UK we support the Living Wage Foundation employees with an opportunity to identify and discuss consultative agreement. Successful Union and all direct employees are paid at least the living personal development objectives with their line engagement was essential to gain support for wage (£8.30 per hour in London and £7.20 in the managers. We also continue to improve our online our global charitable secondment programme. rest of the UK). We are one of the few companies Learning Zone in response to suggestions from working with suppliers to ensure the same applies across the Group (see Training and Development). CR Employee Survey for all onsite contractors, such as catering and Our CR Employee Survey provides an opportunity cleaning staff. Consultation for employees to give feedback on how they think UK employees can use our flexible benefits website Our annual European Consultative Forum brings we are performing as a responsible business and to pick from a number of benefits, including critical together employee representatives and management what they consider to be the most important CR illness cover, discounted shopping vouchers and the to discuss our strategy and performance. In 2011, 27 issues for RSA. In 2011, we decided to delay our option to buy or sell holiday time. Similar benefit employee delegates from 17 countries discussed a third employee CR survey to early 2012 to focus programmes are available across the Group. range of issues including: our communication efforts on the Arctic Challenge. We also offer non-financial incentives and awards • Wider European business performance and an that recognise employees who have performed update on our Central and Eastern European particularly well. Our annual Platinum Awards businesses; recognise individual employees at all levels who have performed exceptionally well. 40 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Twenty eight countries can access the Learning Zone which contains a mixture of high quality learning solutions and exercises that can be tailored to individual development areas. Training and development Continuous learning and development opportunities Other development plans include: • RSA’s Leadership Development Programme ensure employees have the skills and qualifications seeks to identify, develop and equip the Group’s • Our Global Technical Graduate programme aims needed to provide technical know-how and future leaders with the skills and mindset to drive to create a strong talent pipeline in our core excellent customer service. business growth. Senior insight sessions help to disciplines of Underwriting, Claims and Actuarial; generate ideas and solutions that address We want employees to realise their full potential. • Fast Track is a two-year leadership development environmental and social challenges; and Employees discuss their personal development programme for high performing employees. The needs with their managers during annual capability • The Executive Development Programme is a programme provides training, coaching and reviews and put in place development plans. seven-month course for senior leaders that aims networking opportunities across the company; to develop their leadership, team working and Over 20,000 employees in 28 countries have access • The Technical Academy aims to help us identify project management skills. Participants work on to our online Learning Zone. The site provides talented people and develop structured career projects that look at key business challenges employees with information on the training and paths for technical staff, enabling them to build facing the company. development courses available to them. It includes a the skills and qualifications they need to succeed; section to help employees improve their core skills, such as effective planning and communication, as • Our Global Marketing Academy focuses on the well as a project management toolkit and external latest marketing techniques, tools and industry links to leading personal development websites. know-how and covers a number of marketing topics, including customer insight, brand management, proposition development and marketing communications; Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 41 Employees Graduate volunteering Our Graduates are given the opportunity to develop teamwork and leadership skills through volunteering. In 2011, some of our UK Graduates visited the Hackney Marshes Centre to help with ongoing conservation projects. 42 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Management gender split as a percentage Male Female 100 90 80 Diversity 70 As a global business, we have an inherently diverse workforce which reflects the range of customers 60 we serve. We foster an inclusive culture which values different ways of thinking and backgrounds, 50 helping us to better understand and anticipate customers’ needs. 40 Improving representation of women in management positions across the Group remains a focus for us. In 30 2011, women made up more than 50% of our global workforce and approximately 30% of managers. We offer a wide range of programmes to encourage and 20 support female employees, including flexible working, equal pay reviews and childcare support. 10 In the UK, we work with the NGO Opportunity 88 13 94 80 20 85 15 52 48 62 38 100 79 21 92 8 61 39 55 45 55 45 77 23 94 6 78 22 43 57 64 36 64 36 71 29 49 51 74 26 49.58 50.42 Now to benchmark our diversity performance 0 6 0 and support female employees. In Scandinavia, we % OMAN UK IRELAND HONG KONG COLOMBIA RSA CANADA CHINA MEXICO POLAND SCANDINAVIA JOHNSON SINGAPORE BAHRAIN & KSA BRAZIL RUSSIA ARGENTINA TOTAL UAE CHILE LITHUANIA INDIA CZECH REPUBLIC partner with a future female leaders' forum which provides support for female employees through mentoring, workshops and peer groups designed WORKFORCE to help them get the most from their career. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 43 In 2011, women made up more than 50% of our global workforce and approximately 30% of managers. Health, safety and wellbeing Safety is a shared responsibility between our Group to 16. There were no reported fatalities. The • Create customised workout plans to suit their goals. Human Resources team, site health and safety majority of injuries are minor non-reportable In the UK we offer access to a free and confidential coordinators and employees who are expected incidents e.g. minor cuts and strains. 24-hour counselling service through First Assist to help to behave responsibly and be accountable for By protecting and promoting wellbeing we can with both personal and work-related problems. Employees maintaining a healthy and safe environment. To ensure reduce absenteeism and improve productivity. We that all new employees understand our policies and We also organise health and wellness weeks in our work with First Assist to provide employees with a procedures we provide health and safety information UK, Scandinavian and Latin American markets where wide range of information and advice on how to live as part of our induction process. An intranet site employees receive information about healthier a healthier lifestyle via our intranet site. For example, contains everything employees might need to know lifestyles and diets. employees can: about safety, health and wellbeing in the workplace. • Sign up for weekly motivational emails, daily 2012 targets In 2011, we saw an increase in the number of activity guides, recipes and diet tips; reportable injuries due to countries aligning their • Launch an online diversity training module to categorisation of injuries. The number of accidents • Have their health scored and progress improve management awareness of diversity and per 1,000 employees decreased from 16.5 in 2010 monitored; and its benefits. Group 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Reportable injuries 79 34 88 85 84 Minor non-reportable injuries 287 348 352 340 352 Accidents per 1,000 employees 16 16.5 18.99 9.05 11.14 44 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE We take climate change and other • Improve energy efficiency, waste disposal, travel Our biggest direct environmental impact is the environmental issues seriously, believing impacts and resource use in our buildings and carbon dioxide emissions from energy we use in our daily operations; offices, especially emissions from electricity. Emissions they present risks and opportunities for from travel are also significant and come mostly from our business and society. • Offset remaining CO2 emissions in countries cars, but air travel has increased because of the which fully apply the previous steps; and Our approach is to minimise the impacts of our Group’s growing international presence. operations, particularly greenhouse gas emissions • Work with suppliers to improve the environmental Absolute CO2 emissions are not comparable from our buildings and travel. We are also targeting footprint of our supply chain (see page 58). over time because we have been extending the other environmental impacts that are significant to In 2011 we achieved our long-term group target for data to cover newly acquired businesses. Total our business, such as paper use, waste and water. a 40% reduction in gross tonnes CO2 per £m net gross emissions per £m NWP reflect underlying We develop products and services that support lowwritten premiums (NWP) by 2020 against 2006 performance and this measure fell by 1.3 tonnes emission technologies, and work with high profile levels. Individual countries set additional targets per £million NWP in 2011, reflecting the progress partners such as WWF to encourage customers covering key environmental impacts relevant to made in energy efficiency programmes across the to adopt climate-friendly behaviour (see page 52). their circumstances. Group. Since our 2006 baseline, these have fallen by 55% meaning we met our target for a 40% Our strategy Energy and emissions reduction by 2020. Our environmental and climate change strategy is to: 2012 target: Group-wide energy use decreased from just over • Measure and report our CO2 emissions and 121,000 MWh in 2010 to 113,900 MWh in 2011. • Carry out due diligence on global energy other impacts; During 2011 we explored the potential to arrange procurement contracts. • Set targets for reducing them; a global energy contract but this did not prove to be cost effective, or lead to an overall reduction in CO2 emissions. All our UK offices and Codan headquarters use 100% renewable energy. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 45 Environment Group-wide energy use Group-wide energy use decreased from just over 121,000 MWh in 2010 to 113,900 MWh in 2011. All our UK offices and Codan headquarters use 100% renewable energy. 46 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Carbon emissions GROUP GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (TONNES OF CO2E* EQUIVALENT) We offset our remaining carbon emissions in the 2011 2010 2006 UK and Ireland, which have been carbon neutral (baseline) since 2006 and 2008 respectively, by investing in Scope 11 12,902 16,544 – renewable energy projects in India that comply with the robust, internationally recognised Scope 22 28,344 32,441 – Voluntary Carbon Standard (www.v-c-s.org). In 2011, total offsets decreased by 6,530: due Scope 33 21,836 19,250 – to reduced absolute CO2 emissions in the UK Total gross 63,082 68,236 77,247 and Ireland. Gross tonnes CO2 per £m NWP 7.7 9.0 14.1 * Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes). Carbon offsets 27,470 34,000 – 1. Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions. 2. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased Total net emissions 35,612 34,236 77,247 electricity, heat or steam. 3. Scope 3: Other indirect emissions. Net tonnes CO2 per £m NWP 4.3 4.5 14.1 GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN OF CO2E EMISSIONS FOR 2011 (TONNES CO2) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 UK (including GCC) 6,596 12,097 7,380 International 2,487 7,377 8,628 Emerging Markets 3,820 8,870 5,828 Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 47 CO2 EMISSIONS PER CAPITA ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN OUR OFFICES (MWh) (tonnes per employee) Electricity use Gas use 83,224 70,270 71,234 74,457 75,337 0 4 100,000 36,100 28,241 21,989 28,764 23,731 MWh 2011 2.7 2010 3.00 2009 2.92 2008 2.93 2007 3.1 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 0 Environment CO2 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE 2011 CO2 EMISSIONS BY REGION Carbon dioxide emissions equivalent by source (tonnes) Carbon dioxide emissions equivalent by source (tonnes) 16,676 BUSINESS TRAVEL 7,437 COMPANY OWNED VEHICLES 26,073 UK 33,356 PREMISES 18,491 INTERNATIONAL 3,996 ESTIMATED SITES 18,589 EMERGING MARKETS 1,689 PAPER 48 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Travel Resource use In 2011, business travel (including company vehicles, air and car use and promoting more sustainable Managing our paper use, water consumption road, air and rail) accounted for approximately 38% alternatives. For example, in the UK we offer a and waste helps to reduce our demand on the of our total carbon footprint, up from 30% in 2010, cycle to work scheme that provides discounts on environment as well as saving money. This also due to our growing international presence and cycling equipment. In Canada, we are working helps reduce emissions because of the energy improved business performance. with American Express to review our travel policy involved in producing materials such as paper, with the aim of setting a travel reduction target. providing clean water and managing waste. We aim to reduce the environmental impact of In Ireland, we surveyed employees to get a better employee travel by encouraging the use of video understanding of how they travel to work and and teleconferencing, setting reduction targets for identify ways to lower their impact. PAPER USE (tonnes) TOTAL WASTE GENERATED (tonnes) WATER USE (cubic metres) 3000 1,049 1,772 2,674 2,576 2,289 10,000 6,334 5,014 3,559 3,944 300,000 239,252 261,884 192,933 198,739 557 995 2,156 2,249 5,787 4,698 4,440 3,306 2,798 207,506 247,941 253,159 263,386 222,532 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 0 0 Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 49 Raising employee awareness is a key goal of our partnership with WWF. We challenged employees to come up with ideas for new products or initiatives that would help RSA reduce its environmental impact. In 2011, absolute water consumption increased as • In Mexico, we installed rainwater collection tanks Raising employee awareness is a key goal of our more countries began recording and reporting their for irrigation, removing the need to use municipal partnership with WWF. We challenged employees data for the first time. Paper consumption increased water supplies. to come up with ideas for new products or initiatives for the same reason. Despite these overall increases, that would help RSA reduce its environmental Embedding a green culture some individual countries reported a fall in water impact as part of the Arctic Challenge competition. and paper consumption reflecting steps to cut We promote an environmentally responsible culture The winning team designed a novel incentive resource use (see page 50). among employees, encouraging them to cut their scheme that encourages employees to buy fuel footprint at home as well as work. efficient cars by giving them preferential rates. If Examples include: Green Teams and local champions around the 30% of UK employees took up the scheme, they • In the Czech Republic, we introduced new Group drive activity by organising Green Days and could save over 17,300 tonnes of CO2 over the recycling facilities and printer settings to reduce supporting international events such as Earth Hour. next 5 years. Environment waste and paper use. Each department has its own reduction targets which are evaluated In the lead up to Earth Hour, Johnson, Scandinavia, 2012 Group targets: quarterly. We encourage employees to turn off the UK and other countries organised Climate Weeks that aimed to show employees how even • Launch a Group-wide Green Network; the heating and air conditioning when windows are open and also to switch off lights, projectors small actions can together make a big impact. Each • Reduce by 50% gross tonnes CO2 per £m net and computers when not in use; day employees explored one of five environmental written premiums (NWP) by 2020 against 2006 issues: food, water, waste, travel and energy. Johnson baseline; and • Ireland moved from print to online versions of employees were set accompanying challenges such our internal and broker magazines. The Brilliant as bringing in a waste free lunch and travelling to • Continue to develop and roll out products with Service team also managed to reduce printed work without using their cars. A range of activities environmental benefits in our main markets policy documentation by an estimated 50%; for UK employees included visits to recycling facilities including the UK, Canada and Scandinavia. • RSA Canada’s commercial team in Quebec saved and green driving demonstrations to teach them 70,000 sheets of paper by adopting a paperless about the steps they can take to reduce their submission system for its SME and Mid-Market impacts in the office and at home. customers; and 50 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 PERFORMANCE AGAINST TARGETS 2011 target Performance in 2011 2012 target UK Reduce electricity consumption by 3% ✓ We achieved a 21.6% reduction in electricity Reduce electricity by 2% consumption Reduce water by 1% Reduce water consumption by 3% ✗ Water consumption increased by 15.4% Improve position in CRC league table Develop a new product offering support to Reduce gas consumption by 3% ✓ We reduced our gas consumption by 22.1% SMEs on carbon reduction Reduce office paper by 4% ✓ We reduced our office paper consumption by 28% Increase the uptake of our cycle to work Reduce office waste by 3% ✓ We reduced our office waste by 43% scheme by 20% Increase QRC recycling to 65% ✓ In 2011 our QRC recycling increased to 69% Group Corporate Centre Reduce electricity by 3% ✓ We reduced our electricity consumption by 33.5% Reduce electricity 2% Reduce paper 2% Reduce paper consumption by 2% ✗ Paper consumption increased Reduce waste 8% Reduce waste by 4% ✓ We reduced our waste by 43% Ireland Maintain 2011 electricity usage levels Ensure rail, electricity, gas, paper, waste and ✓ We achieved a reduction of 0.05% in electricity Maintain 2011 gas usage levels recycling remain at the same levels consumption Maintain 2011 water usage levels ✓ We significantly reduced our consumption of Maintain 2011 paper usage levels natural gas by 11.8% Maintain 2011 waste disposed levels ✓ Paper consumption increased by 6 tonnes Recycle 80% of waste ✓ Our waste increased by 29% Reduce local flights. ✗ Our recycling increased by 1% Incorporate newly acquired 123 businesses ✓ 123 businesses were not incorporated in the into environmental reporting system 2011 environmental reporting system ➡ Ongoing ✓ Achieved ✗ Not achieved Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 51 2011 target Performance in 2011 2012 target Canada Increase Johnson recycling 1% ✓ We increased the amount of recycling at Increase Johnson recycling 1% Johnsons by 43% RSA Canada Reduce paper consumption by 2% ✓ Our paper consumption reduced by 10.2% Reduce paper 2% Increase recycling at RSA Canada by 1% ✓ We increased our recycling by 11% Increase recycling 1% Reduce waste 2% Reduce waste by 2% ✓ We achieved a 46% reduction in waste No increase in water, electricity and travel Maintain current levels of water and electricity ✗ Our water consumption increased by 3% Use video conference usage consumption and travel ✗ Our electricity consumption increased by 3.3% ✗ Our travel increased by 48% Environment Scandinavia All targets for completion by 2013. Targets apply ➡ On target Ongoing from 2011 to Denmark, Sweden and Norway individually. Reduce CO2 5% Reduce electricity 5% Reduce paper 5% Reduce waste disposed 3% Reduce air travel 3% Reduce road travel 7% Maintain gas and water at present levels ➡ Ongoing ✓ Achieved ✗ Not achieved 52 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 PARTNERING CANADA FOR PROGRESS Mapping threats to ecosystems to minimise risk and engage local We are working with WWF to investigate emerging stakeholders in workshops environmental risks and explore how the insurance industry can respond to the opportunities and challenges Developing Marine Protection Areas for a sustainable fishing industry of environmental change. As well as joint research, we are working together to develop products that help Seeing is Believing Green Employee Idea Competition customers reduce their environmental footprint and raise climate awareness among employees. CONSERVATION RESEARCH PRODUCTS ENGAGEMENT UK WEB Developing a roadmap on sustainable urban drainage systems Environmental Education road shows across UK sites Analysing the impact of water escapes in the home and how to minimise risk and water scarcity Lead sponsors of the WWF Earth hour and commitment to reduce carbon by 15% in our home insurance policies by 2013 Restoring an urban river to investigate ecologically sensitive flood defences with the Thames River Restoration Trust Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 53 DENMARK Lead sponsors of WWF's Earth Hour with 450 volunteers encouraging businesses to sign up Climate challenge schools programme with winning school researching climate risk in Greenland SWEDEN Launch of Energi Midt energy and leak reduction device for homes in 2010 National competition in schools raising the importance of climate issues with children Establishing a regional forum in the Baltic Sea to use resources sustainably WWF's Earth Hour employee volunteering week, raising the profile of climate change in schools Sponsorship of national environmental website to show support of Trygg-Hansa Climate risk research programme for businesses Environment CHINA Research of barriers to renewable energy and energy efficient buildings in China GROUP Researching emerging risks for insurance through technical briefings twice a year marine risks launched UK INTERNATIONAL EMERGING MARKETS Assessing the business case for integrating environmental risk into bonds, fixed income and pensions Assessing environmental risks in the Arctic through mapping human activity and biodiversity hotspots 54 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 A few steps on ice, a journey of a life time “As we stepped onto snow for the first time in our lives and SEEING IS BELIEVING watched the sun rise over a vast blanket of white we knew that this trip was going to be a once in a lifetime experience for us all. “ THE ARCTIC CHALLENGE “Our journey to the Arctic started long before the 30 hour trip from Chennai to Churchill. As part of the challenge we logged over 200 hours of voluntary work to support WWF In 2011, we focused our efforts on doing Three winning teams from the UK, Oman and India India's 'Save the Tiger' campaign. Contacting people from across the country we worked to raise awareness of the what we can as an organisation to tackle spent time with leading WWF scientists in Canada’s far critical state of our iconic national animal. The response was north learning about the link between environmental the challenges and opportunities that fantastic with over US $9,000 raised for the campaign.” and insurance risks. The teams saw the pressure that climate change brings. falling fish stocks are having on the livelihoods of local “Seeing first-hand the changing landscape of the Arctic and the plight of the polar bear has transformed the way I think. We launched a new initiative to raise the profile of fishermen and the potential impact that this could In such an extreme and fragile environment you get an our WWF partnership among employees and bring have on RSA’s business as the leading insurer of fishing appreciation of the impacts of our actions and how they these risks and opportunities to life. vessels in Canada. They learnt that a significant reason are affecting the natural habitat of wildlife and ecosystems for declining fish stocks is spiralling seal numbers. The ‘Arctic Challenge’ saw over 10,000 of our in other corners of the world. It showed how everything Seal populations are increasing partly as a result of less we do is inter-linked and inter-dependent” employees in 33 countries taking part in a competition sea ice which means that their natural predators, polar to win the opportunity to travel to the Arctic to Prashant Singh,Vice President & Head Retail (South) bears, aren’t able to hunt. They also discovered how see at first-hand the impact of climate change. & Agency, India less ice is contributing to rising sea levels and global The competition challenged teams to reduce their warming as more energy from the sun is absorbed by carbon footprint by walking and cycling rather than the sea. This in turn has the potential to impact RSA driving, to raise money for charity and to develop customers through extreme weather events around ideas to reduce RSA’s environmental impact. the world. The results were impressive, with over three billion On returning home, the winning employees have steps walked, 6,600 hours of volunteering given and become ambassadors for change, sharing their over £100,000 raised for charity. The green ideas experiences with colleagues and inspiring interest being implemented in 2012 have the potential to in sustainability issues. save around 15,000 tonnes of carbon and up to £600,000 in costs. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 55 Environment Polar bears in the Arctic In the last two decades, polar bear numbers in Canada's far north have declined by 22% as a result of melting sea ice. Without the ice they need to hunt, polar bears are being forced to scavenge for food in local towns. 56 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 57 Chukchi Sea Southern Beaufort Sea Northern Laptev Sea Beaufort Sea Arctic Gulf of McClintock Ocean Boothia Channel Viscount Melville Western Bay Hudson Bay Bay Kara Sea Kane Basin Southern Hudson Bay Foxe Basin Baffin Bay Barents Sea Churchill Davis Strait East Greenland The bear territory encompassing 5 million square miles in northern Canada, Alaska, Greenland, Norway and northern Russia. Current estimates suggest 20-25,000 polar bears live in the wild. Environment Key Polar bear sub-populations Population estimates Thousands 2,5 to 3,0 0,5 to 1,0 less 0,2 Unknown figure A changing landscape Rising temperatures have been having a major new fishing grounds, a shorter shipping route Population trends impact on the Arctic and the many unique between the Pacific Ocean and Europe and major Decrease Unknown Stable Increase species and communities that live there. Ice cover new drilling fields for petroleum. In 2011, the is already less than half what it was when records three winning teams from RSA's Arctic Challenge Churchill and Nunavut, Canadian territory began, and within ten years could almost be gone were given the opportunity to see first hand the in the summer months. The melting sea ice leaves impact that climate change is having on the Ice extent September 2011 NSIDC many lucrative but potentially destructive environment, the people and the long term Ice extent March 2011 NSIDC opportunities for human activity. These include economy of the region. International Shipping Routes PAME & CAFF 2009 58 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 SUPPLIERS Improving standards in our supply As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact spend. The questionnaires assess a supplier’s CR chain is a key part of being a responsible we are committed to eliminating discrimination credentials against a range of issues including labour and protecting Human Rights internally and in our standards, environmental management and Human business. The scale and diversity of our immediate sphere of influence, including our suppliers. Rights. We targeted the largest and highest risk supply chain presents a variety of social The nature of our industry means suppliers are categories of procurement to ensure we minimise and environmental risks that we manage extremely unlikely to be complicit in serious risk and maximise opportunity for additional benefits by working with suppliers to encourage environmental and social abuses such as child labour. in the supply chain. In cases where we identify a more sustainable business practices. supplier as high risk we make our concerns known Engaging and assessing suppliers and work with them to address any issues. A significant component of our supplier spend is handled by our claims teams who, through a global 2012 targets: Our procurement teams receive regular training and network of over several thousand suppliers, provide guidance on CR issues in their assessment of supply • Ensure 85% of our supply chain is assessed motor, household and other services on behalf of chain risks. CR specialists also work with regional against our CR standards; and our customers. The rest of our supplier spend procurement managers to ensure that environmental relates to our direct operations including IT, • Extend the number of suppliers in Canada and social standards are incorporated into buying consulting, travel, maintenance and security. receiving CR questionnaires to 30. decisions and existing supplier relationships. Supplier standards Suppliers are assessed against our Responsible Sustainable claims Our Responsible Procurement Principles govern Procurement Principles from an early stage in the how we interact with our suppliers and set out the procurement process. Our assessments not only 2012 target: social and environmental standards we expect them identify whether they represent significant • Run four supplier workshops with two being to meet. These are available from our procurement environmental or social risks but also how they online workshops in the UK. Review teams via our intranet and are communicated to can help us improve our performance. opportunities for workshops in Scandinavia. suppliers as part of contract agreements. In 2011, procurement teams in the UK and Canada In the UK we organised a supplier workshop to sent CR assessment questionnaires to suppliers identify opportunities for us to work together to representing 70% of our supply chain based on reduce shared risks including environmental impacts. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 59 One of the key ways that we can help to promote more sustainable practices is through our network of service providers, such as motor vehicle repairers and construction companies. We plan to use this experience to expand the content claims service is able to reduce purchases HOME POLICY CARBON FOOTPRINT workshops in 2012. of new goods, lowering the environmental impact and saving money. One of the key ways that we can help to promote 47.4% CALL CENTRES more sustainable practices is through our network Our motor claims teams repair thousands of of service providers, such as motor vehicle repairers vehicles every year. We are assessing the potential 23.3% POLICY PACKS and construction companies. to increase the amount of recycled parts we use 15.2% CLAIM PROVIDERS TRAVEL in vehicle repairs which can lead to fewer vehicles 5.2% END OF LIFE In 2011, we mapped the carbon footprint of a being written off and lower costs. This involves home insurance policy to understand how much addressing customer attitudes towards the use of 3.8% MAIL SCANNING UNITS carbon dioxide an individual home insurance policy 2.7% CLAIM PROVIDERS OFFICE ENERGY recycled materials, as well as practical matters such is responsible for. The analysis showed that the average carbon footprint of a policy is equivalent as safety and sourcing. 2.4% OTHER to 8.4kg of CO2 the majority of this comes from 2012 targets: energy and equipment used in call centres. Understanding where the greatest impacts lie will • Reduce the amount of CO2 in MORE TH>N allow us and our suppliers to target their reduction home policy by 15% by 2013; efforts more effectively as we work towards our • Launch internal assessment on developing a goal of reducing the amount of CO2 in the average sustainable supply chain; and MORE TH>N home insurance policy by 2013. Suppliers • Implement water escape policy in the UK for Other examples include our work with UK service holiday homes. provider, EVS, to move away from automatically replacing damaged electrical goods towards a system of repairing what can be saved. Repairing damaged electrical goods means our household 60 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 The report covers all our UK, International and Emerging Markets businesses, including wholly owned subsidiaries, leased premises, relationships with suppliers and our joint ventures. REPORTING How we report The 2011 RSA Insurance Group plc Corporate All environmental data is calculated in accordance relevant to the CR strategy, findings are flagged to Responsibility Report covers the calendar year of with coefficients and standards including IPCC, the Group CR Steering Committee for discussion. 2011. The Report continues where the 2010 WBCSD/WRI, IEA, UNFCC, Carbon Trust We actively encourage feedback on our approach Corporate Responsibility Report left off as part of our and DEFRA. and this report through the contact list at the front annual reporting cycle. Reports are published in May Corrections in historical data have been detected and of this report. for the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. have resulted in changes if the data has accounted For more information on the mechanisms we use to The report is published in conjunction with an for more than 2 percent of the published total. gather stakeholder opinions, feedback received online pdf followed by a refreshed Group internet Further information on our reporting, indicators and during 2011 and our process for prioritising findings, site and aligned with the Group Annual Report & boundaries can be found at www.rsagroup.com see the Our approach and CR Governance and Accounts. Multi-lingual summaries are produced in Management sections of this report. June. The report is intended for the expert CR Inclusivity & responsiveness community, responsible investors, commercial We actively seek out stakeholder views in our Assurance tenders and senior internal stakeholders. approach to responsible business. CR stakeholder RSA actively engages external assurers to ensure This report covers all our UK, International and engagement is carried out at least once per year in the data and claims within this report are fair and Emerging Markets businesses, including wholly the regions where dedicated full-time CR personnel accurate. A summary of the assurance process owned subsidiaries, leased premises, relationships exist, i.e. UK and Scandinavia. The wider Group CR provided by PWC and their assurance report is with suppliers and our joint ventures. In 2011 stakeholder engagement process incorporates and available on page 72. there were two major acquisitions: GCAN in provides an opportunity for other countries to In addition to the external assurance by PWC, our Canada and 123 in Ireland. participate. Priority stakeholders include insurance environmental data is quality assured by Ecometrica, brokers, trade bodies, charities, investors, regulators Where smaller countries have fewer than fifty a Carbon Disclosure Project accredited specialist and more. employees, data is collected where possible utilising environmental consultancy. For further information audited assumptions. These assumptions are based on Ongoing dialogue is carried out through collaborative see the environmental data section. the majority of reported RSA data and cross checked forums (e.g. ABI, UNEP-FI, etc), supplier workshops, against national averages. Any assumptions used consumer focus groups, broker road shows, investor within data are audited by an external third party. engagements and a variety of external ratings. Where Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 61 Renewable energy Our Global Renewable Energy business is a leading insurer of wind, solar and other technologies which make a crucial contribution to meeting energy demand and supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. Our joint report with the WWF, ‘Insurance and Renewable Energy’, looks at the issues preventing more widespread adoption of renewable energy and how they can be overcome. See www.wwfrsapartners.com Reporting 62 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TABLES Reported data covers our operations in our UK, Ecometrica Comment on Data In general, data relating to electricity, flights and emissions calculations. Waste data was also often International and Emerging Markets businesses. Quality for RSA’s 2011 Greenhouse company owned vehicles were of good quality, missing from site data, requiring waste emissions to The carbon footprint below covers 100% of the Gas Assessment with the majority of sites providing consumption and be estimated based on the data provided by other organisation with 10% estimated. This proportion distance data. Data (complete or otherwise) was sites, pro-rated by FTE number. Cost data were the The data provided for the 2011 RSA global has reduced by 2% since last year due to the submitted for sites employing 21,613 FTE (94% of only electricity data provided for Oman, Saudi Arabia, assessment has increased in accuracy from that implementation of data collection systems in employees). For the remaining sites, covering 1,461 Singapore, United Arab Emirates, RSA Canada provided for the 2010 assessment. newly acquired businesses. FTE, total emissions were estimated based upon Calgary, Argentina and Brazil. Around 85% of the total emissions associated employee number. All CO2 baselines are calculated with up to date Charlotte Wylie with the 2011 global operations of RSA have been coefficients including IPCC, WBCSD/WRI, IEA, The main limit to data quality and calculation accuracy Senior Analyst calculated from actual or robust data where minor or UNFCC, Carbon Trust and DEFRA. These was travel data supplied in cost format or number no assumptions were required. In particular the data calculations and data have been verified by of journeys format rather than distance format. This provided by the Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Mexico, Ecometrica, a specialist environmental consultancy. required estimates on the average cost or distance of Denmark, Sweden, Norway, UK, QRC and Ireland journeys which introduced high uncertainty into the sites were complete, requiring no extrapolation by Ecometrica. Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes) Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes per full time equivalent) CO2e Emissions Country/Region 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 CO2e Emissions Country/Region 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total tonnes UK 26,073 31,314 31,588 34,381 39,862 Total tonnes per UK 3.1 4.2 3.9 4.0 4.6 Scandinavia 8,309 7,893 7,243 7,414 6,950 full time equivalent Scandinavia 2.2 2.5 2.3 2.5 2.2 Canada 7,953 6,666 7,473 8,214 8,037 Canada 2.7 2.7 2.8 3.1 3.4 Ireland 1,429 1,305 1,402 1,341 1,404 Ireland 1.7 2.4 2.6 2.7 2.7 Italy 802 896 1,116 1,080 954 Italy 2.0 2.3 2.9 2.9 2.8 Central & Eastern Europe 2,224 2,075 2,705 3,928 2,758 Central & Eastern Europe 2.5 2.3 2.0 1.8 1.2 Baltics 2,733 3,311 Baltics 1.6 1.7 Latin America 6,844 5,593 3,971 2,920 1,413 Latin America 3.4 2.9 2.2 1.6 3.2 Asia & Middle East* 4,393 2,126 1,710 1,910 Asia & Middle East 2.2 1.3 1.1 1.1 Estimated 2,323 7,056 7,796 3,594 10,468 Estimated 2.9 3.0 3.1 Total 63,082 68,236 65,003 64,782 71,846 Total 2.7 3.0 2.9 2.9 3.1 * Corrections in historical data. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 63 Carbon dioxide emissions equivalent by source (tonnes) Impact Country/Region 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Impact Country/Region 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Site energy UK 15,985 21,133 21,926 22,942 28901 Company UK 3,585 3,708 3,781 5,915 4,830 consumption owned vehicles Scandinavia 3,223 4,025 2,937 2,560 2667 Scandinavia 1,219 1,783 2,258 2,419 2,486 (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Canada 3,631 3,063 3,296 3,552 3,398 Canada 83 85 1,016 2,490 2,761 Ireland 932 978 1,017 881 923 Ireland 283 86 274 294 340 Italy 489 592 762 607 719 Italy 4.6 5 2 255 57 Central & Eastern Europe 643 1,746 1,582 1,155 1,335 Central & Eastern Europe 97 177 936 1,605 1,163 Baltics 917 1,202 Baltics 1,443 1,760 Latin America 4,476 2,507 2,036 1,499 752 Latin America 625 886 695 247 161 Asia & Middle East 1,746 748 700 660 Asia & Middle East 98 59 121 196 (1) Total 32,041 35,988 34,256 33,856 38,695 Total 7,437 8,549 9,083 13,421 11,798 Non-energy UK 390 1,287 697 870 1,729 Business travel UK 5,413 4,294 5,184 4,654 4,401 site emissions (tCO2e) Scandinavia 181 212 267 194 133 Scandinavia 3,439 1,700 1,782 2,240 1,663 (tCO2e) Canada 241 524 343 73 79 Canada 3,689 2,676 2,818 2,098 1,799 Ireland 15 13 20 41 34 Ireland 110 146 91 124 107 Italy 15 36 51 30 27 Italy 275 233 301 189 151 Central & Eastern Europe 45 113 107 91 100 Central & Eastern Europe 69 35 80 1,077 160 Baltics 140 149 Baltics 106 124 Latin America 134 509 346 195 129 Latin America 1,429 1,650 894 978 371 Asia & Middle East 85 51 192 142 Asia & Middle East 2,147 1,060 697 912 Total 1,244 2,894 2,023 1,636 2,231 Total 16,676 11,918 11,847 12,272 8,652 Reporting (1) Regional figures when calculated to full decimal places totals 35,988 tonnes 64 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TRENDS 2008-2011 Environmental data is reported by regions due to the number of individual countries reporting. Performance indicator Country 2011 2010 2009 2008 Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Electricity UK 24,872 2,962 31,929 4,306 34,724 4,270 35,054 4,073 (Abs: MWh) Scandinavia 14,062 3,804 13,463 4,223 10,794 3,386 10,635 3,587 (Norm: kWh/fte) Canada 13,823 6,191 10,938 4,377 11,556 4,342 12,860 4,899 Ireland 1,617 1,918 1,618 2,952 1,641 2,994 1,369 2,738 Italy 1,149 2,922 1,327 3,465 1,731 4,520 890 2,386 Central & Eastern Europe 1,405 1,574 2,772 3,039 4,349 3,265 4,522 2,069 Baltics 3,440 1,962 4,637 2,440 Latin America 12,666 6,317 7,880 4,125 5,501 3,005 4,087 2,236 Asia & Middle East 2,303 1,145 894 528 938 631 853 481 Gas UK 15,982 1,903 20,070 2,707 16,462 2,024 21,737 2,526 (Abs: MWh) Scandinavia 17 4.7 14 4 10 7 11 7 (Norm: kWh/fte) Canada 3,989 1,786 5,007 2,004 2,971 2,023 3,878 2,587 Ireland 685 813 778 1,419 908 1,657 720 1,440 Italy 0 0 185 483 495 1,326 Central & Eastern Europe 0 0 1,468 1,609 1,056 793 1,151 527 Baltics 899 520 1,215 639 Latin America 2,159 1,077 213 112 213 248 249 291 Asia & Middle East 0 0 Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 65 Performance indicator Country 2011 2010 2009 2008 Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Absolute Norm Water UK 97,361 12 67,265 9 89,492 11,005 90,539 10,519 (Abs: m3) Scandinavia 62,079 17 37,219 12 27,421 9,173 19,600 6,980 (Norm: m3/fte) Canada 26,937 12 25,354 10 24,619 9,250 26,068 9,930 Ireland 2,739 3.2 2,564 5 2,436 4,445 2,346 4,692 Italy 1,912 4.9 2,365 6 3,592 9,378 10,627 28,490 Central & Eastern Europe 1,500 7.7 1,664 2 9,158 7,854 11,789 5,395 Baltics 13,161 7.6 13,390 7 Latin America 12,306 9.8 44,642 23 106,223 167,544 31,511 20,854 Asia & Middle East 4,537 2.8 4,276 3 446 317 454 311 Total Waste UK 1,595 190 2,320 313 1,813 223 2,315 269 (Abs: t) Scandinavia 384 104 435 136 347 109 319 114 (Norm: kg/fte) Canada 342 153 476 190 327 123 233 89 Ireland 79 94 61 111 92 169 235 469 Italy 14 36 108 282 49 127 50 133 Central & Eastern Europe 46 118 103 113 117 88 153 70 Baltics 107 62 104 55 Latin America 147 73 292 153 369 201 236 182 Asia & Middle East 85 44 45 27 193 129 18 145 Paper UK 949 113 1,216 164 1,111 137 1,344 156 (Abs: t) Scandinavia 336 91 236 74 453 142 367 124 (Norm: kg/fte) Canada 419 188 431 172 496 186 307 117 Ireland 120 142 112 204 113 207 29 58 Italy 25 63 46 120 94 244 149 399 Central & Eastern Europe 5 14 6 7 37 31 82 38 Baltics 81 47 103 54 Reporting Latin America 244 146 55 29 82 81 243 133 Asia & Middle East 110 63 44 26 191 139 152 86 66 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 GRI INDEX The Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) G3 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide a comprehensive set of indicators covering the Strategy & analysis CEO Intro Fully 1.1 economic, environmental and social impacts of Annual Report Fully 1.2 6 a company's performance. The following table sets out all the company Organisational profile How we report Fully 2.1 profile disclosures, core and additional performance Annual Report Fully 2.2 indicators and financial services sector supplementary Annual Report Fully 2.3 indicators contained in the GRI G3 Guidelines. Annual Report Fully 2.4 Annual Report/ About us Fully 2.5 We indicate whether our reporting covers their Annual Report Fully 2.6 requirements fully or partially. Where an indicator is not considered material to our business we have Annual Report Fully 2.7 marked this ‘Not material’. Annual Report/ About us Fully 2.8 Annual Report/ About us Fully 2.9 The page numbers provide signposts so you can find About us Fully 2.10 more information in this report on our disclosure. AR refers to our Annual Report and Accounts 2010. Report parameters How we report Fully 3.1 This year, GRI have assessed our disclosure against How we report Fully 3.2 the GRI G3 Guidelines and have declared that we How we report Fully 3.3 meet application level B+. How we report Fully 3.4 How we report Fully 3.5 Where applicable, we have also included the How we report Fully 3.6 corresponding United Nations Global Compact How we report Fully 3.7 (UNGC) and ClimateWise Principles for reference. How we report Fully 3.8 How we report Fully 3.9 Included in target sections Fully 3.10 How we report Fully 3.11 GRI Fully 3.12 How we report Fully 3.13 Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 67 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Governance, commitments Annual report Fully 4.1 and engagement Annual report Fully 4.2 Annual report Fully 4.4 Annual report / Our Fully 4.5 approach / CR governance Annual report Fully 4.6 CR governance Fully 4.7 (all execs on committee) Our approach Fully 4.8 1,10 CR governance Fully 4.9 6 Annual report / Fully 4.10 CR governance Precautionary Principle Not Reported 4.11 Our approach Fully 4.12 1 Our approach Fully 4.13 2 Our approach / Fully 4.14 CR governance Our approach / Fully 4.15 CR governance Our approach / Fully 4.16 CR governance Our approach / Fully 4.17 CR governance Economic performance Disclosure on Management Fully Approach • Economic Fully performance • Market presence Annual report Fully EC1 Core www.cdproject.net (RSA) Partially EC2 Core None Partially EC4 Core Reporting 68 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Environmental performance Environment Disclosure on 7 Management Fully Approach Fully • Materials Fully • Energy • Water Fully • Emissions, effluent and waste Fully • Transport Environment Fully EN1 Core 1569 Gj Partially EN3 Core Elec 271,642 Gj Partially EN4 Core Gas 103,549 Gj District Heat 64,674 Gj Environment Fully EN5 Additional 5 Customers / Environment Fully EN6 Additional 8,9 1,3 Environment Fully EN7 Additional 5 Environment Fully EN8 Core Environment Fully EN16 Core Environment Fully EN17 Core Environment Fully EN18 Additional 8 1,3,5 Environment (all landfill) Partially EN22 Core Environment Fully EN23 Core Customer / Environment Fully EN26 Core 8,9 3,5 None Fully EN28 Core Environment Fully EN29 Additional Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 69 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Labour practices and Employees Disclosure on decent work Management 6 Fully Approach Fully • Employment • Labour/management Fully relations Partially • Occupational health Partially and safety • Training and education • Diversity and equal opportunity Employees Partially LA1 Core 30 days Fully LA5 Core Employees Partially LA7 Core 93% Fully LA12 Additional Human rights Customer / Suppliers Disclosure on 1 Management Fully Approach • Investment and Partially procurement Partially practices Fully • Non-discrimination Fully • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Child labour • Forced and compulsory labour About us Partially HR1 Core 1,2 Suppliers (part of CR module) Fully HR2 Core 2 Human rights policy / Suppliers Fully HR5 Core 2,3 Human rights policy / Suppliers Fully HR6 Core 2,5 Human rights policy / Suppliers Fully HR7 Core 2,4 Reporting 70 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Society Disclosure on Management Fully Approach Annual Report / Fully • Corruption Employees / Customer Partially • Public policy Bribery section Fully SO2 Core 10 Guide sent to all Fully SO3 Core 10 employees / Online training for all (Codan spring 2011) Our approach Fully SO5 Core 2 None Fully SO6 Additional Product responsibility Customer Partially Disclosure on Management Approach • Customer health and safety • Marketing communications • Customer privacy National regulatory Fully PR3 Core compliance Customer Partially PR5 Additional Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 71 Section Reported GRI G3 guideline UNGC Principles ClimateWise Principles Financial services sector Customer / Environment Partially FS1 Core 2 5 supplementary indicators High Risk Country Partially FS2 Core 2 1 Screening Process About us / Suppliers Fully FS5 Core 2 3,4 Annual Report Fully FS6 Core CR governance FS9 Core 2 About us Fully FS10 Core 2 4 About us Fully FS12 Core 2 4 Customer Partially FS13 Core Customer Fully FS14 Core Customer Partially FS15 Core Reporting 72 | RSA | Corporate Responsibility 2011 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ON RSA’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 To the stakeholders of RSA Scope, standards and criteria used We have been engaged by RSA Management collection, registration and internal control systems We have planned and performed our work on Our methodology has also included procedures to to obtain moderate assurance (review) that RSA with a view to ensuring reliable reporting by the basis of AA1000AS (2008), using the criteria in obtain evidence of the non-financial data for 2011 adheres to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles specifying acceptable reporting criteria and data the standard to perform a Type 2 engagement, and presented in the Report. The procedures chosen are and to obtain limited assurance (review) that to be collected for intended users of the Report. in accordance with the International Standard on dependent on our judgment, including the assessment selected quantitative non-financial data for 2011 on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance of the risks of material data misstatements. Assurance provider’s responsibility pages 30, 42, 43, 46-48 and 62-65 in the Corporate engagements other than audits or reviews of In conducting those risk assessments, we have Responsibility Report 2011 (the Report) are reliable. As an assurance provider, it is our responsibility, historical financial information”. The assurance considered internal controls relevant to the on the basis of our work, to make observations obtained is limited, as our work compared to that of preparation and presentation of environmental Criteria for the preparation and recommendations with respect to the nature an engagement with reasonable assurance has been and social data in order to design assurance of reporting and extent of RSA’s adherence to the AA1000 limited to, principally, inquiries, interviews and analytical procedures which are appropriate under The criteria for the preparation of the non-financial AccountAbility Principles and to review the procedures related to registration and communication the circumstances. data and information are evident from the RSA reliability of the non-financial data presented in systems, data and underlying documentation. Based on an assessment of materiality and risk, Reporting Guidelines which can be found at the Report. We have worked to obtain: our work has included: http://www.rsagroup.com/rsagroup/en/corporateWe have not in 2011 performed any tasks or responsibility/our-approach/reporting-guidelines. • Moderate assurance (review) that RSA adheres (i) Enquiries and interviews with members of services for RSA or other clients compromising The RSA Reporting Guidelines contain information to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles; Executive Management, staff from the Corporate our independence, nor have we been responsible concerning which of RSA’s activities and functions • Limited assurance (review) that the quantitative Responsibility department as well as management for the preparation of any part of the Report. Thus, are included in the reporting, types of data and non-financial data for 2011 in the Report are of selected corporate functions at group and we are independent as defined in the AA1000 registration and collection methods applied. reliable. regional level regarding RSA’s adherence and Assurance Standard (AA1000AS (2008)), and we commitment to the AA1000 AccountAbility Management’s responsibility consider our team qualified to have carried out this Methodology, approach, limitation Principles as well as the existence of systems and independent assurance engagement. Our team of Adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and scope of work procedures to support adherence to the principles experts holds competencies within performing of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness is Our methodology has included procedures to and embedding of the principles at corporate level; assurance of non-financial data, AA1000 adherence the responsibility of Management. Furthermore, obtain evidence of Management’s commitment to (ii) Inquiries regarding procedures and methods to and within assessing such data and information. In Management is responsible for preparing the the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and of the ensure that social and environmental reporting addition, our team has competencies with regard non-financial data as well as for establishing data implementation of systems and procedures in include data from the Group’s affiliates, and that to assessing sustainability management systems. support of the principles at corporate level. Corporate Responsibility 2011 | RSA | 73 Observations and recommendations these data have been registered, consolidated According to AA1000AS (2008), we are required communicate more clearly about the links between annual CR report, as well as through the business and incorporated in compliance with the social to include observations and recommendations for CR and the commercial strategy and that RSA processes, products and services in which CR is being accounting policies and environmental improvements in relation to RSA’s adherence to encourages local management teams to evaluate integrated. We would encourage a greater focus on accounting policies. Through interviews with the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. whether specific issues in the local context require dilemmas for the organisation in future. affiliates in UK, Italy, Ireland, Lithuania, Chile, Regarding Inclusivity: local amendments to the group CR strategy. PricewaterhouseCoopers Canada and Scandinavia and based on RSA’s business principles, brand beliefs and corporate Regarding Materiality: Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab requests and selected documentation, we have responsibility (CR) policy suite constitute a strong RSA uses a wide range of sources from CR employee Copenhagen, May 20, 2011 furthermore assessed the existing systems for commitment to accountability and engagement with surveys over third-party led external stakeholder data collection and registration, and procedures stakeholders which is rooted at the executive level feedback and materiality assessment to benchmarking to ensure reliable reporting. and supported by the Group’s solid CR governance in the materiality determination process which structure. RSA has a robust approach to spotting and defines the Group’s annual CR strategy and the Conclusion understanding sustainability trends and how these report content. In 2011 RSA has brought together Birgitte Mogensen Regarding AA1000APS (2008) can affect RSA and its stakeholders. This approach CR managers from across the globe in London to State Authorized Public Accountant Based on our review, nothing has come to our includes procedures to engage with key stakeholder take part in the materiality assessment process. attention causing us not to believe that RSA groups on CR issues. Although RSA has an advanced approach to adheres to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. In 2011 we have seen that stakeholder engagement assessing materiality, the process could further Regarding data on sustainability issues has been further integrated benefit from a consistent set of materiality criteria Based on our review, nothing has come to our into core business functions, thereby facilitating the across all stakeholder inputs. attention which causes us not to believe that organisation’s ability to learn and improve. The Jens Pultz Pedersen Regarding Responsiveness: quantitative non-financial data for 2011 on pages engagements range from the global formal partnership MSc in Engineering As a Group, RSA responds to material stakeholder 30, 42, 43, 46-48 and 62-65 in the Corporate with WWF to informal networks and dialogue with issues through its commitments to accountability Responsibility Report 2011 has been stated in suppliers at both group and local level. Furthermore, and engagement in the core and strategic CR accordance with the methodology and criteria RSA has developed new policy guidelines to support themes environment, social inclusion and safety by described in the RSA Reporting Guidelines. local implementation of the Group’s CR strategy. considering the markets’ different levels of maturity To support this process we recommend that RSA and available resources. Responsiveness is also evident Management (at group level as well as local level) from on-going CR communication, including the Reporting Printed on Revive 100 pure white silk, an FSC® certified paper produced using a chlorine-free method. Printed using vegetable-based inks.
