Goby LLC 2012 United Nations Global Compact Report A Communication on Progress Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Contents CEO Statement: commitment and leadership ............................................................ 3 The United Nations Global Compact Principles........................................................... 4 Goby: sustainable mission ............................................................................................... 5 Everyone Matters........................................................................................................... 5 LEED Experts .................................................................................................................... 5 Energy Star Expertise ..................................................................................................... 6 You can’t manage what you don’t measure .......................................................... 7 Sustainability in our operations ....................................................................................... 8 Environment ....................................................................................................................... 9 Air Quality Management ............................................................................................. 9 Energy Management ................................................................................................. 10 Waste Management .................................................................................................. 10 Sustainable Purchasing .............................................................................................. 11 Social Performance ........................................................................................................ 11 Dynamic Workplace ................................................................................................... 11 Social Involvement | Sustainable Events ................................................................ 12 Conclusion: transparency and disclosure................................................................... 14 Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com CEO Statement: commitment and leadership “Goby LLC is proud to present its first Global Compact Communication on Progress, in which it demonstrates our commitment to its ten principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We have committed to embed the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Our commitment to a more sustainable world not only translates our ideas into actions, but it resides in our vision and business model. From day one, Goby’s mission has been to apply a sustainability lens to real estate portfolio in order to create real value. We break the value drivers into operational efficiencies, marketing/social awareness, and unlocking strategic value. As we accelerate the pace of our expansion, we will make certain to develop our activities according to the UN Global Compact and its sustainability principles.” Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com The United Nations Global Compact Principles Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 4 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 5 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 8 and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Principle 10 and bribery. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Goby: sustainable mission Everyone Matters Our mission is to provide real estate owners, managers, and users respected, unbiased expertise in cost efficient, high impact sustainability planning, monitoring, and implementation for their commercial, office, and real estate operations. In its simplest terms, Goby was founded to maximize our client's asset and market value through the optimal performance of their real estate and operations. As the world shrinks and our population grows, the actions and inactions we take every day make an impact felt beyond the confines of our own lives. The size and scale of the commercial real estate industry puts not only great responsibility but an incredible opportunity to create real financial returns and environmental impact through improved planning, implementation, monitoring, and operations. At Goby, our goal is to help each of our clients make this impact through the optimal performance of their real estate and operations. We are focused on supporting real estate owners, managers, and users in achieving dramatic financial and environmental results through a pragmatic and disciplined approach. As the goby fish thrives by building mutually beneficial relationships with other underwater inhabitants. We also aim to create relationships that benefit all involved parties customers, employees, partners and the world. LEED Experts LEED, which stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is a certification awarded by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) for implementing measures that reduce the carbon footprint and increase the overall sustainability and livability of a building. Goby is the recognized leader in green in the Midwest and through its' team of 100% LEED accredited professionals, helps to bring its' clients sustainable buildings, increased market awareness through green, and develop long-term strategies for success. Since our founding, the Goby team has completed about 20M ft² of LEED projects across a wide variety of uses including commercial real estate, hotels, retail, athletic arenas, and corporate offices. We have recently added the “Proven Provider” label to list of environmental accolades. The Goby team of LEED experts also provides LEED accreditation training and has completed courses for real estate teams and sustainability minded professionals across the country. Some notable projects that Goby has worked on include: LEED CI Silver for the John Hancock Building, LEED EB: OM Gold for AT&T Tower in Minneapolis, LEED ID+C for the Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel in Chicago, LEED EB: O+M Gold for 401 N. Michigan Ave, and LEED EB:O+M Silver for the Franklin Center in Chicago. To view a sampling of Goby's LEED projects, please check out the links below. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Energy Star Expertise How does your building, office, hotel, or retail space compare? Goby's first step in any sustainability program is performing an Energy Star benchmark in order to determine the most appropriate next steps. First and foremost, an Energy Star benchmark allows us to optimize operations and reduce operating expenses. In addition, many states or cities are enacting ordinances and mandates which require Energy Star reporting – by planning ahead now, you can be prepared for pending legislation and mandatory reporting. Finally, many major corporations and the GSA require offices located in Energy Star rated buildings. Goby is in the top 10% of Energy Star providers nation-wide. We have benchmarked and certified more than 50M ft² of Energy Star space. Our action plans have resulted in millions of dollars in operational savings. This includes commercial real estate, hotels, retail, industrial, and corporate users. “Achieving LEED status is no simple easy task. We needed assistance in the analysis of the Building and the LEED Application process. Goby’s team has the experience, certifications and pragmatic approach towards achieving the LEED status.” Jeb Scherb |Owner | 211 W. Wacker Drive Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com You can’t manage what you don’t measure Leading Commercial Real Estate firms utilize Goby’s SeaSuite solution to track sustainability in a single cloud-based interface. SeaSuite customers average 5-10% cost reductions just by tracking their sustainability performance. SeaSuite customers utilize the coupled dashboard and Goby's expert services team to ensure compliance with regulatory and reporting ordinances, Energy Star, and LEED certifications. It’s an imperative responsibility to understand your exposure to the rising costs of energy, water, waste, and utilities. SeaSuite customers are able to report to their stakeholders in each of these areas. Goby is taking our solution to next level by certifying SeaSuite under an Environmental Management System. “Track Sustainable Performance. Maintain Compliance. Mitigate Risk.” SeaSuite by Goby Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Sustainability in our operations The success of Goby depends on our responsible environmental mindfulness and stewardship in all of our activities. We continuously commit ourselves to develop and implement best management practices for a sustainable, yet profitable existence. This commitment arises from a sense of concerned citizenship and moral duty. Goby has a desire to lead by example and extend our influence to improve the environment. As a role model, we need to endorse our own recommendation; therefore, Goby is committed to implementing its own sustainability policy. We firmly believe a company’s responsibility no matter its size is essential to how it operates. This begins with the day-to-day relationships it maintains with employees, customers, partners, suppliers, non-governmental associations and society as a whole. We are committed to our sustainability progress by launching this program, collecting the data and reporting the progress for transparency. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Environment We believe that preventing global warming is a great challenge for humankind and every company as small as they may be should contribute and take actions to reverse climate change. At Goby, we are willing to incorporate climate change issues into business decisions and conduct our corporate activities with controlled environmental impacts to fully meet our responsibility and stewardship as a corporate citizen. As such, we have engaged policies to control our impact on the environment. We encourage our employees to develop reasonable and eco-friendly consumption. Under the responsibility of managers, all employees play an active role in adhering to environmental procedures in their day-to-day tasks. Goby is planning to control its environmental footprint from year to year and step by step. Our environmental protection policy particularly emphasizes global compact principles 3,4,5,7, 8 and 9 around four key areas: Air Quality Management: with a strong focus on controlling business travel and enabling responsible mobility. Energy Management: with priority to efficient use of energy in our office. Waste Management: with priority to responsible printing and waste recycling . Sustainable Purchasing: with a strong focus on products that minimize negative environmental impacts. Air Quality Management First and foremost, Goby’s headquarters is located within a LEED certified building which complies with higher standards of Air Quality Management for its employees. Further, as mobility is essential to our business operations, it is important that we make ecologically sound and efficient choices to moderate the negative effects of business travel to the greatest extent possible. Control Business Travels: Priority to Web Conferencing over Flying and Bundling of Trips Emissions produced by business travel are one of the major direct environmental impacts generated by service firms. We have engaged initiatives to control business travel and the environmental impact of our employees’ daily work commutes. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Goby is aware of the impact on the environment of the employees’ daily commute to work. This is why Goby makes sure its offices are located in areas easily accessible to public transportation. Our LEED Gold Office Building provides secure bike lock-up as well as locker room to entice Gobies to commute via bicycle. In fact, we participated in the Chicago Green Office Challenge this year. Gobies were encouraged to bike to/from work and compete against other businesses in terms of green commuting. 100% of Goby employees use environmental-friendly transportation for their daily commute, whether its public transit, walking or biking we are doing the green thing! Energy Management Goby recognizes that implementing processes to improve energy efficiency has positive impact: at the economical level (lower energy costs), at the environmental level (reduced greenhouse gas emissions) and at the social level (enhanced comfort for employees). Goby’s environmental policy in terms of energy management primarily aims to efficiently use energy in our office. We have retro-fitted the lighting with energy efficient lighting which has reduced energy costs by 25%. Even further, we utilize motion censored lighting in our common spaces and inform employees of best practices in shutting down power at the end of each work day. Further, all Goby employees are issued Energy Star certified Laptops that efficiently use power. We are consistently looking to technology reduce our carbon footprint. Waste Management At Goby, we strive to operate our daily office activities with as little impact on the environment as possible. Our environmental policy in terms of waste management is as follows: Recycling: we have dedicated paper, and can/bottle recycling stations on our office in common areas for all to use. We also engage in quarterly e-waste recycling for better management of electronics recycling. Priority to Paperless Communication: we are committed to greater use of recycled paper, both in our everyday business as well as for our communications (presentations, client meetings, product fact sheets, etc.). Responsible Printing: double sided printing, with emphasis on printing only if needed. Pages that can be reused are placed in the recycled printing paper bin for future reuse. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Sustainable Purchasing At Goby, our environmental stewardship expands into purchasing products that minimize our negative environmental impact. We utilize green purchasing practices and evaluate the entire life cycle of the products and materials we purchase. Developed and implemented ENERGY STAR certified appliance/equipment purchasing guidelines. Purchase office products that are environmentally preferred considering not only the product but its packaging as well. We will not utilize suppliers that don’t execute generally accepted child labour laws as Goby supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and the effective abolition of child labor. Further we support our client Carlson Rezidor in their philanthropic efforts against child trafficking. Social Performance Dynamic Workplace Bolstered by the talent and expertise of our 20+ employees, Goby's human resources policy focuses on the welfare of employees and training to motivate staff and boost performance. Competitive pay and benefits, career development in sustainable training (LEED certifications) and equal opportunities are fundamental to attracting and supporting employees. Goby helps employees to balance work and home commitments by offering flexible work options. Goby offers a comprehensive Wellness programs via our healthcare provider that includes gym membership discounts, among its plethora of perks. Health insurance is the core of wellness and as such Goby covers the cost of employees’ plans 100%. We holistically believe in providing a safe and healthy working environment for employees as well as outside the Goby organization. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Social Involvement | Sustainable Events Goby celebrates events organizations that focus on sustainability. We strongly encourage our Goby community to participate and take action with organizations that sustainably benefit others. Here is a glimpse into our sustainable goodness: Chicago Food DepositoryChicago’s food bank is a nonprofit food distribution and training center providing food for hungry people while striving to end hunger in our community. Goby volunteer regularly and donates to this imperative social cause. Chicago Gateway Green is dedicated to greening and beautifying Chicago’s expressways, gateways and neighborhoods. Goby partners, volunteers and donates to this organization as we are passionate about the mission. We are there when Chicago Gateway Green needs Goby! USGBC (United States Green Building Council). Non-profit organization dedicated to sustainable building design and construction. Goby is a member and we attend their events that based on very environmentally which are focused around stewardship, providing tools + expertise, building communities, educating the industry and public and forming forums for industry dialog. CoreNet Global. A group focusing on strategic management of corporate real estate and workplace resources. Goby is a member of the Community Reinvestment Committee (CRC) and we have supported the annual school supply drive for the Walter and Connie Payton Foundation and a toy drives in the winter. Other activities that Goby has participated in through CoreNet: ReBuilding Together a non-profit organization that helps families in need rebuild and improve houses and Young Leaders Group has a charity event that we donate to and participate in. BOMA (Building Owners and Managers Association). Goby participates in the Environmental aspects including holding a Brown Bag Session to present LEED recertification guidelines and the importance of tracking Sustainability data; as well as socially Goby volunteers time at the Annual December Toy Drive Event Horizons for Youth and at the soup kitchen Inspiration Café. NAIOP (National Association of Industrial and Office Properties) Goby has been attending their industry events, as we are focused on expanding our sustainability foot-candle to the Commercial Real Estate Community. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Girls in the Game provides and promotes sports and fitness opportunities, nutrition and health education, and leadership development to enhance the overall health and well-being of girls. Goby has several volunteers for their events as well donate to help ensure that organization is properly funded. Chicago Run is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote the health and wellness of Chicago children through innovative, engaging, and sustainable youth running programs. Goby donated to a runner who in turn ran in the Chicago Marathon to solely raise money for the Chicago Run. Wellness is extremely important to Gobies. These are but a mere handful of the sustainable initiatives that Goby proudly supports. We harvest a sustainability ethic with a perspective on the connections between local actions and global consequences and will continue to enhance our social performance. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com Conclusion: transparency and disclosure Goby is in the benchmarking phase of reporting for the UN Global Compact. The cornerstone of our sustainability is to not only the ability to evaluate our progress but to harvest the willingness to admit our flaws and continually improve. For Goby, a look at our sustainability program is made streamlined and properly tracked with software solutions that allow for this reflection for improvement. Goby’s commitment to the United Unions Global Compact’s 10 principles is ingrained on our triple bottom line. We will strive for excellence as we continually raise the standard for corporate sustainability in our daily and long term operations. Pragmatic Green. Dramatic Value. ™ www.gobyllc.com
