Top Message We strive to build a brilliant future for everyone by fulf illing our roles and responsibilities. Chairman, President & CEO HORIBA, Ltd. “Omoshiro Okashiku” 2011: A year for HORIBA to production of our stack gas analyzers for pollution T he HORIBA Motto: “Joy and Fun” reconf irm its roles and missions monitoring in order to help thermal power stations across Japan resume operation, thereby contributing “Joy and Fun” represents our desire to see all employees performing work that is The year 2011 will be remembered as the year of the to massive efforts to restore the supply of electricity, rewarding and allows them to lead happy and fulfilling lives. We want our people to put unthinkably massive and horrific disaster known as as electricity shortages had quickly become a social “Joy” into their work through their own efforts by making the most of the time they spend the Great East Japan Earthquake. But the year also problem. At the same time, we made company-wide in the workplace. To that end, the company provides places where employees can work allowed those of us at HORIBA to reconfirm our role as efforts to increase production of our environmental with a sense of “Joy and Fun.” Furthermore, if employees do work with a sense of “Joy a leading manufacturer of analysis and measurement radiation monitor in response to the sudden need for and Fun,” their ability to generate ideas increases, their imagination expands, their instruments as well as recognize how much our radiation measurements to protect public safety. In the efficiency also rises, and corporate value increases. This results in a “win-win” stakeholders expect from us. immediate aftermath of the disaster it was genuinely relationship for customers, shareholders, suppliers, and society. In the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake, frustrating to have to keep so many needy people which shocked us with its devastation and horror, we at waiting for our products. However, approximately half a “Omoi”: f ive pillars to phrase the HORIBAway HORIBA immediately established a special task force to initially confirm the safety of our employees and their year after the earthquake, we succeeded in enhancing our supply system to its current status, which now “Omoi ” means an emotional families and to make contact with our business partners allows us to deliver our products to those in need as 1. To be a part of a collaborative community, feeling, passion, thoughts, and customers. Then we swiftly set out to provide soon as orders are received. at the forefront of new ideas and creations enthusiasm, desire, aspiration, information and support to help our customers safely As a manufacturer of analysis and measurement 2. To achieve goals and making my life memorable ambition, commitment, mission, by fostering the highest intellectual potential restart our products as electricity and other utilities instruments, one of our important missions is to and objective. We encourage 3. Reach across the globe to expand learning that captures were restored. The results of the task force work in contribute to a safer and more secure society by our employees to have the key business developments, wherever they occur different places and situations repairing equipment, supporting public infrastructure, such as power plants, following “Omoi,” which is the 4. To be proud of sharing what I do and restarting our supply chains, etc., have now made us with instruments for measuring pollutants and radiation. what HORIBA delivers even more aware of how closely we are connected to our I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to all of our essence of acting on “Joy and 5. I want to participate all around and customers, business partners and society. suppliers and employees who have helped achieve Fun” through their work. where I can be of help Responding to Japan’s immediate needs, we increased this objective by making swift supply a reality. 1 T op Message Creating products and technologies that We a r e c o m m i t t e d t o e n h a n c i n g o u r R & D a n d improving the quality of our products, services and by steadily doing what it ought to do, one step at a contribute to a more sustainable society production capacities on an international scale, which operations. We also seek to improve overall quality time. We look forward to your continued attention to, will allow us to swiftly deliver our technologies and through initiatives such as our Technical Olympics and and understanding of, our future ac t ivi t ies. We Although 2011 was an unprecedented year due to the products across wider sections of society. As part of discussion sessions developed in cooperation with our appreciate your generous guidance and support. earthquake, analysis and measurement will forever our efforts towards this objective, we will complete a production partner companies with a focus on improving Thank you very much. remain essential technical elements in the foundation of Research & Development Center in France in 2012. manufacturing and processing our daily lives, encompassing energy, the environment, This R&D Center will advance our R&D capabilities for technologies as well as product and human health and safety. As a company with five analysis and measurement instruments, primarily in the quality. We will also continue business segments (Automotive Test Systems, Process scientific arena. to i nve st i n h uma n resource & Environmental, Medical, Semiconductor, and Regarding production capacity, we recently completed development, particularly the Scientific), HORIBA is deeply involved in many aspects a factory improvement in Shanghai to enhance our HORIBA COLLEGE, which is our of our daily lives. production capacity for several business areas and unique in-house college. For example, you can find our blood cell counters being supply greater capacity to the Chinese market. In used in many of the hospitals and clinics around you. another area, we are now in the process of establishing We signed the United Nations HORIBA counters only require extremely small samples global supply facilities for medical test reagents by Global Compact in April 2011 to of blood to deliver on the spot results, enabling quick expanding the Aso Factory (Kumamoto Prefecture) and express our conviction that we quantification of health conditions and identification of commencing construction of a new factory in Brazil. are a company that is committed possible infection. Their accuracy and speed help Moreover, we are aiming to expand our automotive test to working together with our medical professionals make accurate diagnoses and system business model by developing and improving our stakeholders to create a better, provide precise information to their patients. HORIBA’s various bases in Asia. In 2011, we merged our subsidiary more prosperous future. This products are also used in the automotive industry. For in Japan that handle drive recorders and digital initiative is for companies that example, HORIBA’ s automotive emission measurement tachographs. In addition, we are integrating several are committed to incorporating 10 systems and engine test systems are used to develop subsidiaries in the United States in 2011 and 2012. corporate responsibility principles clean, ultralow-emission engines for environmentally We believe that we can better fulfill our responsibility into their business operations and friendly vehicles. Moreover, other HORIBA analyzers of supplying the analysis and measurement instruments strategies, including addressing play pivotal roles in analyzing the structure and that people need by striving to increase our management concerns related to protecting composition of new materials for rechargeable batteries efficiency by consolidating different functions from a human rights, eliminating unfair and fuel cells, technologies expected to be central to global point of view. labor practices, protecting the future transportation solutions. In addition, a wide environment and anti-corruption variety of our measurement instruments and sensors efforts. We believe that this are used to improve product quality in manufacturing Incessant ef forts devoted to improving initiative will lead to a movement processes for solar battery panels and semiconductors, quality and developing better employees for the creation of a global including LEDs (light-emitting diodes), which are standard for CSR activities in essential components in LCD TVs and mobile phones. The ultimate goal of our business and CSR activities the future. We have many ways to support public health and safety is to achieve HORIBA PREMIUM. In other words, we Though we are now in the midst and security throughout a wide variety of situations aim to create and provide premium quality and value of turbulent times with social and through our technologies and products, thereby for everyone. To this end we will continue our efforts to economic conditions changing contributing to the creation of a more sustainable improve overall quality through the previously from moment to moment, HORIBA society. This is our pride and the essence of the mentioned activities as well as our Product Quality is nevertheless determined to HORIBA Group’s CSR activities. Improvement (PQI) activities that are focused on fulfill its social responsibilities 2 3 Business Five business segments segments supporting present and future Striving to achieve a sustainable society Medical through analysis and measurement Supporting evidence-based medicine Maintaining safe and healthy lifestyles, saving energy and reducing Effective and efficient medical treatment requires not only Automotive excellent medical skills but also prompt and accurate data. emissions, researching and developing new energy technologies, Test Systems HORIBA offers easy-to-use hematology and glucose analyzers for and realizing sustainable manufacturing—all these activities are medical professionals. Our medical analyzers are routinely used in founded upon accurate measurements of data using analytical and Process & facilities such as clinics, hospitals, emergency labs and NICUs. Environmental Scientific measurement instruments. As a comprehensive manufacturer of Our advanced technologies make medical examinations possible analysis and measurement instruments, our goal is to contribute to with only a small sample of blood, reducing both patient suffering Medical Semiconductor creating a sustainable society by revealing the essence of various and the workload on medical professionals, and thus contributing issues facing the global environment and society, as we fulfill our to improving the quality of people’s lives. Five business segments mission to provide the means to analyze or measure complex substances. Blood Glucose Automatic Blood Cell Analyzer Counter plus CRP Automotive Test Systems Semiconductor Comprehensive support for developing Supporting semiconductor manufacturing environmentally friendly vehicles for the realization of a prosperous and HORIBA contributes to the development of powertrains with pleasant society high fuel economy and performance while facilitating compliance During semiconductor manufacturing processes, which support with global emissions regulations. HORIBA also develops, contemporary IT industries, products are inspected at each step manufactures, and markets advanced test and measurement by a number of measurement and control systems. HORIBA’ s systems for all stages of vehicle and powertrain development. technologies provide instrumentation to support semiconductor The extensive HORIBA product line provides vital support for manufacturing processes. We also support the manufacture developing environmentally friendly vehicles. of flat panel displays, including liquid crystal displays used in high-definition TVs and mobile phones, and organic electro-luminescent displays, as well as solar cells and Motor Exhaust Gas Engine Test System Mass Flow Controller Fiber Optic Type light-emitting diodes. Analyzer Chemical Solution Concentration Monitor Process & Environmental Scientific Providing measuring tools for Developing nano-measurement environment protection and technologies to provide solutions for the development of new energy industries the analysis of a wide variety of materials In compliance with global environmental conservation regulations, Analysis of the nano-materials required for fundamental research HORIBA provides analysis and measurement systems with focuses on the nano-level behavior of molecules and atoms. HORIBA applications ranging from air and water to soil. HORIBA’ s technologies scientific instruments provide solutions for the analysis of a wide play important roles in areas such as monitoring gases and wastewater variety of materials to support researchers working on the cutting from chemical plants, managing water for medical applications and edge as they explore the unknown and produce the high-technology pure water in the semiconductor industry, and controlling water quality products and new materials of the future. HORIBA’ s analysis systems in the pharmaceutical, food and cosmetics industries.Our products are also applied in many other areas, including pH measurement of reduce the environmental impact of operations and facilitate the pharmaceutical products, inspection and defect analysis of electronic monitoring of processes in order to support industrial development. Portable Gas Automatic COD* parts, criminal investigations and archaeological research. Benchtop pH/ X-ray Analyzer Monitoring System Water Quality Analytical Microscope *COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand Analyzer 4 5 Contributing to society through analysis and Analytical and measurement technologies measurement which contribute to society Meeting the needs of society and customers with Quality management Electronics Detection of contamination in manufacturing to increase production yields reliable technologies Cosmetics Management of particles in foundations and skin lotions HORIBA’ s analytical and measurement technologies affect our lives in many ways. We at HORIBA believe Food products Quality inspection to detect contamination of food products such as vegetables, meat, rice and cooking oil that providing products and services that satisfy the needs of our customers will contribute to building a Pharmaceutical products Accurate analysis of high-purity pharmaceutical water more sustainable society and improve people’s quality of life. As a company with five business segments (Automotive Test Systems, Process & Human health Food safety Various inspections of food products, such as checking residual Energy agricultural chemicals and customs inspections of imported food Environmental, Medical, Semiconductor, and Scientific), HORIBA is deeply and safety involved in issues related to energy, human health, the environment and safety. Drinking water Automatic monitoring of inspection items such as turbidity, color, Human residual chlorine and water pressure at water supply facilities Safety Health HORIBA is working to realize a sustainable society that brings comfort to all by providing the analytical and measurement technologies required for industrial Medical examinations Quick blood tests using small samples to reduce suffering of patients Environment development. Safe driving Promoting safe driving by analyzing the causes and circumstances of accidents Environmental Identifying radiation around people (in living environments) radiation measurement by quantifying it R&D of New materials R&D of new materials, such as carbon nano materials and graphene new materials and Air pollution Detection of photochemical smog and other pollutants Organic electro-luminescent R&D of organic electro-luminescence technology, which is expected Protection of the monitoring new energy elements by continuously monitoring atmospheric conditions to play an important role in the next generation of flat panel displays global environment technologies Water quality monitoring Monitoring of water quality in natural environments, Rechargeable R&D of rechargeable battery components such as anodes, for rivers, lakes and oceans including rivers, lakes and oceans batteries cathodes, electrolytes and separators Control of factory waste Clean energy R&D of natural energy technology, which is expected to play emissions Monitoring of waste gas emissions and liquid discharge an important role in next generation energy technology Control of wastewater discharge Monitoring of the quality of water discharged from factories Semiconductor Improving device quality and yield through fluid control, Hazardous Productivity devices substances Analysis of toxic materials, supporting compliance chemical solution monitoring and particle detection, etc. with environmental regulations around the world improvements Flat-panel displays Control and inspection of the manufacturing process of in manufacturing (FPDs) next generation FPDs Chemical fertilizers Monitoring of soil contamination caused by chemical fertilizers and processing Solar cells Development of efficient and advanced process control Agricultural and factories for the manufacture of solar cells domestic water Water quality monitoring of agricultural and public water supplies Printed circuit boards High-accuracy inspection of lead-free printed circuit boards Painting and coating Management of ink, paint, and coating powder as well as inspections Productivity Management of water quality in fish hatcheries, Improvement of improvements of the surface gloss of coatings agricultural live fish transportation and hydroponic cultures Safety management of manufacturing processes in and fishing Food safety assurance by measuring nitrate ion concentrations Petrochemical plants environments Safety and security environments where explosive gases may be present and residual chemicals in agricultural products Ultra-low exhaust High-accuracy measurement of low-concentration exhaust gases Next generation emissions Archaeological from vehicles designed to meet the latest emissions regulations Protection of Non-destructive analysis of historical artifacts, vehicle R&D research cultural properties including cultural properties and valuable objects Fuel efficiency Support using test equipment for R&D of high fuel economy vehicles Environmentally Analysis of driving conditions using digital tachographs to friendly driving promote energy-saving driving Analysis of the greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4 and N2O) emitted Forensics Criminal Greenhouse gases from vehicles investigations Analysis to find clues to solve cases based on mere traces of evidence Alternative fuels Research and assessment of new fuels that are potential alternatives to gasoline and diesel Engines, powertrains Development of vehicle simulation testing environments and brakes for major automotive components Veterinary medical Animal hospitals Quick and accurate medical examinations for animals Electric motors Performance assessment of the electric motors required for electric and hybrid vehicles care 6 7 Special Inter view Our research aims to discover the simple, beautiful truth Developing an evaluation method “outside the box” — Semiconductors, which are widely used in home Evaluating semiconductor quality using light to electronics, PCs and a broad range of other products, are a vital component of our daily lives. You developed a very advance solar batteries and LSI technologies popular method of evaluating semiconductor quality. Put simply, a semiconductor is a material with electrical conductivity that is intermediate in magnitude between that of a conductor, such as metal, and an insulator. Silicon is an example of a semiconductor. The amount of impurity contained within a semiconductor changes its level of conductivity. Some impurities degrade the functions of materials while others help improve them. This means that when you want to make use of impurities to enhance the quality of silicon wafers for LSI (large-scale integration) circuits, you first need to identify the appropriate impurity elements and ▲ Dr. Tajima stands in front of a measurement instrument quantify them. This is because it is impossible to provide holding an actual wafer stable quality if you are unsure about the kinds and amounts of impurities contained within your materials. Electrotechnical Laboratory, which you joined upon I developed an original method to conduct such completing your graduate studies. Things went very measurements using photoluminescence. smoothly for you, didn’ t they? Actually, not really. In retrospect, I can say that knowing no — Can you introduce us to that method, the fear whatsoever at that time was the reason I gave it a try. Photoluminescence Method, which you developed? After all, measuring ultra-trace amounts of impurities This may get a bit technical, but generally speaking, when contained within silicon wafers on the order of parts per you apply energy to substances, they absorb that energy. billion was anything but easy. Moreover, it was almost The absorbed energy is then later released in different unprecedented to perform such measurements using forms. When energy is released in the form of light-emission photoluminescence. If I were to go back to when I was in it is called luminescence. The term “photoluminescence” my 20s, would I want to do the same thing again? No, I refers to the process in which a substance absorbs energy don’ t think so (laugh). From an objective point of view, it provided as photons and then emits photons. was quite the fool’s errand. Dr. MichioTajima, Silicon crystals, which are commonly used in the Nevertheless, in those days I worked very hard—almost too Doctor of Engineering semiconductor electronics industry, emit light when hard, perhaps—with what you might call the “bravado of Professor Emeritus, Institute of Space and A s t r o n a u t i c a l S c i e n c e ( I SA S ) , J a p a n exposed to laser-beam radiation because defects and youth.” Then, one day, after numerous trials and errors, I Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Visiting Professor, Meiji University impurities within them react to the beam. I applied this to finally detected light emitted from the crystals. I proceeded Dr. Tajima received his Doctor of Engineering evaluate crystals by measuring and analyzing the light to gather many pieces of data that suggested a very degree from the University of Tokyo’s Faculty of Engineering in 1975. He then joined the emitted in order to identify the kinds and amounts of the simple, very beautiful rule that governed the phenomenon. I Electrotechnical Laboratory at the Agency of Industrial Science & Technology within impurities contained immediately designed appropriate measurement conditions the Ministry of International Trade & Industry. Later, he was appointed as a professor at within semiconductors. I and conducted tests again in order to validate the rule. The ISAS and at the Graduate school of the University of Tokyo. Among his many awards think that the experience second set of results established the reproducibility of the are the Watanabe Memorial Research Incentive Award from the Semiconductor of measuring weak light rule. The memory of that moment is still vivid and fresh in Research Institute and the Conference on Solid State Devices and the Materials Award in my research on lightmy mind. from the Japan Society of Applied Physics. emitting diodes as a graduate student at the —The Photoluminescence Method has been adopted University of Tokyo helped in ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) In the mid-1970s, a thought struck the young Michio Tajima—Could the luminescence phenomena of standards as well as JIS (Japanese Industrial Standard) me a lot. semiconductors be used to detect impurities? This idea ultimately supported the later prosperity of the and is now in widespread use around the world. semiconductor industry and also played an important role in solar battery development. Dr. Tajima is a —You successfully It is rare for JIS to approve this kind of evaluation method. It researcher who pursues originality and simultaneously advocates contributing back to society through the developed the crystal also was the first Japanese technology registered with popularization of technologies. We interviewed Dr. Michio Tajima, Professor Emeritus at ISAS/JAXA, about evaluation method during ASTM, which is considered a global authority in this area, ▲ Laser beams play a significant his career and his enthusiasm for research. your second year at the role in semiconductor evaluation so I felt extremely honored and flattered. 8 9 Special Inter view I had always wanted to develop helpful technologies to aid an essential part of your I place great emphasis on having dialogues during to effectively evaluate each of these in turn. I believe the growing semiconductor industry; this was the original research. research. In fact, I faced a large number of different that my achievements so far are the results of my efforts inspiration behind my research efforts. I had also been Yes, indeed. You could even criticisms and debates, both inside and outside Japan, to resolve these problems one-by-one by making the working hard to standardize the evaluation method, which I said that measurement is the immediately after I published the results of my research on most of the technologies and know-how that I have had developed working in cooperation with manufacturers, very theme of my research. photoluminescence. Since the method offered a much accumulated. in order to bring it into wider use across the entire industry. To evaluate the quality of higher sensitivity than the then conventional evaluation As for the satisfaction that I get from my research, the Therefore, it meant a lot to me when the method was s e m i c o n d u c to r s i s n o n e methods, many people had doubts about its best thing about doing research is discovering the truth. approved as a standard. other than to measure their effectiveness, wondering whether it was really possible Although words can hardly describe this, genuine truth is The efforts one must make to standardize technologies impurities and defects. and reliable. extremely simple and tremendously beautiful. I feel that differ from those necessary for research. One must get far Whenever I work to develop I also received many questions at international academic finding such truth is the most rewarding and joyful thing more people and organizations involved—for example, a new evaluation method, I conferences. When I was unable to answer them on the about being a scientist. preparing 50 sets of standard samples and distributing must improve measurement ▲ Dr. Tajimaʼs style is to always spot, I worked through the night to prepare answers in them to the leading global semiconductor companies. In instruments with the support write down measurement order to respond the following day. As I handled these —Lastly, what would you say to the young researchers results in his notebook and students who are the future of this field? fact, it took us more than 10 years to standardize the of manufacturers. This is pieces of feedback one by one in this way, I developed a method. why I don’ t want to let others look at the instruments I am deeper understanding of the subject and noticed many More than anything else, researchers must be creative. using when I am working on cutting-edge development, new things. Interacting with other people in earnest “Do yourself what no one has ever done before.” “Discover as I put a lot of my know-how into them (laugh). Germany sometimes enables one to discover things which one new things, even if they seem trivial.” I frequently say such is excellent at manufacturing. For example, the research otherwise could not. In fact, some of my major things to the students whom I teach and supervise. Researchers must understand the principles activities of the Max Planck Institute for Solid State breakthroughs are a result of such dialogues. Having In a way, discovering new things and establishing new behind measurement instruments Physics, where I used to work as a researcher, were those heated debates is now among my most precious methods is a lonely and painstaking exercise. Also, supported by highly skilled engineers known as Meister. memories and also gave me invaluable personal although you may need to inherit work from your —The Photoluminescence Method is also applied in the However, Japan also has quality engineers worthy of the contacts, both in Japan and overseas. predecessors, that alone is not very interesting. When you area of solar batteries, which contain semiconductors. Meister name. In fact, during the process of establishing encounter something that captures your imagination As you know, demand for solar batteries is now growing the Photoluminescence Method, many brilliant Japanese —That is very interesting. Do you place importance on during difficult research—that is when you feel the real rapidly. Improving their quality is also an urgent task engineers, including those from HORIBA who to this day anything else in your research? pleasure of research. Moreover, those who experience because higher quality solar batteries with enhanced power have continued to take care of my instruments, worked As for the mental aspect, I would say concentration and this always grow exponentially afterwards without generation efficiency will take up less space when installed, night and day with us to develop the method. relaxation. To demonstrate your creativity and originality, requiring any additional impetus. In my opinion, the key to use fewer materials and have lower costs. you must have good concentration, which in turn requires growth is to focus on pursuing the truth. As part of our efforts to realize higher quality, our laboratory —Do you have any requests for measurement instrument that your mind be relaxed. It may just be me, but I feel has developed the hydrofluoric acid liquid-immersion manufacturers? that my mind was always in some kind of relaxed mode photoluminescence imaging method. This is a method for Above all, I want manufacturers to create instruments when I made valuable discoveries. Of course, some evaluating the quality of silicon, the main ingredient in solar that produce accurate, repeatable results and to element o f l u c k i s a l s o a v i t a l c o m p o n e n t o f s u c h batteries. By using this method, one can ascertain quality guarantee a certain level of precision regardless of the discoveries. Nevertheless, it’ s true that you are more in under a second. The conventional method requires skill of the user. In addition, given the increasingly “black likely to make the most of your luck when relaxed. about 20 minutes to do the same thing. Moreover, this new box” nature of today’s instruments that is a consequence method offers 20 times higher resolution—in other words, of their ever increasing sophistication, I would find even —You have not only produced great results as a measurement performance. more user support very helpful. For example, at times researcher but also provided a driving force for industry Solar batteries are closely related to the space industry manufacturers handle product failures simply by replacing growth. What satisfaction do you get from your research and artificial satellites. In fact, I have been involved in a parts, leaving me in the dark about what actually and what is the source of your energy? number of scientific satellite projects as the leader of the occurred. I am proud to say that the precise evaluation method for power supply system group. Since solar batteries At the same time, researchers also need to keep in mind different types of wafers that was developed at JAXA, intended for use in space must have special durability that users must learn and understand the principles behind which I mentioned earlier, contributes to the practical use characteristics and other high performance features, the the measurement instruments which they use. We should of space devices. I also feel that I have contributed to semiconductors used in them are often made using a not merely press buttons and wait for the results. Otherwise, improving the quality of semiconductor materials. What is multilayer structure. That is why we modified the original we may fail to understand what our data really mean and the point of engineering if it doesn’ t do people or society Photoluminescence Method in this field in order to overlook something very important. any good? As such, seeing our technologies being used provide a new method for selectively evaluating the in industry boosts my motivation. respective layers of semiconductors. With no need for However, rather than carrying out research with a special pretreatment, this non-destructive, non-contact method is sense of mission, personally I feel that I am just focusing Earnest “dialogues” may cause now playing a major role in defect analysis for solar on what I can do at the moment to resolve the challenges chemical reactions batteries intended for use in satellites. at hand. Semiconductors have been experiencing dramatic evolution—from silicon to gallium arsenide to —Thank you very much for using HORIBA’ s measurement —Are there any policies that you have advocated for as a SOI (silicon on insulator) to SiC (Silicon carbide). I have ▲ Guiding students through new discoveries is now one of instruments. We understand that measurements are researcher throughout your career? also been striving to develop new evaluation methods Dr. Tajimaʼs important jobs 10 11 Promoting CSR Promoting CSR activities Corporate Governance / Internal Controls CSR promotion and management systems By upholding the basic principles of open and fair, HORIBA, Ltd. is striving to maximize managerial transparency and corporate value. We have put the following organizations and systems in place to that exceed public expectations promote corporate governance and internal controls: Board of Auditors ◎ Three auditors (including two outside auditors) supervise HORIBA believes that the essential objective of CSR activities is to contribute to realizing a sustainable and monitor the business operations conducted by the Board of Directors. society and prosperous future through our technologies and products. However, that is not all that our Internal auditing ◎ The Internal Auditing Division provides advice and guidance to ensure that business operations throughout all HORIBA Group companies are conducted legally and fairly in accordance with stakeholders expect from us. In order to perform our duties as a corporate citizen, we believe that it is laws, statutes and company regulations. essential to create and improve our management systems for corporate governance and compliance. Internal controls ◎ We have adopted the Basic Policies for the Development of Internal Control Systems to establish systems to ensure legal compliance and for risk management. CSR Promotion System Integrated Management System The HORIBA Group formed the HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee in April 2005. The Committee is In April 2011, the Japan Quality Assurance Organization (JQA) granted the JQA Medical currently engaged in CSR initiatives with the full-fledged support of Group companies. It determines CSR Integrated Management System Certification (JQA-IG0001-07) to the HORIBA ISO13485 policies and priority challenges for all Group companies. Committee members deliberate the details of Group in the group IMS* category. We are aiming to have our major overseas Quality ISO9001 issues and approve items, seeking to reflect the results of their meetings in their workplaces through their production bases obtain accreditation for ISO9001 (quality) and ISO14001 respective CSR Promotion Committees. (environmental) standards. IMS In addition, the Kyoto Analysis Center of HORIBA, Ltd. was approved by the Environment Occupational health Japan Accreditation Board as a test station for ISO/IEC 17025:2005 (RTL00880) ISO14001 & safety HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee (chemical testing) in June 2001. Also the CS of the HQ at HORIBA Techno Service OHSAS18001 Co., Ltd., one of our group companies, was accredited by the National Institute of Technology and Evaluation as a CAB for ISO/IEC 17025:2005 (ASNITE 0033C) Calibration of Emission Test Facilities in August 2009. HORIBA, Ltd. HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd. HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd. HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. * IMS (Integrated Management System) is a management system that integrates the ISO9001 quality standard, the ISO14001 environmental standard and the occupational health and safety certification OHSAS18001. HORIBA, Ltd. CSR Promotion Committee CSR Promotion Committee CSR Promotion Committee CSR Promotion Committee and HORIBA STEC Inc. employ IMS in combination with the ISO13485 quality management system for medical devices. Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee CSR Promotion ◎ Deliberations on how to implement policies and issues adopted HORIBA, Ltd. signed Committee by the HORIBA Group’s CSR Promotion Committee ◎ Social action work in the areas of education, environmental protection the United Nations Global Compact and contributing back to local communities Mr. Atsushi Horiba, President & CEO of Compliance ◎ Compliance-related awareness building as well as prevention, T he Ten Principles of HORIBA, Ltd., signed the Letter of the United Nations Global Compact early detection and advice on correcting illegal acts Committee ◎ Internal reporting systems (external lawyer consultation services, internal e-mail reporting system, etc.) Commitment of the United Nations Global ◎ Provision of compliance-related seminars for employees in managerial positions Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection Compact (UNGC) and submitted it to the Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights; and United Nations through the office of Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Global Compact Japan Network. On April HORIBA CSR Policy 28th, 2011, HORIBA, Ltd. was registered Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Promoting CSR through operations as a participant in the UNGC. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for Based on our commitments to energy, human health, the environment and safety, Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and we will pursue corporate initiatives to contribute to the realization of “ a life of content for all.” businesses with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. labor, environment and anti-corruption. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Top issues for 2011 We are determined to take a proactive to environmental challenges; approach to these issues in order to Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote HORIBA PREMIUM: Create First Class Value for MLMAP continue a sustainable growth as a global greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion Realize HORIBA PREMIUM from the perspective of CSR corporation. of environmentally friendly technologies. 1. Sign the United Nations Global Compact. AntiPrinciple10 Businesses should work against corruption Corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. Set CSR-related KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). 12 13 With our stakeholders Overview of CSR activities ◎On pages 16 to 20 of this report, we present some of our 2011 CSR activities. ◎Detailed data on our CSR activities is available on our website. http: // www.horiba. com / jp /gaiarepor t / HORIBA Gaiareport Search CSR activities through daily business operations Major activities in 2011 Page No. Location Global Compact Theme Activities and policies Name of activity Overview on the (this report) website Compliance Working Alongside We provide products and services with high added ▲ Improvement in We endeavor to quickly support customers by shortening the time required Our Customers customer satisfaction B-a-1 Working Alongside value in a timely manner in order to improve customer to respond to inquiries. P16 TOPICS 1 Our Customers satisfaction and earn the trust of our worldwide Improvement in product quality In order to reduce product warranty servicing costs we minimize the Working Alongside customers. ▲ number of manufacturing flaws, deliver products on-time and develop Our Customers B-a-2 and business operations environmentally friendly designs for all new products. 17 TOPICS 2 P16、 Working Together We have adopted a dividend ratio policy of distributing a fixed percentage of after-tax profit every fiscal term as our basic Communication with We cherish all opportunities to have dialogue with our owners and investors at general shareholder meetings and IR briefing sessions. We Working Together with Our Owners with Our Owners ▲ owners and investors B-b-1 policy to meet the expectations of our owners (shareholders). disclose all relevant information. P17 TOPICS 1 We maintain relationships of trust with our suppliers ▲ Fair transactions B-c-1 We cooperate with our production partner companies to more deeply Working Together based on the awareness that our activities would be understand first-class quality, to implement effective change management Principle 10 with Our Suppliers impossible to carry out without all their cooperation Partnerships with production and to secure our supply chain. Working Together with Our Suppliers and support. ▲ B-c-2 partner companies 18 TOPICS 1 P17、 Working Together with ▲ Communication with Our Employees employees B-d-1 P18 TOPICS 1 We consider each employee an invaluable contributor. We facilitate communication between management and staff by Working Together with We endeavor to establish a training system to develop ▲ Diversity developing work environments in accordance with the circumstances of Our Employees B-d-2 each individual’s potential to the fullest extent possible, individual employees and by holding birthday parties for employees as P18 TOPICS 2 as well as to provide an open and fair work well as workplace tours for their families. We also provide unique training Working Together with environment that allows every member to contribute ▲ Work-life balance programs for human resource development, including the HORIBA Our Employees B-d-3 Principles 16 Working Together with a sense of security. COLLEGE project. P18 TOPICS 3 with Our Employees Human resource Working Together with Our Employees ▲ development B-d-4 P19 TOPICS 4 Working Together with We give the highest priority to human safety and health Based on our annual occupational health and safety plan, we perform risk ▲ Eliminating risk factors assessment, conduct health and safety patrols and undertake self-organized Our Employees B-d-5 in all of our business activities and take an active part P19 TOPICS 5 fire-fighting activities for a safe working environment. We also promote in raising individual awareness of safety and health issues. ▲ Health management employee health by encouraging m e d i c a l e x a m i n a t i o n s a n d h e a l t h Working Together with Our Employees and promotion promotion seminars. B-d-6 P19 TOPICS 6 ▲ CO2 emissions reduction B-e-1 Environmental impact ▲ In order to reduce the environmental impact at each stage of our products’ B-e-2 reduction lifecycles, from production and distribution through to sale and use, we Based on the recognition that environmental initiatives Energy and resource implement various measures, such as ensuring compliance with Working Together with Society are an essential requirement for validating the existence ▲ conservation environmental laws and regulations, reducing the size and weight of B-e-3 P19 TOPICS 1 and activities of companies, we take independent and products and developing eco-friendly products. We also take measures to positive actions toward environmental conservation. conserve energy and resources as well as reduce CO 2 emissions ▲ Waste reduction throughout all of our corporate activities, such as turning off lights during B-e-4 lunch breaks, using LED lighting in guest rooms and undertaking ▲ Ecofriendly zero-emission activities. product designs B-e-5 Working Together Principles 79 with Society Environmental ▲ accounting B-e-6 Initiatives for the Growth Working Together with ▲ of the Analysis and Society B-e-7 Measurement Industry P20 TOPICS 2 We serve as a responsible corporate citizen by We actively support the development of society’s next generation and Working Together with performing an active and independent role in closely ▲ Dialogue with local communicate with residents of local communities through various Society communicating, collaborating, and cooperating with communities and society programs, including clean up activities, environmental events, participation B-e-8 P20 TOPICS 3 local communities. in educational forums and hosting on-site environmental seminars. Working Together with ▲ Support for the development Society of society’s next generation B-e-9 P20 TOPICS 4 From our unique perspective as an analytical equipment Environmental We provide opportunities to think about the environment through the use of Working Together with Society manufacturer, we deliver messages that stimulate ▲ familiar media, such as corporate advertisements and support for the TV B-e-10 interest in analysis and the global environment. activities promotion animation series, “Animal Conference on the Environment.” P20 TOPICS 5 14 15 With our stakeholders Major Activities in 2011 The fourth Technical Olympics WEB B-a-2 We held our fourth Technical Olympics with members from the HORIBA “Joy and Fun,” the precept of Group and our production partner companies. By sharing knowledge of basic manufacturing skills among all members, we are able to establish processes HORIBA’s CSR activities for eliminating manufacturing flaws and producing trusted products for our customers. Staying true to our company motto, “Joy and Fun,” we are striving to create an open and fair corporate culture. We aim to form closer partnerships with our stakeholders and improve our CSR activities. ◎Detailed data on our CSR activities is available on our website. Working Together with Our Owners http: // www.horiba. com / jp /gaiarepor t / HORIBA Gaiareport Search We appropriately distribute profits to our owners (shareholders) and promote management transparency through fair disclosure of information and two-way communication. Action Working Alongside Our Customers ◉ Executive-lead financial briefings for institutional investors; briefings via conference calls ◉ Visits to overseas investors (Europe, North America and Asia) by executives We contribute to the development of a sustainable society and improvements ◉ Factory tours: HORIBA, Ltd.; HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd. in the quality of life through our high-quality products and services. TOPICS 1 Action ◉Inquiry services at our customer support center ◉ The service system developed by HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd. Communication with owners and investors ◉Technical exhibitions in company offices ◉ Awards for inventions ◉Product release celebrations Awarded the Best IR Award in 2011 WEB B-b-1 For the first time, HORIBA was named as a winner of the “Best IR TOPICS 1 Award” in a competition for excellence in IR (Investor Relations) Improvement in customer satisfaction activities organized by the Japan Investor Relations Association. The selection of winners out of 304 companies that had applied to Special interview this report P8-11 participate in the competition was based on a questionnaire survey of stock analysts and investors and a review by a screening panel. We will continue to Dr. Michio Tajima, Professor Emeritus, Institute of Space and further refine our strengths which were evaluated highly by the judges (e.g., Astronautical Science, Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Award ceremony (December 14, 2011) proactive participation in IR activities by top management, clear presentations and Left: Hajime Sawabe (Chairperson, Japan Investor The quality of semiconductors, which have already become an essential easy-to-understand annual reports), thereby carrying out effective IR activities to Relations Association) Right: Atsushi Horiba component of modern life, has dramatically improved at least in part thanks to accurately communicate HORIBA s corporate culture to our stakeholders. better evaluation methods such as the development of the Photoluminescence Method. We interviewed Dr. Michio Tajima, who is making great contributions to society through popularizing technologies while simultaneously pursuing Dr. Michio Tajima originality as a researcher. Working Together with Our Suppliers We consider our suppliers, who provide and process components and materials, TOPICS 2 as partner companies with whom we work and grow together. Improvement in product quality and business operations Action Highly localized service system WEB B-a-2 ◉ HORIBA Group Meetings with production partner companies ◉ Quality study sessions with production partner companies HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd. provides highly localized services through its 26 bases across Japan. In 2011, when many of our customers decided to TOPICS 1 conduct operations on Saturdays and Sundays as part of serious efforts in Partnerships with production partner companies Skill improvement training for field engineers abroad Japan to conserve electricity, particularly during the summer, we adjusted our support system to meet their needs. We are developing and implementing HORIBA Group Meetings with production partner companies WEB initiatives not only in Japan but also overseas to provide services of even B-c-2 higher quality ever more swiftly on a global scale. We hold regular meetings with production partner companies and exchange advice through the co-hosting of events such as the Technical Olympics under the motto “Achieving co-evolution, harmony and coexistence.” The fifth HORIBA Group PQI* competition WEB B-a-2 HORIBA Group companies cooperate with our production partner companies to improve product quality and to reduce the percentage of defective products. Award ceremony at the 2011 HORIBA Group *Product Quality Improvement PQI Competition meeting with production partner companies 16 17 TOPICS 4 Employees who join the overseas Product workshops WEB training program Human resource development B-c-2 (accumulated from 1984 to 2011) By inviting our production partner companies to our factories and allowing Data on HORIBA Group companies in Japan Open Application Overseas Training Program WEB them to observe how the parts they supply us with are used and what roles B-d-4 (Unit: person) such parts play with their own eyes, we show them the level of quality that is HORIBA, Ltd. launched an open-application overseas training program in 1984 Region Country Number of required of HORIBA products. We endeavor to raise their quality awareness, persons improve production sites and increase technological capabilities through to allow our employees to develop international ways of thinking by working in HORIBA Group companies abroad. Then, in 1999, this program was made Americas US 67 enhancing cooperation and coordination between our suppliers and HORIBA and encouraging learning from one another. available to all employees of HORIBA Group companies. In 2011, including Europe UK 9 those on the Overseas On-the-job Training Program, we sent 13 Japanese employees to our overseas bases. A total of more than 150 employees have Germany 22 participated in such overseas training so far and worked on the global stage. France 45 Working Together with Our Employees TOPICS 5 Austria/Germany 1 Eliminating risk factors Asia China 5 Staying true to our company motto, “Joy and Fun,” we are making efforts to create an open and fair Safety patrols WEB working environment as well as a safe, healthy and pleasant workplace for all HORIBA employees. B-d-5 South Korea 6 Based on the annual occupational health and safety management plan, each Singapore 4 Action office implemented priority measures, such as on-site patrols by executives to India 2 ◉Workplace tour for employee families ◉Support for the development of society’s next generation achieve its annual goals. ◉Seminars by obstetricians ◉Promoting consumption of local products in company cafeterias Total 161 ◉Medical examinations and health guidance services ◉Employment of new graduates with foreign citizenship TOPICS 6 ◉Dispatch of employees for overseas training Health management and promotion Health Management Office opened WEB TOPICS 1 B-d-6 Communication with employees We expanded the functions of the Health Management Office, which is a department for health support. There, a full-time occupational physician (three HORIBA Open House WEB B-d-1 days a week) and a public health nurse (every day) work to help employees effectively manage and improve their health. Our aim is to promote mental and About 70 Group members and their families attended the HORIBA Open physical health of our employees, thereby contributing to the creation of an House at the head office of HORIBA, Ltd. We have held this event every year office environment that is even easier to work in. since 2002 to provide employees families with the opportunity to discover more about and deepen their understanding of HORIBA s corporate culture, Safety patrol in a test reagent factory working environment, business activities, etc. We also organized an Open House event at HORIBA Europe GmbH (Germany) in 2011. HORIBA Open House at HORIBA, Ltd. TOPICS 2 Diversity Working Together with Society Recruiting employees irrespective of nationality We are working to create an environmentally friendly production system. We are also taking an active role WEB B-d-2 HORIBA, Ltd. employs excellent human resources across a wide range of job in supporting the development of society’s next generation by supporting educational and cultural events. categories irrespective of nationality. In fact, HORIBA employees hail from many different countries, including France, the UK, India, China, South Korea Action and Russia, performing important jobs both inside and outside the company. ◉Energy and resources conservation ◉Eco-friendly product designs ◉On-site environmental seminars We also proactively recruit non-Japanese nationals when hiring new ◉Acceptance of interns ◉Global environmental conservation activities ◉Trash inspections during daily commutes graduates. In fact, we have had international students join the company five ◉Corporate advertisements ◉Gaiapress, an informational website on the environment, nature, space and science years in a row. TOPICS 1 Family day at HORIBA Europe GmbH (Germany) TOPICS 3 Waste reduction Work-life balance Energy saving initiatives overflowing with creativity WEB Employees who took childcare leave B-e-3 Creating offices that are easy to work in WEB B-d-3 Data on HORIBA Group companies in Japan (Unit: person) We made proactive efforts to conserve electricity at all HORIBA Group In response to our employees changing family situations, 2008 2009 2010 2011 company bases in Japan throughout 2 011. During the Month of the we have introduced the Employees with Reduced Working Environment (from June 13 to July 15), individuals and groups of volunteers Time System and the Work from Home System as part of carried out various energy conservation activities. Among these creative, Women｜No. who gave birth 20 19 28 24 our efforts to support our employees in maintaining and unique activities, those initiatives that particularly contributed to raising people s improving their work-life balance. In addition, we are striving No. on childcare leave 20（0） 18（0） 28（1） 26（0） awareness about energy conservation and reducing energy consumption were (No. of managers) to create an office environment that encourages employees commended with the Highest Award and Awards for Excellence. We will to make effective use of childcare leave and other support Men ｜ No. on childcare leave 2（1） 3（0） 3（0） 3（1） continue our daily energy conservation efforts with a fresh enthusiasm for Group awarded the Highest Award for their energy (No. of managers) systems. reducing electricity use and other kinds of energy conservation. conservation activities 18 19 TOPICS 2 Initiatives for the Growth of the Analysis and Measurement Industry Participation on the boards of industrial associations, etc. WEB B-e-7 The HORIBA Group’s response to the Great East Japan Earthquake In May 2011, Atsushi Horiba (Chairman, President and CEO of HORIBA, Ltd.) The HORIBA Group set up a disaster response headquarters to identify and handle was appointed Chairman and Kansai Branch Director of JEMIMA*1 and Vice the damage caused to the Group by the disaster as well as to of fer services to meet President (for International Operations) of JAIMA*2. We are striving to stimulate the needs of our customers and business partners suf fering serious damage in international strategic activities targeted at allowing the analysis and the Tohoku and Kanto regions (e.g., by lending out medical equipment, measurement industry to achieve further growth. providing test reagents, and arranging emergency vehicles for services). At the *1:2: The Japan Electric Measuring Instruments Manufacturers’ Association same time, we worked to accelerate the supply of our products necessary for * The Japan Analytical Instruments Manufacturers’ Association reconstruction work. Atsushi Horiba delivering his inaugural speech after In addition, we continue to strive to enhance our risk management by improving being appointed Chairman of JEMIMA our system for contacting employees during emergencies as well as by TOPICS 3 implementing safety conf irmation training. Dialogues with local communities and society Disaster response headquarters Support to Africa Inspires WEB B-e-8 Product-related HORIBA Instruments Ltd. (UK) is supporting “Africa Inspires,” a project aimed Supplying products necessary for reconstruction work at helping to improve the water quality in Ugandan schools. Improvement targets were created by using an HORIBA analyzer comparing the water We have made company-wide efforts to quality between the UK and Africa. LOCOG* are also supporting this project increase our production of environmental with fund raising activities. radiation monitor for measuring radioactivity and of stack gas analyzers, *Africa London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Inspires http://www.africa-inspires.com/index.html which are used at thermal power stations to measure stack gases, in order to help such power stations resume operation. TOPICS 4 HORIBA’ s equipment used in water analysis in Africa In addition, we have lent out cartridges for Support for the development of society s next generation blood glucose analyzers (used for measuring blood glucose levels) and automatic blood Environmental delivering classes WEB B-e-9 cell counters plus CRP* free of charge. These have been used in the temporary We want children to feel closer to global environmental issues as well as the clinics set up in disaster-stricken areas. Environmental radiation Blood cell counter lent out free to a temporary mysterious sensors of plants and animals. We want to let more children know monitor clinic set up in Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture how important and fun it is to analyze (measure) things. These wishes led us * C-reactive protein. Blood CRP level is a known indicator of inflammation. to start to provide environmental delivering classes by HORIBA employees. We also provided such classes in Japanese schools in Europe in 2011. About 250 students, parents and teachers in France and Belgium participated. Support activities TOPICS 5 Donation and volunteer activities Environmental activities promotion HORIBA Group companies both inside and outside Japan offered Class at a Japanese school in Paris donation matching programs to double the amount of relief money Runner-up in the 38th Nikkei Business Daily Advertising Awards donated by employees in order to reach as many victims in the WEB B-e-10 disaster-stricken areas as possible. As a result, the Group donated One of HORIBA s advertisement series was awarded the runner-up award in a total of more than 40 million yen, including the proceeds from a the Material, Industrial Equipment and Service Category in the Nikkei Business charity bazaar and auction held in April, through the Red Cross Daily Advertising Awards, the largest advertising awards in Japan. This is the societies of the respective countries, etc. Besides this financial fifth consecutive time HORIBA has received this award. We will continue to support, individual HORIBA employees volunteered to work to Charity bazaar held by employees strive to communicate our unique messages to society. support the disaster-stricken areas. Support activities Messages of support from French children In late March 2011, HORIBA ABX SAS (France) received messages of support intended for the disaster-stricken areas in Japan from 210 local elementary school students. These warm, cordial (Nikkei Business Daily, September 26, 2011) messages were delivered via HORIBA to elementary schools in Iwate Prefecture. ◎Detailed data on our CSR activities is available on our website. HORIBA ABX members received messages written Search by French elementary school students http: // www.horiba. com / jp /gaiarepor t / HORIBA Gaiareport 20 21 What is the Gaiareport? According to Greek mythology, Gaia is the maternal goddess of the Earth who ensures that th e p lan e t thr i ve s an d is c ap ab l e o f cl eansin g i t s e l f. T h e H O R IBA G ro u p, a manufacturer of analytical and environmental measuring instruments, contributes to the advancement of a sustainable society through our analy tical and measurement business. To express this determination, we have named our CSR communications media Gaiapress (our website) an d Gaiarep or t (th e C SR rep or t). At HORIBA , we remain committed to the global environment by focusing on environmental measurements. See our data resources on the Web for more information Detailed information about our CSR activities appears on the Web, making its access easier and more convenient. Searching for the subject you are interested in is made easy by using keywords or categories to take you to the web page where the relevant information is available. For more information, access our data resources on the Web! HORIBA G a i a re p o rt 検索 HORIBA, Ltd. The new Gaiareport 2, Miyanohigashi-cho, Kisshoin, Minami-ku, significantly reduced paper use Kyoto 601-8510, Japan TEL: (81) 75-313-8121 From 2009 on, the Gaiareport is in leaflet and online FAX: (81) 75-321-6621 formats, signif icantly reducing the use of paper URL: http://www.horiba.com compared to the previous booklet format. The essence of *Please direct all inquiries to HORIBA’s CSR activities focuses on the hope that our the Corporate Communications Office. Gaiareport will be read by as many people as possible. ●Relevant websites Environmental protection initiatives  http://www.horiba.com/social-responsibility/ Investor relations  http://www.horiba.com/investor-relations/ Gaiapress  http://www.jp.horiba.com/sensorium/ This is printed on FSC-certiﬁed paper using wood from “responsibly managed forests” and is also Lake Biwa Ecological Paper, part of the cost of which is donated to an environmental charity working to protect the environment of Lake Biwa. Also, it was printed with soy-based vegetable ink, using a waterless printing process that does not produce hazardous liquid waste. Moreover, we oﬀset carbon dioxide emissions from the production process through the COJ (CARBON OFFSET JAPAN). Catalogue No. HRE-0060B Printed in Japan TF-R(EI)23
