2012 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress November 2011 to November 2012 Page | 1 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to reaffirm that Steel Technologies LLC supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environmental responsibility, and anti-corruption. We strive to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and daily operations of our Company and to engage in collaborative efforts that advance the broader goals of the United Nations. Steel Technologies LLC will continue its support of public accountability and transparency, and therefore, commits to report on this information to our stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our gradual integration of the Global Compact and its principles into the everyday culture and mission of our Company. Sincerely, Michael J. Carroll President & CEO Company Background At Steel Technologies LLC (“Steel Technologies” or the “Company”), we transform flat-rolled steel into products that meet the precise specifications of customers in a dynamic range of industries from automotive parts to agricultural equipment to consumer goods. As a growth-oriented company, we know that our success depends on the success of those we serve. That’s why “safety,” “excellence,” “quality,” and “commitment” are not just industry buzzwords at Steel Technologies— they are how we conduct our daily business. Currently, our robust North American platform employs more than 1,400 people and is expected to produce over $2.0 billion in annual sales for the fiscal year 2012. Our Company offers supply chain solutions and logistical advantages unmatched in our industry today. At Steel Technologies, we are not only proud of where we have started, but we are extremely excited about building into the future. We look forward to serving our customers for many years to come. Page | 2 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy, and Goals Steel Technologies fosters high ethical values and expects the same of all its employees. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct (“Code”) requires all employees to treat co-workers, customers, and themselves with dignity and respect. The Company relies upon each employee to incorporate these values into their everyday actions while employed by Steel Technologies. Steel Technologies’ international subsidiaries, Steel Technologies de México, S.A. de C.V. (“Steel Tech Mexico”) and STC Steel Technologies Canada LTD. (“Steel Tech Canada”), also implement a form of the Company’s Code, which is intended to preserve the human rights of the Company’s employees located outside the United States. Steel Technologies employs a large labor force, and we highly value each employee’s rights as a laborer. The Company and its subsidiaries are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace to every employee and ensuring compliance with the labor laws of each and every country in which we operate. It is our belief and policy that conflicts between employees and management can be satisfactorily resolved through honest and frank discussions in an atmosphere of mutual trust, respect, and cooperation. Steel Technologies supports the right of all employees to work in an environment free of discrimination and harassment. Discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, age, gender, disability, national origin, veteran status, or genetic information is strictly prohibited and is not tolerated in the workplace. In the coming year, Steel Page | 3 Technologies will strive to identify any issues that may exist, constantly improve its existing policies, and improve on the implementation of policies and procedures that even more fully incorporate the Global Compact Principles into our daily operations. Implementation • Our Code specifically endorses that it is our policy to abide by the following laws that serve to prevent discrimination: Civil Rights Act of 1964, Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Act of 1974, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008. • The Company has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect Steel Technologies’ proactive stance on human rights, including our Equal Opportunity Employer Policy. • Steel Technologies supports and adheres to the requirements of the Family Medical Leave Act, which provides qualified employees leave opportunities to aid in medical care of themselves or family members. Further, the Company provides eligible employees with leave opportunities beyond those required by law. • The Company provides eligible employees the ability to earn and accrue paid vacation days. • Steel Technologies provides employees with a 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan to help provide financial security for its employees in the future and alleviate the economic encumbrances that may impede retirement. • As part of Steel Technologies’ mission, we will not knowingly or intentionally carry out business with any country, regime, or business in which we aware of human rights abuses. • To aid in adherence to Steel Technologies’ policies, we provide an independent third-party service for employees to anonymously report human and labor rights violations. The Company believes this service encourages “whistleblowers” to come forward without fear of retribution. • To enhance the safety of our employees, Steel Technologies has trained 196 employees to date in First Aid, CPR, and Automated External Defibrillator use, with the goal that at least two (2) of these individuals will be working each shift in each facility. • Steel Tech Canada employs individuals trained in First Aid and safety as required under Canada’s Occupational Health and Safety Act. • In addition to Steel Technologies’ corporate-wide safety committee, each facility has its own safety committee comprised of salaried and hourly employees who discuss safety hazards and analyze safety compliance. Page | 4 • In the event a safety issue is raised, Steel Technologies employs a thorough investigative procedure which includes an analysis of the root cause and indentifies corrective measures that can be taken to prevent future incidents. • Steel Technologies follows an annual training calendar to instruct and review a range of safety topics so employees are more informed and better protected from potential work dangers. • Steel Tech Mexico recently installed environmentally friendly Eco Pickled Surface (“EPS”) equipment that leaves steel scale-free, remarkably clean, and rust resistant with no need for a protective oil coating. EPS technology provides a safer and cleaner workplace for employees because there are no hazardous chemicals or byproducts involved (i.e. hydrochloric acid). Measurement of Outcomes • Steel Technologies and its subsidiaries comply with all applicable laws and regulations that are relevant to human rights and labor. • Steel Technologies not only abides by all Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) regulations, but the Company goes beyond its legal requirements by implementing additional safety measures, policies, and procedures that provide its employees with as safe of a working environment as reasonably possible. • Steel Technologies operates in the steel and metal work industry which has in the past been male dominated. In recent years, the Company has increased its female employee population. In 2011, the Company increased female employment at seven locations by an average of over 5%, and we continue to strive towards the creation of a diverse workplace in all our facilities. • The Company’s OSHA recordable incident rate has been routinely below the industry average provided by the North American Industry Classification System, including the rates in 2011 and 2012 to date. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Page | 5 Assessment, Policy, and Goals Steel Technologies understands that operating our facilities has an impact on the environment, and we are focused on minimizing our carbon footprint as much as reasonably possible. The Company has established responsible environmental policies for our operations across North America, and we comply with all environmental laws and regulations set by the countries in which we operate. Steel Technologies supports domestic and international efforts to conserve energy and natural resources while pursuing appropriate economic development. As a part of its commitment to environmentally responsible actions, Steel Tech Mexico has invested in EPS technology as an alternative method for steel pickling. Pickling is a value-added service that has traditionally been performed using caustic acids. EPS technology continuously reuses a mixture of steel grit and water to return a better product without the use of acid, while simultaneously reducing imperfections in the end product, and ultimately the potential for waste. Further, the removed scale and depleted grit can be recycled for other industrial purposes. As Steel Technologies expands its operations, our goal is to continue to utilize cleaner and more environmentally friendly techniques, policies, and procedures. Implementation • Steel Technologies employs a scrap metal recycling program in which 100% of our unused scrap metal is melted down and repurposed by raw steel mills. Both Steel Tech Canada and Steel Tech Mexico have scrap metal recycling programs that mirror Steel Technologies’ program. • In compliance with applicable law, ten (10) Steel Technologies facilities have Storm Water Pollution Preventions Plans, and eight (8) facilities have Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure Plans. • Steel Technologies recycles laptop and computer hardware (excluding hard drives) through a specialized technology recycling company. • Recently, we have implemented motion sensitive lighting in several of our offices as part of our commitment to reduce energy use in our facilities. • Steel Technologies works to reduce the printing of unnecessary paper copies where possible. • Several of the Company’s facilities implement their own unique recycling programs which include items such as paper, cardboard, batteries, and wood pallets. Page | 6 Measurement of Outcomes • EPS technology reduces the use of hazardous chemicals, decreases the amount of floor space required for operations, and produces steel that requires less oil. • Steel Technologies recycled 101,457 gross tons of scrap steel in 2011, and 79,578 gross tons of scrap steel in the first nine months of 2012. • Steel Tech Canada recycled 3,759 gross tons of scrap steel in 2011, and 3,189 gross tons of scrap steel in the first nine months of 2012. • Steel Tech Mexico recycled 12,453 gross tons of scrap steel in 2011, and 11,595 gross tons of scrap steel in the first nine months of 2012. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy, and Goals Steel Technologies is committed to high ethical standards, and we require that all employees understand and abide by these principles. The Company has trained numerous employees on compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and we are in the process of retraining employees Company-wide. Steel Technologies’ goal for the coming year is our continued absolute compliance with all applicable domestic and international anti-corruption laws. Implementation • Steel Technologies’ Code requires compliance with the FCPA, anti-fraud laws, conflicts of interest disclosures, insider trading laws, and whistleblower protection. • The Company annually trains its 1,400 employees on compliance with Steel Technologies’ Code as well as other legal and ethical requirements. • Our International Commerce Department periodically checks our shipping records against the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security’s Denied Party List, which is comprised of individuals and entities that have been denied export privileges. • Steel Technologies encourages employees to report corrupt actions to an independent third party (which may be done anonymously) as described in the Employee Handbook. • Several employees at Steel Tech Mexico have received anti-corruption training and the Company is in the process of training additional employees. Measurement of Outcomes • Steel Technologies and its subsidiaries abide by the laws of each country in which we operate. Page | 7 • The Company fervently cooperates with all requests for information from authorities regarding these matters. Page | 8
