Report Outline Objective This is the sixth issue of kt’s Sustainability Report which is intended to provide information on our efforts and activities toward a sustainable world. This report aims at helping our stakeholders understand our sustainability management by viewing economic profitability, social responsibility, and environmental soundness in an integrated manner. We plan to reflect the voices of our stakeholders to create new values and implement sustainability management more actively. Report Framework This report is largely comprised of four sections such as sustainability management, economy, society, and environment. To enhance stakeholders’ understandability, the triple bottom line section is classified into six parts; investors, customers, employees, suppliers, society, and environment. Our sixth sustainability report was prepared by CSR Team with the cooperation of the working-level staff from the pertinent teams. Guidelines and Assurance This report has been created in reference to the G3.1 standards of Global Reporting Initiative. It also contains information related to ISO 26000 which was disclosed in November 2010. To secure inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness, this report received third party assurance. The assurance statement is on page 94. Period and Scope This report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010. It also contains activities and plans for 2011 when deemed necessary. The reporting scope is the activities and performances carried out by the business sites in Korea. We plan to publish the report annually. Black 배경 Report Outline Mid-term Growth Strategy 6 BOD Chairman Message 2 Improving Rate Structure 7 CEO Message 3 Work & Life Balance 8 Stakeholder Engagement 4 Partnering for Growth 9 Materiality Test 5 Local Community-Focused Social Contribution 10 Promoting Environment-Friendly Management 11 CS Management System 36 Great Work Place 46 kt’s 2011 Sustainability Report was prepared based VOC as Strategic Asset 37 Fair Human Management System 48 on the GRI G3.1 guidelines. This report fully satisfies Differentiated Service 38 Employee Welfare and Benefits 49 the quality and quantitative requirements of level Stable Telecommunication Service 40 Human Resource Development 50 “A” in the GRI G3.1 Application Level Table. As such, IT Security and Customer Protection 41 Labor-Management Cooperation 52 kt self declares that the GRI G3.1 Application Level Solving the Side Effects of Informatization 42 Safety and Health 53 of the 2011 Sustainability Report is at Level “A+”. This Customer Communication 43 Human Rights 54 self-declaration has been verified as being appropriate Employee Communication 55 by Two Tomorrows. Additional Information Additional information is available at kt’s homepage [http://www.kt.com]. If you need more information or have questions on our sustainability management, please contact us at the following. Homepage http://www.kt.com E-mail csr@kt.com Tel 82-2-730-0354 Fax 82-2-730-0308 CSR Team, Public Relations Office 100 Sejong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-777, Korea At a Glance 12 Creation of New Growth Engine 24 kt’s Value System 14 Economic Performance 26 Corporate Governance 15 Brand Value 28 Sustainability Management 16 Innovative Management 30 Ethical Management 18 Global Sustainability Management 32 Risk Management 20 Shareholder Communication 33 Partnering for Growth 58 Social Contribution System 68 Infrastructure and Financial Support 59 IT Sharing 70 Promoting Mutual Growth 60 Love Sharing 72 Building Green Ecosystem 62 Culture Sharing 74 Innovation of Purchasing System 63 Green Sharing 75 Fair Trade 64 Addressing Digital Divide 76 Supplier Communication 65 Community Communication 77 Environmental Management System 80 CSR Activities by kt Group Companies 88 Response to Climate Change 81 Independent Assurance Statement 94 Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling 82 GRI Index (G3.1) 96 Realizing Green Office 84 ISO 26000 99 Environment-Friendly Products and Services 85 Membership Status 100 Participating in Green Growth Projects 86 Key Performance Indicators 100 Environmental Regulations and Certifications 87 Major Awards in 2010 100 Environmental Communication 87 kt has continued to generate values based on coexistence in various areas by achieving mutual growth with small & medium enterprises, establishing a new labor-management culture, and adopting a “Smart Working” environment. This is inevitable in order to satisfy everyone, including stakeholders, so as to become a sustainable corporate. Corporate’s wealth is naturally generated through customer satisfaction by enhancing the productivity of employees. The benefits from this wealth are distributed amongst all stakeholders. Based on this business philosophy, kt will double its effort to expand its sustainability management values. The thing that we all sincerely desire, which is the hope of the future, is to create a world full of happiness. kt is doing everything possible to enable hope to grow in all areas of the workplace. As part of its on-going effort, kt allowed the youth to achieve their dreams through a new recruiting policy for customer service job The thing that we all group, which provides equal opportunities to all without considering educational background. The company sincerely desire is to will continue to provide a platform for outstanding individuals to work without limits. Efforts will also be taken to jointly enhance performance. kt will continue to search for concrete ways to achieve mutual growth that create a world full of enables it to share the fruits of success. happiness The most important component in the continuous development of a corporate is customer satisfaction. kt not only enhances customer satisfaction through products & services and process innovation, it also places its effort in providing products & services demanded by customers by reflecting the thoughts of customers into its business. Especially by making various devices ‘smart’ through the utilization of its wired and wireless network, which is kt’s strength, the company is focused on providing services that can simultaneously enhance productive activities, learning and leisure anytime and anywhere. kt will never cease its challenge to achieving its vision as a ‘Global ICT Convergence Leader.’ This goes beyond just simply becoming a leader from an external perspective such as revenues. Rather, it means establishing itself as a truly global corporate by sincerely fulfilling its social obligations. By having various stakeholders such as shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, and local communities join in this journey to achieve its vision, kt promises to bring the journey closer to a world overflowing with hope. With the stipulation of the BOD’s role in the company’s sustainability management in 2011, kt is able to perceive risks, which appear in uncertain business environments, in advance, while searching for new opportunities. Through this, kt will actively pursue the road to becoming a sustainable company. Eung-Han Kim Chairman of the BOD 2 Joseph A. Schumpeter, an economist in early 20th century, stressed that ‘economic development is a process of creative destruction,’ and the rise and fall of companies depends on whether there have been changes in the way of thinking. In the past, kt had once experienced stagnant growth for long periods of time due to the structural changes in the telecommunications industry and fierce competition. To overcome these matters and search for new growth opportunities, as stressed by Schumpeter, creative destruction and change in the way of thinking was necessary. As a result, we started to change. A merger with ktf was successfully achieved in a short-period of time, something that no one expected, while establishing a new management-labor culture with the adoption of job competition and annual salaries. kt expanded its Internet phone business and became a leader of change and innovation through a shift in the way it thinks, as a result of the paradigm shift in the telecommunications kt will take the lead in market due to the smart phone. Its boldness to push forward also played a crucial role in becoming a leader expanding its of change and innovation. In addition, we have become the leading Korean telecommunications company, providing the most efficient wired/wireless convergence service in the world. Moving a step forward, we were “New Humanitarianism” able to create a ‘Great Work Place’ that enables our employees to grow hand-in-hand with the company, while spirit instilling the dream of mutual growth in partner firms. From the shareholders’ perspective, we moved forward as a company poised for growth. Being selected as a DJSI World company in 2010, along-side prominent global companies, was a recognition of kt’s efforts. In 2011, kt’s business priority is customer service innovation to help maximize customer satisfaction. To enable customers’ to feel that ‘It was the best choice to become kt’s customer,’ we will make new changes in all of our processes starting from product introduction to after sales services. In addition, to actively engage in overcoming various social issues such as climate change, low birth rate and job creation, we will expand our smart working and cloud computing services. We will also place greater emphasis on creating a Great Work Place to pave the way for mutual growth with small & medium enterprises and success for the general public. Believing that the various activities benefitting the world will also benefit the company, kt will take the lead in expanding its “New Humanitarianism (Shin Hongik Ingan)” spirit. Suk-Chae Lee Chairman & CEO 3 To be a sustainable company, it is vital to stay on top of all the issues raised or considered during communications with stakeholders. Stakeholder communication is the best way for both the company and its stakeholders to prosper together and the most influential factor to the company’s sustainability. kt runs the Sustainability Management Committee, consisting of related executive directors, to maintain effective communication with stakeholders and to reflect key issues in actual operations. The Committee supports the activities of departments and divisions under its supervision, which are tasked with performing sustainability management activities. Framework for Stakeholder Communication The change in business environment has given rise to new stakeholders while incumbent stakeholders are exerting greater influence on corporate policy. Our major stakeholders include customers and investors, which have an economic relationship with the company; employees and business partners, who are invaluable for driving innovation and growth; and local communities where we operate. We pursue diverse forms of communication with them by identifying a representative of each group. Dialogue may take place through a regular consultation body or through surveys. Stakeholder Communication Channels rs Cus lde to me ho rs are Sh General shareholders’ meeting (annual) Customer pools CEO conference (annual) (200 persons, and 3 regular surveys and Earnings conference 4-5 special surveys a year) (quarterly, disclosures, conference calls) Customers regular online surveys IR news (1-2 times a month) (10,000 respondents, twice a year) Domestic/overseas NDR events College student product review (year-round) (60 persons, 6 months) IR homepage Household panel nt ent and Environme Meeting between the CEO and the head of the Korea Communications Commission Joint Labour-Management conference (twice a quarter) Employees (3 or 4 times a year) Labour-Management conference at regional level Meeting with regulatory agencies such as Labour-Management conference at group level Sustainability Report the Korea Communications Commission, Labor-Management policy conference (regular, year-round) Fair Trade Commission, and Ministry of (published annually since 2006) Employees management conferences (regular, year-round) Knowledge Economy (year-round) kt website (www.kt.com) / kt119 (Grievance resolution center, online and oﬄine) KTOA members meeting ‘DigiEco,’ the homepage of the kt Research Newsletter/Company news/Intranet debate forum ernm (three times a year) Institute of Economics and Management Gov Meetings with local Partner firm CEO meeting (annual) communities (year-round) Partner firm satisfaction survey (biannual) Love Sharing (twinning with local children’s centers) Partner firm conference (biannual) IT Sharing (telephone and website) SCM consultative group conference (monthly) Culture Sharing (survey, SNS, website) Product meeting (year-round) Technology exchange forum (monthly) Online and oﬄine mutual prosperity center (year-round) Website for receiving partner firm suggestions Communities in various fields (under preparation) y Forums for IT company CEOs pp S oc (bi-monthly) Su iet s lier 4 Overview We carried out a materiality test to find key issues and to reflect them in our management. It has been conducted through five steps: checking stakeholders’ interests and concerns, reviewing company’s policies, benchmarking of peer companies, media research, and investigating relevant norms and laws both in Korea and abroad. Among 58 issues derived through these steps, this report focuses on 21 core issues that are highly material to internal and external stakeholders. Particularly, our responses to highly challenging issues are shown at the “special issue section.” Going forward, we will identify issues through stakeholder communication while disclosing them transparently in our sustainability reports. Materiality Test Results Special Issue: Six Major Issues Mid-term Shareholders Growth Strategy Suppliers Partnering for Growth Local Community-Focused Customers Improving Rate Structure Society Social Contribution Promoting EnvironmentEmployees Work & Life Balance Environment Friendly Management Materiality Matrix Sustainability management at kt Employees Sustainability management at kt Employees High Sustainability management Labor-Management Cooperation Stakeholder Engagement Great Work Place Fair Human Management System Ethical Management Safety and Health Corporate Governance Human Resource Development Risk Management Shareholders Suppliers Shareholders Society Creation of New Growth Engine Partnering for Growth Innovative Management IT Sharing / Love Sharing / Economic Performance Infrastructure and Financial Support Global Sustainability Management Culture Sharing / Green Sharing Brand Value Society Shareholder Communication Community Communication Social Contribution System Customers Customers Environment CS Management System Environment Solving the Side Effects of Environment-Friendly Products and Services VOC as Strategic Asset Environmental Management System Response to Climate Change External stakeholders Informatization Participating in Green Growth Projects Differentiated Service Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling IT Security and Customer Protection Environmental Communication Stable Telecommunication Service Realizing Green Office Suppliers Customers Society Promoting Mutual Growth Customer Communication Addressing Digital Divide Building Green Ecosystem Innovation of Purchasing System Employees Environment Fair Trade Human Rights Environmental Regulations and Supplier Communication Employee Communication Certifications Low Internal stakeholders High 5 Special Issue 01 The market leadership shown in smartphones will be extended into convergence services Currently the communications market is becoming more and more competitive with players competing fiercely against each other. At the same time, the number of companies entering the communications domain is increasing. Communications services have become even more diverse with wired phones, Internet, IPTV and wireless phones, and are evolving, enabling customers to communicate whenever and wherever. However, as technologies develop such as the Long Term Evolution (LTE), heavy investments are required, making the communications industry ever more uncertain. At the same time, as the demands of stakeholders are becoming greater in relation to climate change, one of the largest current issues, there is a need to pursue green industries using IT to overcome global warming and energy crisis, and to secure new growth engines. 1 Data explosion, Strengthen Smart Communications Leadership through the Smart Home Corporate customer needs 2 Lead the general customer’s 4 Global infotainment & corporate customer’s ICT * biz innovation 3 Convergence 3 IT service Convergence Lead the “smart life” convergence through 2 ICT connections with other industries Media 1 4 Expand global business partnerships & Communications Global Global formally expand globally with ICT competencies * ICT : Information, Communication, Transaction General customer needs Chosun Daily To aggressively take measures to overcome the above crisis, kt’s objective is to leap forward as a ‘Global ICT Convergence Leader’ through a continuous growth strategy KT’s CEO, Suk-Chae Lee announced that KT will achieve KRW30 trillion in revenues taking into consideration market trends, evolving customer needs and global energy by 2015. To achieve this, he pointed out issues. The leadership shown in smartphones will extend to emerging devices, two core business, the ‘Smart Home while overcoming the stagnation of the wired market through the smart home Strategy,’ and the ‘Expansion of Cloud strategy. In addition, kt will concentrate on fostering the Global/ICT/Convergence Computing Services.’ In addition, KT sector and use it to lead growth. The company will secure market competitiveness plans to introduce 7~8 tablet PC models this year and sell over one million units. by expanding its corporate customer-base. Video conferencing, smart working and As for smartphones, KT plans to roll out Energy Management System (EMS) will be internalized across the company, while the 25 ~ 30 models and secure 6.5 million green industry, including new and renewable energies, will be used as a new growth subscribers. engine, creating a firm platform for sustainable growth. (January 21, 2011) 6 Special Issue 02 Doing everything possible to foster a rational communications consumption culture & protect consumer rights As communications services have diversified with wired phones, Internet, IPTV & wireless phones, customers are able to conveniently communicate anytime & anywhere. However, communications expenses are taking up a larger portion of the household budget. With the increase in smartphone distribution, wireless data usage by customers has also increased. At the same time, issues are being raised related to communications expenses which include home phone flat sum rates and the non-refunded payments. Inquiry & application for payment of non-refunded Diversify refundable routes payments through olleh.com (www.olleh.com) Automatic inquiry of non-refunded details Provide pop-up services for non-refunded detail status when when subscribing to a service inquiring on the citizen’s registration number Initiate real-time account services Non-refunding Prevent excessive duplicate payments by Establish a real-time payment system at convenience stores & policy shortening the payment period credit card payments improvement method Minimize customer inconveniences by Register a refund account when paying through a Giro or credit card expediently processing refunds Initiate automatic next day refund for erroneous payments Automatic sending of next month refund notice after termination of service to advertise non-refunded amounts kt is searching for diverse ways to enable customers to make rational communications consumptions. Customers can dial 100 or visit www.olleh.com to confirm the Seoul Economic Daily user’s communications status and to find the most economical way of using communications services. In 2010, kt enabled the user to make adjustments KT introduced a smartphone rate plan according to the actual usage pattern of voice-text-data. A customized rate policy that allows the user to freely adjust the was introduced where unused wireless data could be carried over to the following user amount for voice, data and text messages. With 5 different rate policies, month for use. In addition, by introducing diverse combined rate policies such users can control the use of voice, data and as reducing data roaming rates and paying per MMS, kt is trying to lessen the text message within a limit established by communications expense burden on the customer. As for the home phone flat sum each policy. The customized adjustable rate which has become a communications expense issue, subscribers are notified of rate plan was a huge welcome for those their subscription and are provided information to compare rates. If the customer on the iRate Plan that did not use wireless Internet that much. desires to terminate the service, every measure is taken to ensure that the consumer (August 2, 2010) rights are protected through notification. For customers who have not received refunds, services are provided so that the customer can confirm by visiting www. olleh.com. kt will continue to foster a rational communications consumption culture and do everything possible to protect consumer rights. 7 Special Issue 03 By promoting Smart Working, kt is creating a Great Work Place Survey results of the effects of smart working (%) • Source: Employee survey initiated in March 2011 • Base: 100% comparison with working at the office Average 115.7 Average 115.2 Average 79.8 122.5 123.8 115.6 114.2 112.6 112.9 89.8 80.3 75.8 1times 2~3times Over 4 times 1times 2~3times Over 4 times 1times 2~3times Over 4 times Concentration level Productivity Stress As women are becoming more economically active, the importance of family-friendly management is gaining in importance. Although having women enter the work force plays a positive role on the economy, the rigid work methods of domestic corporations are causing social issues. Having the world’s lowest birthrate, many are continuously pointing out that this could place a great burden on future generations. There is a need to enhance the quality of life by balancing work & life. Hankuk Economic Daily By creating a Great Work Place that aims to establish the best work place for KT announced that it will formally competent employees, kt is pursuing a balance in work & life, and is doing everything initiate Smart working starting this possible to allow employees have a happy life. To help mitigate low birthrate month for its 20,000 employees. Smart problems, which has become a social issue, kt is providing diverse family-friendly working was actually initiated as a trial programs such as the children’s nursery in the workplace and maternity leave. kt has service in June of last year for pregnant initiated a Smart Work policy to innovate the way one works and to help balance employees and employees on maternity leave. Based on analysis, smart working work & life. Mostly pregnant employees and employees with 13 or younger children not only enhanced concentration and utilize the smart working policy the most. They can either work at home or at productivity, it also created a balance smart working centers nearby. Smart Working is also being implemented for male between family, society and company. employees. To enable them to work in offices close to home, smart working centers Because of the positive results, KT are open. From research, Smart Working not only enhances employee satisfaction, decided to expand the implementation of smart working. it also enhances productivity. (April 3, 2011) 8 Through the ‘3 Don’t Policy,’ mutual growth, Special Issue 04 a new paradigm, will be implemented We will not 3 Don’t We will not waste misappropriate SME’s ideas of Policy SME’s resources technology development Expanding Sustainability Management Based on the Executing Managing supply chain guidelines violations of We will not create standards Environment and Internal audit an environment labor management External audit Violation processing of competing with standard policy & regulations, SMEs violation criteria & treatment procedures, organized learning, etc. A company’s competitiveness is decided on its supply chain. Since companies cannot internalize all the required competencies, trustworthy relations with outstanding suppliers is becoming more important to sustainability management. Since the perception that small & medium suppliers that contributed to the growth of large corporations are not appropriately compensated is spreading, there is a need to adopt a policy for mutual growth on a government level and for large corporations to voluntarily pursue mutual growth. Kyunghyang Daily kt has continuously placed its effort on coexistence through diverse measures which include preventing abuse stemming from bids, expanding payment for In July 12, 2010, Suk-Chae Lee, Chairman maintenance & repairs, strengthening self-support platforms for competitive SMEs, of KT announced its ‘3 Don’t policy” and mentioned that moving toward mutual and initiating cash settlements & expanding financial support. By declaring the growth rather than just coexistence with ‘3 Don’t Policy” in July 2010, kt has taken a step forward from the existing coexistent SMEs is eventually creating a platform policy. Not only is kt executing its mutual growth policy towards its suppliers, it is for maximizing customer value. He also inducing the suppliers to disseminate sustainability management policies went on to say that KT would achieve towards other suppliers. To achieve this, kt is inducing 1st suppliers towards a cash meaningful growth with SMEs through a sustainable open policy. The Chairman settlement structure with the 2nd suppliers. At the same time, kt is managing also announced that the coexistent transactions between 1st and 2nd suppliers to ensure that any price increases by cooperation with SMEs will be expanded the 1st supplier on goods delivered to kt is also disseminated down to the 2nd through the ‘3 Don’t Policy.’ supplier. Also, starting in October 2010, diverse mutual growth programs are being (July 12, 2010) applied to the 2nd suppliers. 9 Rather than a one-time activity, kt is pursuing long-term social contribution Special Issue 05 activities by linking with the local society Gangneung Namyangju Wonju Bucheon Joongrang olleh Dream Center Status Completed Centers: 2010 (Joongrang, Seongnam, Daejeon, Wonju, Chilgok, Mokpo, Jeju) Yangcheon Seongnam 2011 (Namyangju, Busan, Gwangju, Bucheon) Planned Openings: 2nd Half 2011 (Cheonan, Gangneung, Yangcheon, Gunsan, Andong, Cheongju) Cheonan Cheongju Daejeon Andong Gunsan Chilgok As the awareness of social responsibilities is increasing, companies are initiating diverse social activities. However, rather than one-time activities, there is a Gwangju need to systematically initiate social contribution activities from a long-term perspective that connects Busan with local societies. When government or large Mokpo customers place a project order, there are some that require social responsibility performance results. This phenomenon is steadily increasing. Jeju Choong-Ang Daily The olleh Dream Center is as its name suggests a place where children can Starting in 2010, to enable children from low income families realize their dreams embrace their dreams. It is a social and hopes, kt connected with local children’s centers located in major regions of the contribution model using the company’s country to provide children with access to ‘olleh Dream Centers.’ Space equipped assets. By reallocating space in KT with diverse IT devices including IPTVs, beam projectors, smart pads, and eBooks, buildings across the county, space was have been made available in branch buildings across the country for various classes made available for the Dream Center such as English, music, etc. As of the end of 2010, there are 7 centers located in major children. Currently there are 10 Dream sectors of the country. In the second half of 2011, new Dream Centers will be opened Centers some of which are located in in the Namyangju, Busan, Gwangju areas. In order for local employee volunteer Seongnam, Chilgok, Mokpo, Wonju groups to systematically support the local children’s centers, forming relations with and Daejeon. By the end of this year 10 these children centers is encouraged. By the end of the 1st half of 2011, relations with more Dream Centers will be added to 600 children’s centers will have been formed, and by the end of the 2001, the total cities such as Bucheon, Cheonan and number will have been expanded to 1,000 children centers. Gangneung. (June 23, 2011) 10 Solar Power Generation • In 2008, utilizing the rooftop of the Leading global environment preservation by Shinae Branch building and property at Hwaseong Transmission Station, a 50Kw enhancing energy efficiencies, and developing solar power generation equipment was eco-friendly products & services Special Issue 06 installed for each location. • In December 2010, a 423Kw large capacity solar power generator equipment was installed at the Gangneung Promoting Receiving Station. utilization of new & renewable energy Fuel Cell • As part of the Ministry of Smart Grid Knowledge Economy’s new and Jeju Test Project renewable energy trial distribution • For 42 months between May 2009 and project, kt installed five 1Kw fuel cells Geo-thermal Energy May 2013, the Smart Grid project was on the rooftop of its Songdo building. • Heating/cooling and hot/cold water implemented in Goojwa-eub, Jeju Island to supply was installed at the Daeduk cover approximately 6,000 households. Research Complex and Gongju Branch as a trial. • Dust, vibration and noise that can occur while using geo-thermal energy from 100~150 meters underground has been solved by an eco-friendly green technology developed by kt. The effects from global warming are spreading. In terms of adapting to climate change and energy independence, Korea was ranked very low amongst OECD nations. Although ICT companies do not directly emit greenhouse gases, they use a lot of energy, in effect, indirectly contributing to greenhouse gas emissions. Since ICT companies can provide services such as energy solutions and remote monitoring, they can also contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide, which provides both opportunities and threats. As such, it is important for companies to commit to increasing the portion of new and renewable energy supplies from a corporate level, and to help reduce energy consumption and enhance energy efficiencies. Kookmin Daily To help reduce carbon dioxide, kt is improving energy efficiencies within the workplace, developing eco-friendly products and services, and expanding the use As part of KT’s Green Management, of new and renewable energy. kt is trying to enhance energy efficiencies at work KT opened a smart grid operating through video conferencing and smart working. By developing services such as the center in Jeju Islands’ Smart Grid Test Energy Management System (EMS) to efficiently manage energy within buildings and Complex last April. KT also finalized Green PCs, kt is providing support so that customers can create a highly efficient IT its low carbon green growth plans by environment. Moving a step forward, to expand the use of new and renewable energies, converging electric power with IT. The solar power generators were installed on the rooftop of the Shinnae Branch and on Smart Grid, which is a smart power the premises of the Hwaseong transmission station and Gangneung receiving station. network, applies IT technology to Using geo-thermal energy, cooling, heating and hot/cold water are being supplied at existing power production & transport the Daeduk Research Complex and Gongju Branch. In addition, kt is participating in and consumption processes, helping the smart grid Jeju Test Project to help expand green technologies. optimize energy efficiencies. The Smart Grid is a next generation intellectual power network system that creates value for both supplier and consumer. (June 29, 2010) 11 Sustainability at kt At a Glance kt’s Value System Corporate Governance Sustainability Management Ethical Management Risk Management Corporate Overview Standing at the forefront of the digital era, kt has been spearheading advances in information technology in Korea since its inception in 1981. We are moving towards a vision of becoming a Global ICT* leader equipped with wired/wireless convergence technologies attained after the merger with ktf. Based on our digital communication devices that can be connected anywhere and anytime, we provide advanced wired/wireless services to customers and promote our corporate philosophy of “partnership for growth” by pursuing green growth and contributing to job creation. kt will continue to provide families, individuals and companies with advanced IT services, including voice & data, wired & wireless networks, and broadcasting & telecommunications services, in order to grow as a sustainable enterprise that fulfills environmental, social and economic responsibilities. * ICT: Information, Communication, Transaction kt Profile Affiliates Company Company name Main business Ownership (%) Book value (KRW million) kt name kth Internet/contents business 65.94 119,129 Date of December 10, 1981 establishment ktp Trunked Radio Service(TRS) 44.85 43,515 CEO Suk-Chae Lee Special category telecommunications/ ktn 100.00 51,210 NI business 90 Buljeong-ro, Location of Bundang-gu, Construction and maintenance of ktsm 36.92 25,497 head office Seongnam-city, submarine cable Gyeonggi-do Security services ktt 88.82 30,374 No. of 31,155 persons (security systems, facilities, etc.) employees (as of the end of 2010) ktm&s Sales of terminals 100.00 21,095 KRW24.1 trillion Total assets Lease/installment financing, (as of the end of 2010) kt Capital 73.74 147,438 investment banking Operating KRW20.2 trillion revenue (as of the end of 2010) IT solution rental ktr 58.00 165,724 (equipment/auto lease, etc.) Korean, New York Stock listing and London stock ktds SM/SI 95.31 27,810 exchanges Moody’s A3 kt Music Sound source distribution 48.69 16,008 (Mar. 4, 2009), Credit rating S&P A (Nov. 26, 2010) Nasmedia Display advertisement 50.00 22,504 Fitch Ratings A (Jul. 15, 2010) ktcs Call center operation and establishment 17.80 19,613 ktis Call center operation and establishment 17.80 19,432 kt Skylife Satellite broadcasting, media 32.12 29,089 Sales of high-speed wireless kt Wibro Infra 26.22 65,502 telecommunication devices and equipment Note) Includes only affiliates with book value of minimum KRW10 billion. (as of the end of 2010) 12 Market Share Major Businesses (based on no. of subscribers) (Unit: %) At the end of 2009, kt was the first in Korea to introduce iPhone (Apple), successfully changing the Local call Broadband Internet market landscape with a data-oriented smartphone. At the same time, by successfully introducing Mobile phone diverse smartphone terminals in 2010 such as iPhone4 (Apple), Nexus-One (HTC), Optimus-One (LGE), Desire HD (HTC) and Streak (DELL), kt was able to further its competitiveness. In addition, to 89.8 89.9 86.3 maintain existing wired service subscribers and simultaneously strengthen its business platform, kt introduced various integrated rate policies such as the ‘ollehtoong,’ Unlimited Family and the Family Sponsor rates. At the same time, the company aggressively marketed its ‘olleh tv skylife’ 43.4 42.5 43.1 product by linking up with Korea Digital Satellite Broadcasting’s (Affiliate of kt) satellite channel 31.5 31.3 31.6 broadcasting services to lead the communications & broadcasting convergence market. This further strengthened the company’s competitiveness in the media sector. 2008 2009 2010 No. of Subscribers (Unit: 1,000 persons) Category 2008 2009 2010 Local call 22,132 20,090 19,273 Broadband Internet 15,475 16,349 17,224 Mobile phone 45,607 47,944 50,767 Global Network kt Moscow Office Moscow East Telecom Tashkent Omnitel China Mongolia Telecom Beijing Ulaanbaatar Super iMAX ktai Tashkent LA kt Tashkent Office ktj Tashkent Tokyo ktc kt Algiers Office Beijing Algiers kt Hong Kong Office kt Dhaka Office Hong Kong Dhaka Freekoms kt Hanoi Office Jakarta Hanoi kt Kigali Office Kigali kt Bogota Office kt Jakarta Office Bogota Jakarta Overseas Subsidiaries Overseas Office • China kt China Corp. Omnitel China • Russia (Moscow Office) • Japan kt Japan Co., Ltd. • Vietnam (Hanoi Office) • USA kt America Inc. • Columbia (Bogota Office) • Mongol Mongolian Telecom • China (Hong Kong Office) • Uzbekistan East Telecom, Super-iMax • Bangladesh (Dacca Office) • Indonesia Freekoms • Rwanda (Kigali Office) • Algeria (Algiers Office) • Indonesia (Jakarta Office) • Uzbekistan (Tashkent Office) Overseas Subsidiary Overseas Independent Company Overseas Representative Office Overseas Temporary Office 13 Sustainability at kt At a Glance kt’s Value System Corporate Governance Sustainability Management Ethical Management Risk Management kt has implemented its olleh management, reflecting its commitment to thinking outside the box and drawing on the synergies produced by the merger with ktf to enhance customer value. This is the operational direction kt needs to follow to transform itself into a global ICT convergence leader. The program requires the company. The program requires the company to grow through mutual benefit to customers and all other stakeholders through futureoriented, innovative thinking. By thinking innovatively, we intend to provide future-oriented services that are welcomed by shareholders, the nation, employees, society, customers and other stakeholders. kt Value Pyramid Management philosophy Always * * Always Connected cted Updated interpretation of our former management C nne o philosophy of “convergence of information, telecommunications and people” Management direction ment anage olleh M ** ACTION A  ll for Customer, Collaboration, Trust, Innovation, Vision Ownership, Now l ICT Globa ce Leader rg e n Aim of “olleh” Management Core value Conve Management t Way of reverse kt is a company that .** = New k reverses customer’s ideas .O.N ideas A.C.T.I Future kt is a company that management realizes customers’ dreams Management Philosophy and Direction Communication kt is a company that reads olleh management represents kt’s new management direction under which we aim to make management the heart of customers customers happy by creating new customer value through continued innovation by changing Customer kt is a company welcomed the way we think and pursuing constant communication. By thinking outside the box, we intend satisfaction by customers to provide innovative services of the future. Our goal is to become a company that rethinks ideas management (management of reverse ideas), realizes customers’ dreams (future management), reads the olleh Management Direction heart of customers (communication management), and is welcomed by customers (customer Shareholders satisfaction management). Outstanding Company maximizing Performance corporate value Core Value A.C.T.I.O.N.=New kt Way Country Under the belief that action-oriented change is imperative to driving growth, kt adopted the Company leading the Leading IT IT Industry “New kt Way” which represents six principles for ACTION: All for customer, Collaboration, Trust, Innovation, Ownership and Now. The ‘New kt Way’ will serve as the underlying principle for all Employees business activities carried out by kt. Liberal Company creating free Culture communication culture Society Esteemed Company respected Company by the society All for Customer Collaboration Trust Innovation Ownership Now Customers Happy Company making Process Organizational Support Customer customers happy system Speedy and Goal-oriented and Professionalism and 14 action-oriented changes accountability management productivity Since its privatization in 2002, kt has been committed to ensuring corporate transparency, adopting almost all of the recommended global standards for corporate governance. We have professional managers and an independent Board of Directors (BOD). The role of the BOD and CEO are separate and clearly stated. We have also adopted the “kt Corporate Governance Charter” and established the Corporate Governance Committee in order to improve our corporate structure. These efforts were externally recognized through the “Grand Prize” at the 2010 Corporate Governance Awards by the Corporate Governance Service of Korea. We have also been listed in the CGS Hall of Fame (2007 and 2008). BOD Composition and Operation BOD Activities The Board of Directors (BOD) is comprised of 11 members (three executive directors and eight Category 2008 2009 2010 outside directors, as of March 2011). Outside directors, equipped with expertise in certain areas No. of BOD and with management skills, serve three years or less. They are appointed by the Outside Director 17 14 10 meetings Recommendation Committee. The BOD chair serves a one-year term and is chosen from among Rate of 96% 93% 93% the independent directors. We have five permanent committees under the BOD. In addition, two participation Evaluation provisional committees are under operation. When necessary, special committees are established by results 4.61 4.41 4.38 the resolution of the BOD. To effectively operate the BOD and enhance the responsibilities of directors, (scale of five) kt has evaluated its performances and directors’ performances annually. Resolutions are passed when Note) In 2010, the BOD deliberated on and approved 46 agenda items including the plans for establishment of the majority of the board members are present and the majority of those attending the meeting give Hot-line, mid-term strategies for 2015, and business plan for 2011. their approval. Committees under the BOD Compensation for Directors (Including outside directors as of Committees Composition Roles and responsibilities the end of Dec. 2010) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Corporate Governance 4 outside directors Deals with issues related to Committee 1 executive director corporate governance Amount approved at Performs audits on accounting and Total Individual Audit Committee 4 outside directors Category the general company operations amount average shareholders Evaluation and Oversees matters related meeting 4 outside directors Permanent Remuneration Committee to the CEO’s contract and evaluation Executive Committee directors 45.4 15.1 3 executive Deliberates on general management issues Management Committee (3) directors mandated by the BOD 65 Deliberates on major internal transactions and Outside Related Transactions transactions with related parties, which are directors 4.8 0.6 4 outside directors (8) Committee prescribed in the Monopoly Committee Regulation and Fair Trade Act and the Commercial Act Note1) Compensation paid in 2010 was excluded CEO Recommendation All outside directors Nominates CEO candidates, deliberates on and since it was recorded in financial statements of fiscal year 2009. Provisional Committee 1 executive director approves necessary matters Committee Note2) Detailed information on the BOD is available Outside Director Candidate All outside directors Nominates outside director candidates, on the kt homepage (www.kt.com; IR > BOD) Recommendation Committee 1 executive director deliberates on and approves necessary matters Responsibility Management by Professionals and Compensation System The CEO signs a management contract with the BOD to ensure responsibility. The CEO’s performance bonus is linked to kt’s overall performance, which is assessed by the Evaluation and Remuneration Committee’s quantitative and qualitative analysis of various indicators, including non-financial performance. Equally, the performance bonus for executive directors is based on the same corporate performance evaluation and the respective business units. 15 Sustainability at kt At a Glance kt’s Value System Corporate Governance Sustainability Management Ethical Management Risk Management kt built an organizational structure that allows it to implement corporate sustainability kt demonstrated its commitment to CSR management goals more systematically and effectively, while it continues to seek ways to the international community in May to grow along with its stakeholders. We have raised the value of society through diverse 2008 by joining the UN Global Compact. achievements in the areas of ethical management, customer management, environmental management, win-win management, economic growth, and employee satisfaction while enhancing customer value by providing advanced IT services. Going forward, we will create growth engines by stepping up sustainability management and transparent management that meet global standards. Sustainability Management Direction The goal of kt’s drive for sustainability management is to continue to advance as a major world player. To this end, we maintain effective communication with customers and other stakeholders. Moreover, five sustainability priorities (ethical management, customer management, environmental management, win-win management, and social contribution) have been established to enable us to effectively incorporate major issues to our business activities. Sustainability Management Direction Five priorities Initiative Roles and responsibilities Ethical Gain recognition as Ethical management activities, management a clean organization corporate governance, risk management Respect customer value, promote Service development, product liability, information Customer customer satisfaction, increase customer protection, CRM, innovative management (product, management benefits and provide distinctive services social innovation), brand management Environmental policy, environment management Environmental Realize “Green kt, Green Korea” system, climate change response strategy, innovative management management and efficiency, energy saving Fair HR management (HRD, hiring and fostering), Win-win Foster a productive corporate ecosystem recruiting, labor union (labor practices indicators, management to create value with our partners occupational health & safety), fair trade Social contribution activities, public services Narrow the digital divide and Social contribution (addressing digital divide), social cooperation enhance quality of life (regional investment, cooperation) Sustainability Management Leadership The Sustainability Management Committee, chaired by a vice president is under obligation to implement sustainability management more effectively. We were obligated to provide regular sustainability management performance reports and plans to the Board of Directors in 2011. Composed of the heads of 16 offices and divisions, the committee handles companywide sustainability management and, through the olleh initiative, supports the operation of subcommittees. It also discusses annual plans for sustainability management and evaluates results. The Sustainability Management Working Committee, composed of executives and chaired by the head of the Public Relations Office, manages and supervises the activities of each division, and ensures compliance to global standards. 16 Sustainability Management Committee Implementation Structure Decision-making System Board of Directors Corporate Five priorities Major issues Relevant organizations Stakeholders Governance Committee Ethical management activities, Ethical Ethical Management Office, corporate governance, transparent Shareholders CEO olleh Management management Value Management Office management, growth & innovation Committee CS Implementation Division, Sustainability Service innovation, prevention of Management Personal Customer Division, Home Customer communication disruption, customer Committee Secretariat Customer Strategy Division, Synergy Customers management protection, VOC management, (Public Relations Management Office, DigiEco, product impact analysis Sustainability Dept.) Technology Strategy Office Management Working Committee Green IT, energy saving, response Smart Green Development Office, Environmental Environment to climate change, development of Network Strategy Division, Real management (Future generations) eco-friendly BM Assets Management Office HR Management Office, Business Win-win HR management, compensation, fair Employees and Support Office, GMC Strategy Office, management trade, mutual growth suppliers Purchasing Strategy Office Volunteer activities, public service, Social Local communities addressing digital divide, social Public Relations Office contribution (Government) cooperation Sustainability Management Performances Sustainability Management Recognition Award Sponsor organization Award date Presidential Award in the category of Small & Medium Business Administration May 14, 2010 SME support Federation of Small and Medium Business Grand Prize at the Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS) Jun. 30, 2010 2010 Corporate Governance Awards Audit Award Korea Listed Company Association Sep. 29, 2010 No. 1 in four categories* KMAC Mar. 31, 2010 by Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) Carbon Management 2010 CDP Korea Oct. 21, 2010 (Leader in telecommunications industry) Labor-Management Culture Grand Prize Ministry of Employment and Labor Nov. 2, 2010 (Presidential Award) Family-Friendly Company Ministry of Gender Equality & Family Nov. 20, 2010 * International call, city local call / long distance call, broadband Internet, Internet call kt Listed on DJSI World kt was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Korea Index and the DJSI Asia Pacific in 2009, and on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in September 2010. The DJSI World comprises of 318 companies, which were selected by Dow Jones and SAM. The DJSI assesses more than 2,500 companies on their level of sustainability management. DJSI World members are recommended as preferred investment targets for socially responsible investment funds. 17 Sustainability at kt At a Glance kt’s Value System Corporate Governance Sustainability Management Ethical Management Risk Management kt has made ethics a part of its corporate culture, and is continuously implementing its Clean kt project to establish itself as an honest and transparent corporation. The company has taken every effort to enable employees to naturally come into contact with ethical management through ethical management practice programs. Through education and informal meetings, ethical management is being spread company-wide and group-wide. In October 2010, an ethical management help-line was set-up to help employees correctly present solutions to ethical dilemmas faced on a daily basis during work. As a result, the 2010 kt ethical level evaluation carried out on employees, senior management and partnership companies showed that kt’s employees received 91 points for their ethical practices, which was an increase of 19% from the previous year. As for its suppliers, 97% replied that they had never experienced providing money or entertainment when transacting with kt. These figures are an overall improvement in ethical standards. Results of Follow-up Measures Clean kt to Non-compliances Hotline to Audit Committee Chair Category 2009 2010 Employees can use e-mail or voice-mail to report irregularities by executives directly to the Audit Dismissed 16 11 Committee Chair. Disciplined 148 80 “Clean kt” campaign for holidays It is designed to promote an ethical culture across the company and prevent corruption and irregularity in advance. Self-assessment and ethics pledge Everyone at kt has conducted an ethics self-assessment and signed a pledge of ethics online. Ethics monitoring activities Monitoring activities are carried out to expose unethical conduct. Clean 365 Center The Clean 365 Center is under operation to protect employees and preserve corporate integrity. Ethics training by heads of business units (executives) Heads of business units learn ethical management and then give lectures to their subordinates to raise employee awareness of ethical issues and promote their ethical conduct. Reinforced communication channels (Cyber Reporting Center) Cyber Reporting Center was improved and became more vitalized. Reviewing progress in ethical management Reviews are conducted to gauge how employees, business partners and customers perceive ethical management at kt. Findings from the reviews are used to make necessary improvements. They are also used as reference when determining the future direction of ethical management. Ethical management help-line It has been set up to help employees deal with ethical dilemmas they face on a daily basis. 18 Unethical Behavior Reporting Channel Reporting Channel kt operates a Cyber Sinmungo (Open Hot-line), which is a channel for reporting unethical Cyber Reporting Center behaviors. For reporting unethical monetary transactions by employees, and irregular behaviors (www.kt.com; About kt Ethical Management that result in irregular increases in profits or decrease in losses, the informant is entitled to receive Cyber Reporting Center) KRW50 million as compensation. To protect the identity of the informant, steps are taken not to e-mail: ethics@kt.com Counseling Center (080-713-6262) expose the identity of the informant during compensation payment. The informant can decide the method of payment for identity protection. Ethical Management Training 2010 Ethical Management Training Since April 2010, heads of business units, including executives, have held monthly training Subject Date sessions to raise employee awareness of ethical issues and promote their ethical conduct. The Ethical Management unit chiefs (over 500 in total) at the kt Head Office and worksites are familiarized in advance with Meaning & Introduction to April kt’s Ethical Management the training materials, prepared by the Ethical Management Office, and then give lectures to their Infrastructure subordinates. This way, the unit chiefs serve as a model and help to instill an ethical mindset in their Importance of Practicing June Ethical Management people. The materials contain various case studies that make the training content more realistic, Ethical Awareness & July encouraging greater participation by all employees and maximizing the training effectiveness. In Judgment Importance of Small 2010, ethical management training was implemented eight times. August Actions Chuseok Holiday Gifts & September Bribes Ethical Management Slogan Proclamation Improper Acquisition of October In January 2011, kt announced its ethical management slogan, “JUMP,” with justice, uprightness, Shares Eliminating the Attitude of morality and pureness as its underlying spirit. The slogan was created to help employees Ignoring Small & Medium November internalize ethical values and naturally practice ethical management at work. By proclaiming Partnership Companies the ethical management slogan to establish a global standard ethical management culture, kt’s 2010 Review of Core Details of Division Head’s December intention is not just to take appropriate measures for past irregularities and corruption, but to also Ethical Actions establish a foundation where ethical management can actively be practiced. Ethical Management Slogan Justice • Uprightness • Morality • Pureness “Leaping forward to Meet Global Standards, kt is Escaping from Past Habitual Work Processes and Methods of Thinking” Justice Uprightness Morality Pureness 19 Sustainability at kt At a Glance kt’s Value System Corporate Governance Sustainability Management Ethical Management Risk Management Market saturation, fierce competition and growing uncertainties in the market have heightened the risk of doing business. kt has set up a company-wide risk management system that allows it to respond to financial, strategic, operational, and compliance risks. These efforts will help us prevent risks, maintain close ties with stakeholders, and pave the way toward sustainable growth in an uncertain environment. Risk Management System Risk Management Organization Chart Risk Management Scope and Principles Company-wide Risk Management Chief Risk Officer (Head of the Ethical Management Office) Compliance Risk Ethical Management Dept. (Risk Management Center) Strategic Operational R Rapid & Resolute Employ rapid and resolute follow-up Respond to measures Risk Risk i Integrity & Initiative Disclose transparently and and minimize respond proactively uncertainties that Risk Management s Specific & Supportive Set clear directions and support by Each Business Unit negatively affect corporate value k Knowledge Accumulative Build risk management Risk Supervisor know-how to reduce risks Division Financial Event Risk Risk Risk Owner Risk Owner Risk Owner Risk Owner Head of Head of Head of Head of Relevant Relevant Relevant Relevant Business Business Business Business Unit Unit Unit Unit Company-wide ERM System kt integrated division-based risk management activities into the company-wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system in 2004. In 2010, we established the Risk Management Center under the Ethical Management Office as an organization dealing exclusively with ERM. The Center supervises all activities relating to risk management, sets risk management plans, examines risks related to new services, and runs the Risk Management Committee. All organizations in the company are now using the “Enterprise Risk Response Handbook” to respond to actual problems strategically and practically as well as to conduct risk-prevention activities. Risk Management Process Management on Key Risks We have reinforced our preventive activities by identifying key risk factors related to our operations and then established strategies for managing risks. Operational and strategic risks are pooled and evaluated to identify the greatest threats. The casual relations of these risks are analyzed to come up with a set of “key risk indicators,” which are used in monitoring risks and improving weak areas, thereby minimizing the chance of reoccurrence. 20 Crisis Response A company-wide crisis response system is in place, allowing the Risk Management Center to initiate appropriate action in case any risk becomes an actual problem. In such cases, the Center induces swift action to prevent escalation and minimize the actual damage. In addition, to make sure the crisis does not reoccur after having solved the issue, measures are being taken to prevent the reoccurrence and to improve the root cause. Risk Examination Related to New Services Provision of perfect service that meets customers’ expectation is vital to customer satisfaction. kt introduced the “Risk Examination System for New Services” in August 2010. Under the system, in-depth examination is carried out in the four scopes – customers, privacy protection, legal stipulation, and fair competition. A total of 417 service-related risks were examined to offer differentiated value to our customers. Raising Risk Awareness Successful risk management requires a scientific and efficient risk management system while employees’ awareness of risks is equally critical to responding risks. We have adopted an in-house risk evaluation framework to assess risk factors and “risk owners” and categorize risks according to potential impact and possibility of occurrence. In the process, we have improved our capability to respond to crises and prevent risks from turning into real problems. Our employees are more aware of the need to consider risk factors when carrying out their assigned duties. Our risk evaluation in 2010 identified a total of 227 risk factors. They have been prioritized, response strategies have been formulated, and risk prevention measures are now being implemented. Preventive Management Process of Core Risks Assess Establish risk Analyze the Decide response current situation management indicators development of risk strategy • Pool risks • Prioritize value worth • Examine causal • Form dedicated • Evaluate key risk protecting relationships based response team candidates • Set key risk indicators on KRI • Conduct improvement (KRI) • Identify key causes measures of risk Risk Response Process Recognize problem Evaluate problem Respond to problem Feedback • Receive internal or • Determine whether it • Determine response • Report response external reports of the affects whole company, direction results problem and designate lead • Determine role & • Analyze the case to • Have RMC identify responder (based on responsibility of prevent recurrence potential effect & the problem relevant units and feedback possibility of spread) 21 Vision and Strategic Direction Through convergence-based innovation, in order for kt to leap forward as a global IT leader, kt is reorganizing its portfolio focused on sustainable growth businesses. kt is leading management innovations and is pursuing a search for new business opportunities and products through its creative management program. To grow into a leading global company, it is strengthening partnerships with Chinese and Japanese companies. Material Test Results External (0~100%) 100 A A Creation of New Growth Engine B B Economic Performance 80 C Ⓔ Ⓓ C Brand Value 60 Ⓕ Ⓓ Innovative Management Ⓔ Global Sustainability Management 40 Ⓕ Shareholder Communication 20 20 40 60 80 100 Internal (0~100%) Major Performance Category 2008 2009 2010 Total Assets (KRW 100 million) 186,849 234,424 241,010 Economic Revenue (KRW 100 million) 117,848 159,062 202,335 Performance Net Income (KRW 100 million) 4,498 5,165 11,719 No. of Patents (Registration) 772 583 710 Innovation Capital Expenditure (KRW 100 million) 31,503 29,587 30,572 Global IT Business Amount of Orders Receviced (KRW million) 74,799 75,996 107,762 Awards and Recognition in 2010 • Embedded mobile best prize (Mobile World Congress) • Grand Prize at the 2010 Corporate Governance Awards (Korea Corporate Governance Service) • Inclusion in DJSI World Index (Dow Jones / SAM) • Audit Award (Korea Listed Company Association) No. of Patents Revenue in 2010 (KRW 100 million) Net Income in 2010 (KRW 100 million) Although kt has been leading the change in the domestic communications industry by creating a smartphone craze, in order for it to secure future growth engines and firmly establish itself as a Global ICT leader, kt needs to make daring investments in new areas. Sang-Hyun Cho IR Department, Value Management Office 17.1 Dream with Shareholders Creation of New Growth Engine Economic Performance % Brand Value Rate of smartphone users out of Innovative Management total subscribers at kt Global Sustainability Management Shareholder Communication To overcome the uncertain business environment stemming from stalled growth and vehement competition in the telecommunications industry, kt formulated various plans such as business diversification into non-telecommunication sectors, patent development, facility investment, and launching of new services. New Business through Acquisition On June 1, 2010, kt acquired Kumho Rent-a-Car, the largest domestic rent-a-car company of which the annual revenue stood at around KRW500 billion. This business diversification into a non-telecommunication sector enabled us to restructure kt Group’s business portfolio and helped Synergy Effect us establish a solid foundation for convergence services by integrating two different services Asset (telecommunication and automobile). From the group’s perspective, the acquisition enabled Group synergy Business kt to maximize asset efficiencies by eliminating waste factors. By utilizing kt’s communications Customer infrastructure, development of integrated products is possible. Group synergies can also be Economy of scale Synergy from Decrease in interest expected through internal cross-selling and joint marketing. kt believes the acquisition will create expenses merger Common use of synergies by enhancing efficiencies through economies of scale, reducing interest expenses assets through refinancing, and jointly utilizing the distribution network & garages. Patent Registration Patent Registration kt is actively searching for new patents. In 2010, the number of reported inventions increased Domestic Overseas by 35% compared to that of 2009 as a result of the human management mileage allowance and invention compensation. While patent registrations reflecting the new trend, such as the 729 634 N-Screen convergence service technology patent, have increased, patents related to traditional 526 communications technology have decreased. By focusing on high quality patent searches, including standard patents, the number of A-class patents increased by 171% over the previous year. 43 57 76 Capital Expenditure In 2010, we invested KRW3.06 trillion, a 3.3% increase from a year earlier. The main reasons behind the increase were surging investment in the Internet and mobile phone businesses. Facility 2008 2009 2010 investment in the Internet business jumped 39.0% year-on-year due to expansion of WiBro and IPTV Total 772 583 710 equipment while investment in the mobile phone business rose 11.9%. In 2011, we mapped out a plan to increase facility investment in the mobile phone business to enhance network quality. Investment Details (Unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2008 2009 2010 Internet 8,836 6,033 8,388 Fixed phone 1,213 1,427 1,425 Mobile phone 9,635 7,295 8,164 Data 2,565 4,185 4,051 Telecommunication infrastructure 8,080 6,752 5,012 Others 1,174 3,895 3,532 Total 31,503 29,587 30,572 24 Percentage of Smartphone New Service Launch Subscribers in Comparison to Total Subscribers Leading the Smartphone/Pad Markets (As of the end of 2010, Unit: 10,000 persons) Through the distribution of smartphones and pads, kt is not only leading the mobile market, but Total Smartphone Composition is also leading the ‘smart revolution’ economically and socially. The iPhone that caused the global Subscribers Subscribers smartphone craze was first launched in Korea in November 2009. Since its launch, kt sold over 2.4 kt 1,604 274 17.1% million sets. With the introduction of iPhone4 in September 2010 and sales of over 1 million sets SKT 2,571 391 15.2% in just a 4 months period, kt has become the leader in the smart era. The explosive demand for LGU+ 902 53 5.9% the iPhone4 can be attributed to the high satisfaction of previous iPhone3GS users, over 300,000 applications (Apps), iPhone’s exclusive expansion capabilities through continuous upgrades, our competitive rate policy such as the 3G + WiFi limitless data usage, and positive appraisal of the close to 50,000 olleh WiFi zones across the country. In addition, by introducing the iPad in November 2010, kt accelerated large scale consumption of contents as a media device, and led the expansion of the pad market that is innovatively changing the digital lifestyle. Smart Home Service In the first half of 2011, by introducing the ‘smart homepad,’ an advanced version of the existing video terminals or style phones, and the ‘Kibot,’ an edutainment terminal for children, kt started to provide contents-oriented SoIP services rather than just voice services. uCloud Service In June 2010, kt launched uCould services where users can utilize diverse IT resources (infrastructure, platform, software) as much as the user needs and wants, while paying for the ‘Kibot,’ an edutainment terminal for children amount used. As a wired/wireless combined storage service, users can use mobile devices such as tablet PCs and notebook PCs to access large amounts of data even without being in an office environment. Cloud service refers to the overall service name, while the u in front refers to ‘your,’ in effect meaning existing anywhere and anytime (ubiquitous). uCloud Service Classification Special advantages Home Automatic backup of personal data, up & download from diverse terminals Storage Automatic backup of corporate data, up & download from diverse terminals, Pro usage of common folders CS* Virtual server service allowing users to easily organize (construct) systems SS* Storage of large amounts of data & limitless online search service Introduction of uCould services Computing BS* Backup of large amounts of data & recovery service DS* No initial investments required & convenient database service CDN* Service helping transmit contents to many users * CS : Compute Service / * SS : Storage Service * BS : Backup Service / * DS : Database Service Service VDI* Outstanding virtual desktop service that provides high security and flexibility * CDN : Content Delivery Network * VDI : Virtual Desktop Infrastructure PasS(IDE)* Open platform service enabling application development & test environment * IDE : Integrated Development Environment Mobile TV kt is expanding its screen so that media services that can only be enjoyed on existing TV screens can be viewed anytime and anywhere through diverse devices. As a result, kt introduced the mobile TV App. that allows users to enjoy existing real time IPTV and VOD contents on smartphones and pads. kt will create a new N-Screen media consumption culture by expanding from mobile ‘olleh TV Now’ in your hands TVs to PCs and 3rd party devices, and by linking with diverse contents such as e-books and games. 25 Dream with Shareholders 586.1 Creation of New Growth Engine Economic Performance Brand Value KRW billion Innovative Management Dividends Global Sustainability Management Shareholder Communication Economic Performance Overview Operating Revenue Breakdown (Unit: %) Operating Revenue by Business (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2008 2009 2010 Category YoY Change 3.5 Revenue As % of total Revenue As % of total Revenue As % of total 12.3 Internet 24,186 20.5% 23,865 15.0% 24,923 12.3% 4.4% 22.3 6.5 Data 16,501 14.0% 14,502 9.1% 13,160 6.5% -9.3% Phone 53,323 45.2% 47,606 29.9% 42,864 21.2% -10.0% 21.2 Wireless 10,066 8.5% 42,607 26.8% 69,145 34.2% 62.3% Goods 8,551 7.3% 25,012 15.7% 45,029 22.3% 80.0% Others 5,221 4.4% 5,470 3.4% 7,214 3.5% 31.9% 34.2 Total 117,848 100% 159,062 100% 202,335 100% 27.2% Internet 12.3 Summary Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW 100 million) Data 6.5 Phone 21.2 Classification 2008 2009 2010 YoY Change Wireless 34.2 Current assets 37,781 64,746 61,118 -5.6% Goods 22.3 Non-current assets 149,068 178,679 179,892 0.7% Others 3.5 Total assets 186,849 243,425 241,010 -1.0% Current liabilities 25,859 56,843 61,128 7.5% Non-current liabilities 72,672 82,599 69,473 -15.9% Total liabilities 98,531 139,442 130,601 -6.3% Capital stock 15,610 15,645 15,645 0.0% Capital surplus 14,406 14,486 14,498 0.1% Capital adjustment -39,947 -21,657 -12,625 -41.7% Accumulated other comprehensive income 108 -445 -826 86.5% Retained earnings 98,141 95,955 93,718 -2.3% Total stockholders’ equity 88,318 103,983 110,409 6.2% Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 186,849 243,425 241,010 -1.0% Summary Income Statement (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2008 2009 2010 YoY Change Operating revenue 117,848 159,062 202,335 27.2% Operating expenses 106,714 152,946 181,802 18.9% Operating income 11,134 6,116 20,533 235.8% Non-operating income 8,553 8,843 5,731 -35.2% Non-operating expenses 14,086 9,397 11,094 18.1% Income before income taxes 5,600 5,562 15,170 172.8% Income tax expense 1,102 396 3,451 770.8% Net income 4,498 5,165 11,719 126.9% 26 Financial Ratios (Unit: %) Classification 2008 2009 2010 Current ratio 146.1 113.9 100.0 Debt-to-equity ratio 111.6 134.1 118.3 Stability Dependence on borrowings ratio 33.5 33.4 31.8 Interest coverage 3.4 times 1.4 times 4.1 times Operating income margin 9.4 3.8 10.1 Net income margin 3.8 3.2 5.8 Profitability ROA (Return on assets) 2.4 2.1 4.9 ROE (Return on equity) 5.1 5.0 10.6 Operating cash ﬂow to total assets 12.8 12.8 13.5 Operating revenue growth -1.3 35.0 27.2 Operating income growth -22.3 -45.1 235.8 Growth Net income growth -54.2 14.8 126.9 Total assets growth 4.3 30.3 -1.0 Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholder Contribution to Distribution of Dividends Local Communities Economic Value by Stakeholder (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Shareholders Dividends 2,263 4,864 5,862 Social contribution (Dividend) 348 352 370 spending Suppliers Employee Compensation (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Investment, Employees procurement) (Wage) 2008 2009 2010 Wage 18,101 18,412 18,405 Reserves for retirement allowances 3,222 10,717 2,076 Government (Tax) Local Welfare expenses and employee benefits 4,826 5,092 3,038 communities (Contribution) Total 26,149 34,221 23,519 Taxes (Unit: KRW 100 million) Customers (Revenue) 2008 2009 2010 Income tax expenses 1,102 396 3,451 Taxes and dues 1,590 1,595 2,267 Total 2,692 1,991 5,718 Financial Support for Suppliers (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2008 2009 2010 Amount of cash settlements 21,186 17,562 29,665 Amount of financial assistance 2,298 2,961 3,103 27 Dream with Shareholders Creation of New Growth Engine Economic Performance Brand Value Innovative Management Global Sustainability Management Shareholder Communication Brands are now valued as intangible assets that create corporate values. According to surveys on the brand value of major global players, the brand value of kt has steadily increased since 2005. Starting in 2009, we introduced “olleh” as a key component of the new company name, “olleh kt.” olleh provides new impetus to the company’s brand strategy while functioning as familiar brand to customers. Especially in 2011, we combined various brands into one, olleh. The representative brand olleh embraces all areas from fixed, wireless services as well as convergence services, enabling us to create synergies and enhance efficiency in brand management. We operate the Group Brand Management Committee, Group Brand Working Committee, and CIC (Company in Company) Brand Working Committee to bolster our brand management system as well as to ensure all related activities are aligned systematically. Connection between Sustainability Management and Brand kt spares no effort to establish corporate image as a sustainable company. To this end, we have assessed the images of corporate brand and product brand, covering a range of assessment indicators such as fair price policy, misleading advertisement prevention, environmental preservation, social responsibility activities, etc. Up to 2009, only customers participated in surveys. However, we expanded the target to stakeholders at the government level and NGOs, and investors from 2010. The assessment results are reported to the Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) units of each CIC, and relevant business divisions to be reflected in marketing strategies and sustainability management. We continue to monitor external recognitions on our sustainability activities while integrating sustainability management and brand management within the Sustainability Management Committee. olleh’s Evolution Process July 2009 July 2010 January 2011 1st Stage 2nd Stage 3rd Stage Role by Convergence Product / kt’s Representative Brand / Management Slogan Stage Service Brand Service Brand Target by Establishing an Innovative Image Securing Wired/Wireless Securing Convergence Leadership Stage as a Merged Corporation Representative Brand Leadership 28 Group Brand Management System At the kt Group level, we operate a Group Brand Management Committee, where executives of kt and its affiliates participate to deliberate on and decide major issues on brand as well as internal and external communications. In addition, the Group Brand Working Committee which is comprised of team heads has a responsibility to submit proposals to the Group Brand Management Committee and deal with issues on brands, public relations, and internal communication among group companies. The CIC Brand Working Committee attended by kt’s team heads, discusses issues on brand, public relations, and communication among the company’s CICs. The Group Brand Management Committee determines strategies for brand policy & design and advertising while setting the overall branding direction of the kt Group and affiliates to secure consistency and enhance execution power. In addition, it deals with changes of Group brand policy, deliberates on Group brand violence cases, and provides guidelines for Group brand design and affiliates’ brand advertising. It is convened when necessary while Group Brand Working Committee and CIC Brand Working Committee are held once a month. Group Brand Management Agenda: Brand decision-making from the Group level & major Committee Agenda: Form & change major policy issue categories communications issues such as internal/external advertising & related to the mother company’s, kt’s, company-wide brand commercials Member: Synergy Management Head, CIC IMC Head Member: Synergy Management Head, Investment Management (Executive) Head, PR Head, Affiliate Company IMC Head (Executive) Meeting Frequency : Meetings whenever matters arise Group Brand Working Committee CIC Brand Working Committee Agenda: Group level branding activities & internal/external Agenda: Group brand/design/advertising policy, category formation & communication issues discussions related to individual product names Member: Integrated Media Head (Team Head), Investment Member: Integrated Image Head (Team Head), CIC IMC Team Head, Management Head (Team Head), PR Team Head, Group Communications Asset Development Head (Team Head), Management PR Head (Team Head (Team Head), Group Marketing Team Head Head), IPR Head (Team Head) Meeting Frequency: Once a month (Additional meetings whenever Meeting Frequency: Once a month issues arise) Brand Efficiency Assessment Assessment on brand value and efficiency is conducted biannually by using the Brand Performance Index (BPI). Consisting of brand awareness, brand attitude and brand behavior, the BPI is designed for enhancing brand value and implementing brand management. The index helps us decide marketing policies through brand performance results and relationship analysis between marketing activities and brand index. We also use Advertising Performance Index (API) to analyze how much our advertisements affect our brand image. The API provides us with a wide range of useful information on message power, image power, and creative power of our advertisements as well as those of peer companies, helping us establish brand and advertizing strategies. Additionally, we carry out Brand Concept Map surveys to incorporate customers’ initial impression on to our brands. Also, we hold seminars where brand experts from academia and the industry participate to strengthen our brand management capabilities while conducting brand surveys when brand issues occur. 29 Dream with Shareholders 381.8 Creation of New Growth Engine Economic Performance Brand Value KRW billion Innovative Management Cost reduction Global Sustainability Management Shareholder Communication kt Innovation Area Growth BM Ideation Working Management Process Method Structure Creative Management WITH, Group PEG BIT Expense Structure Innovation Creative Management Program kt initiated a creative management program in August 2010 led by the CC (Corporate Center) Creative Management KPI and 32 members from the corporate customer sector to create new business opportunities by Search for Opportunity Areas searching for new ideas on-site. The program aims at searching for opportunity areas, establishing Improve Business for Corporate Customers future-oriented targets, strengthening senior management’s innovative competencies, Creative Management Leadership Training Satisfaction Level improving management systems, and vitalizing internal communities. To increase creative Creative Management Communications management awareness, KPI was established and reflected in the performance evaluation, while Vitalization the dissemination of creative management is promoted through training. In the future, efforts will be further complemented to make sure that the endeavors taken to strengthen employee creative management competencies are put into practice. Project Expert Group (PEG) kt established an internal consulting organization, Group PEG to provide solutions to special Secure Concrete Performance from issues affecting the company. To create a platform for project oriented work methods, kt focused Special Project Establish Company-wide N-Screen on establishing a PEG personnel pool, fostering competent employees, providing clear personnel Implementation Plan compensation, and securing a PEG operations management system in 2010. In 2011, kt will Corporate Culture Structure Improvements through Internalization of Creative enhance the performance of special target projects by upgrading project quality through interim Management appraisals, adjusting roles between projects, and rearranging redundancies. Open IPTV related Technologies to Prepare for Smart TVs (Research Development / PR) WITH (Way of Innovative Task management for High performance) WITH is a work system to help realize the CEO’s philosophies on ‘way of working.’ It is also an HR policy. It is a work tool organically linking work management & performance management with knowledge management by carrying out work orders & reporting, and the evaluation process within the system. Through WITH, a systematic and thorough work management, and cooperative culture is possible. With fair and objective appraisals, it will be possible to foster and secure competent employees, and firmly establish smart working. WITH Process Responsible Executive/Team Head Input Input by the Person in Charge Interim Daily Final Project Registration (Voluntary) Report Recording Report Review/ Prepare Review/ Approve Orders Implementation Prepare Report Approve Report Appraisal Implementation Plan Plan 30 Skip Implementation Plan Request for Cooperation Cooperation Order Implement Cooperation BIT Project Implementation BIT Project kt is implementing the BIT (Business & Information system Transformation) project to continue Platform supporting business planning, finance, improving its IT system. The BIT project is being implemented in 5 sections: management, Management asset, distribution & human sales support, operational support, service, and data analysis. In 2010, through the BIT project, management process and IT integration was achieved for tasks related to “Integrated Customer Analysis Mart Platform supporting Sales Establishment,”“Campaign Planning Integration,”“Wired/Wireless Response-type Integration,” and Support marketing, sales, service & billing “Wireless Terminal SCM Optimization.” Since orders and line opening for wire is done at the ICIS (Wired Sales System) and wireless was done separately at the N-STEP (Wireless Sales System), Company-wide strategic planning, Data analysis required for monitory, inconveniences were incurred. To eliminate these inconveniences, kt plans to integrate the Analysis providing information to the user real-time process from responding to customer, taking orders and opening the line into one system. Platform supporting order ERP Establishment Project & ‘Power User Group*’ Formation Operational processing, network & line Support opening Between August 2010 and February 2011, a six months ERP TD (Transformation Design) project was initiated to finalize the design for change in business management, investments/assets, Infrastructure to enable merger demand/supply, purchase, revenues, finance and human management areas. Based on the Service of services by establishing a joint platform by service ‘innovation task’ which was generated at the ERP TD stage starting in April 2011, and the already designed ‘To-Be Process,’ the ERP establishment project was implemented. By forming the ‘Power User Group,’ to establish the BIT Cooperation System inside the main headquarters and divisions, * Power User Group: Comprised of 213 kt will enhance the awareness of the BIT project and strengthen internal cooperation in areas employees, the roles include change such as sales support, operational support and data analysis. expansion from the establishment stage, integrated testing, final user training, preparation for data transfer, and stabilization Expense Structure Innovation support kt is focused on innovative activities to improve the expense structure by improving basic problems in kt’s activities and processes, and expense inefficiencies. To achieve this, various measures are being taken. They include structure & systems innovation, voluntary (and not controlled) innovation, immediate compensation and company-wide implementation structure innovation under the 3 principles of dispensing justice, and voluntary innovation on an organizational level. Annual Performance of Innovative Activities Performance Innovation Task (Unit: KRW 100 million) As for the expense structure innovation, focused on productivity enhancement, cost competitiveness improvement, and market expense efficiency, kt implemented a total of 107 tasks including 10 company-wide innovation tasks, resulting in KRW381.8 billion in expense 3,818 reduction. From the total reduction amount, KRW197.4 billion was reinvested in growth-based business areas, thus completing the circle of growth. 2,188 Expense Reduction Performance: KRW381.8 billion (Unit: KRW 100 million) Performance Amount 719 Productivity improvement through direct management & materialization of merger 1,275 synergies Cost reduction through asset cleansing & investment efficiencies 671 2008 2009 2010 Elimination of inefficiencies through improvement in managing sales expense 474 Voluntary implementation tasks on a departmental level 1,398 Total 3,818 Future Direction kt will strengthen voluntary innovative activities by organization, induce internalization of innovative activities by reflecting performance appraisals from the innovative activities and expanding compensations, and focus on implementing improvements on a root level for chronic problems company-wide. 31 Dream with Shareholders Creation of New Growth Engine Economic Performance Brand Value KRW 107.7 Orders from global billion Innovative Management IT business Global Sustainability Management Shareholder Communication Sustainability Management at Overseas Subsidiaries To extend sustainability management into our operations abroad, kt established and provided Code of Conduct and Global Sustainability Management Guidelines to our overseas joint ventures in their local languages. The Guidelines provide guidance on ethical management, social contribution, information protection, and compliance with International labor standards. We are strengthening sustainability management globally by monitoring and providing education to our overseas joint ventures. Creation of Smart Belt kt is endeavoring to create a global smart ecosystem encompassing Korea, China and Japan by entering into cooperative relations with China Mobile and NTT Docomo, leading operators in China and Japan. The proposed areas of cooperation include creation of “OASIS,” a super app store where 650 million people in Northeast Asia can use, Free Roaming Area (FRA) in which customers are able to use WiFi free, and joint research on Long-term Evolution (LTE), a next-generation mobile Internet technology. The cooperation will provide customers with greater convenience Strategic Alliance with China Mobile and NTT while kt and two partners have the opportunity to secure future technologies. Docomo (Jan. 2011) Global Competitiveness Utilizing the accumulated success in Korea, kt is making inroads into the global market. The company strengthened its competitive edge through M&A and joint ventures while providing services for establishing telecommunication infrastructures, public infrastructures, and ICT services (U-City) to governments and companies overseas. In addition, high-end satellite services are provided through our satellite olleh 1. Global ICT Business Model Global IT Business Wired/wireless Network On the back of extensive expertise in building and operating various kinds of ICT infrastructure, Nationwide backbone network, broadband including PSTN*, broadband Internet network, WiBro network, BCN**, IPTV, CDMA and WCDMA, kt Internet, WiBro is expanding its business overseas by targeting governments and telecom operators in emerging Public Infrastructure Service markets. Additionally, we are actively venturing into overseas markets by providing customers Security network, education network, ICT center, Internet Data Center (IDC) with world-class solution platforms and consulting services. We leverage our global network that connects major countries around the world to provide end-to-end data lines and IP services as well as Convergence fixed and mobile satellite telecommunication solutions globally. U-City, mobile control(CCTV), Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), Managed service *PSTN : Public Switch Telephone Network / **BCN : Broadband Convergence Network ICT Solutions Orders from Global IT Business (Unit: KRW million) CellTREK (Wireless network design), New Operation Support System (NeOSS) Category 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Solution 1,920 5,541 4,414 5,200 3,315 8,406 1,626 2,122 1,800 Consulting 748 70 1,327 101 46 Telecommunication 33,609 350 138 22,258 71,846 73,717 99,716 network Others 56 6,200 Total 1,920 6,289 38,023 5,620 3,453 30,664 74,799 75,996 107,762 32 Share Ownership Share Ownership (Unit: shares, %) (as of the end of 2010) (Unit: %) Shareholder No. of shares owned Ownership 1.56 Foreign investors 126,681,567 48.52 6.85 8.26 Domestic investors 90,907,180 34.82 National Pension Service 21,557,950 8.26 48.52 Treasury shares 17,895,964 6.85 ESOP 4,069,147 1.56 34.82 Total 261,111,808 100% IR Activities Foreign investors 48.52 Category Details Remark Domestic investors 34.82 IR conference Performance and overall business situation Year-round National pension service 8.26 Business result presentation Quarterly results Once a quarter Treasury shares 6.85 ESOP 1.56 Business report (quarterly, half-yearly, annual) Once a quarter Audit report Once a quarter Reports Annual report Once a year Sustainability report Once a year Shareholder Return kt adopted the cumulative voting and written ballot system to protect the rights of minority shareholders. Moreover, in principle, a return of at least 50% of the previous year’s net profit is provided to shareholders as dividend. At the March 2011 General Shareholders’ Meeting, a resolution was passed to distribute KRW586.2 billion in dividends for the FY 2010. Dividends Category 2008 2009 2010 Par value (KRW) 5,000 5,000 5,000 Net income (KRW million) 449,810 516,533 1,171,866 Total dividends (KRW million) 226,280 486,393 586,150 Dividend payout ratio 50.3% 94.2% 50.0% (Dividend/net income) Dividend yield ratio 2.9% 4.9% 5.0% (Dividend per share/share price) 33 Vision and Strategic Direction All management processes and activities have been redesigned to be customer-oriented for implementing a differentiated customer value management. To be number 1 in all CS categories, kt is initiating various tasks such as zero-defect, 3 major contact point innovation, smart kt realization, customer sensation company-wide innovation and CS infrastructure enhancement. Activities such as communications with customers and customer information protection have also been strengthened. Material Test Results External (0~100%) 100 A CS Management System / VOC as Strategic Asset B A C B Differentiated Service 80 Ⓓ C Stable Telecommunication Service Ⓔ 60 Ⓓ IT Security and Customer Protection Ⓔ Solving the Side Effects of Informatization 40 Ⓕ Customer Communication 20 Ⓕ 20 40 60 80 100 Internal (0~100%) Major Performance Category 2008 2009 2010 Mobile Phone 66 69 72 Customer Broadband Internet 67 70 70 Satisfaction Index Wired Phone 71 72 73 Mobile Phone 0.96 0.96 0.97 CVA Broadband Internet 1.02 1.00 1.03 Wired Phone 1.03 1.00 1.04 Awards and Recognition in 2010 • Advertisement of the year Internet category (Korea Association of Advertising Agencies) • 18th Good advertisement award chosen by consumers, Minister of Culture, Sports & Tourism award (Korea Advertisers Association) • No. 1 in four categories (Broadband Internet, Internet call, city local call, long-distance call, international call) by Korea Customer 34 Satisfaction 2011 kt 지속가능경영 Index (KMAC)보고서 34 In the customer satisfaction survey held for major communications service companies, kt received the appraisal. However, in some categories the results did not meet expectations. Efforts need to be made with an attitude that customer satisfaction is the priority in the entire process from designing services, providing services to after-sale services to be a company chosen by customers. Se-Hee Kim CS Innovation Department, Customer Satisfaction Bureau Customer Satisfaction Index (Mobile Phone) CVA (Wired Phone) Customer Satisfaction Index (Broadband Internet) Dream Big 35 Dream with Customers CS Management System VOC as Strategic Asset Differentiated Service Stable Telecommunication Service IT Security and Customer Protection Solving the Side Effects of Informatization Customer Communication We at kt pursue customer value-oriented management by re-aligning our vision, principles and core values to meet the needs of our customers, and by displaying differentiated customer satisfaction (CS) activities. All of our CS activities and procedures are to be carried out consistently in accordance with our five strategic directions. Slogan Customer Satisfaction, Jumping and Jumping More 5대 CS경영 원칙 5 Major CS Strategic Decisions Zero Defect 3 Major Point Customer Sensing Strengthening Product of Contact Company-wide CS Smart = kt Innovation Innovation Innovation Infrastructure • Customer-oriented products through • Strengthen customer center self-regulated participation & verification of competencies & establishing operating system customers & field • Withdraw business site (Work-Out) if the call • Complete restructuring & slimming Zero Defect Product 3 Major Point of opening & A/S quality appraisals abstruse & difficult products Innovation Contact Innovation continue to be low • Improve CS influent on branches by revising the rate structure 5 Major CS • Strengthen smartphone A/S & • Strengthen customized products foster smartphone experts Strategic by customer segments & rate plan Customer • Establish & expand Decisions Sensing • Search & improve customer experience-oriented smart stores Smart = kt Company-wide complaints through active • Operate Smart Supporters for Innovation communications with field smart terminal training & experience Strengthening CS • Strengthen strategic utilization of VOC when • Establish & operate a performance management Infrastructure initiating management/business/ marketing structure for all departments related to CS • Integrate into one the wired/wireless CS operating system CS Implementation Process CS Activity Related CS KPI CS improvement activities are implemented gradually depending on the organization such as Classification AS-IS TO-BE customer point-of-contact, division, or headquarters. The target task is enhancing customer value that Strengthening PRB* index Provided a KPI customers can directly feel such as rates, quality, brand, service and benefits. To effectively manage without weightedindex management weightedaverage of 20 this, kt uses an internal management system, Kate. Outstanding tasks are rewarded. In addition, to average points Limited Organically establish and operate performance management systems organically for customer satisfaction, Expand applicable operations in connected starting in February 2011, CS KPI was reflected in all departments related to CS activities. only certain “Division-HQdepartments fields Field” Non-operations Fixate VOC of VOC Adopt VOC To unify the CS operating structure, 20 items were selected in 4 categories and integrated. First, responsibility responsibilities responsibility for the point-of-contact category, the call center number/consultation system and billing were policy policy *PRB: Performance Review Board integrated. In the product category, product introduction process, categorizing system, subscriber applications were improved. Unifying the CS operating structure and all tasks excluding related IT system establishments are planned for integration during the 2nd half of 2011.. 36 24 hours a day VOC monitoring via twitter Converting VOC into an Asset The strategic conversion of VOC into assets is to divert from the point-of-contact being the central department for treating VOCs. It is rather an effort to utilize VOCs for real improvement activities on a company-wide level. To achieve this, efforts are being made to integrate and unify into one VOC category system the already divided wired and wireless, with the collection·response system and analysis system by customer unit. In addition, through the olleh management meetings, the VOC impact review must be mandatorily carried out for major business plans. Voice of Customer (VOC) System kt operates a VOC system to identify customers’ needs, explain their needs company-wide, and solve problems immediately. We also offer service packages that include “pre-inspections of services,” “improvement of business processes,” and “boosting customer loyalty by heeding the advice of key customers.” The VOC system empowers employees at the point of contact with customers to address the problem immediately. When impossible, the customer request is sent to the person in charge and the complaint is resolved within nine hours from the time it was received. To carry out VOC improvements company-wide, the VOC control tower, VOC council and MOT meetings are utilized internally. Measures are also taken to meet VOCs related to WiBro, call quality and Nespot. Continuous efforts are placed on early VOC analysis and improvements measures related to the iPhone4 and iPad. Dealing with VOCs Real Time Using Twitter Twitter VOC Implementation System kt is able to deal with VOCs on a real time basis by establishing a twitter based CS system and twoCommunications Field (ENG way VOC processing system. With this, the company is hoping to convert from the existing call Network Team/Access Customer Management Network Center center focused VOC processing system to a text-based SNS VOC processing system. In addition, by Team Team) converging the twitter VOC processing duties into one window, field work efficiencies have improved. Observation / Twitter VOC improvements improvements / A 24 hour monitoring and real time improvement response system has also been established. required notification Twitter VOC After customer Processed by SNS(Yammer) response Processes for Handling User Complaints concerned registration 24 hour department notify through response Results notified MMS system One-stop handling review (greater authority for contact point employee) Pattern analysis CEO: immediate / establish General: within Customer service Comprehensive Visit Agency, kt Plaza response method a Day After service VOC management Quality system Telephone Customer Center Filing Privacy DB Handset Statistics handling User Internet Cyber Rate VOC handling Customer service request VOC management (handle within 9 hours) Regional BU Customer facility Representative Processing by category Sales support Feedback on VOC result Internal control index Result analysis, feedback Feedback User survey / Customer satisfaction study Head office/Business unit (management index, internal control index) User contact point channel User contact point User consultation area User VOC management We introduced the Consumer Complaints Management System (CCMS) in May 2007. Key executives responsible for customer service manage the CCMS. Customer opinions are also collected, classified and analyzed by the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system. 37 Dream with Customers 3.5 CS Management System VOC as Strategic Asset Lowest in Differentiated Service Korea KRW Stable Telecommunication Service Data roaming rate IT Security and Customer Protection Solving the Side Effects of Informatization Customer Communication Efforts to Actively Provide Customer Benefits Alleviation of Customer Rate Burden through Combined Products To alleviate the burden on the customer, a ‘Customized Rate Plan’ was launched where the user can make adjustments based on user pattern of ‘voice-text-data.’ Wireless data not used that month can be carried over to the following month. To encourage data roaming, starting in August 2010, the global data roaming rate was lowered to the lowest domestic rate at KRW3.5 per packet, while MMS rates were applied per message, resulting in an average 90% rate reduction. In May 2011, kt introduced a new combined product, the ‘Unite, olleh,’ which provides discounts to new Introduced “Unite, olleh,’ a family combined smartphone subscribers, subscribers changing smartphones and to existing mobile phones. product Data Communications Expense Reduction by Expanding WiFi As WiFi is expanding, WiFi Zones that were once installed in Seoul & metropolitan areas and indoor areas are now being installed in diverse areas. To enable the use of WiFi while travelling on public transportations, the ‘Public Egg,’ which is used for public transportation, has already been installed on Seoul’s Metro 9 line, all Incheon subway lines, Busan’s line 4, airport rail line, Bundang line, Ilsan line, Chungang line, Gyongeui line, Gwacheon line and major city bus lines. In 2011, installation of the ‘Public Egg’ will be expanded to cover all subway lines in the Seoul and metropolitan areas. In addition, through olleh WiFi roaming, data roaming costs are now more than 99% cheaper than “Public Egg” that allows customers to use that of the general data roaming cost in 100 major countries. wireless Internet in high speed vehicles Enhance Customer Benefits through Partnerships ‘olleh Club’ was launched in June 2010, enabling customers to use their accumulated points when purchasing wired/wireless terminals or settling phone bills. To allow customers to experience the latest IT trend and to utilize IT to enhance life’s values, a ‘Membership Lounge’ was opened at the KTX train terminal, allowing customers to freely experience smartphones and tablet PCs. Through ‘olleh Square’ and ‘olleh Avenue,’ customers cannot only experience hi-tech IT devices, they can also use it as a relaxation and cultural venue. kt olleh Square at Gwanghwamun Office Boosting Customer Convenience & Benefit Building Integrated Fixed-Mobile Services and Integrated Online Channel e-Billing Trend Upon starting as an integrated fixed-mobile services provider in 2009, kt integrated its previously (Unit: 1,000 cases) separate fixed and mobile customer centers into a full-service, one-stop “100 Call Center” to Fixed Mobile enhance user convenience. The integration allows all fixed and mobile customers to easily access 86,247 * the help they need in one single step. Moreover, a comprehensive corporate portal (www.olleh. com) that covers products and services for fixed and mobile customers, also offers information on service charges and user terms. Users can visit this site to apply for or cancel subscriptions, check 53,816 bills, change service plans and handle other matters. 36,850 35,711 Expansion of “One Billing” and “e-Billing” kt is expanding the number of e-billing subscribers, who receive their bills by mobile phone or 32,431 email, in order to reduce costs and resource usage from sending bills in the mail. We also plan to 2008 2009 2010 provide an integrated billing (“One Billing”) service to customers who use multiple kt services. This * Mobile service billing was added due to merger with ktf will allow them to more easily track household telecom expenditures. Moreover, customers who apply for the service will be able to receive one-stop consultations for greater convenience. 38 Customer Quality Warranty System We operate a customer quality warranty system which involves a customer satisfaction evaluation immediately after customers receive services such as service initiation and after-service. The registering of customer requests on-site allows us to use the information to improve services. IT engineers who provided the relevant service present customers with a service quality warranty to boost customer trust. Expansion of Before Service (B/S) kt adopted a preventative before-service system in addition to its existing after-service system to minimize inconveniences and maximize customer value. The B/S system assesses and addresses facilities which have a high likelihood of malfunctioning. Differentiated Service for Customer Delight As an extra consideration for customers, kt technicians visiting homes to initiate services or provide after-service wear overshoes and place their tools and equipment on a special work pad. We have also recruited more female technicians in consideration of the fact that most of the customers who come in contact with installation or after-service technicians are housewives. Customer Point-of-Contact CS Quality Innovation Unifying Customer Point-of-Contact Response Knowledge As IT related consultations are becoming more complicated, it is necessary to have the consultants provide unified information and responses. As such, kt opened the ‘olleh Ji (Knowledge) zone,’ an integrated wired/wireless consultation knowledge system. Through this, it provides a platform for the consultants to easily search for information that the customer requested. Q&As were held for consultants from the headquarters level to prevent misinformation, while the consultants were constantly monitored for wrong call forwardings. To make sure the person in charge does not disseminate wrong information, internal extensions of those responsible for services were shared. A short study video was made on newly introduced smartphones to enhance expertise in providing consultations. New employees assigned as consultants are required to thoroughly read the training manual before entering the field. Reduce Standby Time for Consultation To be able to expediently respond to customer’s enquiries new customer centers were opened in Wonju, Cheongju and Dangsan, with 600 new consultants hired. By allowing consultants to work from their home, experienced & skilled employees can flexibly chose their work environment. By making improvement to the bill so that the customers can easily understand the information on the bill, inbound calls have been reduced, while standby time has also been reduced. Reduction in Customer Point-of-Contact Inbound Calls* In March 2011, the self-regulated target management method by the CIC was changed into * Inbound Call a company-wide target management method to innovatively enhance the quality of the Calls from customers for purposes of consultations as inbound calls have been reduced. In addition, from the top 10 negative VOCs consultation that were selected, efforts were made to eliminate the root cause and implement improvement measures. To evenly distribute inbound and outbound calls various measures were taken. Some included improving the before and after process of launching a product, improving two-way email / SMS, and improving the bill. Establish a Call Center Self-regulatory Responsible Management System To help affiliate call centers establish a responsible management system and enable them to take full responsibility of their own performance, we transferred various duties to affiliate companies, excluding the SLA (Service Level Agreement). 39 Dream with Customers CS Management System VOC as Strategic Asset Differentiated Service Stable Telecommunication Service 50,000 WiFi areas areas IT Security and Customer Protection Solving the Side Effects of Informatization Customer Communication Dual Network Monitoring System Dual Network Monitoring System As Korea’s largest IT network operator, kt employs various measures to prevent disruptions Nationwide network center and ensure stable and reliable telecom services at all times. We currently run regional network 1 >> Nationwide monitoring and controlling operation centers in Seoul, Busan and seven other regions to monitor local service quality, while a nationwide network center in Gwacheon features a real-time monitoring function, completing Regional network operation center (Switchboards, transmission lines, Internet a dual network monitoring system. We carry out year-round preventive measures for all facilities >> infrastructure, and power supplies) 9 that could cause service disruptions, including switchboards, transmission lines, Internet, and Regional monitoring and controlling power supplies. Network service center 39 >> Maintenance and repair of telecommunication facilities Emergency Recovery Drill To be ready for occasions when services are disrupted by natural disasters or accidents, kt engages in annual emergency drills with other telecom operators led by the Korea Communications Commission. kt has also equipped itself with 7,800 units of 208 types of different emergency recovery equipment such as switchboards, Internet devices, transmission devices, enginegenerators, and Satellite News Gathering (SNG) by the Mugunghwa Satellite and regularly performs emergency recovery drills. Additionally, the fourth day of every month is designated “safety day.” On this day, each business site undertakes safety training and checks key facilities to ensure speedy and effective response to natural disasters or accidents. Picture of the Equipment Rack Base Isolation System Undergoing Earthquake Resistant Tests Earthquake Preparation Plans & Earthquake Resistant Solutions To provide stable communications services during earthquakes, kt developed a double floor layer system that satisfies appropriate earthquake resistance performance standards as posted by the government. This system has already been applied to the required facilities. Earthquake measures for communications equipment are being implemented by installing equipment racks that have been proven for their earthquake resistant performance. In addition, the equipment racks do not have to be fixated to the floor. To enable existing equipment racks to be WiFi Investment by Region (Unit: %) earthquake resistant, kt developed an equipment rack base isolation system. In the future, this will be used in locations where equipment rack cannot be anchored to concrete floors. 8.7 10.8 Establish a Mobile Wonderland kt is leading the new changes occurring in the communications environment, such as the expansion in smartphones & wireless data explosion, expansion in diverse applications, and the 11.3 formation of ecosystems. Utilizing kt’s superior wired/wireless network infrastructure, kt created 57.4 a ‘Mobile Wonderland’ by providing the world’s best standard 3W network (WCDMA, WiBro, WiFi) 11.9 services. As of March 2011, there were 50,000 WiFi stations. However, by the end of the year there is expected to be more than 100,000 WiFi stations installed. As of April 1, 2011, WiBro boasts the world’s best nation-wide coverage network in comparison to the population. Metropolitan area 57.4 As the leading WiFi company, kt is actively developing new relevant technologies to enhance Gyeongnam 11.9 WiFi quality. Unlike the existing WiFi AP (Access Point) that supports a 2.4GHz bandwidths, the Honam 11.3 premium WiFi developed from domestic technology, supports a 5GHz bandwidths in addition to Chungcheong 10.8 the 2.4GHz bandwidths, eliminating any frequency interferences. The access capacity and speed Gyeongbuk 8.7 is 3 times and 8 times, faster than the WiFi AP, respectively. 40 91 % Rate of employees who received customer information protection education Expansion of Customer Information Protection Infrastructure kt strengthened its technical and operational capabilities by improving encryption systems, establishing new DB access controlling systems, adopting access log forgery/falsification prevention systems, and installing systems for checking multiple hits of customer information to prevent hackers’ unauthorized and illegal use of customer information. We introduced the Digital Right Management (DRM) solution in 2007 and the Data Loss Prevention (DLP) solution in the first half 2011, to monitor data flows on personal computers, thus blocking customer information leaks and misuse. We routinely check for potential weak spots in all of our systems, including personal data storage. Simulated training sessions are conducted in cooperation with other public sector organizations to prevent and respond to relevant risks. Enhancing Customer Information Protection Efficiency kt’s personal information protection policy is in compliance with Korea’s Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection, Personal Information Protection Law (effective from Sep. 2011) as well as other related regulations. We run a dedicated webpage (http://privacy.kt.com) to respond to customer’s inquiries. Beyond implementing the basic policy, we continue to expand our data security infrastructure given that most information leaks result from hacking and careless data management, while requiring security checks on all new services. All employees are now required to sign a pledge every year to protect customer information. Customer information protection website In addition, we routinely check the personal information protection activities of our sales agents and partner firms to ensure compliance is upheld. kt also visits branches and partner companies to instill greater awareness about the importance of protecting customer information. In 2010, 91% of our employees attended the customized on-site education programs targeting personnel in charge of customer information protection. We built an e-learning system to conduct related online training for all employees twice a year while utilizing office e-mails and electronic bulletin boards to raise employee awareness on customer information protection. Information Safety Inspection Every year, kt conducts the information protection safety inspections in accordance with the law and obtains external safety certification on services and key ICT facilities. Our branches, call centers, partner firms, and webpage are subject to our customer information security certification to heighten privacy protection. Our subsidiaries also adhere to the protection policy practiced by kt. Complying with Legal Standard on Electromagnetic Radiation We conduct tests on all handsets to measure their specific absorption rate (SAR). All devices are registered and sold only after they meet the government’s SAR limit of 1.6 W/kg. To make sure there are no customer complaints from installing wireless base stations, we build base stations in an eco-friendly way. For base stations with strong signals, electromagnetic radiation measuring is compulsory. They are also classified as measurement targets. Output signals from these stations are maintained at a minimum. In addition, to make sure there are no principal damages due to electromagnetic radiation, environment request documents for telecommunications equipment are required so that the supplier can help prevent tolerances or disorders and protect the human body. For the past five years internal studies have been carried out on the potential affects from electromagnetic radiation. As such, kt is placing substantial emphasis on protecting consumers. 41 Dream with Customers 1,100 CS Management System VOC as Strategic Asset Differentiated Service sites Stable Telecommunication Service Preventing access to harmful IT Security and Customer Protection overseas sites Solving the Side Effects of Informatization Customer Communication e-Clean Activities We developed the “Clean-i,”“TimeCodi,”“iAlimi,” and “NOLeTEO” services for our olleh Internet service users. The “Clean-i” application blocks pornographic materials distributed through P2P programs and various harmful websites, while the “TimeCodi” application prevents Internet addiction by cutting off access after a preset usage time is over. These two services have been in place since 2002, and are now used by more than 300,000 customers. In March 2009, we introduced an application called “iAllimi,” which allows parents to easily understand the harmful level of the “Clean-I Mobile,” an application blocking internet environment which their children are exposed to. This program is available free of charge access to harmful websites on smartphone to all users, including non-kt customers. In November 2010, we also began the “NOLeTEO” service. This service was designed to offer a clean Internet environment to children by blocking access to harmful websites and limiting usage time for Internet and online games. In addition, we are partnered with the Korea Internet Safety Commission (KISCOM) to prevent access to over 1,100 harmful overseas sites, and we developed a system to prevent indirect access to these sites. We continue to monitor websites for harmful factors, while providing customers with content ‘grade level.’ Website pages are required to post viewer age limits. Cleaning of Our Portal Site e-Clean Services Status Paran.com, which is run by our subsidiary ktH, regularly monitors contents on its open message Service Details board, blogs and photo community (pudding). As user-participation services and user-created olleh Internet Blocks access to harmful websites, such as those content (UCC) becomes popular, the number of harmful postings increased gradually. In 2010, Clean-i that provide lewd or violent a total of 19 million postings were registered on Paran.com, with 3.9% of them being harmful material Arranges and manages postings. Recognizing the problems, we require users to verify their age through personal ID olleh Internet Internet usage by time period TimeCodi and day numbers in order to obtain access to any Paran.com web page that contains adult contents. olleh Internet Blocks and cures viruses and The portal site employs an AI technology-applied screening program and IP-blocking system to Doctor malicious code attacks Encryption of Ensures protection from monitor UCC and other interactive services. By blocking the services that violate the rules of the information hacking by encrypting entered information entered through site and taking preventive measures, we are cleaning our portal site. In addition, kt runs a reporting through the the keyboard keyboard center and hotline for stamping out online pornography and illegally distributed contents. To Internet clean index reporting iAllimi service (records of visits to facilitate these activities, we share relevant information with many external agencies. harmful sites, etc) Blocks access to harmful NOLeTEO websites and limit time for Internet and online games Prevention of Internet Security Threats “olleh Internet Doctor” was launched in August 2007 in order to protect customers from the increasing number of cyber threats such as cracking, spam emails and phishing. This free-of-charge application features a personal firewall, automatic PC diagnosis, application fix management, overall system optimization, and anti-virus function. An anti-phishing feature was additionally offered to prevent damage from e-mail fraud, a growing problem. 42 73 points Customer satisfaction index (Wired phone) Establishing Diverse Channels By opening the ‘olleh.com’ in January 2011, various wired and wireless websites have converged into one. As a result, kt was able to gather the previously dispersed online customers into one website. In addition, to take care of its customers 24-hours a day, a 24 hour branch service was opened starting February 2010, the first in the communications industry. This service caters to the needs of customers whenever and wherever. As the use of the smartphone environment is expanding, we opened ‘olleh Avenue’ to reflect customer suggestions and experiences onto various terminals and services. Customers can also request network quality improvements through the smartphone application, ‘olleh Cok Cok.’ Operating an SNS for Customer Communications Since the SNS is fast becoming a core channel for customer communication, kt is actively pursuing SNS. Customer suggestions are being heard real time through ‘olle Mobile,’ Twitter and Blogs. These suggestions are then expediently processed and resolved. By having the exclusive internal SNS ‘Yammer’ connected real time, customer suggestions can be delivered real time to all employees at kt. Starting in October 2010, a ‘Twit Genius’ group was formed to provide quick responses to enquiries made through various SNS related to smartphones. Customer improvement request items and suggestions are immediately relayed to the relevant department, which is then solved Six experts selected as “Twit Genius” as quickly as possible. At the same time, by having the ‘Twit Genius’ disseminate smartphone and tablet PC information related to their usage through Twitter and Blogs, customer complaints have dropped. Top in CS Surveys CS Survey Results in 2010 kt won the grand slam in three major CS surveys. The National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) Survey Result Date survey by the Korea Productivity Center (KPC) has designated kt as the No. 1 service provider of Broadband National broadband Internet service and city local call service for seven consecutive years, long-distance Customer Internet, Internet call, city local call, Mar. 24, 2010 Satisfaction call service for 13 consecutive years, and Internet call service for two consecutive years. In addition, Index (NCSI) long-distance call, international call the Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) survey and the Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) Broadband Korea survey recognized kt as No. 1 in several service areas such as broadband Internet, IPTV and Internet Customer Internet, Internet call, city local call, Sep. 30, 2010 Satisfaction phone. These recognitions are due to our continued innovation by changing the way of thinking Index (KCSI) long-distance call, international call and communication, which enabled us to provide future services to customers in advance. Korea Service No.1 in broadband Oct. 20, 2010 Quality Index Internet and IPTV Customer Satisfaction Index by NCSI CVA* Scores (KS-SQI) Mobile phone Broadband internet Wired phone Mobile phone Broadband internet Wired phone 74 1.06 73 1.04 72 72 1.04 72 1.03 1.03 71 1.02 1.02 70 70 70 1.00 1.00 * CVA 69 1.00 kt’s score / No. 1 competitor’s score 68 0.98 0.97 in customer satisfaction 67 0.96 0.96 Classification according to the CVA score range: 66 0.96 66 Top-level competitiveness (1.1 or more), 0.94 Outstanding competitiveness 64 (1.03 or more and less than 1.1) 0.92 Average-level competitiveness 62 0.90 (0.97 or more and less than 1.03) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Low-level competitiveness (lower than 0.97) 43 Vision and Strategic Direction To achieve a Great Work Place where trust, passion and fun are in abundance and where there is a balance in work and life, fair human management policies and diverse welfare programs have been put in place to help attract competent employees and enable them to grow. Through an HR policy that fosters the best experts, kt is securing IT competencies. In addition, continuous efforts are being placed on securing human rights and safety & health for employees, while fostering a transparent communications environment. Material Test Results External (0~100%) 100 A Great Work Place B Fair Human Management System 80 B A C Employee Welfare and Benefits D 60 D Human Resource Development Ⓔ C Ⓔ Labor-Management Cooperation / Safety and Health 40 Ⓖ Ⓕ Ⓕ Human Rights 20 Ⓖ Employee Communication 20 40 60 80 100 Internal (0~100%) Major Performance Category 2008 2009 2010 Welfare and Wage (KRW 100 million) 18,101 18,412 18,405 Benefits Welfare Spending (KRW 100 million) 4,826 5,092 3,038 HR Participants of Classroom Education (persons) 41,567 24,072 35,286 Development Language Academy (persons) 8,614 8,903 6,524 No. of Grievances Received 19 12 11 Grievance No. of Grievances Handled 18 12 11 Awards and Recognition in 2010 • Family-Friendly Company (Ministry of Gender Equality & Family) • Labor-Management Culture Grand Prize Presidential Award (Ministry of Employment and Labor) 44 ● dream with shareholders Wage in 2010 (KRW 100 million) ● 2011 사회적 책임 보고서 Participants of Classroom Education (persons) No. of Grievances Received I believe kt’s HR management, up to now, was well managed, creating a balance between the individual’s competitiveness and the company’s productivity. Going forward, to diversify into non-telecom areas and to expand into the global market, it will be necessary to foster competent employees early on that are appropriate to a future business structure. Eun-Bee Kim HR Planning Department, Human Resources Office 45 Dream with Employees Great Work Place Fair Human Management System Employee Welfare and Benefits 18.7 Average length of employment years Human Resource Development Labor-Management Cooperation Safety and Health Human Rights Employee Communication Employees are both the generative source of corporate competitiveness and the key competitive edge of the company. kt pursues “partnership in growth,” whereby labor and management advance in tandem to foster a “win-win” corporate culture. This approach is designed to bring together company productivity with individual employee competitiveness. Our goal is to increase the value of our people by maintaining trust, passion and fun in the workplace, as well as a harmonious work-life balance. Employment Status As of December 2010, a total of 31,155 employees worked at kt, with the average length of employment being 18.7 years. Employment rate of disabled workers was 2.43%, meeting the government-mandated minimum of 2%. Number of female workers totaled 4,621, representing 14.83% of total workforce. Employees are hired either on permanent or temporary status to meet our requirements for specific job skills and work competencies. The portion of temporary workers has increased during for the last couple of years and reached 1.35% as of the end of December 2010. We strictly adhere to the Temporary Employee Protection Law and provide our temporary employees with fair compensation. In addition to our domestic employees, we employ more than 2,000 people at subsidiaries in Mongolia and Russia. Strategy and Direction •Strengthening family-friendly management •Expanding employee welfare A workplace where •Encouraging productive, efficient work and life are meetings balanced •Work-centered employee career management •Unearthing and nurturing •Invigorating internal talent communication •Helping employees to •Expanding zero-accident grow into experts safety activitiese A workplace full of trust, passion and fun, where work and life are balanced A workplace that guarantees personal A workplace full of growth and trust opportunities > New kt Way : Action By creating a GWP (Great Work Place), employees are voluntarily focusing on their work with an ownership attitude, creative mind-set and passion. This not only enhances corporate competitiveness, it provides for continuous growth for all employees. In the past, kt’s corporate culture was mainly focused on improving work processes. Now, the emphasis has changed towards providing basic needs focused on satisfying employees, which will then lead to customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction will then lead to securing market competitiveness. Through this, kt is trying to create a cyclical structure where each factor leads to another in a continuous 46 process, further enhancing competitiveness. Major GWP Implementation Tasks Classification Major Tasks Fostering 1. Equitable compensation based on performance & capability Competent Employees 2. Growth opportunity expansion & powerful training course 3. Free environment allowing creative ideas & acknowledging diversity Providing Enjoyment for 4. Right working environment enabling employees to focus on their work Competent Employees 5. Work & Life Balance 6. Strengthen pride as an employee of kt that is leading the wired/wireless convergence Gathering Competent 7. Strengthen the leadership position in the hiring market Employees 8. Create an image as a citizen’s company To create kt’s own GWP that allows for competent employees to grow, competent employees to enjoy work, and competent employees to gather, a survey was carried out on all employees in February 2011 to confirm how the employees view the company and to prioritize required improvements. Out of the total employee pool, 51% responded. Based on the response, kt initiated a company-wide effort by holding a workshop by CIC to complement certain areas considered deficient, forming a GWP Implementation Group, and selecting Champion departments by implementation task. Considering the needs that are diverse as the size of the company, kt plans to create a GWP that takes into consideration characteristics of each individual, and that is focused on bottom-up voluntary actions rather than top-down. GWP Programs Taking into Consideration the Employees kt holds an olleh Family Day, which is a program that not only takes into consideration the employees, but also their families. The olleh Family Day is held by organization and region. Diverse programs are provided allowing family members to select based on their preference. Programs include cake baking, movie viewing, cultural lectures and sports viewing. At times, each division head will make irregular visits with a stress reduction kit to departments olleh Family Day event that are quite at work. The kit is a present box comprised of vitamins, board games, herb tea, and chocolate. The present boxes significantly help in relieving the employee’s fatigue and stress. It also improves employee-management relations. GWP Model Heart-Opened Commun /Ear/ icat u th i on Mo Cons vity/ idera Creati Credib tion/ Focus ility Op Gro Pr po wth ide loyee Enjoying rtu etent Emp Work Stress reduction kit nit y Comp ing Gat Co ow he yee r mplo place eG Competent Em nt E Social t Challe rk nge Great Work Place ete he Wo Growth & ploy mp g at t men Environ “Warm Worksite where e Everyone Can Walk Together & Dream Together” rin GWP Slogan 3 Major Directives 6 Major Drivers Communication Principle 47 Dream with Employees Great Work Place Fair Human Management System Employee Welfare and Benefits 7,008 No. of employees selected from Human Resource Development Talent Market program Labor-Management Cooperation Safety and Health Human Rights Employee Communication Fair Human Management kt made innovations to its HR policy focused on roles & responsibilities to foster a competitive culture based on good intentions, and equitable HR policies. Detailed principles are stipulated in kt’s human management regulations to guarantee equitable opportunities and challenges for workers and to execute justifiable compensations. kt holds an open selection process when hiring employees and does not in any way discriminate in terms of sex & educational background. In addition, fairness and transparency are being secured in human management policies as it relates to hiring, assigning, transferring, promoting, evaluating and compensating. Talent Market System Process Human Management Direction Classification Stipulated context Required Department Individual HR • Fair competitive hiring principle, open selection process Fairness in Hiring, • Hiring rights have been entrusted to each sector Assigning, • Select & manage an personnel evaluation company for fair hiring Transferring • Adopt a talent market system in accordance the 2009 competitive principles Need for Personnel • Guarantee fairness & transparency in assigning employees • Promotion system abolished by agreement between labor & management in 2010 Decision on Fairness in Promoting Notice for • Adopt an ‘Employee Growth Mileage System’ to provide employees incentive for growth whether to Personnel participate in Selection (Hiring) the public selection process • Transparently disclose evaluation standards, processes and results Fairness in Evaluating, • Operate a multi-faceted evaluation, competency evaluation and post-audit system NO Compensating • Compensation based on sex & educational background abolished: fair compensation based on performance Pre-registration for Desired Department Employee Growth Mileage System Selection With the abolishment of the promotion & rank system, kt adopted the Employee Growth Mileage Select from Completed, YES Personnel System starting in 2010 to secure fairness in evaluation based on performance. This system takes Application Pool Assigned into consideration the individual’s performance and expertise as a priority. However, factors such as level of cooperation, creativity, contribution to the organization and leadership are also reflected in the evaluation. This contributes to the spread of a competitive culture based on goodwill. Whatever the title, once a set mileage is satisfied, the employee can be granted a position. Performance and competency accumulated points (mileage) are used as standards to assigning positions. In addition, when selecting a managerial level position, someone with onsite experience is given priority. Talent Market System Compensation Based on Performance Starting in January 2010, the human management system based on salary class and seniority Public No. of Application No. of Category Selection (cases) Applicants Selected rank was abolished and a system focused on performance was adopted. The evaluation criteria is (cases) Employees Irregudivided into A, B, C+, C, D & F grade levels. The number of employees at C+/C grade level (average 2,441 10,026 2,884 1,207 lar T/M salary level) is maintained at a 50% level. The performance compensation gap for employees was Regular T/M 5,433 15,094 5,689 5,801 generally at 60% in the past. However, this has changed to 100%. For employees with a position, Total 7,874 25,120 8,573 7,008 the gap could range up to 210%. All employees and executives hand in their annual target plans Note) Based on figures from July 2009 to June 2010 every January for performance management review. Employees are evaluated 1 to 2 times a year on an interim basis, whereas executive are evaluated once a year. The final performance evaluation is concluded at the end of the year based on the individual’s original targets and plans. The results are reflected in the competency development principles and compensation. 48 10 No. of Smart Working Center Employee Welfare and Benefits kt carries out diverse employee welfare and benefit programs. The company has adopted a welfare policy where individuals can freely select based on their needs. Some of the benefits include tuition support for children from childhood to college, loan support to help stabilize living conditions, and operations of recreational facilities. Medical examinations, corporate group insurance, medical expenses and family event expenses have been expanded to cover the employees’ direct family and wife’s direct family member depending on the event. We have operated the web-based cyber welfare center (b4u.kt.co.kr) to serve employees’ needs since 2002. Family Friendly Programs kt has initiated the Smart Working Program where employees can perform their work when and wherever possible. In addition, to encourage child birth, diverse programs are being initiated. They include providing congratulatory financial gifts to families with many children to encourage birth, allowing preand post birth vacations, maternity leaves, infertility birth leaves and wife birth leaves. Upbringing centers and nurse feeding facilities are also part of the initiatives. Outplacement Program Selected as Family-friendly Company by the Ministry of Gender Equality & Family kt operates a program to help employees transfer to other occupations. Annually, 550 employees (Outstanding Family Friendly Certificate Award Ceremony) are beneficiaries to this program. The program offers diverse opportunities such as workshops comprised of lectures covering change management & financial design (2 days), 1:1 financial consulting for start-ups (5 days), and reemployment training (4 days). Start-up and reemployment consulting services are regularly provided. In addition, through a partnership agreement with the SMBA, Gyeonggi Small & Medium Business Center, Labor-Management Joint Reemployment Support Center, Graduate School of Industrial & Entrepreneurial Management at Chung-Ang University, Large & Small Industries Cooperation Foundation, and Korea Franchise Association, kt provides support. Through its kt Life Plan System (www.ktlifeplan.com), kt helps arrange employment to affiliate companies or distribution networks. Other programs include the entrepreneur implementation project program (2 weeks), entrepreneurship instruction presentation, opportunities to experience entrepreneurship through partnership franchise companies, books detailing the 100 successful Career Design System entrepreneurs and support to help acquire certificates. Smart Working To enable employees to be flexible in selecting their work location, kt became the first domestic company that adopted ‘Smart Working.’ In September 2010, it opened Smart Working Center in Bundang, equipped with high-definition video conferencing facilities and individual work space. Currently, ten centers are in operation and more centers will be established after analyzing employees’ residential locations and by collecting their opinions. Refresh Temporary Rest Policy Smart Working Center in Bundang This policy is provided to excellently performing employees to help them self-develop and recharge. As a new policy adopted in 2009, it was implemented after basic operational directions were established in 2010. 350 employees are selected company-wide to benefit from this policy. Selections are made in March and September. 49 Dream with Employees Great Work Place Fair Human Management System Employee Welfare and Benefits 88 hours Training hours per employee Human Resource Development Labor-Management Cooperation Safety and Health Human Rights Employee Communication Ideal Employee kt’s vision of an ideal employee can be summarized as “Top Talent in ACTION.” We promote professionals who have passion and executive energy to accomplish challenging goals based on mutual cooperation, trustworthiness, and innovative thinking from a customer’s perspective. Thus our HR system aims to support our employees to internalize the three core values customeroriented, trustworthiness and passion. “ACTION” education for employees Top Talent in ACTION Ideal Passionate and results-oriented professionals, the top in their respective fields, Employee think innovatively from the customer’s perspective and work on the basis of cooperation and trust to achieve challenging targets without fail. Customer Trust OrientaPassion worthiness tion Competencies Employees should adhere Employees should act Employees should approach to ethical principles, respect responsibly, as owners, and problems with flexibility and others’ positions and take accept the corporate vision and new perceptions to create the leading role in fostering values wholeheartedly, thus customer value. organizational harmony and generating excellent results for olleh innovation school mutual consideration. the company. Training Hours per Employee (Unit: hours) Development of Employee Competencies We have established a midto long-term HRD master plan to foster experts who can achieve sustainable growth and generate value for customers. In addition, we have established a 131 competency-based HRD system. The system allows employees to assess their competency levels and improve step-by-step, thereby helping them to realize their full potential. A regular learning system is in place that accommodates individual skill levels, and a multi-channel learning 88 79 environment (m-Learning through smartphone) is also in place. All employees are required to take part in certain training programs, while leadership training, job-related training and online training courses are also offered, MBA programs or other master and doctorate programs at domestic or foreign universities are provided. Training System Program Course Self-development 2008 2009 2010 Core Values “ACTION,” olleh innovation school “Self-development notes”? Training for executives and team leaders, courses for is an annual plan, made by each Leadership people newly hired or newly promoted employee to improve his or her competencies. Employees use CommonlyBasic training for the newly hired, courses for key work required Training skills: 12 courses covering 5 different areas an online HR system to submit competency levels (overall as well Basic intermediate and expert level courses for specific as job-specific) with respect to Specialized Job work areas, External training programs for executives and their current position. They verify Skills / External team leaders, Time-based domestic training scheme, Training Day-based domestic training scheme, overseas MBA how they are improving. Regarding courses individual growth targets and selfcultivation activities, coaching and e-Learning: Kate, an HRD Center Online & Other Outside link: ktedu.kt.com feedback are provided. Annually 60 Programs Language Academy: cyber.yhmsisa.com/edukt hours are given to each employees. (open to employees’ family members) Training for Leadership course for managers, Competency course for hand-on workers Group Companies 50 Education Overview (Cumulative Total for Participants) 2008 2009 2010 Category Courses Participants Courses Participants Courses Participants Classroom education 575 41,567 456 24,072 502 35,286 e-Learning 253 177,998 223 116,758 161 86,010 Aptitude 52 148,680 99 179,550 196 344,306 Book reading 100 4,246 90 2,877 47 5,946 Language 364 8,614 525 8,903 330 6,524 Fostering Competent Employees To foster future leaders, kt classifies the pool into three groups manager group consisting of competent employees above team manager level, olleh class core competent group with high expectations to develop into managers, and the domestic/overseas degree group dispatched to educational institutions. kt provides support to competent employees to study and train in domestic & overseas masters, doctorate or MBA programs to foster core talent. This is an excellent opportunity for individuals to enhance competency and provide incentives for growth. Leadership training course for managers Securing Future IT Competencies Training & education on new business models (BM) are implemented to secure future competencies in the IT sector. Training is held for new businesses that kt is initiating. As of April 2011, 478 employees participated in 14 new business planning competency enhancement courses. Going forward, kt will develop customized training programs and redesign existing programs, while creating a human resource pool for development and fostering. Knowledge Management kt operates an advanced knowledge management system (KMS) using the latest information technologies, thereby boosting work efficiency and promoting a more creative organizational culture. Collected information is classified and registered in the KMS database. The information registered in the system must be assessed and inspected by designated “Knowledge Masters” before it can be qualified for use. Also, ‘kt idea wiki’ was launched to search for ideas. It is acting as a year-round idea suggestion window. Some of the events of ‘kt idea wiki’ are the ‘Big Question,’ where a major question asked once every month by senior management can be answered freely by any employee or executive, the ‘wiki Contest,’ where kt’s best ideas are selected, and the ‘wiki Contest Exhibit,’ which acts as a doorway to diverse idea contests are held daily. Knowledge Management Bulletin Board Activities and Category Details performances in 2010 “Tell Me, Please” All employees can ask their questions freely, using the 2,867 questions and bulletin board same format as the “Naver Knowledge In” website 1,637,779 hits A participatory knowledge-sharing bulletin board Treasure Chest 502 postings similar to Wikipedia Knowledge Sharing Experts in the related area assess posted ideas and knowledge Place 4,333 postings and make necessary corrections. Idea Wiki New ideas or suggestions regarding work for practical use 74,641 postings Knowledge and materials shared to revitalize cafés kt Cafe 522 cafes under operation by job category kt Blog Knowhow shared at individual blogs 6,066 postings 51 Dream with Employees Great Work Place Fair Human Management System Employee Welfare and Benefits 78.70 Ratio of employees joining % Human Resource Development labor union Labor-Management Cooperation Safety and Health Human Rights Employee Communication Labor Union kt employees are free to organize their own labor union and other representative bodies. The collective agreement stipulates that new hires are automatically members of the labor union. As of January 2011, 78.70% of the kt employees were registered union members. New and Creative Labor-Management Culture kt seeks “win-win” labor-management relations. kt announced the “olleh kt Constructive New Labor-Management Culture Joint Declaration” in March 2010 to gain mutual benefits generating sustained corporate value, maintaining amicable labor relations, providing a satisfying work environment, fulfilling all corporate social responsibilities, and creating new work opportunities. To expand the creative new labor-management culture, diverse activities are carried out. The activities include HOST, the labor unions Share Movement for employees and alienated classes, olleh kt Constructive New e-Learning programs for employee’s children, joint labor-management YOUTH scholarship Labor-Management Culture Joint Declaration programs, and free education for middle-school students from alienated classes. Having overcome the economic crisis through 11 years of successful negotiations with no disputes since 2001 and two years (2008 / 2009) of negotiations based on concessions, kt’s efforts were recognized through the Presidential Labor-Management Culture Grand Prize. Grievances Received and Grievance Handling Handled (Unit: cases, %) Grievances are received through various means such as phones, letters, emails and website. By Received Rate of responses focusing on preventive measures to solve grievances, the company has seen the number of Handled grievances decrease in the past 3 years. kt set up the grievance processing kt119 center starting in January 2011 where an exclusive employee will process the grievances in real time. This makes 100 100 95 grievance requests and consultations more convenient. For those not wanting to expose their identity, an anonymous bulletin board was established. In addition, a grievance consultation 19 center has been established at kt’s headquarters and at 354 of its business sites. Grievances that 12 cannot be solved easily can be referred to the Grievance Processing Committee comprised of 18 11 12 labor-management representatives. 11 Grievance Handling Process Grievance Generated Receipt of Grievance Hold Grievance Processing Committee & Process Notification of Results 2008 2009 2010 kt119 kt119 Center Central Center Impossible to Grievance Processing Process Committee Website Division Impossible to Confirm & Grievance email Process (Regional HQ) Satisfaction Generated phone Grievance Processing Appraisal FAX Onsite Committee Department Grievance Processing Committee Employee Grievance Committee Employee 52 0.22 Accident rate % To promote a corporate safety culture, each business site establishes and implements an industrial safety & health plan and actively takes measures to prevent accidents. Representatives from both labor and management, as well as headquarters and other worksites are working in concert for successful implementation of these activities. Industrial Accident Rate for Safety-first Corporate Culture Past Three Years kt is conducting a wide range of activities to make safety an integral part of the corporate culture. Regular safety and health training courses are provided online (two hours per month, at least 20 kt Telecom industry Korea hours for staff in charge) “Safety message” alerts are texted to employees on the job in advance of inclement weather. In addition to three-minute safety meetings held just before onsite duties, 0.71 0.7 0.69 theme events are held on the fourth day (Safety Inspection Day) of every month, promoting 0.56 0.45 0.51 safety at work as well as helping to instill the “safety-first” mindset. Excellent departments and accident-free workplaces are awarded at the Safety Leader Seminar held in the second quarter. 0.19 0.22 0.16 Joint Labor-Management Disaster Prevention Activities Through a joint effort between labor and management, a nationwide tour is carried out to provide 2008 2009 2010 special safety training (regulations, cases, etc.) to onsite team leaders and honorary supervisors. A 2 day seminar is held for about 300 safety related employees during the second quarter every year. To establish a safe corporate culture and eliminate disasters, special safety training is held for Annual Accident Rate at kt major disasters. Through indirect experience of disaster cases, employees are made aware of the dangers and consequences of disasters. Injuries Fatalities 75 72 Promoting Employee Health & Well-being Through an anonymous grievance system, employees are able to manage their stress. Prominent 56 outside lecturers are invited once every quarter to lecture on health management. In addition, a general medical examination is held for employees and their spouse once every year. A differentiated well-being temporary leave system has been adopted. At the same time, a welfare beneficiary 2 1 0 management system (work nursery facilities, stable living fund support, etc.) has been established to 2008 2009 2010 create a welfare life. To enable employees to enjoy family life, every Wednesday has been designated as Family Day. Through a professional institution in 2011, stress measurement of all the employees was taken. The results will be used to establish a customized stress management policy. Fostering a Healthy & Safe Work Environment To improve the work environment, for any new or expanded building, a cultural space, book café, meditation room and physical exercise room is built. In addition, hazardous factor (closed space, manhole) measurements are taken on all sites every year by a professional institution. Industrial Safety Support for Group Companies kt is trying to create a group safety corporate culture and establish a safe workplace. By implementing diverse measures and activities such as enhancing work competencies for employees at group companies, initiating industrial disaster preventive activities in group Outstanding Safety Photograph companies, and providing continuous and systematic diverse disaster preventive contents, kt is Contest Exhibition Tour contributing to the maintenance of group companies’ employee’s safety and health. 53 Dream with Employees Great Work Place Fair Human Management System Employee Welfare and Benefits 14.83 Proportion of female % Human Resource Development employees Labor-Management Cooperation Safety and Health Human Rights Employee Communication kt forbids discrimination by reason of regionalism, educational background, gender, religion, and physical impairments. By changing the customer service hiring criteria to above high school level in 2010, kt is providing competent people with opportunities to realize their dreams. While respecting the principle of equal opportunities for both sexes and work-life balance, kt also guarantees protection of minors and motherhood. We provide support to female employees so that they can work in a comfortable work environment by prohibiting pregnant employees from working overtime and being assigned to physically-challenging work; allowing one day special leave per month for women (without pay); and giving a 90-day vacation before and after giving birth. In addition, we forbid child labor and forced labor. Furthermore, we have in place systematic support to prevent sexual harassment, including online training, awareness training, and preventive guidelines. In recruiting, compensation, and promotion, kt does not discriminate employees and applicants by their gender. To enable women employees to fully display their potential, kt has established 3 policy directions. They include the policy allowing work and family to coexist, the policy eliminating discrimination in hiring, promotions and compensation, and finally, the policy to foster women leadership. As such, women are provided childbirth congratulatory monetary gifts and pre-school education tuition support. In case of maternity leave, measures are taken so that women can easily return to work by enabling them to complete e-Learning course during their leave period. A women leadership program is managed to help foster middle-management women leaders. As of the end of 2010, there were 109 women managers, comprising 2.4% of the total female workforce. Sexual Harassment Related Grievance Year No. of participants Remark 2008 35,843 2009 35,855 No grievance during the last three years 2010 30,762 Employees by Gender Status of Female Employees Male Female Total female employees No. of female employees with a managerial post or higher Management Briefing Session 5,281 4,621 30,245 26,802 4,603 26,534 5,281 4,603 4,621 306 (14.86%) (14.66%) (14.83%) 109 115 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 54 75 points Employee satisfaction index Companywide management briefing sessions are provided in two forms. The first is the quarterly central management briefing session where labor-management committee members attend. The second is the semi-annual briefing for all employees provided through internal broadcasting. In addition, a joint labor-management sponsored division management briefing is held annually or semi-annually for all division employees. In case of major management issues, management briefings are held regularly by inviting division heads. Major corporate issues are decided through a thorough discussion process between labor and management. Discussion sessions include the quarterly Labor-Management Council (Starting in 2011, council holds sessions twice every quarter) and the Labor-Management Discussion Roundtable, which is held once annually. Overall management issues are discussed through a permanent organization, the Labor-Management Coexistent Council, the results of which are reflected in decision making. olleh Meeting The objective of the olleh meeting is to share and communicate important messages from the CEO and company-wide issues. The meeting is held once a month at the department level, and issues relating to the company and department are discussed. To help vitalize the olleh meeting, departments are encouraged to voluntarily submit implementation details of the meeting. Awards are provided to outstanding department meetings once a month. Employee Survey to Improve Labor-Management Relations kt collects employee needs and suggestions to help improve labor-management relations through surveys targeted towards the diverse pool of employees. The results of the survey are reflected in policy decisions after thorough discussions between labor and management. Employee Employee Satisfaction Level Satisfaction Index (Unit: points, %) After the merger with ktf, kt has been pursuing the GWP policy to enhance employee satisfaction Index Participation rate and improve efficiencies. As part of its effort, employ surveys, unlike in the past, are now carried out by outside professional organizations based on global standards. As such, the 2010 employee 42 52 satisfaction survey results cannot be directly compared to that of previous years. The new surveys 28 are comprised of 58 items that include work conditions, employees’ health & safety, compensation & welfare, and corporate identity. Based on the 2010 survey results, kt’s employee satisfaction level was 79 79 75 higher than the average satisfaction level of other Asian or global companies in the industry. Two-way Communications with Management kt also places a great effort in establishing and managing a two-way communications channel, 2008 2009 2010 enabling kt’s management to have direct access to the opinions and difficulties faced by employees, and if required, to have the CEO’s management philosophy and corporate vision accurately communicated. In June 2011, senior managers voluntarily manage an online discussion room, ‘I Want to Know’ where opinions on major issues are gathered, and issues of curiosity, baseless rumors and dissatisfied issues are dealt with. Besides, all senior managers are required to make site-tours quarterly to provide a management brief, and experience first-hand VOCs, the opening of an account and A/S on a semi-annual basis. Through these activities, kt is promoting understanding and communications between senior management and employees. 55 Vision and Strategic Direction In 2010, rather than just the coexistent concept, kt proposed an aggressive new mutual growth paradigm where kt and its suppliers grow together. To eliminate the root cause of complaints by small & medium enterprises, a ‘3 Don’t Policy’ was announced. The Mutual Growth Center, IT CEO Forum and Information Sharing Consultative Groups brought vitality to communications with suppliers. kt is also securing transparency through purchase policy innovations and fair trade that is self-regulated. The company also provides support for supply companies to establish sustainability management system. Material Test Results External (0~100%) 100 A Partnering for Growth / Infrastructure and Financial Support A Ⓑ Promoting Mutual Growth / Building Green Ecosystem 80 Ⓒ Innovation of Purchasing System / Fair Trade 60 Ⓓ Supplier Communication Ⓓ 40 ⒸⒷ 20 20 40 60 80 100 Internal (0~100%) Major Performance Category 2008 2009 2010 Amount of Cash Settlements (KRW 100 million) 21,186 17,562 29,665 Amount of Financial Assistance (KRW 100 million) 2,298 2,961 3,103 Free Training for Employees of Suppliers (persons) 15,389 11,520 12,688 Awards and Recognition in 2010 • Presidential Award in the category of SME support (Small & Medium Business Administration / Korea Federation of Small and Medium Business) 56 The industrial eco-system is affecting corporate competitiveness more and more. Through actual and unprecedented support to suppliers, kt has achieved significant results with its mutual growth policy. In the future, to make sure one supplier continues to disseminate sustainability management to other suppliers, a cooperative system must be established. Sun-Kil Kim Strategic Purchasing Department, Purchasing Strategy Office Violation of Fair Trade Practice Amount of Cash Settlements (KRW 100 million) Free Training for Employees of Suppliers (persons) 57 Dream with Suppliers Three Partnering for Growth Infrastructure and Financial Support Promoting Mutual Growth Don’t Building Green Ecosystem Declaration of “Partnering Innovation of Purchasing System for Growth” Fair Trade Supplier Communication The Declaration of Three Don’t Policy to Three Don’t Policy Promote Partnership for Growth Since June 2009, kt has strengthened win-win ties with its partner companies. For example, the kt’s Declaration of Three Don’t Policy company has implemented measures to prevent the abuse of the lowest bidding scheme, while We will not waste SME’s resources strengthening the basis for SME self-sufficiency, paying in cash, and expanding financial support We will not misappropriate SME’s ideas of technology development for the SMEs. In addition, we have supported software application and content developers We will not create an environment of competing through the “Open-Eco” policy. On July 12, 2010, kt proposed a new paradigm for mutual growth with SMEs with suppliers by declaring the “Three Don’t Policy” which aims at alleviating SMEs’ concerns when they cooperate with big companies. Demand Forecast Our SME partners previously had trouble managing their production and inventories because they were unable to accurately predict kt’s future demand. Additional resources of our suppliers may be wasted when we do not commercialize newly developed products. However, our new demand forecast program helps us improve our joint development scheme. Our new program calls for us to announce, at the beginning of each year, our projected annual procurement requirement based on current market and technology trends, as well as our shortto mid-term IT CEO Forum Homepage (www.itceo.org) business forecasts. We began the program by disclosing our first round of demand forecasts in where demand forecast is disclosed July 2010, followed by periodic updates as the business situation changed. Under this program, we will disclose our development plans in advance and give appropriate compensation to partner firms in case the projects they are involved in are not commercialized, thus addressing problems mentioned above. Non-Disclosure Agreement We conclude non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) with our partner firms. The NDA helps improve the transparency of our cooperative arrangements with suppliers while preventing sensitive information from being leaked to third parties. We will severely punish employees who violate the agreement. NDA (Non-Disclosure Agreement) Business development Follow-up processes Research & customized development for each SME’s suggestions Quick Review In-depth review project Equipment Single channel by a third party procurement Compulsory NDA conclusion with Objective and Quick review to prevent pre-registration SMEs transparent review ideas from being discarded Protection of SME’s ideas / PunCompulsory registration of Operation of Review Board by Review and adoption of ideas ishment of employees who leak SME’s proposals and developa third party / prevention of within two months / customrelevant information of suppliers ment cooperation before undue influence by established ized follow-up processes for (including existing partners) to project starts interest adopted proposals competitors 58 KRW 2,966.5 billion Cash settlement amount Benefit-sharing Arrangement In 2006, kt adopted the benefit-sharing arrangement where both kt and partner firms jointly develop equipment and services. Six projects were carried out in 2008, seven in 2009 and three in 2010. kt provides suppliers with training and consulting (for Master Black Belt) on Six Sigma. We also provide environmental testing and measuring devices to help them develop equipment. Starting in September 2009, improvements were made to the benefit-sharing arrangement. Based on the improvements, if successful in completing the specification optimizing task for equipment cost reductions, 50% of the cost reduction amount will be reflected in the purchase price. In addition, benefit-sharing quantity will increase from the previous 20% maximum to 30% maximum while the benefit-sharing term will be extended from a year to 2 years. Support for Telecom Infrastructure and Testing Facilities In order to alleviate R&D burdens on our suppliers and nurture SMEs and venture companies, we have established an independent network infrastructure such as the Comprehensive Model Center and Econovation Center, and provided an environment of developing and testing wired/ wireless telecommunication service and Internet service to our suppliers. In 2010, a total of 400 partners (206 partners in 2009) were benefited under this support scheme; 55 times for servers, 151,444 for terminals, and 62 times for measuring devices. Free Training to Partner Companies kt provides free training programs to employees of SME partners. In 2010, a total of 12,688 trainees (11,520 in 2009) participated in 73 courses (94 in 2009), covering equipment and service operation, customer relations, resource management, and IT construction. Classroom courses are provided at the kt HRD Center and each regional field-training center, and textbooks, accommodations and meals are all provided free. These programs have earned favorable responses from our partner firms. Financial Support for Partner Companies Financial Support (Unit: KRW 100 million) In order to help SMEs secure liquidity and operating capital and to enhance management stability, Category 2009 2010 kt operates diverse financial assistance programs. We raise a fund worth KRW300 billion under kt 17,562 29,665 Capital to provide credit loans to SMEs. Moreover, we have stopped settling payments in promissory Cash settlement (45,232 (54,263 amount contracts) contracts) notes and have been providing cash settlements for deliveries by SME partners since 2006, regardless Financial support 2,961 (553 3,103(528 of the contract amount. We also concluded agreements with financial institutions so that partner for suppliers companies) companies) companies can receive loans at lower interest rates according to their performance. Support for Overseas Expansion of Exemplary Suppliers We help top-performing partner companies to make inroads into overseas countries through joint development of new businesses. In 2009, we pursued 15 global IT projects with twelve exemplary suppliers, generating KRW26.4 billion in sales. In 2010, we cooperated with 23 companies for 13 joint projects of KRW79.0 billion. We will continue to strengthen relationships with suppliers by carrying out joint business development and increase orders from overseas countries. Transfer of Patent Usage Rights Signing an MOU between kt and KOTRA to help SMEs make inroads into overseas We grant SMEs the rights to use our key patents and R&D findings at lower rates. We will also countries continue to sell our rights to unused patents to SMEs. 59 Dream with Suppliers 12,688 Partnering for Growth Infrastructure and Financial Support Promoting Mutual Growth persons Building Green Ecosystem Free training for employees of our suppliers Innovation of Purchasing System Fair Trade Supplier Communication Efforts to Expand Mutual Growth Points Added in Case of Induce Cash Settlement with 2nd Suppliers Cash Settlement Starting in 2011, kt is inducing 1st suppliers to cash settle with 2nd suppliers. When carrying out Over 30% Over 50% Over 70% Over 90% annual evaluations for 1st suppliers, depending on the ratio of cash settlements, a maximum 0.3 points 0.5 points 1.0 points 2.0 points of 1.5 points can be added to the evaluation. 1.5 points can actually affect the ranking within a similar S/G. To verify whether cash settlements have been made, kt requires 2nd suppliers to submit cash settlement confirmation document. As such, kt verifies cash settlements directly with the 2nd suppliers. Management of Cost Delivered Goods As of October 2010, kt is managing delivery goods costs so that any increases in unit cost of the delivered goods to kt is also reflected in the 2nd vendor supplier’s unit cost to the 1st vendor supplier. When a request is made by the 1st vendor supplier to adjust unit cost, the 1st vendor supplier must submit transaction related documents with the 2nd vendor supplier. Initially, 1st suppliers were only required to submit adjustment details (confirmation documents detailing reasons for the increase) to the contract amount. However, now 1st suppliers are required to submit transaction details with 2nd suppliers in the bid notice and goods (construction, services) contract. The results of cost adjustments with 2nd suppliers should also be submitted to kt. Major Results of the Mutual Growth Program in 2010 Providing Financial Support to 2nd Suppliers Starting in October 2010, kt provides financial support to 2nd suppliers through kt Capital. Utilizing 2010 New product the kt Capital Network Loan of KRW300 billion, credit loans are being provided to the 2nd suppliers. development 6 tasks under condition KRW1,680 million The loans are provided through a recommendation of the 1st supplier. Right after initiating this to purchase policy, approximately KRW800 million was provided in loans to two 2nd suppliers. Measuring equipment / Test-bed: 41 times Support infrastructure 1st Econovation: 4,128 times (individual) Applying the Mutual Growth Program to 2nd Suppliers / terminals 2,350 times facilities 2nd Econovation: 6,223 times (359 companies) Starting in October 2010, the mutual growth program is also being applied to 2nd suppliers. / terminals 63,340 times / server 55 times The support amount is 50% of the required amount with a limit of KRW4 million per company. Beneﬁt-sharing Received 23 tasks in 1st and 2nd round performance 3 development tasks, KRW2,690 million in Currently, kt is providing financial support to five 2nd suppliers by subsidizing quality, environment management delivered goods consulting & certification expenses. Free training is also provided through the human resource Support with development center and the wireless network headquarters. 2nd suppliers are also able to use quality/ environment 17 companies various facilities including test-beds, measuring equipment, integrated model rooms, econovation consulting & KRW58,200,000 in acquiring center, etc. In 2010, three more 2nd suppliers were added to the Vendor Coaching Program, which certiﬁcates was initiated in 2008, bringing the total number of companies to nine. Starting in November 2010, Completed coaching of Vendor Coaching nine 2nd suppliers kt is encouraging 1st and 2nd suppliers to conclude an agreement for mutual growth. The contents Technology transfer: Patent usage 6 cases 10 companies of the agreement include fair subcontracting transactions, cash settlement with 2nd suppliers, approval & Technology utilization contract: 5 cases technology transfer Technology 8 cases 7 companies and competency enhancement support. The agreement is based on the agreement that kt has Licensing: 2 cases 6 companies concluded with 454 1st suppliers on July 8, 2010. On/oﬄine free 73 courses 12,688 employees training support 60 Econovation kt is actively implementing its ‘Econovation’ activities to achieve mutual growth with smart application developers. The company provided to developers its‘olleh SDK (Software Development Kit)’ which is an application development solution that the developer can use to develop operating system applications with one execution code. kt also provides support high quality applications through application development contests. In addition, a developer’s camp is held where developers can receive technological support and consulting to help in developing applications. Seminars are also held every month to provide developers with the opportunity to share and Application development contest “Econovation Second Fair” discuss information. kt is providing support to mobile application developers to help expand into the overseas market to enable the developers to expand profit generation opportunities through kt’s ‘Global Frontier Project.’ Actual support in entering the global market is provided, which includes specialized application development training, translations, commercialization test-beds, and marketing. kt, NTT Docomo and China Mobile concluded a strategic agreement to establish an application store, OASIS (One Asia Super Inter-Store) through which a total of 650 million people in Asia can use applications. Mutual Growth Expansion Plans In 2011, kt plans to increase the loan support size to KRW340 billion to help provide financial support to small & medium enterprises. In addition, the cash settlement policy towards SMEs will be maintained going forward. In the future, kt plans to transfer ‘kt Naratgeul’ patent to 4 companies and 16 other patents to 24 companies. In addition, to provide support to the technological environment of suppliers, kt will provide measuring equipment and test-beds to help in the development of IT terminals & equipment. For wireless suppliers, network/PC/terminal Supplier-kt Cooperative Council test space will be provided. For the ‘new product development under the condition to purchase project’ targeted towards potential companies, kt and the Small & Medium Business Association plans to jointly provide KRW1,680 million in support for six tasks to be completed by these high potential companies. To continuously provide free training & consulting support so that SMEs can enhance their business competencies, kt plans to provide training and quality management consulting for 1st and 2nd suppliers. The company opened a mutual growth community within its ‘Human Resource Development Center’ in November 2010 to provide training support. In 2011, a cooperative council will be initiated to expand the scope of on/oﬄine training and to provide training support. kt will continuously provide support to the suppliers through diverse purchasing policies. Continuous improvements will be made to kt’s purchasing policy. Policies such as the implementation of the demand forecast policy and the policy to reflect inflation factors in the purchase price will be maintained along with the multiple price policy, bid price limitations, overall evaluation bid policy, and benefit-sharing policies. In 2011, kt will focus its effort on stably executing its improved purchase policy and expand its mutual growth performance. At the same time, the company will encourage 2nd suppliers to join in mutual growth and will further expand mutual growth to other areas. 2011 Target & KPI Implementation Task KPI 2010 2011 Target tasks 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Total Mutual growth Supplier 77.4 with suppliers satisfaction level points 82points 82points 82points Strengthen 2nd supplier mutual coexistent 6 10 10 20 cooperation with program companies companies companies companies 2nd suppliers implementation 61 Dream with Suppliers Partnering for Growth Infrastructure and Financial Support Promoting Mutual Growth 16 companies No. of suppliers that received kt’s Building Green Ecosystem support for ISO 14001 Innovation of Purchasing System Fair Trade Supplier Communication Development of Green Technologies kt is initiating diverse cooperative activities with suppliers such as encouraging the development of green technologies by suppliers. To this end, kt established various guidelines related to green IT and applied it to its purchase process. Major Guidelines to Vitalizing the Development Green Technologies Classification Details Introduction Green Growth Green IT Forum Establish technical standards for temperature, humidity, surge, Environment drop shock, vibration (internal), electronic wave (tolerance, trouble request for prevention, physical protection), hazardous material, standby power, Aug. 2007 telecommunications energy efficiency, noise, & surface temperature, and apply it to kt equipment purchase items. Green IT As a result of kt’s green implementation to all sectors, CO2 Apr. 2009 implementation plan emissions to be reduced 20% by 2013 compared to that of 2005. Priority is to be given to low carbon equipment when purchasing new equipment. Selection of 4 core green technologies is to be Green purchase initiated which will be applied steadily by 2013. Jun. 2009 plan Improve energy efficiency of the communications infrastructure by replacing with low carbon, eco-friendly equipment (2009: 5,000 tons, 2010: 6,000 tons) Green network By achieving a green network, electric energy will be reduced implementation Oct. 2009 by 18% compared to that of 2008 in 2013 strategy Support for Past Two Years Support for Suppliers’ ISO 14001 Certification To strengthen kt’s overall supply eco-system through continuous enhancement of environmental Category 2009 2010 management competencies of suppliers, kt provides environment management system (ISO No. of Four 16 companies suppliers companies 14001) consulting and systematic certification acquisition support to 1st and 2nd suppliers. including that kt including Dae supported FRTEK In order to ensure a proper environmental and quality management system for our partner Han Polymer Support KRW11.97 KRW54.25 companies, kt encourages them to be certified with TL9000 (quality management system) / ISO amount million million 14001 (environmental management system) by providing them financial assistance – kt covers 50% of the certificate related expenses. During the past three years from 2008 to 2010, a total of 46 partner companies (20 companies in 2008, nine in 2009, and 17 in 2010) were beneficiaries. This support promotes the standardization of their quality management processes, raises their employees’ awareness of environmental issues, and improves their overall productivity. At the same time, preference will be given to suppliers that have established the environmental management system (ISO 14001) when selecting the vendor and evaluating quality. Through strict post-management activities after providing cost support, kt will at the end continuously enhance its overall sustainability management standards. Support for Suppliers’ ISO 14001 Certification 426 (147 for materials and equipment, No. of kt’s suppliers (A) 279 for construction) No. of suppliers that kt supported in 2010 (B) 16 B/A 3.8% Program ISO 14001 Certification 62 KRW 176.3 billion Performance of multiple price policy Purchase Policy Innovation Reﬂection of Unit Cost Change Factors Performance In August 2009, kt institutionalized the reflection of unit cost change factors. Factors such as the Amount Number of previous year’s inflation rate, foreign exchange rate, and material cost change have been standardized Category (KRW100 cases millions) and reflected in the initial target price, which is decided every year. In case unit cost change factors Multiple 191 1,763 Pricing increase by over 3% during the contract period, the supplier can request price adjustment. Overall 82 1,384 Evaluation Adopting the Multiple Pricing Policy Target Price Adjustment 101 1,343 kt adopted the multiple pricing policy in August 2009. In this policy, the lowest bidder wins the N:N Contract 287 3,712 contract quantity. However, if the lowest bidder’s bid price is more than 5% lower than the 2nd lowest Long-term 14 382 Supplier bidder, the 2nd lower bidder’s price is set as the contract price for the original lowest bidder. Bid Price 215 515 Limitations Improving the Overall Evaluation Bid Policy In August 2009, kt improved the evaluation bid policy. To prevent unfortunate circumstances of purchasing low quality goods when focused on price, improvements were made to the bid policy so that the final bidder is decided after evaluating both quality and price. When newly purchasing equipment that has gone through the BMT (Equipment Evaluation) and when making repetitive purchases on equipment, the overall evaluation bid policy serves as the general rule. However, the reflection ratio of quality points will be over 50/100 as stipulated by regulations. Allocating Quantities to all SGs Starting in August 2009, kt initiated a policy to allocate quantities to all the SGs (Items). Based Purchase Support System on operational quality, after selecting a few SG suppliers, a minimum quantity is allocated to all SG suppliers. This policy is applied to items when the number of items exceeds the number of suppliers in comparison to the annual consumption amount or when there is a need to decrease the number of suppliers on an item due to reduction in demand. Adopting the Bid Price Limitation Competitive Bidding Policy In October 2009, the policy was adopted. It is a policy excluding successful bidders if the tender offer is below the bid limitation base price which is calculated as ‘the average price multiplied by the limitation ratio of the tenders offered below the target price.’The limitation ratio is generally set at 80%, but can be changed by the characteristics of the bid. Minimizing the Discord in the Contract / Delivery Ratio As part of the company’s effort to minimize the discord in the contract / deliver ratio, measures were initiated in May 2010. The measures include demand forecasts by product based on a real name policy, standardization focused on outstanding preferred items, invigoration of price contracts without quantity, and systematic management of quantity allocation ratio. Eliminating Volume D/C Policy The Volume D/C policy was eliminated in June 2010. Initially, when items are delivered in excess of 110% compared to the original contract amount, a Volume D/C policy was applied by changing the contract. However, considering the difficulty in accurately projecting demand, there were suggestions that improvements had to be made from a mutual growth perspective. 63 Dream with Suppliers Self-regulated Allocation of Field Preferred Equipment Partnering for Growth Because of the differences in product configuration or structure of each supplier’s product, there Infrastructure and Financial Support Promoting Mutual Growth exist differences in work and operational conveniences. As such is the case, in case preferred Building Green Ecosystem items are supplied in excess of the contract quantity, the excess amount can be freely allocated Innovation of Purchasing System Fair Trade based on preference. This rule applies to all item provided by all suppliers and to those items preSupplier Communication ferred. This is also to eliminate problems caused by inefficiencies of the suppliers manufacturing facilities as a result of being supplied too early because of the item’s preference. 0 Violation of fair trade practice Fair Trade Compliance kt operates the fair trade compliance program (CP) to prevent economic losses for society and the company while voluntarily complying with regulations and preventing unfair activities. During the 2009 CP rating evaluation conducted by the Fair Trade Commission (FTC), we acquired the top rating of “AA.” The recognition served as an external recognition of our commitment to fair competition and secured incentives such as the reduction of fines and exemption from official FTC investigations for the subsequent two years. In addition, in 2010, kt and three of its affiliate Ceremony for win-win cooperation companies concluded an agreement with 520 SMEs, promising mutual cooperation and fair and fair trade trade. Through the agreement, kt proclaimed externally that it would abide by regulations and principles to guarantee transparent subcontracting transactions. Items for Pre-audit Fair Competition Deliberation Center • Companywide marketing plans, ad campaigns, As part of our fair trade compliance program, kt opened the Fair Competition Deliberation Center PR materials in 2005 comprising of fair trade lawyers. By conducting reviews on anti-trust issues for business • Marketing agreement among service providers plans of all divisions, we are effectively preventing violations of competition laws. Additionally, we • Internal transactions among affiliates such as finance, assets, and human resources have designated on-site fair trade representatives to prevent unfair business activities. • Contracts with suppliers/outside distributors/ subcontractors Fair Competition Education and Promotion kt provides training on fair trade three or four times a year. Online training programs are for the No. of Pre-audited Deliberations employees. In addition, experts from regulatory organizations are invited to share information Category 2008 2009 2010 on recent trends in laws and systems on fair trade while special lectures on key fair trade issues No. of cases 348 418 651 are being held. Visiting lectures are organized for departments where fair trade is of particular importance. To establish a culture of fair competition and promote continued interest and No. of Trainees by Year dedication, kt has incorporated an evaluation system. Category 2008 2009 2010 WorkingCorrective Measures for Unfair Trade Practices level 96 57 41 education General Unfair internal Cartel Others * Total unfair trade transaction Cyber Type 1,447 1,260 1,387 program Correction Fines Correction Fines Correction Fines Correction Fines Correction Fines (case) (case) (case) (case) (case) 2008 2009 1 0 1 0 2010 * Related to Contract Terms Regulation Act, Labeling & Advertising Act, Door-to-Door Sales Act, e-commerce Consumer Protection Act 64 77.4 points Supplier satisfaction index Operating Mutual Growth Center Operation of Mutual Growth Center kt operates the Mutual Growth Center, providing conveniences such as conference rooms, OA • Center size: 200m2 equipment, etc. Supplier suggestions (VOS: Voice of Supplier) is also heard at the center. An exclusive • Available facilities: Conference room, Consultation room (5), Business room window is open within the center to provide mutual cooperation one-stop work support. 2009 2010 • Usage results • Usage results Ideas, Proposals & Rewards 2,911 suppliers 1,830 suppliers 5,932 visitors 7,044 visitors We reorganized our site for submitting suggestions and proposals (ktidea.olleh.com) in order to 1,784 times used 1,136 times used create a single reception window. We have also streamlined our processes so that all ideas or proposals are reviewed and decided within two months of receipt. We have also introduced an idea purchasing scheme for technology, business models or other ideas that contribute to our operations. If an idea can be commercialized, the proposer will be guaranteed up to 50% of the total procurement volume for the item in question. For ideas that require further development, purchase orders are assured for a pre-set period if the development is completed successfully. Our commitment to supporting the R&D activities of SMEs is underlined by a KRW45 billion fund for commercializing ideas and technologies related to mobile applications and content. Idea proposal site (ktidea.olleh.com) An additional fund worth KRW55 billion is planned to support projects for key IT solutions. These funds lower the R&D costs of SMEs and revenues earned from projects will be shared. Operating “IT CEO Forum” The core leaders of the small & medium IT companies are the main bodies of the IT CEO Forum. The Forum is operated from three different directions: holding open forums, encouraging coexistent partnerships and linking on/oﬄine. The open forum is open to all companies, mainly to small & medium IT company CEOs, guests from large corporations, associations, academic institutions and related R&D centers participating to search for ways to achieve mutual growth. From a coexistent partnership perspective various results were obtained. They include increasing the number projects shared (MVNO, App. Store, etc.) through mutual cooperation which is being pursued by kt and other large corporations, expanding free discussions and networking exchange gatherings The 9th IT CEO Breakfast Seminar related to specific business and R&D (‘ollehting’), and attracting special loan programs from IBK for forum member companies. To hook up on/oﬄine, 6 regular seminars were held annually and the 4 major regional conferences were made into a regular event. Guests were invited to the information exchange seminar to hold around 20 seminars including the DigiEco Open Seminar. Information on these seminars can be found on the forum’s exclusive portal (www.itceo.org). Operate Information Sharing Consultative Group kt established an ‘Information Sharing Consultative Group’ to help support suppliers when promoting their products or when emergency demand occurs. The 1st consultative group meeting was held on October 28, 2008 with Kisan Telecom and 11 other companies participating. Supplier Satisfaction Level Issues on the emergency demand timing and inventory carried by suppliers were discussed. Category 2008 2009 2010 Supplier Satisfaction Level Points 80.2 75.2 77.4 Since 2005, kt has performed multi-dimensional evaluations on its suppliers every year to assess the company’s general purchasing process make improvements accordingly. The survey conducted in 2010 showed a satisfaction score of 77.4 points, up 2.2%p from the previous year’s result. 65 Vision and Strategic Direction kt is implementing its social contribution activities focused on 4 areas: IT Sharing, Love Sharing, Culture Sharing & Green Sharing. As such, on a company level, through the kt Volunteer Corps of Love and IT Supporters, greater efforts are being placed on communications and sharing with local societies. Material Test Results External (0~100%) 100 A Social Contribution System Ⓑ A Ⓑ IT Sharing / Love Sharing / Culture Sharing / Green Sharing 80 Ⓒ Addressing Digital Divide 60 Ⓓ Ⓓ Community Communication 40 Ⓒ 20 20 40 60 80 100 Internal (0~100%) Major Performance Category 2008 2009 2010 Beneficiaries of IT Supporters (persons) 453,084 515,286 325,771 Volunteer Hours (hours) 255,219 89,621 114,657 kt Volunteer Corps of Love No. of Participants (persons) 39,878 15,723 30,383 IT Master Scholarship No. of Beneficiaries (persons) 225 256 263 Awards and Recognition in 2010 • Social Contribution Outstanding Award – Human Network Association (Ministry of Health & Welfare, KBS) • Social Contribution Outstanding Leadership Award – Korea Productivity Center kt has placed a great effort into eliminating the information divide that low income families face. Social Contribution activities targeted towards children have continued in order to make sure that children from alienated classes do not lose their dreams and hope. Greater interest should be placed on these children so that they don’t fall back in this information age. Jee-Mahn Shin Public Relations Department, Public Relations Office Beneficiaries of IT Supporters (persons) No. of Beneficiaries of IT Master Scholarship (persons) No. of Employees Participating in kt Volunteer Corps of Love (persons) Dream with Society 114,657 Social Contribution System IT Sharing Love Sharing hours Culture Sharing Volunteer hours Green Sharing Addressing Digital Divide Community Communication Social Contribution Strategies Corporate social activities are a means to form a sound relationship between a company and society by sharing corporate resources with local communities, contributing to mutual growth and progress. kt has introduced diverse initiatives to address the problem of the digital divide and enhance quality of life in local communities. Our management directive calls for us to be a respected company under the slogan of “Together, Come, olleh.” kt’s social contribution slogan incorporates the determination to change the way of thinking, which is the direction that ‘olleh management’ is pursuing, and the practice of sharing on a global basis. It also embodies three meanings: Together, Come and olleh. Together refers to coexistence, while Come alludes to action and participation oriented towards the world. Last, olleh refers to a happy world of sharing together. Mission and Direction Create a brighter world through ‘olleh’ sharing activities Mission Serve all of society through continuous social contributions Support the marginalized by sharing core strengths Vision Create a more pleasant world by sharing Slogan Together, Come, olleh Key area Multicultural families Children Approach IT sharing Love sharing Culture sharing Green sharing Organization for Social Contribution kt Volunteer Corps of Love Activities of kt Volunteer Corps of Love kt Volunteer Corps of Love was founded in 2001 to promote greater efficiency by integrating kt 2008 2009 2010 employees’ volunteer activities, which had been conducted individually, into a systematic, companyVolunteer wide movement. Currently, the Corps consists of more than 700 teams with around 31,000 employees 255,219 89,621 114,657 hours donating their time to various causes such as supporting local children’s centers, helping the No. of 39,878 15,723 30,383 participants underprivileged, providing disaster relief assistance, and extending a helping hand to farming and fishing communities. In addition, the Corps provides programs for children such as education and scholarships for gifted students. In 2010, a volunteer activity guideline was announced company-wide to ensure effectiveness of the company’s volunteer activities. Organizational Chart of kt Volunteer Corps of Love Head (CEO) Secretariat (PR Office) Headquarters and Personal Customer Home Customer Corporate Customer Network Division (73) other departments (88) Division (76) Division (28) Division (189) 68 IT Supporters Launched in 2007, IT Supporters is kt’s employee volunteer group that donates IT knowledge to enable anyone to freely utilize IT. This pro bono contribution is focused on donating the talents of the IT Supporters and is considered to be a representative example that changes social contribution. A total of 200 full-time employees from 23 teams across the country are focused on narrowing the information divide and improving life through IT. Anyone can request the support of the IT Supporters by calling (1577-0080) or by connecting to the Internet (www.itsupporters.com). Launch of fifth group of IT Supporters Organizational Chart of IT Supporters IT Supporters Center (4 staff ) 23 teams / 200 staff Metropolitan area Gangwon Chungcheong Honam Youngnam Jeju 9 teams / 90 staff 1 team / 8 staff 3 teams / 24 staff 3 teams / 24 staff 6 teams / 51 staff 1 team / 3 staff Social Contribution Spending Finance for Social Contribution by Category (Unit: KRW 100 million) To promote social contribution activities, kt has managed the Love Sharing Fund since 2003, which Category 2008 2009 2010 is led by employees’ voluntary donations and the company’s matching grant scheme. The company Love matches the donations raised by employees to support social contribution activities of each volunteer 42 40 40 Sharing Fund team and midto long-term social contribution initiatives for hearing-impaired children and local Education and 8 8 12 scholarship children’s centers. In 2010, 73% of our employees made donations, raising a total of KRW1,740 million. Sponsorship 19 21.3 70* Support for Operation of the Love Sharing Fund is stipulated by the Love Sharing Fund Operation Committee, which hearing1.4 1.5 2 is comprised of representatives from both labor union and management. To ensure transparency, each impaired children volunteer team is required to post on the Internet site details and related evidence of the uses of the IT support allocated funds. for local 250 250 130** communities Culture, art, and Donations to Love Sharing Fund sports 28 31 116*** Category 2008 2009 2010 Total 348.4 351.8 370 Fund raised (KRW 100 million) 21.2 20.3 17.4 * Donations in kind added ** Decrease in number of IT Supporters (400 -> 200) *** Cultural and sports activities added Employees’ participation rate (%) 78 78 73 Evaluation & Compensation System Results of all volunteer activities are required to be registered on the website (www.volunteer.kt.co.kr). This is to evaluate and compensate the volunteer activities carried out by kt employees & executives. After evaluating the Volunteer Corps of Love and the activities towards local children’s centers across the country in 2010, five volunteer teams were selected for their outstanding social contributions. These teams were awarded a commendation and monetary reward by the CEO. In addition to this, ten outstanding volunteer teams are selected every month and provided incentives. Starting in 2011, social contribution awards will be upgraded in status to the kt grand prize. 69 Dream with Society 325,771 Social Contribution System IT Sharing Love Sharing persons Culture Sharing Beneficiaries of IT Sharing Green Sharing Addressing Digital Divide Community Communication Supporting Multi-cultural Families Starting in 2010, in connection with the Ministry of Health & Welfare’s Nationwide Multi-cultural Family Support Division and Multi-cultural Center, kt has been providing greater support to multicultural families. Some of the support includes opening kt multi-cultural classes to provide IT lessons and opportunities for wives from abroad to experience Korean culture. In addition to providing MS Office program lessons such as Word and PowerPoint, kt actively provides support to help multi-cultural families settle down and educate their children through Korean language & Supporting multi-cultural family cultural classes and lecture skill training. (Multi-cultural Center in Songpa-gu) IT Knowledge Sharing kt is taking the lead in creating a “warm smart world” through its ‘Smart Academy’ and ‘Smart Sharing,’ which provides support in narrowing the new types of information divide in the wake of the advent of hi-tech IT devices. As part of our effort, new IT device experience & usage training and information accessibility opportunities are provided to the four alienated social groups. If requested by outside institutions or organizations to help train on the use of smart devices, kt provides customized lectures. In addition, the ‘Smart Academy’ lectures are publicly held in major IT Knowledge Sharing (Sweet Academy) metropolitan cities such as Seoul, Busan, Daejeon, Daegu, Gwangju, Ulsan and Jeonju. ‘Smart Sharing’ activities are also held for local children’s centers to help eliminate the Smart Divide. IT Knowledge Training Activities Category Open lecture On-site lecture Group lecture Total No. of trainings 91 630 197 918 Participants (persons) 1,283 14,099 399 15,781 Supporting the 4 Information Alienated Social Groups For the 4 information alienated social groups, the disabled, farmers/fisherman, old/senior citizens and low income groups, kt held basic computer and Internet application training. IT training for practical everyday usage and classes for various qualification tests were also held. Through this training, kt is narrowing the information divide and enhancing the quality of life. IT Supporters Experience Training for Stakeholders Supporting Alienated Social Groups As part of IT Supporters’ experience-oriented activities for stakeholders, intern IT Supporters (Health Town for Senior Citizens in Gwangju) activities were implemented. During the first half of 2010, 362 interns participated, while 113 joined during the second half. 20 overseas students also participated as interns. Besides this, the IT Supporters University Student Volunteer Group, comprised of 200 college students(22 teams), carried out diverse activities across the country from July 12th to 23rd. 70 Supporting Small & Medium Entrepreneurs & Independent Enterprises Targeted towards merchants in traditional markets such as Seoul PoongMool Market, Gwangjang Market and Bangshin Market, and local small entrepreneurs including the Yangsan multi-cultural restaurant, Busan Beauty Artists Association and Daejeon City Music Education Institutes, kt provides support that can help create real economic value through homepage & blog construction and practical OA training. Training to Prevent Negative Effects of the Internet Junk shop (PoongMool Market in Seoul) In concert with kt’s Culture Foundation, continuous training is provided to the general public and children to help counter the negative effects of using the Internet. The major contents of the training include Internet addiction prevention, cyber crime prevention, and personal information protection. To help prevent these side effects, kt trained expert lecturers. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, a total of 80, 330 and 131 lecturers were trained, respectively. Global IT Sharing Education to prevent negative effects of Volunteer activities of IT Supporters became a target for benchmarking by the Ministry of Internal Internet Affairs and Communications of Japan. It was also acknowledged overseas as a representative example of social contribution activities. In October 2008 and November 2009, IT Supporters visited Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Education to provide training on utilizing the Sri Lankan language virtual keyboard and construction of audio/video contents. This was followed by IT training IT Supporters’ Program courses held at the Goryo People’s Cultural Center in Russia’s Maritime Province. This was the first overseas training opportunity which is an excellent representation of global IT sharing. Supporting Multi-cultural Families • Support multi-cultural lecturers on using the Powerpoint • Support multi-cultural families in converting to a Korean citizen through Korean language & culture training utilizing IT Results of the IT Supporters Activities (Beneficiaries) (Unit: persons) • Support in providing everyday practical convenience through traffic information and Information shopping mall search MultiCompanies alienated General Category Total Children cultural and other social public families organizations Supporting Small Entrepreneurs & groups Independent Merchants 2008 453,084 216,502 115,792 81,043 21,022 18,725 • Help create a marketing platform through the construction of a homepage and Blog 2009 515,286 202,371 185,747 80,688 25,991 20,489 • Enhance productivity through practical O/A & various S/W training 2010 325,771 120,778 86,793 20,166 80,393 17,641 Customized IT Training Total 1,294,141 539,651 388,332 181,897 127,406 56,855 • Method of using computers & printers • Internet information search • Construction of UCC & digital albums • Method of utilizing Hangeul, Excel, PowerPoint Outside Evaluation of the IT Supporters Contribution Activities • Homepage & Blog construction • Method of using digital cameras, MP3s & mobile phones Nov. 21, 2007 Awarded the Korea Volunteer Service Grand Prize in 2007 (Korea Social Welfare Association) Dec. 17, 2007 Selected among the 100 to have lightened the world in 2007 (Korea Green Foundation) IT Utilization for Practical Everyday Living • Internet (banking, shopping, reservation) Selected as the most memorable university student social contribution program • Issuance of electronic civil documents Aug. 12, 2008 (Yonhap News) • Issuance of public certification • Using emails and messengers Oct. 17, 2008 Visited the Sri Lankan Ministry of Education and provided training on the use of the Sri Lankan Nov. 09, 2009 language virtual keyboard and construction of audio/video contents. Using Hi-tech IT Devices Jun. 03, 2009 Awarded the “Prime Minister’s Award” on the Information Culture Day • Method of using smartphones • SNS service using smartphones Jointly executed measures with the government to counter DDoS attacks: Carried out Zombie • Method of using tablet PCs Jul. 12, 2009 ~ PC clean-up activities The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications of Japan visited kt to benchmark Preventing Negative Eﬀects of IT Nov. 25, 2009 the IT Supporters activities • Special lecture on self-evaluation of Internet addiction & prevention Nov. 04, 2009 Held the first overseas IT training classes at the Goryo People’s Cultural Center • Cyber crime prevention, voice phishing ~Nov. 13, 2009 in Russia’s Maritime Province prevention & personal information protection • Method of utilizing programs to help block Jan. 05, 2010 Selected as the most recognized amongst the CSR activities of the 30 large groups (Economist) hazardous sites and PC usage time • IT classroom with both parents and children Nov. 24, 2010 Awarded the Grand Prize at the 2nd Korea Human Awards (Ministry of Health & Welfare / KBS) participating 71 Dream with Society Social Contribution System IT Sharing Love Sharing 400 No. of sisterhood children’s centers Culture Sharing Green Sharing Addressing Digital Divide Community Communication Love Sharing for Children Support for Local Children’s Centers kt is carrying out diverse support activities targeted towards local children’s centers to enable alienated children to grow into future leaders. Various activities were held for 400 local children’s centers in 2010 which included tree planting, book donations, educational environment improvements, etc. In 2011, the number of children’s centers receiving this support is expected to expand to 1,000, targeting 30,000 alienated children. MiniLibrary in ‘Delightful School olleh Dream Center Local Children’s Center’ Starting in 2010, in connection with local children’s centers located in major areas, kt began operations of its ‘olleh Dream Center.’ Utilizing available space in kt branches across the country, the olleh Dream Centers were equipped with diverse IT devices which included IPTVs, beam projectors, smart pads, etc. Through the olleh Dream Center, various educational courses were held to help enhance scholastic achievements. Courses include English, constellation education and music. As of the end of 2010, including the olleh Center located at kt headquarters in Seongnam city, seven centers were under operation in major areas of the country. During the 1st half of 2011, olleh Dream Bus three centers were added, bringing the total to ten nationwide. In order to enable children to conveniently use the olleh Dream Center, buses to and from each center was provided. Support for Hearing-impaired Children We have helped children and teenagers from low-income families to restore their hearing since 2003. As of the end of 2010, kt has funded artificial cochlea implants and rehabilitation treatment for 126 children, while 172 more have been given digital hearing aids. Starting in 2010, the scope of support was expanded to cover brainstem transplant surgeries from just hearing disabilities. To provide more systematic support kt and Yonsei Medical Center concluded an MOU for the “Find the Voice for the Hearing Disability Children Project.” With the support of the kt Cultural Hearing Recovery Project for the Hearing Foundation in 2010, through the ‘Find the Voice’ project, 21 children with hearing disabilities were Impaired Children selected and provided treatment cost and hearing aids. Number of Children Receiving Hearing Restoration Support (Unit: Persons) Category 2010 Cumulative Brainstem transplant 3 3 Artificial cochlea implants 7 126 Digital hearing aids 11 172 Total 21 301 In commemoration of ‘Ear Day’ on September 9, kt and the Yonsei Medical Center jointly held campaigns. With the theme ‘Noise, Communications & Important People,’ the event included various programs that helped everyone realize the importance of sound. Some of the events included hearing examinations, photo exhibits and a mini concert. ‘Ear Day’ Commemoration Mini Concert 72 Love Sharing for the Alienated Social Group Scholarship Programs kt Labor-Management Youth Scholarship Project To foster future leaders through support for the alienated social class, kt’s labor union & management initiated a Youth Scholarship project by providing tuition fee to selected outstanding high school students of low income families. In 2010 a total of KRW280 million were provided as support to 210 high school students. The beneficiary students were further encouraged through Youth Camps. In 2011, KRW300 million has been allocated for 217 high school students. IT Master Scholarship Labor-Management Youth Scholarship Initiated in 1988, the ‘IT Master Scholarship’ is a scholarship program providing scholarships to olleh IT Master Scholarship academically outstanding university students that have been recommended by each school. Year of scholarship 2008 2009 2010 The students have to be majoring in any IT related department, including electronics, computer, granted electricity, telecommunications, media, etc. In addition to providing scholarships, network No. of recipients 225 256 263 establishment programs are also implemented to continuously maintain a close relationship (Persons) with scholarship beneficiaries. Programs include seminars and informal discussion tables. The Supported amount (KRW 8 8 8.2 beneficiaries are also provided the opportunity to participate in local IT Supporters and supporters 100 million) Note) Total no. of recipients 5,662 / Accumulative of kt’s exhibitions. The size of the scholarship in 2011 was at the same level as that of 2010 at amount KRW14.8 billion KRW820 million. Scholarships are to be provided to a total of 263 students in 141 universities. Hope Sharing Fund for Youth For those customers wanting to participate in kt’s youth scholarship project, the telecommunication rates on their bill are increased in units of KRW thousand at the request of the customer. This increased amount is reserved as scholarship funds. The funds are managed under the ‘Hope Sharing Fund for Youth’ to help youth in low income families that have talent in culture & arts and athletics. In 2010, KRW20 million were provided as scholarship to 4 students. Disaster Recovery When stricken by unexpected disasters, kt works hard to repair telecommunications facilities and restore services as quickly as possible. We also provide public phone services to the victims without charge, as well as telecommunication services at reduced or exempted rates in order to ease their hardship. In addition, kt Volunteers are dispatched to the scene to deliver relief supplies and donated funds as well as to help out with the recovery effort. In the aftermaths of the sinking of the Cheonanham naval ship and the bombing of Yeonpyeong Island, contributions of KRW227 million were evenly made through the Community Chest of Korea and the Korean Red Cross in 2010. Telecommunications Rate Reduction for Special Disaster Areas Global Love Sharing In cooperation with KOICA, a government grant aid agency, kt completed construction of Wimana elementary school in Rwanda’s Kamonyi City on March 2011 as part of the Korean government’s public-private partnership project. As a result of the project, about 600 students, who had to travel long distances to school before, now have the benefit of having a school close by. KOICA and kt provided the school with various study material, uniforms and soccer balls. In addition, kt implemented the Information of Education project in Uzbekistan by donating a computer class in September 2010. This has become a model to computer classes to come. The donated class Relief Funds for Affected Citizens in Yeonpyeong Island included PCs, scanners, printers, a beam projector and a screen. Other items donated included soccer balls, basketball balls and volleyballs. In addition, kt opened a kt multi-cultural class at the Mapo Multi-cultural Family Support Center to provide support to domestic multi-cultural families in April 2010. This was in conjunction with The Central Office for Multicultural Family Support Center. Twice in 2010 (January / September), newly hired employees carried out clean-up activities for multicultural families as part of their volunteering initiative. 73 Dream with Society 527,333 Social Contribution System IT Sharing Love Sharing persons Culture Sharing Visitiors to olleh square Green Sharing Addressing Digital Divide Community Communication Mecenat Activities olleh Square The olleh Square, located on the 1st floor of kt’s Gwanghwamun building, is an integrated cultural space (3,300m2) for experiencing IT. The ‘kt Art Hall’ was renovated and changed in May 2010 to the olleh Square, housing up-to-date IT devices and services that everyone can experience unlimitedly. By operating a café and holding olleh Square Talk Concerts, the olleh Square has become one of the leading integrated cultural spaces where culture and relaxation is offered. olleh Square The olleh Square is also used for outside events such as the 62nd Army Day Commemoration and the launching of Apple’s iPhone4 and iPad. It has also become a popular tour course for experiencing the hi-tech IT environment. Since its opening on May 24, 2010 and as of the end of 2010 there were a total of 527,333 visitors. kt Chamber Hall The kt Chamber Hall was opened inside the Mokdong IDC in Seoul in May 2009 as part of a remodeling project. As the name suggests, the venue is designed to stage chamber music performances. The Hall can accommodate an audience of 410, while parking is available for 600 vehicles. Prominent chamber music artists are invited to perform, and the recorded performance is broadcast on our Chamber Hall concert channels olleh TV classical music and concerts. kt Chamber Hall The ‘Saturday Afternoon Chamber Music with kt’ which was held 24 times since the hall was first open had a total of 9,262 audiences, whereas the ‘2010 Jazz and the City’ performance, which was held 12 times, had a total of 3,266 audiences. By providing seats at extraordinary rates and donating seats to the alienated class, and inviting VIPs to special events, the kt Chamber Hall is fully being utilized for purposes of social contribution and customer satisfaction. Sports Sharing Activities Sonic Boom Basketball Team Activities kt Sonic Boom, kt’s professional basketball team with connections to Busan, held diverse social contribution activities. Through the Love Seat Sharing event, free professional basketball game seats were provided to alienated children and misfortunate neighbor support groups in Busan. kt’s Sonic Boom and Busan’s Fruit of Love initiated a surgery cost support program to help children with hearing impairment to hear again. Winner of the 2010-2011 Basketball Regular League In addition, through Sonic Boom’s 2nd Frontiers, a sports onsite experience group, an onsite sports experience program was initiated for university students living in the Busan area with interest to sports marketing. Also, by holding intern programs for university students and soon to be graduating students in the Busan area, kt is helping to create jobs and to foster sports leaders. In July 2010, the Sonic Boom Children Basketball Club was launched for children in the Busan area. Summer camps were also held. To create a healthy sports culture among the young, the ‘2010 Basketball Class with the Alienated Children olleh 3 on 3 Basketball Contest’ was held. As a new concept sports cheer group for the alienated, the ‘olleh Gun’ was created, helping the alienated participate in sports cheering. 74 Pro-gamers Activities Through the co-sponsorship of kt’s pro-gamers and the Korea Make a Wish Foundation a charity game event was held. KRW20 million was collected and delivered to children with incurable diseases. Supporting Amateur Sports kt fosters future sports potentials. To expand non-popular sports, kt started managing a women’s hockey team and a shooting team in 1984 and 1985, respectively. In 2010 alone, including Jin, Jong Oh’s World Shooting Championship and Asian Games gold medals, kt’s shooting team won Charity Game Event held by kt Pro-gamers 56 medals in 13 domestic and overseas championships. The women’s hockey team won the silver medal at the Asian Games and became two time champions in domestic competition. kt also provided support to Baduk competition, contributing to the growth of young Baduk players. Supporting Children Soccer Competitions In addition to sponsoring the Korean National Soccer Team, kt also helps foster young soccer players and provides support to children sports competition (Little K-League). By enabling children olleh kt Baduk Competitions alienated from elite soccer the opportunity to participate in soccer competitions, kt helped to instill dreams of becoming national soccer players and foster a healthy children’s culture. Children Soccer Competitions (Little K-League) Preservation of the Dong River kt has been protecting the Dong River, which boasts stunning scenery, and sponsoring projects such as the restoration of a traditional house in Jejang Village, Jeongseon-gun, Gangwon Province. We have also participated in raising funds to purchase 17,190cm2 of since 2003. We then carried out volunteer activities to complete the construction of a traditional house, “Loving Dong River” in August 2005. The house has become a symbol of Dong River preservation activities and is used as a site for teaching youths about the importance of protecting nature. Protecting Ranunculus Kazusensis Makino Colonies in Ganghwa Island Since 2003, kt has been leading the movement to protect colonies of ranunculus kazusensis makino, an herbaceous water plant belonging to the buttercup family. This species grows only in Ganghwa Island and has become threatened with extinction due to habitat loss. The National Trust of Korea designated this wild plant as the country’s first Citizen’s Natural Heritage. We created mountain paths near the colonies to prevent their being damaged, and we sponsor trips to view the flowers in bloom every May. (On May 15, 2010, we invited 40 children from local children’s centers.) Meanwhile, since 2009, kt has been supporting local residents’ efforts to prevent damage Local Children’s Center Ranunculus Kazusensis Makino Observation Activities to the olleh hiking trails on Jeju Island and to promote them as a tourist attraction. H2O Green Protection Event As part of the labor-management coexistence program, kt initiated the ‘H2O (Host to olleh) Green Protection Event.’ Held simultaneously in 460 locations, a total of 21,000 labor union members, employees and executives participated in clean-up activities. Surrounding streams, roadsides, cultural heritage facilities, bus stops, and ravines were part of the clean-up targets. In the future, the green protection movement will be expanded from environment clean-up activities to protecting Green Protection Activities cultural heritage sites and providing twice annually cultural performances for local citizens. 75 Dream with Society Social Contribution System IT Sharing Love Sharing KRW 235.3 Fee reduction for the billion Culture Sharing underprivileged Green Sharing Addressing Digital Divide Community Communication Providing Universal Service Universal service refers to basic telecommunications services that are provided to everyone at an appropriate rate when and wherever. In other words, it allows users to conveniently use communications services at a rate that can generally be paid by most of the public, no matter which social class the user is in or where the user lives. Universal services generally include wired phone services, emergency communication phones services, and discount rates for the disabled & low income groups. kt maintains low rates* for all citizens using services designated as universal services. No discrimination is placed on usage conditions such as rates or quality for reasons of geographical location, income level and whether disabled or not. Usage conditions are applied * Landline rates based on small / medium usage are equally. Unlike most other domestic telecommunications service providers limiting service the second lowest among OECD nations membership areas due to service area coverage issues, kt provides the same service to users in (OECD Communications Outlook 2009) cities and users living in high cost areas such as agricultural / farmland & island areas. Rate Reduction for the Underprivileged 2010 Universal Service Status (Unit: KRW 100 million) Service definition Service status Phone service • Service provided to 16,258,000 subscriber users 2,353 connecting as of the end of 2010 (Market Share: 86%) City Call Service communications • Replacing worn-out switchboards: 264,000 lines 2,103 between subscribed • Facilities provided due to demand from new phones city development: 275,000 lines 1,747 Wired Phone service Phone Island connecting • Providing inner city phone & broadband Internet Services Communications communications service to 65,000 subscribers in 422 island areas Service between land & island across the country and island to land Phone service 2008 2009 2010 • Operates 88,000 public phones nationwide Inner City Public connecting • Regular disinfection/sanitary management, Phone Service communications using convenient booths for the disabled public phones • Emergency Numbers: National Security Reporting Among the backbone / Consultation (111), Crime Reporting (112), communications service, Spy Reporting (113), Cyber Terror Reporting Special Number services that the Korea / Consultation (118), Fire / Disaster Reporting Phone Service Communications Service (119), Maritime Accident & Crime Reporting (122), for Emergency has designated as a Smuggling Reporting (125), Communications special number phone Drug Crime Reporting (127) Emergency service • Calls are diverted to the nearest representative Communications authority; calls are free Phone Service • Provide telegraph, phone and telegram services Phone service to 4 thousand subscribed ships connecting Ship Wireless • When a GMDSS*** disaster signal is received, communications Phone Service the signals are automatically relayed real-time to between land to ship related organizations such as the maritime police and ship to ship in accordance to the SOLAS** Convention • Discount rate services; city/long distance Communications service phone calls, phone information, mobile phones, at discount rates for broadband Internet those requiring social ** International Convention for the Safety of Life Phone Services at Discount Rate • Set amount discounted from base rate and protection such as At Sea enacted by the International Maritime usage rate the disabled and low Organizations • 5,239 thousand subscribers by service in 2010; *** Global Maritime Distress and Safety System income class total of KRW235.4 billion discounted 76 Information Village In 2010, kt participated in the farming & fishing village broadband project to provide public good such as enhancing the quality of life for these villages and vitalizing the local economy. The project entailed the installation of a broadband network with a capacity of 50 or less subscribers, providing specialized services for the village occupants, which include providing broadcasting, and convenience and safety related services. In addition, by advertising and providing educational support to vitalize the usage of the broadband network, kt’s objective is to achieve balanced growth between the city and village, while contributing to the information expansion of the Building broadband networks in farming and fishing villages country. With the start of the smart infrastructure establishment working group committee on June 20, 2010, agreements with ten local governments from Chungbuk to Gyeonggi were Broadband Networks Built in 2010 concluded between July and October. By pre-planning and designing to be able to provide No. of No. of services within the predetermined period, kt was able to complete the broadband subscriber Region No. of counhousecities ties holds network at the end of November 2010. To successfully complete the project, existing copperUlsan 1 10 393 based ADSL, FTTC, and FTTP networks were replaced with FTTH networks, creating a farming Gyeonggi 2 10 385 & fishing village IT infrastructure from a long-term perspective. In 2010, kt exceeded its target Gangwon 9 71 2,737 of providing 658 administrative districts with broadband subscriber networks by 26, enabling a Chungbuk 11 71 2,835 Chungnam 15 81 3,335 total of 25,000 households access to the broadband network infrastructure. Many benefits can be Jeonbuk 10 145 5,221 expected from this kind of Information Village. Among the benefits include the alleviation of the Jeonnam 20 103 3,900 information divide between regions, enhanced regional competitiveness, increased income for Gyeongbuk 4 86 3,280 local citizens and vitalization of the local community. Gyeongnam 12 78 3,044 Jeju 1 3 121 Total 85 658 25,251 Lover Sharing Communications To ensure that genuine and effective social contribution programs are initiated, kt holds diverse Area Communications communications with related members in each social contribution area, including ‘IT Sharing,’ Plan program jointly with local ‘Love Sharing,’‘Culture Sharing,’ and ‘Green Sharing.’ children’s center associations Alienated Children Provide transport support Support Programs through the Dream ‘Poom’ Bus In case of ‘IT Sharing,’ communications with IT Supporters are possible through the phone (1577to the local children’s center associations 0080) and Internet homepage (www.itsupporters.com). Through this, anyone has the opportunity Carry out theme-based to receive IT and IT related training and consulting. For ‘Love Sharing,’ communications are held kt Volunteer Corps of volunteer activities by forming with related parties and beneficiaries in the 4 major areas that include alienated children support Love Volunteer Programs relations with local children’s centers programs, activities of kt Volunteer Corps of Love volunteer programs, hearing impaired support Select beneficiary targets programs, and scholarship programs. By communicating with the beneficiaries of these programs, Hearing Impairment through hospital networks, Support Programs including famous otolarynkt is able to initiate social contribution programs that meet their needs. gologists across the country Maintain close cooperation To actively implement ‘Culture Sharing,’ questionnaires are provided to olleh Square and kt Scholarship Programs with middle & high schools and universities across the Chamber Hall visitors. Requests by the visitors are reflected in on-going activities. In addition, by country using SNS type mediums such as Facebook, information on various performances and Mecenat activities are advertised, while opinions and suggestions are collected. Last, to expand ‘Green Sharing,’ in cooperation with various environment-related NGOs such as the National Trust, kt holds environmental protection experience activities throughout the year. Diverse programs are being prepared to enable children to understand the importance of the environment. 77 Vision and Strategic Direction Under the slogan “Green kt, Green Korea,” kt established an environmental vision, “Green Convergence Leader” that leads the construction of a green advanced country.” By converting the work environment into a green ecosystem, leading the national economy into a green innovation, and searching for green growth engines, kt was able to establish a greenhouse gas reduction target of 20%. Meanwhile, Green IT working group committee was formed to implement green strategies. Material Test Results External (0~100%) 100 A Environmental Management System Ⓓ B Response to Climate Change 80 C Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling / Realizing Green Office Ⓕ A 60 Ⓓ Environment-Friendly Products and Services / Participating in Green Growth Projects CB Ⓔ Environmental Regulations and Certifications 40 Ⓕ Environmental Communication 20 Ⓔ 20 40 60 80 100 Internal (0~100%) Major Performance Category 2008 2009 2010 Scope 1 (tonCO2) 52,936 58,432 66,736 Greenhouse Scope 2 (tonCO2) 1,147,116 1,057,743 1,061,357 Gas Emissions Total 1,200,052 1,116,175 1,128,093 Water Use (tons) 2,721,622 2,775,565 3,014,704 Water Use Water Use Per Person (tons) 85.64 88.78 83.01 Environmental Green Procurement (KRW million) 7,834 1,777 4,876 Investment Green Investment (KRW million) 48,800 113,700 651,200 Awards and Recognition in 2010 • Green Technology Certification (3): Home Network Technology using Zigbee/PLC / kt Building Energy Management Solution / RF/CT based Energy Remote Measurement • Green Business Certification (4): 3G, IPTV, VoIP linked Video Conferencing Business / Station broadening to establish Green Communications Infrastructure / Eco-friendly Address Change business / Green IDC Establishment Business Utilizing DC Power Technology • Leader in telecommunications industry in Carbon Management 2010 (CDP Korea) ICT is a new communications service not requiring vehicle mobility, and which helps reduce carbon dioxide. Going forward, from a green growth perspective that will provide greater new opportunities, it is inevitable to actively pursue this business. Jin-Myung Lee Smart Green Division, Smart Green Development Center Green Procurement (KRW million) Water Use Per Person (tons) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tonCO2) Dream Big 79 Dream with Environment Environmental Management System Response to Climate Change Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling Realizing Green Office Environment-Friendly Products and Services Participating in Green Growth Projects Environmental Regulations and Certifications Environmental Communication Environmental Management Vision The Meaning of Green kt, Green Korea As the use of IT devices are expanding globally, the portion that IT takes up in terms of energy Green kt usage and greenhouse gas emissions are rising. The environment is not only core to sustainability Cost reduction and accumulation of related management, but also provides new business opportunities. Acknowledging the importance experiences / technologies by leading the of this, to create new growth engines in the green technology business, kt established ‘Green kt, green initiative at the highest level A new leap ahead by searching for Green Korea’ as its vision. In order to achieve this, there is a need to convert the high energy congreen growth engines suming social infrastructure to one of zero carbon. At the same time, kt is striving to achieve green Enhancing group competitiveness by establishing growth by developing IT solutions that encourage IT infrastructure energy savings technologies the number one green image and customers to go green. kt will also actively participate in government sponsored green projGreen Korea ects to help effectively counter climate change. Lead the country’s green growth through Green kt capabilities Vision Enhance quality of living for citizens through a green revolution Green kt, Green KOREA Improve national competitiveness by enhancing the green country image Promote green ecosystems Seeking new growth engines Drive green revolution in Korea • Purchase eco-friendly products • Secure new growth momentum • Promote green telecom infrastruc• Strengthen partner companies’ by uncovering sectors for ture and green workplace green capabilities convergence with IT • Encourage consumers’ green • Green IT Supporters activities • Home, office, building, lifestyles with green services infrastructure, energy Organization and Systems To drive green growth and efficiently advance green IT-related capabilities, we established the “Green IT Committee.” Chaired by the CEO, the committee sets annual green IT action plans every first quarter and passes on relevant information to each subcommittee. It also checks whether or not the company meets GHG emission reduction targets and generates target revenue from green products. The “War Room,” a central database center from where the progress of the Green IT management is monitored in real time, consists of six divisions. The system allows all business units of the company to share the status of green achievements. Organizational Chart of the Green IT Working Committee (2011) Green IT Working Committee Champion: Head of Research Center Green Individual Green Home Green Office Green Virtualization Green Infrastructure Green Environment Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Green wireless Green home enviGreen IDC and Virtualization Green network Green property environment / BM ronment / BM Office / BM technology Note) kt Networks and kt Telecop started to participate in subsidiary subcommittee in 2011. 80 1,128 thousand tonCO GHG Emissions 2 GHG Emission Reduction Plan GHG Emission Reduction Targets We plan to reduce our GHG emissions by 20% by 2013 (from 2007 levels) by conserving energy, using alternative energy sources, upgrading telecom and IT infrastructure, and promoting a green workplace. GHG Emission Reduction kt became the first in the Korean telecom industry to build a company-wide GHG inventory system. In 2010, we examined the energy consumption of our buildings and increased the energy efficiency of our facilities. In 2010, GHG emissions totaled 1,128,093tonCO2, about the same level as that in the previous year. We manage greenhouse gases that are related to logistics such as vehicles for business use under the category of mobile combustion of SCOPE 1. Going forward, we plan to increase the portion of environment-friendly vehicles. GHG Emissions* (Unit: tonCO2) Management of GHG emissions Type 2008 2009 2010 Fixed combustion 40,839 40,222 49,079 SCOPE1 Mobile combustion 12,097 18,210 17,657 Total 52,936 58,432 66,736 Electricity 1,143,495 1,053,352 1,056,698 SCOPE 2 Steam 3,621 4,391 4,659 Total 1,147,116 1,057,743 1,061,357 * According to Article 44 of the Basic Act on Low Carbon Green Growth enacted on Jan. 13, 2010, we recalculated greenhouse gas emissions generated Total 1,200,052 1,116,175 1,128,093 from rental areas and telecommunication facilities. (Additional emitting sources: repeaters both inside and outside buildings, base stations) Investment in New & Renewable Energy Equipment A 50Kw solar power generator was installed at Shinnae Branch and on the premises of the Hwaseong transmitting station in 2008. And in December 2010, at Gangneung receiving station, the construction of a large capacity 423Kw solar power generator was completed. In the future, kt will utilize idle land and building rooftops to install or expand solar power generation equipment. In addition, kt adopted as a trial project, a heating/cooling and hot water supply system within buildings using geo thermal energy. The systems were installed both at the Daeduk Research Complex and Gongju Branch. To eliminate dust, vibration and noise in the process of utilizing heat from 100~150 meters underground, an eco-friendly drilling technology was developed. At Solar Power Generator established in Gangneung Receiving Station the same time, as part of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy sponsored new and renewable energy trial distribution project, kt installed five 1Kw fuel cells at Songdo building. Through these initiatives, kt was able to conclude strategic partnerships with energy companies. This paved the way to help kt develop communications and energy combined services. Support for Customers to Reduce GHG Emissions kt provides customers with services for measuring and reducing energy consumption. We apply our technical knowhow to develop smart-grid telemeasuring, telemetering and remote control solutions that conserve energy. In addition, we provide green home, green office, green building and green energy services to our customers. 81 Dream with Environment 3,014 Environmental Management System Response to Climate Change thousand Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling tons Realizing Green Office Water use Environment-Friendly Products and Services Participating in Green Growth Projects Environmental Regulations and Certifications Environmental Communication Energy Efficiency Real-time Monitoring of Energy Use We carried out a government-initiated product development project and developed a device that measures the energy use and carbon emissions of various facilities on a real-time basis. The device also helps us carry out various activities such as target management, reporting, and assurance. Additionally, we applied this device to several kt office buildings to collect energy data for the Building Energy Management System (BEMS) more systematically. Energy Target Management Policy kt is participating in the Ministry of Land, Transportation and Maritime Affairs’ Energy Target Management trial project in the building sector. The first of many 5-year energy conservation targets were established in concert with 12 institutions with high energy consumption levels. kt signed the 1st 5-year trial project agreement to achieve its 1st target by 2014. The building with the most energy consumption as of 2009 was selected for the project, which was Hyehwa Branch building with 8,000 TOE. Another non-branch building target was Bundang IDC with 21,000 TOE. Investment in the Smart Grid Business Smart Grid Project kt participates in the Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s Jeju Demonstration Complex project Implementation Plan related to Smart Grids. The project, which will approximately cover 6,000 homes in Jeju will be Target Details implemented from May 2009 to May 2013. The project aims at enhancing energy usage by utilizing May 2010 Monitoring of 200 homes new and renewable energy sources and energy storage facilities. kt is implementing this project Monitoring & control of through the kt Consortium comprising of 14 corporations and 4 consignment institutions. May 2011 1,000 homes May 2012 Provide KEPCO power Use of Highly Efficient Equipment trade services We are now engaged in a company-wide effort to maximize energy efficiency. As heating and May 2013 Provide services linked to U-city cooling facilities are thought of as a major source of energy consumption and GHG emission, we are replacing the existing systems with those that have energy-saving heat pumps. We are also replacing halogen and incandescent lights, with LED lamps. In addition, we are now using thermally insulated glass, triple-component glass, double-glazed windows, higher-efficiency insulation materials, and cool thermal energy storage. Importantly, the “smart-heating” controller system has proven to be outstanding in lowering energy consumption. Applying the Insulation Film In August 2010, kt applied insulation film on window glasses to enhance cooling / heating efficiencies in some of its buildings that include Goyang office (2,290m2) and Changwon office (334m2). The insulation film resulted in improved heating / cooling efficiencies. Reduced Power Consumption of IT Equipment We have applied green ICT technology to our telecom infrastructure. In 2009, we lowered electricity consumption by 5.1% by installing Fiber To The Home communication facilities, implementing stricter thermal standards for telecom systems, and consolidating telecom centers. We plan to extend the service coverage area of our telecom centers from the current 4km radius to a 50km radius by 2015, reducing power consumption by up to 40%. We will also increase the power efficiency of our telecom network by replacing existing switches and the current wireless network with 3G systems. 82 Wired/Wireless Communications Infrastructure & Data Center Energy Optimization kt trys to achieve communications infrastructure and data center energy optimization. A good example is the broadening of the station coverage project. By downsizing existing communications stations and simplifying the network structure, a more efficient network management has been made possible. The project to convert the wireless network infrastructure into a clouding environment is being initiated. Resource Recycling Water Usage Management Water Use A washbasin water saving device is required to be installed in all new, extension or remodeling Category 2008 2009 2010 buildings to reduce water consumption. By replacing filters in cooling equipment and regularly Water Use cleaning pipes, water usage efficiencies have been improved. Simultaneously, to reduce water (tons) 2,721,622 2,775,565 3,014,704 consumption, various campaigns such as reducing daily water consumption by 1.5 liters per person, Workforce 31,780 31,264 36,318 decreasing the carbon footprint, and distributing mug cups were held throughout the year. As the (persons) number of people in the building increased, water consumption also increased by 8.6% in 2010. Water use per person 85.64 88.78 83.01 However, water consumption per person decreased by 6.5%. The water reduction management (tons) target for 2011 has been set at 120,588 tons, a 4% decrease compared to the previous year. Recycling of Telecom Devices Sales of Disused Materials (Unit: tons) To increase the collection rate of old phones, kt provides a set amount in subsidies for new phone Category 2008 2009 2010 purchases when a customer returns their old handset. Returned old handsets are reused as rental Waste cable 7,343 6,209 4,530 phones for those who lost their handsets. In addition, when customers subscribe to broadband Waste Internet or ITPV services, kt rents modems and reclaims them back when customers cancels 3,029 2,751 2,965 equipment services. Waste battery 3,656 1,797 2,414 Others 442 427 315 Waste Disposal Total 14,470 11,184 10,224 kt disposes of used materials such as batteries, cables and machineries from construction sites and buildings according to pertinent laws. Designated waste materials that contain harmful substances such as waste fuel and waste acid are registered into the allbaro system (www.allbaro. or.kr). Cables and other machineries are sold to recycling firms to be reused and recycled as raw materials, while empty cable drums are sold back to cable suppliers for repurchase. Waste Disposal Expenses of Subcontract Waste Disposal Process Construction (Unit: KRW 100 million) Logistics center Waste handling firm Produce finished product (Produce raw material) Waste cables Copper Cable, copper products Installations (telecom infrastructure, machinery) Gold, silver, iron, aluminum Precious metal 6.1 6.1 Waste batteries Lead Batteries 4.3 Empty drums Cable drums Vehicles and generators Reuse (for reused car sales, and for use in plants and ships) Designated Waste Material Treatment by Construction Contractor For construction wastes, the projected quantity is calculated from the design stage and the 2008 2009 2010 treatment expenses are included in the contract. All wastes from construction are consigned to a waste disposal company for treatment by the constructor contractor. Payment is concluded after the contractor compares the waste yield amount to the actual consigned waste quantity. In case the waste quantity is too small that the disposal company refuses to collect the waste, the contractor must place the wastes in storage and must get an annually contracted disposal company to treat the wastes. 83 Dream with Environment Environmental Management System Response to Climate Change Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling 90 Office buidlings that equip Realizing Green Office videoconferencing room Environment-Friendly Products and Services Participating in Green Growth Projects Environmental Regulations and Certifications Environmental Communication GHG Emission Reduction through Videoconferencing Videoconferencing helps reduce carbon emissions as well as increase productivity by accelerating decision-making and cutting travel costs. The DigiEco estimates that replacing 20% of all international and domestic meetings with videoconferencing would bring an annual savings of KRW13.7 billion, as a result of reduced carbon emissions, lower travel costs and increased productivity. Conventional videoconference solutions require high initial installation costs and pose quality issues such as audio-video lag. We adopted a PC-based model to address these Videoconferencing at kt headquarters shortcomings. These systems have been installed in 90 offices of our office buildings to ensure all employees, even those who are working away from the office, can use their PCs to participate in meetings. Smart Working Center By establishing a Smart Working Center in all major buildings, employee work efficiencies have improved, while mobile combustion has been reduced. In addition, with the establishment of a network platform office environment for working at home, kt is encouraging all employees to participate in and practice ‘Green IT.’ Building an e-Office Environment Smart Working Center To reduce the use of resources, kt has built an “e-Office” environment. e-Office refers to an optimal working environment that minimizes environmental impact by adopting information technology. We shifted a paper-based oﬄine approval process to an electronic business approval system, and operate an e-cabinet system whereby various documents are stored and managed as electronic files rather than as paper printouts stored in file cabinets. kt’s Energy Saving Results Minus (-) Energy, Plus (+) Love Campaign kt is simultaneously reducing energy and actively participating in the Ministry of Knowledge Accumulated ParticipatReduction amount Economy’s ‘Minus (-) Energy, Plus (+) Love’ campaign. This social contribution campaign is to results Remarks ing stations (KRW (Mwh) thousand) practice energy conservation while providing energy welfare to the lower income class. The energy 2008 220 3,024 32,400 amount saved at homes and office buildings during the months of July and August, when energy Selected consumption is highest, can be converted to pay for heating cost for needy neighbors under the 2009 2,442 25,380 124,000 as no. 1 campaign participant’s name. In 2010, 3,510 stations, including main and ancillary, participated company 2010 3,510 8,075 40,000 1st in the campaign (an increase of 1,068 stations over the previous year), achieving a reduction of Total 6,172 36,479 196,400 8,095,000Kw (carbon emission of 3,800 tons) during the peak months of July and August. By reducing energy expenses by KRW800 million (in concert with company-wide energy reduction activities), kt was selected 1st for two consecutive years among the participating companies. Paperless Campaign We are promoting the use of AnyFax, an e-fax system, as part of an ongoing drive to achieve a truly paperless office environment. With the introduction of the e-fax system, monthly paper use per person dropped by approximately 50 sheets (based on A4 size paper). iPad provided to all our employees 84 Environment-Friendly Products Green PC Solution The Green PC Solution consists of layers of PCs. 60 independent PCs are stacked on a rack forming one single multi PC system. Unlike individual PCs, efficient energy management is possible. At the same time it is possible to eliminate fine dust and other pollutants emanating from individual PCs. In addition, maintenance is more convenient and heating/cooling energy can be reduced by using the heat energy from the clustered PCs. This helps save summer cooling expenses by 5%, while reducing CO2 emissions by 500 tons. Green PCs established in Honam University Automatic Standby Power Termination PC System This system allows the user to automatically terminate standby power when the PC is not in use. Monitor, speaker and printer power can be terminated automatically along with the desktop PC. In addition, by pressing the green button the standby power is instantly terminated and by pressing the zero button, it has the same effect as disconnecting the plug. Environment-Friendly Services Videoconferencing Service kt’s videoconferencing service received the Green Business certificate in October 2010. Without Participating in meeting with various types of devices using expensive equipment, close distance communications and cooperation is possible with 2G, 3G phone diverse devices, helping to contribute to cost reduction and reduction in environmental impact. Fixed line phone Telephone PC H/W codec Wireless Based Real Time Energy Consumption Remote Monitoring Service HD This is a nationally ‘Green’ certified service that enables users to monitor real time through a videoconferencing service wireless device the energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions emanating from homes, Executive Research conference room center offices and buildings. Using smartphones, the energy consumption and CO2 emissions status Research center can be monitored, analyzed and managed without the need for installing expensive meters, Remote education and seminar Multi-party real-time cooperation helping reduce costs. When participating in the greenhouse gas target management policy and emissions trading, it can be used as a platform service enabling the user to link with various energy reduction solutions at home and at work. 3G + Smartphone (e.g. iPhone) CO2 Light PC Air-conditioner Temperature, humidity, CO2 Display Data collection device (e.g. olleh TV) Internet Cloud server uCloud CS(Compute Service) uCloud CS is a cloud based virtualization server. Without having to pay for physical server purchases or rentals, users only need to pay for the amount utilized. This is an eco-friendly product that helps solve increased energy consumption as the demand for Internet usage goes up. The service can be used 5 minutes after subscribing. Diverse value added services are provided including automatic management, security, auto-scaling, etc. It also enhances convenience for individual developers, B2B related IT solution development companies and IT server environment operating companies. 85 Dream with Environment 651.2 Environmental Management System Response to Climate Change Energy Efficiency and Resource Recycling KRW billion Realizing Green Office Green investment Environment-Friendly Products and Services Participating in Green Growth Projects Environmental Regulations and Certifications Environmental Communication Participating in Government Projects for Green Growth We are participating in various projects in step with the Korean government’s green growth drive. Examples are a pilot project to establish targets for building energy use in cooperation with the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs; a pilot carbon emissions trading project with the Ministry of Environment; and a project to set energy-use targets in the broadcasting and telecom sectors with the Korea Communications Commission. In addition, we took the initiative to form the kt Consortium in order to participate in the Jeju Island Smart Grid Test-bed project, which was kt Smart Green Center launched in 2009 by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. We established the kt Smart Green Center on the island; this Center monitors energy management systems, analyzes energy use patterns, controls energy distribution services, and sells electricity. Fund for Green Growth kt created a KRW30 billion kt-Gyeonggi Investment Fund for Green Growth in cooperation with the Gyeonggi Provincial Government. The fund is designed to provide financial and technical support to venture companies or startups in the region that are developing energy-saving technology. kt’s Green Green Investment Investments (Unit: KRW 100 million) kt’s environmental investment continued to increase. In 2010, the amount jumped to KRW651.2 Category 2008 2009 2010 billion from KRW113.7 billion in 2009 and KRW48.8 billion in 2008. Regarding facility investments, we Service 359 849 6, 035 concentrated on establishing simple network and cloud data centers, and projects such as the green Facility 129 288 477 IDC pilot project, and the mico-management of energy efficiency project. Meanwhile, investments for Total 488 1,137 6,512 services included the Smart Grid project on Jeju Island, visual image communications, and electricitycare service. Green Procurement kt participated in the Voluntary Agreement for Green Procurement for IP products. We reflect environmental aspects in our specification requirements for procuring telecommunication facilities. We help our suppliers minimize the environmental impacts of their products from the stage of product development, by providing them with guidelines on environmental friendliness of surface treatment, potential for recycling or reuse, and minimization of packaging materials. To this end, we put green labels on our consumable materials. We also update the green information on the labels twice a month, based on the data provided by the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute while conducting education to promote the purchase of eco-friendly products. Green Procurement Amount 2008 2009 2010 Category No. of Amount No. of Amount No. of Amount items (KRW million) items (KRW million) items (KRW million) EcoEco-Mark Certificate 1,009 5,899 408 1,400 645 4,308 products GR Mark Certificate 102 34 42 11 Energy Saving Mark 46 566 18 43 106 568 Reducing Hazardous Other ecoSubstances 33 273 16 48 products Reducing Wastes 8 15 5 6 Others 578 1,047 317 269 86 Total 1,776 7,834 806 1,777 751 4,876 Measures to Meet International Environmental Standards kt was the first domestic communications company in Korea to receive the environmental management international standard ISO14001 certification in the construction and property sector in 2007. By practicing eco-management systems, kt has secured transparency and credibility in its environmental performance. To acquire ISO14001 in all sectors of the company, kt is placing its effort on securing standardization in methodologies and systems that ensure continuous environment improvements. Aggressive eco-management implementation is being carried out through environment training, internal audits and company-wide campaigns. First in the Communications Industry to Receive the Green Technology & Business Certification kt is continuously carrying out research & development in the eco-friendly communications sector to help develop and expand Green IT. As a result, kt was the first in the communications industry to receive 7 Green Technology & Business Certificates from the government. Home Network Technology Using Zigbee/PLC Green Technology kt-Building Energy Management Solution Certifications (3) RF/CT based Energy Remote Measurement Technology 3G, IPTV, VoIP linked Video Conferencing Business Green Business Station broadening to establish Green Communications Infrastructure Certification (4) Green IDC Establishment Business Utilizing DC Power Technology Eco-friendly Address Change Business Participation in Eco-friendly Communications Consultative Groups to Expand Green IT To help contribute to green growth on a national level, kt’s CEO was designated to head the Green IT Consultative Group, a group under the Green Growth Committee, a body acting as a communications channel with the public and which reports directly to the President of Korea. The CEO is contributing to the development and promotion of Korea’s eco-friendly green IT technology. Year-Round Environmental Campaigns Every year on Environment Day, as part of the company-wide environmental campaign, kt is spreading the Green Living Practice Guide to make energy conservation and greenhouse gas reduction an everyday practice. An environment café has been launched to post and share opinions on implemented cases. Dream Big 87 87 Established in 1991, kth played a major role in the telecommunications industry through Hitel during the dawn of computer communications, and was pivotal in developing the Internet environment with its portal site, ‘www.paran.com.’ As kth is focused on smart mobiles, content disctribution platforms, group synergies and games based on its 4Screen concept, the company is moving towards becoming a general service provider integrating wired & wireless Internet with digital contents, in addition to its platform business to secure a sound business base. As a smart mobile company, kth is aggressively moving ahead through its open platform policy and real time web to strengthen its mobile business including its SNS, LBS and UC services. Going forward, by integrating supply / demand and distribution channels for various contents and related solutions, kth a requirement for network operators within the kt group, the company will enhance its overall synergies within the group http://www.kthcorp.com/ and simultaneously secure new growth engines in preparation for the future. Social Contribution As part of the 2010 Lunar New Year and Chuseok festival, kth employees donated gifts received Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) during the holidays to the Nambu Disabilities Welfare Center of Sam Yook Rehabilitation Center. In addition, through the ‘Haengbok Do Ha Gi (Greater Happiness),’ a voluntary group 1,498 1,338 within the company, employees used the proceeds from iPhone cases sold internally and membership fees to purchase rice and donate directly to low income senior citizens in Rice donation by the Greater Happiness February 2011. kth also established a volunteer site, the ‘erumi” (www.erumi.co.kr) to help 2009 2010 students lacking the benefits of private educational lessons with volunteer teachers. As a TRS (Trunked Radio System) provider, kt Powertel was initially lanched in 1985 as Korea Port Telephone Corp. Having launched analog TRS services in 1996 and commercialized nationwide digital TRS services, kt Powertel steadily established itself as formal TRS service provider. By expanding its service scope to cover mobile phones and wireless data in 2000, kt Powertel was able to establish itself into a general telecommunications service provider. In 2009, it launched its Dual Service, a TRS+WCDMA multi-service. This enabled the company to fully position itself as mobile telecommunications service provider for corporations. Going forward, kt Powertel will firmly position itself as a “No. 1 Group Communication Leader” by not only providing individual communications means, but also by providing information through the communications network and adopting an advanced concept towards creating value. kt Powertel www.ktp.co.kr Social Contribution Starting in 2008, kt Powertel has been carrying out various social contribution activities Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) targeted towards alienated groups through its internal volunteer group called ‘Power Angels.’ As of 2010, the company has been aggressively undertaking ‘Love Sharing’ activities, 1,275 especially focused on providing support to estranged children. Financial support has 1,260 been provided to help purchase books for the Children’s Book Play Room and for the Volunteer activities for estranged children Development Account (Di Dim Seed Account). The company has been participating in 2009 2010 diverse cultural ‘experience’ activities including attending musicals, making rice cakes, experiencing farms (rural communities), riding skates, etc. It has also put into practice its ‘IT Sharing’ concept by donating TRS terminals to children welfare centers. kt Powertel has also actively implemented its ‘Green Sharing’ activities by promoting the collection and recycling of unused repeaters, and implementing its environment improvement campaign in all branches nationwide. Every year, employees voluntarily donate to the ‘Love Piggybank.’ Blood donation certificates are collected through donations every year and distributed to children suffering from childhood cancer. Coal briquettes are also donated to the underprivileged neighbors every early winter to help them stay warm during the winter 88 season. kt Networks is a NI specialized company of the kt group, providing ‘total NI (Network Integration) services’ such as network consulting, installation, operations & maintenance, and ‘IP-based in-building service’ for corporate customers within buildings. Utilizing its internal installation and operational capabilities, kt Networks is constantly monitoring the changes in the IT convergence environment to prepare for any circumstances. By concluding exclusive sales agreements with Polycom, Alcatel Panduit and Fujitsu, the company is providing global standard network equipment to domestic and overseas customers. To prepare for the future, kt Networks is continuously focused on ‘constructing solar power stations’ and on ‘ESCO,’ controlling LED green lighting. Recently, through the installation of the BcN in farming and fishing villages and the olleh tv head-end platform, the company was able to expand its capabilities and create synergies within the kt group. kt Networks www.ktn.co.kr Social Contribution In 2010, by actively forming relations with local children’s centers as part of the Group CSR Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) joint project, close relationship with eight centers was formed. For the 2010 ‘Chuseok Love Sharing’ activity, between September 1st and 17th, visits were made to local children’s centers 3,424 that the company had formed relations with and made donations and carried out diverse 3,244 company-wide programs. In addition, through the Avata Bazaar which was held on September Delivering rice cakes on Chuseok holiday 8th 2010, 102 employees donated 161 items to the local children’s center. The proceeds from the bazaar were used as contributions and as funds for various social contribution activities under the ‘kt Networks Love Charity.’ 2009 2010 Since establishment in 1994, kt Telecop has grown into a leading security service provider by using kt’s nationwide telecommunications network and technologies developed in Korea, and led the popularization of the security service. As a leading service provider, kt Telecop will satisfy customers with more advanced security services. Social Contribution Through the internal ‘Love Volunteer’ group consisting of 840 employees, kt Telecop carried out diverse activities. Starting in October 2010, with the participation of 117 employees, a ‘Volunteer Activity Fund’ was established. The funds collected were kt Telecop then donated to the local children’s center in December 2010. In addition to forming www.telecop.co.kr relations with local children’s centers and providing volunteer support, the company Delivering rice cake soup by Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) actively participated in support activities for the estranged neighbors, which included ‘Love Volunteer’ group participating in ‘Maintaining School Safety’ activities, providing free meals to solitary senior citizens, and delivering donation funds to children without meals. Utilizing 2,167 kt Telecop’s business characteristics, the company installed unmanned security systems 1,522 for cultural heritages and implemented ‘Cultural Heritage Guard’ activities. As part of its effort, starting in 2011, unmanned security services were provided for free to 3 cultural heritages, including Heunginji Mun and the National Palace Museum 2009 2010 of Korea. In addition, cultural heritage clean-up activities are being carried out twice annually across the country. Also, starting in July 2010, the company launched the ‘Dokdo Support Charge Policy’ in addition to implementing a ‘Get to Know Dokdo the Right Way’ campaign through payment bills, homepage and SNS. Currently, customers subscribing to the ‘Dokdo Support Charge Policy’ are charged KRW200 monthly extra, which is reserved as a ‘Dokdo Safeguard Fund.’ In the future, the funds will be donated to Dokdo related social organizations. kt Telecop also carries out diverse activities including mountain and river clean-up and traffic control activities. 89 Established in 2006, kt M&S is a communications service distributor that sells wired/wireless communication services and telecommunications products through a wide range of distribution channels. The company plays a pivotal role in the nextgeneration communications convergence market that improves customer convenience by combining wired/wireless services with services of different industries. kt M&S will strive to become a leading player in the future communications market as a customer-oriented communications distributor that provides new and differentiated services. Social Contribution kt M&S In 2010, approximatley 100 employees participated in seven ‘Love Sharing’ activities which www.ktmns.co.kr included ‘Love Sharing Coal Briquettes,’ ‘Yangji Hesal Children’s Center volunteering,’ and delivering food packages to the needy senior citizens. In addition, about 60 employees and Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) senior management participated in various activities six times a year. Activities included 6,160 cleaning the environment in Gwanak Mountain and Yangjae Stream and planting trees. Sharing coal briquettes 4,273 Also, employees stating their desire to donate a portion of their monthly salary will have the desired portion subtracted and saved as a social contributions fund. These funds will be used as part of the company’s ‘Salary Woosoori Policy’ for needy neighbors. The funds will mostly be donated to the Yangji Hesal Local Children’s Center (http://www.hesal.org/). The total accumulated funds amounted to KRW5.8 million in 2010. 2009 2010 kt capital’s main businesses include industrial machinery, construction equipment, high-tech medical systems, auto and IT equipment lease, installment loans, project financing, business loans, factoring, and IT venture investment. It also develops quality financial products and services. The company will strive to provide more convenient and differentiated services to customers by delivering funds for improving kt’s communication services and carrying out various new businesses. Social Contribution Various social contribution activities were carried out through the company’s ‘Dasom Nuri’ kt Capital volunteer group. Major activities included educational support for children of branch schools www.ktcapital.co.kr in the metropolitan area, delivering food packages to senior citizens who live alone and low income families. As part of its effort to provide educational opportunities for children of multicultural families, kt Capital provided scholarship funds every month to the Mongol School, Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) Bazaar held by Dasom Nuri volunteer group a social corporate cooperative. Also, daily financial support is provided to the L’Arche, an 1,764 international cooperative that helps the disabled support themselves by having the disabled 1,410 live with the non-disabled. The company donated proceeds from a charity bazaar amounting to KRW5 million. Coal briquettes were provided to the underprivileged neighbors in winter to help them stay warm during the winter season. Employees voluntarily donate to the ‘Dasom 2009 2010 Nuri Fund’ while the company matches the donation raised by employees. 90 Ever since it was established in 1986, kt Rental has been lending PCs, servers, computational systems, and other types of IT systems for more than 20 years. The company diversified its business to include costly equipment such as medical equipment, measuring devices, office automation equipment, and construction equipment, as well as water purifiers and tablet PCs to provide a wide range of business solutions and resources as a general rental company. In June 2010, kt Rental merged with a local leading rent-a-car company, Kumho Rent-A-Car. The merger strengthened its position in the domestic rent-a-car market by enabling it to develop a variety of products and offer differentiated services. Social Contribution kt Rental Along with the theatrical group, Boseot (Mushroom), kt Rental planned a play performance www.ktrental.com with a motive towards ‘Respecting Life’ and ‘Suicide Prevention.’ The disabled and neighbors in Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) need that generally do not have the benefits of experiencing cultrual arts were invited to the 6,297 performance to help foster cultural experience. As part of a campaign to help prevent suicides, which is a social issue, the importance of life is made aware for the disabled and neighbors in Invitation to cultural event need. Those participating in the ‘Life Telephone Counselling’ are also provided the opportunity to enjoy culture. For two weeks in August 2010, with the sponsorship of the Ministry of Health & Welfare, Association of the Institutes for the Disabled and Korea Institute for Mental Health, 894 4,100 disabled and neighbors in need were provided the opportunity to view the ‘Light the Fire in the Playground’ play which was held at SsangSsang Nanum Theater in Daehakro. 2009 2010 While providing IT services for the kt group companies, ktds has developed itself through the experience gained from establishing IT systems and its professional team related to new growth businesses (WiBro, VoIP, etc.), and its world-class system building technologies including ICIS (World’s largest open platform & large capacity system), NeOSS (Development and installation of the world’s first MS .Net based integrated operations system), and EDW (Installation of the world’s 3rd largest capacity system). The company is providing global standard IT service management services based on its acknowledged and proven capabilities. The company’s capabilities have been acknowledge through CMMI LEVEL 5, the world’s highest level S/W quality certification, and international standard certification (ISO 20000 Certification) for its ITSM. ktds Social Contribution www.ktds.com Utilizing the expertise of the‘IT Sharing’volunteer group comprising of employees, the company Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) initiated IT training for 4 local children’s centers. One-on-one mentoring education was also held for low income family children. In September 2010, rice purchased from sister villages 3,555 were donated to 271 low income families living in the Yangcheon-gu area, while in October, 2,562 the company helped its sister village harvest sweet potatoes which were then purchased and IT Sharing volunteer group donated to 400 low income families in the Yangcheon-gu area. In November, ktds donated 40 computers and computer tables to a nursery. Through the Children’s Foundation, KRW500,000 are provided to 5 children family heads every months as scholarship. 2009 2010 91 Since its establishment in 1991, kt Music has focused on four businesses wired/wireless music, joint music business, store music, and music contents. Based on its wired/wireless music portal called Dosirak, kt Music plans to carry out convergence businesses by combining IPTV, IP phone, and IT technology, and become the best music company by 2012. As a subsidiary of the kt Group that specializes in providing music services, the company will propose a new and unprecedented music lifestyle while striving to become the leading music company that provides music services so that consumers can enjoy music anytime, anywhere. kt Music Social Contribution www.ktfmusic.co.kr Every month on a Saturday since November 6, 2010, employees have been coming together to prepare food packages for 1,200 undernourished children and senior citizens through the ‘Food Package Sharing Project.’ The company also formed relations with a children’s center in the Wooshin area and delivered Chuseok clothes (T-shirts), mushrooms and apples in Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) September 2010 as part of the company’s Chuseok (Korean Thanksgiving Day) gifts. In Sharing meal boxes addition, to deliver dreams and love to the local children’s center, in conjunction with K-Will (Korean pop singer), the company gathered funds to hold the ‘1st Food Package Sharing 385 401 Showcase.’ 2009 2010 kt CS is responsible for customer service in the kt Group, providing services such as the 114 Telephone Number Directory Service, and call center outsourcing, and CS Academy. On the back of differentiated competitiveness in CS services, the company ranked top in the call center industry in terms of sales and received the Presidential Award of Korean Service Quality in 2007 for the first time among call center companies in Korea. The company’s excellent operation of “120 Dasan Call Center” of Seoul City has been widely acknowledged and has become the benchmark for foreign public institutions. Under the 2015 vision of “The Best Customer Service Provider,” the company will achieve customer services that exceed customer needs. kt CS Social Contribution www.ktcs.co.kr kt CS has been involved in various sharing activities based on four themes, Dream, Culture, Hope and Love. As part of Dream activities, employees visit nurseries to provide educational Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) support and to help maintain nursery facilities. In July 2010, through the ‘Greater Hope Day Hof’ which was initiated in cooperation with Save-the-Children, the company was able to 3,539 3,102 collect KRW3 million in profits. The proceeds were donated as Entrusted Children Help funds. Phone etiquette program For Culture, a ‘Colorful Korea’ program is held every month for wives of multi-cultural families. Financial support is provided to the wives as business support. For Hope, seven business divisions across the country and 7 farm villages formed relations with the motto, ‘Beautiful 2009 2010 Coexistence between City and Farm Village.’ In 2011, the company purchased harvested crops from these villages and donated to the neighbors in need. This way, it’s a 3-way win-win situation for the company, farm village and the neighbors in need. Last but least, Love brought Voice recording for the visually employees in helping senior citizens living near the company. In connection with the Ministry impaired of Health & Welfare, the company participated in the ‘Solitary Senior Citizen Continuing Love Connection’ project in 2011 to help prevent solitary senior citizens from committing suicide. Other pro bono activities included volunteers helping input Braille to create Braille books with the help of the local Braille library. Employees also volunteered to voice record books to help create a voice recording library. 92 92 Established in November 2009 as a marketing specialized company to enhance customer satisfaction, the company has solutions and professionals in diverse fields ranging from advertisement to distribution and customer satisfaction. Going forward, utilizing the accumulated customer satisfaction knowhow gained by providing customer service via 114 and the kt Customer Center, ktis will expand into new joint marketing business areas including advertising, distribution, customer center solutions, U-Healthcare, etc., in effect becoming the nation’s largest marketing company. Social Contribution ktis is carrying out diverse volunteer activities through its ‘Happiness Sharing’ volunteer group. ktis Volunteer activities are implemented once every year targeted towards 12 organizations that www.ktis.co.kr ktis has formed relations with. Some of the activities include donating and delivering coal briquettes to solitary senior citizens and disabled families. ‘Hope’ booklets are also donated Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) to prison facilities for the imprisoned. In addition, in accordance to the MOU signed with the Phone calls to solitary senior citizens Ministry of Health & Welfare in December 2010, 494 employees will make 12,000 salutation 3,491 and information providing phone calls to solitary senior citizens every year. At the same time, 2,884 the company is trying to form relations with seven local children’s centers and a North Korea Escapee Children’s Help Center. Voice recording volunteer activities are also being carried out by recording books for the deaf and donating the recorded contents to organizations for the disabled. 2009 2010 SkyLife is the only digital satellite broadcasting company in Korea. Through a high-tech digital satellite broadcasting system, the company provides high quality HD Broadcasting services. It also launched the world’s first 24 hour 3D channel. SkyLife also provides the first domestic PVR Service, the countries first most recent NVOD service, two-way TV service, and EPG (Electronic Program Guide). With the conversion to digital in 2012, SkyLife will be able to secure 5 million members. Digital contents that cater to the needs of its customers will be secured. The company will grow into a leading comprehensive digital media company by providing fun and happiness to its customers. SkyLife Social Contribution www.skylife.co.kr To guarantee the rights of viewing public broadcasting, in conjunction with various government organizations such as KBS, local governments and broadcasting commission, Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) expenses were shared to install kt satellite video receivers to 13,514 families in poor reception 4,310 areas. The total financial support provided for the reception equipment, installation expenses 3,975 and transmission/reception support expenses came to a few billion Korean Won. In addition, Volunteer activity at senior citizen center the company continued to carry out participation-focused social contribution activities by providing personnel and material support to low income families and welfare facilities through its Rainbow Volunteer Group. At the same time, to support neighbors in need, the company actively participates in diverse activities including coal briquette delivery, rice 2009 2010 donations, food package donations for undernourished children, Kimchi support for senior citizen facilities and support for ‘Happy4000,’ a social enterprise. Establishing receivers in poor reception area 93 Scope and objectives kt commissioned Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited to undertake independent assurance of its 2011 Sustainability Report. The assurance process was conducted in accordance with AA1000AS (2008). We were engaged to provide moderate level, Type 1 assurance, which includes evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2008) principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness (the Principles). We undertook no checking of sustainability performance data and consequently offer no assurance over performance data or associated claims included in the Report. Responsibilities of the directors of kt and of the assurance providers The directors of kt have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the management of kt. However our statement represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform all of kt’s stakeholders. We adopt a balanced approach towards all of kt’s stakeholders. We have no other contract with kt and this is the first year that we have provided independent assurance. We were not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report. Our team comprised MinGu Jun, project leader, Todd Cort, Principal Consultant, as well as InMog Yang and YoungJae Ryu. Further information, including individual competencies relating to the team can be found at: www.twotomorrows.com. Basis of our opinion We undertook the following activities. • Review of kt’s process for identifying and evaluating material issues. •Benchmark research based on the previous year’s sustainability report to compare the issues commonly seen as significant by peers with those identified through the kt materiality process. • Interviews with 5 executive management team members and managers responsible for managing non-financial issues in Bundang, Gwanghwamun, Seocho offices. Interviewees were designated by kt. • Sampling review of supporting evidence for key claims in the Report. Findings We reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report and where necessary changes were made. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe kt’s adherence to the Principles of the AA1000APS. Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the following observations. kt demonstrates a strong approach to sustainability governance. However further efforts could be such as designating a director responsible for the management of key sustainability issues, and reporting more explicitly on the relationships and reporting structures among the key governance bodies such as the board of directors, CSR committee, working committee and CSR task force team. We recommend that kt clarify how the management activities described in the Highlights section of the Report are relevant to sustainability challenges, and how these activities contribute to the achievement of kt’s vision of becoming a ‘Global ICT Convergence Leader’ in terms of managing risks and opportunities. Inclusivity concerns the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. • We recommend that kt document and implement a formal stakeholder engagement process that would enable the identification of stakeholders and the means to gather stakeholder feedback more systematically. We also recommend that kt more fully discuss the means by which stakeholder feedback is used in its business decision making processes. • We recommend that kt introduce more formal and direct stakeholder communication channel to improve the inclusivity of its sustainability governance. One possible mechanism for this is to convene a stakeholder panel at the senior management level such as the board of directors. 94 Material issues are those which are necessary for stakeholders to make informed judgments concerning kt and its impacts. • While the Report includes a materiality matrix, the methodology underlying the matrix as well as the assumptions and thresholds for determining what is material are not defined. We recommend that kt describe the materiality process including the criteria in future reports. • Current material issues defined by kt include ‘stakeholder engagement’, ‘environmental management system’, ‘CS management system’ and ‘brand value’. For many stakeholders, these are management approaches and not sustainability issues. In future materiality assessments, we recommend that kt redefine these issues to align with more clear sustainability issues such as ‘climate change’, ‘digital divide’, ‘work life balance’, ‘supply chain CSR’, etc. • We recommend that kt expand the current discussion of operational waste recycling to include improvement of product recyclability and take-back schemes of products sold to customers. Responsiveness concerns the extent to which an organisation responds to stakeholder issues • We recommend that kt establish and implement more extensive approach to assess and manage labor rights, environmental performance, health and safety and other material issues of suppliers to promote responsibility in the supply chain. A first step might be to include these requirements in the standard purchasing contract language. • k t’s performance such as growing energy use, injury rates and water usage shows that the management response to the discussed material issues in the report have not yet achieved the desired improvement in performance. In these cases, kt should provide relevant cause analysis and improvement plan for the subjects. Rather than a qualitative discussion of these challenges, we also recommend more practical reporting through the analysis and explanation of the performance challenges as well as discussion of how the company sets new targets. • We recommend that kt improve responsiveness by providing objective information and kt’s official position on the negative issues that has been raised by stakeholders including the media. Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited Seoul, Korea June 29, 2011 Jason Perks MinGu Jun Todd Cort InMog Yang YoungJae Ryu Project Director Project Leader Principal Consultant Lead Associate Lead Associate Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited trading as Two Tomorrows was formed from the merger of Csrnetwork and Sd3 in January 2009, Two Tomorrows is an international consultancy that helps companies to perform better and create value by doing business in a sustainable way. www.twotomorrows.com 95 ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported ◇ Not available No. Indicators Page Remark Profile Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 2~3 ● Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2~3 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 12 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services 88 ~ 93 ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 12 ~ 13 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 12 ● Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability Organizational 2.5 13 ● reporting Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 12 ~ 13 ● 2.7 Markets served(Economic Performance) 12 ~ 13, 88 ~ 93 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 12 ~ 13 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Not available ◇ 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 99 ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Cover page ● 3.2 Date of previous report Cover page ● Report Profile 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover page ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover page ● 3.5 Process for defining report content Cover page ● 3.6 Boundary of the report Cover page ● 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Cover page ● Report Scope and 3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organizations Cover page ● Boundary 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Cover page ● 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Not available ◇ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Not available ◇ GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 96 ~ 97 ● Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 96 ~ 97 ● Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 15 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 15 ● 4.3 The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and / or nonexecutive members 15 ● 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 55 ◐ 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 15 ◐ Governance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 15 ◐ 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees 15 ◐ Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the 4.8 14, 16 ~ 17 ● status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 15, 69 ◐ performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance 15, 69 ◐ 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 20 ~ 21 ● Commitments to 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 16, 99 ● External Initiatives 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international advocacy organizations 99 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4 ● Stakeholder 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 4 ● Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 4 ◐ 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 4~5 ◐ 96 ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported ◇ Not available No. Indicators Page Remark Disclosure on Management Approach EC_DMA Economy 22 ● PR_DMA Customer 34 ● LA_DMA Labor 44, 56 ● HR_DMA Human Rights 54 ● SO_DMA Society 66 ● EN_DMA Environment 78 ● Economy EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 26 ~ 27 ● Economic EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 81 ◐ Performance EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 49, 54 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 27 ● EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 45, 49 ● Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation 58 ~ 65 ● EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation 46 ◐ Indirect Economic EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement 27, 60 ~ 61, 70, 74 ● Impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 10, 70, 74 ● Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 100 ● Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 83 ◐ EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 81 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 81 ● Energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 84 ● EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 82, 85 ● EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 84 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 83 ● Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 83 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 83 ◐ EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 75 ◐ Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value EN12 75 ◐ outside protected areas Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not available ◇ EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Not available ◇ EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Not available ◇ EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 81 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 81 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 81 ◐ EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 81 ◐ EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ Emissions, Effluents and EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ○ Waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 83 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills ◇ Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of Not significantly related to environmental EN24 ◇ transported waste shipped internationally impacts caused by our operation Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water Not significantly related to environmental EN25 ◇ and runoff impacts caused by our operation Products and EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 82, 85 ● Services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 83 ◐ Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations ○ Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members Transport EN29 81 ◐ of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 86 ● 97 ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported ◇ Not available No. Indicators Page Remark Labor LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 46, 54 ● Employment LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ○ LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 49 ● Labor / Management LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 52 ● Relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 55 ◐ LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health and safety committees 53 ● Occupational LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region 53 ● Health and Safety LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 53 ● LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 53 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 50 ● Training and LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning and assist them Prior Report in managing career endings 50 ◐ Education LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 48 ● Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other LA13 46, 54 ● Opportunity indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 48 ◐ Employment LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 49, 54 ◐ Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 63, 64 ● Investment and Procurement HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have X Insufficient data undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 63, 64 ● Practices HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 19, 54, 64 ● Nondiscrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 18, 64 ◐ Freedom of Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Collective and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken HR5 52, 55 ◐ Association to support these rights Bargaining Child No operation identified as HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor ◇ Labor having risks of child labor Forced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulNo operation identified as HR7 ◇ Compulsory Labor sory labor having risks of forced labor Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights 19 ◐ Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken No relevant cases ◇ Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 52 ◐ Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 52 ● Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 68 ~ 77 ● SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ○ Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures 18 ~ 19 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 18 ~ 19 ● Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 18 ~ 19 ◐ Behavior SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country ○ Anti-Competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 64 ● Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 64 ◐ Local SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 76 ◐ Communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 76 ◐ Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and Customer Health PR1 43 ● services categories subject to such procedures and Safety PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle 41 ◐ PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements 38 ~ 39 ● Product and PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling ○ Service Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 37, 43 ● PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 38 ~ 39 ● Marketing Communication Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, PR7 ○ and sponsorship Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 41 ◐ Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 64 ● 98 We voluntarily reflected the International Standard, ISO 26000:2010 in our sustainability report. We, as a global corporate citizen, will spare no efforts to improve our sustainability management by taking into consideration seven core subjects of ISO 26000 – organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported Core subjects and issues Page Application Level Organizational governance Decision-making processes and structures 2 ~ 5, 12 ~ 17, 20, 21, 69 ● Due diligence 4, 5 ◐ Human rights risk situations ○ Avoidance of complicity 63, 64 ● Resolving grievances 52 ● Human rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups 46, 54, 72, 73 ● Civil and political rights 41, 52, 76 ◐ Economic, social and cultural rights 52 ● Fundamental principles and rights at work 48, 52, 54 ● Employment and employment relationships 46 ● Conditions of work and social protection 46, 54 ● Labor practices Social dialogue 52, 53, 55 ● Health and safety at work 53 ● Human development and training in the workplace 50, 51 ● Prevention of pollution 80 ~ 85 ● Sustainable resource use 82, 83, 85 ● The environment Climate change mitigation and adaptation 81 ● Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 75 ◐ Anti-corruption 18, 19, 64 ● Responsible political involvement 18, 19 ◐ Fair operating practice Fair competition 63, 64 ● Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 60 ~ 64 ● Respect for property rights 58, 59 ◐ Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 38, 39 ● Protecting consumers’ Health and safety 41, 42 ● Sustainable consumption 83, 85 ● Consumer issues Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 37, 39, 43 ● Consumer data protection and privacy 41 ● Access to essential services 40, 76 ● Education and awareness 42, 43, 83 ● Community involvement 10, 70, 74 ● Education and culture 61, 69 ~ 75 ● Employment creation and skills development 46, 74 ● Community involvement Technology development and access 69 ~ 72 ● and development Wealth and income creation 26, 27, 49, 54 ● Health 72 ● Social investment 73, 76, 77 ● 99 • Korea Korea Research Institute for Competitiveness, Economic Group Council, Network Security Forum, Green Investment Forum Korea, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea, World Futures Forum, Korea Association of Smart Home, The Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Lasbiburte Information & Telecom, Korea Association for Telecommunications Policies, Information Technology Forum for Unification, Korea Economic Education Association, The Korean Economic Association, Fair Competition Federation, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Digital Media Industry Association, Korean Association for Broadcasting & Telecommunication Studies, Korea Academic Society of Industrial Organization, Korea Listed Company Association, Korean Society of Consumer Studies, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korean Society for Journalism & Communication Studies, Korea Ubiquitous City Association, Korea Ubiquitous-Health Association, Korea Association of Natural Disaster Reduction Industries, Korea Radio Promotion Association, Korea Institute of Information Security & Cryptology, Federation of Korea Information Industries, Telecommunications Technology Association, Korea Association of Information and Telecommunication, Korea Advanced Intelligent Robot Association, National Intelligence Communication Enterprise Association, Korea Cloud Service Association, Korea Telecommunications Operators Association, Korea Information and Communication Society, Korea Association for Chief Financial Officers, Korea IT Leaders Forum, CONsortium of CERT (CONCERT), u-KOREA Forum • Overseas WFA(Wireless Fidelity Alliance), FMCA(Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance), OMA(Open Mobile Alliance), WiMAX Forum, VoiceXML Forum, DSL Forum, WBA(Wireless Broadband Alliance), TMF(Telecommunication Management Forum), APT(Asia Pacific Telecommunity), ITU(International Telecommunication Union) Category Indicator Unit 2008 2009 2010 Award Sponsor organization Award date KRW 100 Operating revenue 117,848 159,062 202,335 million Embedded mobile best prize Mobile World Congress Feb. 17, 2010 KRW 100 Net income 4,498 5,165 11,719 million Economy Advertisement of the year KRW 100 Korea Association of Advertising Agencies Mar. 31, 2010 Capital expenditure 31,503 29,587 30,572 (Internet category) million KRW 100 18th Good advertisement award Tax payment 2,692 1,991 5,718 chosen by consumers, Minister of Korea Advertisers Association Apr. 27, 2010 million Culture, Sports & Tourism award CVA (wired phone) points 1.03 1.00 1.04 Proportion of female Small & Medium Business Administration % 14.86 14.66 14.83 Presidential Award in the category employees Korea Federation of Small and Medium May 14, 2010 of SME support Business Proportion of the disabled % 2.6 2.9 2.4 Employee satisfaction index points 79 79 75 Grand Prize at the Korea Corporate Governance Service Jun. 30, 2010 KRW 100 2010 Corporate Governance Awards (KCGS) Welfare spending 4,826 5,092 3,038 million Society Accident rate % 0.16 0.19 0.22 DJSI World Dow Jones / SAM Sep. 10, 2010 Supplier satisfaction index points 80.2 75.2 77.4 Support for hearing-impaired persons 30 50 21 Audit Award Korea Listed Company Association Sep. 29, 2010 children Beneficiaries of IT Sharing persons 453,084 515,286 325,771 No. 1 in four categories (Broadband Volunteer hours hours 255,219 89,621 114,657 Internet, Internet call, city local call/ KRW 100 long-distance call, international call) KMAC Sep. 29, 2010 Social contribution spending 348 352 370 by Korea Customer Satisfaction Index million (KCSI) Power consumption Mwh 2,493,538 2,302,545 2,314,190 GHG emissions tonCO2 1,200,052 1,116,175 1,128,093 Carbon Management 2010 (Leader CDP Korea Oct. 21, 2010 in telecommunications industry) Water use ton 2,721,622 2,775,565 3,014,704 Environment Waste disposal ton 14,470 11,184 10,224 Labor-Management Culture Grand Ministry of Employment and Labor Nov. 2, 2010 KRW 100 Prize (Presidential Award) Green investment 488 1,137 6,512 million KRW 100 Family-Friendly Company Ministry of Gender Equality & Family Nov. 20, 2010 Green procurement 78 17 48 million 100 Reader Survey We welcome your valuable feedback. Your opinions will be incorporated to improve future editions of our sustainability report and to enhance our sustainability management effort. Fax: +82-2-730-0308 E-mail: csr@kt.com 1. Which of the following groups do you belong to? Shareholder and investment organization Customer Suppliers kt employee Civic group Government ministry and office Media Research institution / Academia NGO Others ( ) 2. For what purpose do you use this report? Company evaluation Benchmarking Education Information gathering 3. Which parts are you interested in (multiple answers are possible)? kt 2010 Highlight Special Issue Sustainability at kt Dream with Shareholders Dream with Customers Dream with Employees Dream with Suppliers Dream with Society Dream with Environment CSR activities of kt Group companies 4. Which part needs additional information? kt 2010 Highlight Special Issue Sustainability at kt Dream with Shareholders Dream with Customers Dream with Employees Dream with Suppliers Dream with Society Dream with Environment CSR activities of kt Group companies 5. Please specify your satisfaction level on each of the following: Highly disagree Disagree Neutral Agree Highly agree It provides sufficient useful information ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ It is easy to understand ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ It is trustworthy ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ Design is appealing ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ It enhances kt’s image ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ 6. Please give us your opinions on this report and make suggestions for improvement. Contact Information Additional information is available at kt’s homepage (www.kt.com). If you need more information on our sustainability management, please contact us at the following. Public Relations Office 100 Sejong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-777, Korea Homepage http://www.kt.com E-mail csr@kt.com Tel 82-2-730-0354 Fax 82-2-730-0308 Publisher Suk-Chae Lee Published by kt Date of publication July 2011 Planned by CSR Team Black 배경 This report was printed with bean oil on environmental-friendly paper.
