annual and corporate responsibility report 2011 Financial performance in 2011 Net sales Net sales by business group 2011 EUR million Itella's year was financially challenging, and profitability dec2 000 reased. However, Itella did well on the market, and net sales 1 500 slightly increased from the previous year. International business accounted for a third of all net sales. 1000 The Group’s operating profit before non-recurring items 500 amounted to EUR 30.5 million, but with non-recurring items, the operating profit for the whole year showed a loss of EUR 5.9 million. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 • Itella Mail Communications 58% The financial performance was burdened by non-recurring items, of • Itella Information 14% which EUR 27.0 million is related to personnel and the cost cutting • Finland • Other countries • Logistics 28% Itella program initiated by Itella in August 2011. Itella’s consolidated key figures Key events during the year 2011 2010 2009 • The deposit bank license obtained by Itella Bank Ltd. expands Itella's service range in online commerce, parcel services and Net sales, MEUR 1,900.1 1,841.6 1,819.7 Operating result (Non-IFRS), MEUR *) 30.5 49.6 86.3 other mail business, and in financial administration services. EBIT margin (Non-IFRS), % *) 1.6 2.7 4.7 • OpusCapita, acquired by Itella Information, expanded services Operating result (EBIT), MEUR -5.9 32.4 46.7 to cash flow automation. EBIT margin, % -0.3 1.8 2.6 • The parcel volumes started to increase. SmartPOST automatic Result before tax, MEUR -16.4 25.3 19.6 parcel terminals were introduced. Return on equity (12 months), % -4.5 1.4 -0.7 • The new Postal Act took effect on June 1, 2011. Return on investment (12 months), % -0.2 4.2 5.8 • Notable customer agreements: Sanoma News, Mekonomen, Equity ratio, % 46.1 50.5 48.5 Edda Media, and Electrolux. Gearing, % 22.1 18.4 19.7 Gross capital expenditure, MEUR 102.9 89.5 144.9 • The three-year cost cutting program of EUR 100 million was Personnel on average 28,493 28,916 30,217 launched. Dividends, MEUR 4.4 • Itella received the Environmental Achievement of the Year 2011 award. *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items Key figures of business groups Three business groups Itella Mail Communications provides daily postal services throug2011 2010 Muutos hout Finland via Itella Posti Oy. Multi-channel services and electroNet sales Itella Mail Communications 1,151.7 1,141.8 0.9% nic ways of doing business are our response to changing customer Itella Information 273.7 259.7 5.4% needs. For companies in Finland and Russia, we provide targeted Itella Logistics 731.6 677.3 8.0% marketing solutions with which they can reach their customers Other activities 55.8 55.0 1.4% with success. Intra-Group sales -312.7 -292.2 7.0% Itella Group 1,900.1 1,841.6 3.2% Itella Information provides financial processes as a service. We improve the profitability of all of financial administration. Our Operating result (Non-IFRS) *) solutions are based on productized, modular best practices. ItelItella Mail Communications 49.8 63.5 -21.5% la Information operates in 11 European countries. In the Nordic Itella Information 3.2 14.0 -77.0% Itella Logistics -6.4 -10.6 countries, we are the leading operator in the field. Other activities -16.1 -17.2 6.5% Itella Group 30.5 49.6 -38.5% Itella Logistics supports and develops the business of its customer companies by providing them with service logistics solutions Operating result for road, sea and air freight, warehousing and other contract logisItella Mail Communications 31.4 47.5 -33.9% tics. We provide logistics solutions in Northern Europe and Russia Itella Information -4.1 12.8 neg in eight countries. Through our partners, we offer logistics soluItella Logistics -15.7 -10.7 -46.4% tions throughout the world. Other activities -17.5 -17.2 -1.4% Itella Group -5.9 32.4 neg Operating result (Non-IFRS), % *) Corporate Responsibility Itella Mail Communications 4.3% 5.6% Itella Information 1.2% 5.4% Responsibility has been an integral part of Itella throughout the Itella Logistics -0.9% -1.6% history of the company. Itella's corporate responsibility is part of Itella Group 1.6% 2.7% our strategy and is based on shared values and a code of conduct for employees. Operating result, % Itella is committed to the UN Global Compact principles. CorpoItella Mail Communications 2.7% 4.2% rate responsibility is reported in accordance with GRI guidelines. Itella Information -1.5% 4.9% Itella Logistics -2.1% -1.6% Itella divides corporate responsibility into four sub-categories: Itella Group -0.3% 1.8% financial, social, people, and environmental. *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items Contents CEO’s review........................................................... 2 Strategy................................................................. 4 Solutions for information and product flow management................................ 6 Business groups................................................... 12 Mail Communications....................................... 16 Information....................................................... 18 Logistics........................................................... 21 Corporate responsibility........................................ 24 Financial responsibility..................................... 28 Social responsibility......................................... 30 People responsibility........................................ 33 Environmental responsibility............................. 35 Board of Directors................................................. 38 Supervisory Board................................................ 38 Management........................................................ 39 Financial Statements in Brief................................. 41 Corporate history.................................................. 55 Financial communication...................................... 57 Itella in Brief Responsibility Itella is an international service company specializBusiness groups ing in customers' important information and product flow management. We provide corporate customers with solutions they can use to make their business more effective and Service process improve their competitiveness. Our key mission in Finland is to provide premium mail services to all consumers and companies throughout the country. Itella Group provides services in 12 countries in Europe and Russia. Strategy Businesses and organizations generate 96 percent of its total net sales. Itella’s key customer industries Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 include the media as well as the trade and services industries. International business accounts for a third of all net sales. In 2011, Itella’s net sales totaled EUR 1,900 million, and the corporation employs approximately 27,500 professionals. Itella has a solid background: the State of Finland owns all shares of the company. Itella Corporation 1 CEO's Review The instability of the business environment continues The year 2011 will be recorded in history as a year of exceptional majority of customers are using electronic services to an increasinternational volatility. Even though turbulent financial times are ing degree, segments of the population still prefer to take care of by no means a novelty, the events and phenomena seen in the their errands in the traditional way. euro zone during the past year were quite unprecedented. Itella’s finances and business operations faced extremely conNet sales of Logistics increased in Finland and Russia flicting trends and pressures. While there was a substantial amount Volumes in our Logistics business group continued recovery to preof solid and healthy growth in the business, there were also signs financial crisis levels and, correspondingly, net sales developed of negative trends as we prepared ourselves for an increasingly favorably. This was particularly evident in Finland and Russia. In tough competitive environment. Financial performance was excepthis respect, the positive trends continued until the end of the tionally weak, weighed down significantly by non-recurring items year, without any significant impact attributable to market flucin all of our business operations. These were the result of a need tuations. Itella’s role as a consolidator between Finland and the to increase efficiency, related to future market development. In other Nordic countries and, on the other hand, of Russian logistics addition, they include measures that shed operations which have services, plays an important role in the company's strategy. failed to meet our expectations. A focus on the productive core of The greatest challenges for the Logistics business group involve all of our business operations will also be necessary in the coming the Swedish and Danish markets, where large-scale measures are years. The company’s solvency remains strong. still required. Not taking into account the related non-recurring items, profitability improved, but a lot remains to be done. The Magazine volumes decline, parcel volumes increase year saw us concluding a number of important deals, particularly The trend with the strongest impact on future operations in 2011 in Finland and Russia. This is a crucial signal for us, indicating that was the influence that electronic communications has had on print our range of services and strategy are on the right track. media’s delivery volumes. Although this trend in itself is hardly a surprise, the simultaneous drop in the volumes of both newspapers Ready for a new generation of financial management services and magazines was significant enough to attract attention. Despite Itella Information’s transformation into a supplier of diverse the fact that the parcel volumes grew splendidly and that total net and comprehensive financial management solutions continued. sales remained stable, profitability declined significantly. Important events related to business development and renewal Seemingly unavoidable trends prompted us to initiate large-scale included the acquisition of OpusCapita, a company specialized in efforts to increase efficiency. These efforts also entailed substantial the automation of cash flows. In terms of our international netreductions in the workforce and, consequentially, the non-recurring work, Poland’s role as a major center of service production grew. cost items that dragged profits down. It is reasonable to expect the Because Itella Bank was granted a deposit bank license during share of business related to online commerce and the transport of the past year, we can say that Itella now has a unique ability to small items to grow significantly in relation to letter deliveries. produce and develop a new generation of financial management An assessment of the effects of the Postal Services Act that services. took effect in June is still difficult since issues related to it, such as Itella Information’s net sales declined markedly due to the the funding of the universal service obligation, remain unresolved. business group’s restructuring and the related non-recurring items From the perspective of business operations, there is the threat as well as due to a rapid drop in the volumes of traditional busithat legislation and political deliberations will not be able to keep ness, which corresponded to the changes in the market. The brisk up with the pace of changes in customers’ behavior. In terms of growth of new business operations had a negative impact on the public discussion, we can expect a difficult phase since, while the results of Itella Information in 2011. Responsibility Responsible business operations, sound management culture Responsibility lies at the very core of our strategy. Itella’s mission is to produce services required by society by securing its customBusiness groups ers’ important information and product flows. Our responsibility lies in carrying out this task with as little environmental impact as possible, in a way that also supports the well-being of our personnel and good leadership. Now and in the future, climate change requires us to invest in the continuous improvement of the energy efficiency of our transService process port operations and properties and in the increasing utilization of renewable energy sources. Our goal is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020. Initiatives related to enhanced efficiency reduced our personnel by 740 people in Finland. Thanks to voluntary severance packStrategy ages, pension schemes, and organizational restructuring, we were able to reduce the number of layoffs to 460. The past year saw us focusing heavily on values and the leaderAnnual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ship. Judging by the improvements in the results of our personnel survey (in spite of a difficult year), this seems to have paid off. We will continue to emphasize leadership and management during the year ahead. Itella is a pioneer in measuring leadership. We have adopted a personal leadership index developed for the purposes of management. This index also functions as a basis for awarding bonuses. Already, this has resulted in leadership having claimed its place among issues considered important by the management and on the management’s daily agenda. Itella’s desire for profitable growth will continue to characterize its operations. Only a financially sound company can realize its responsibility towards society, its personnel, the environment, all stakeholder groups, and, in particular, its customers, with an eye to their needs. Itella Corporation Jukka Alho President and CEO 3 Our strategy Satisfied Customer Itella is the European benchmark in postal, logistics VisioN 2016 and financial administration process services. TARGET To grow profitably in Europe and in Russia COMPETETIVE Knowing Marketing, sales Marketing, sales Supply Marketing, sales Supply Invoicing and Supply Invoicing and Invoicing and Smart use of customer processes information technology chain chain financial chain financial financial Customer Customer management Customer management administration management administration administration relations relations relations STRATEGY Taking care of our customers’ information and product flows. Our business is based on sustainable development. MISSION Succeeding with Driving for ImproveTaking Winning VALUES the Customer ment and Innovation Responsibility Together Itella has summarized the essential components of its strategy in meet the identified needs of companies, organizations, and consuma strategy house. ers, we develop customer-focused solutions. All these solutions are The strategy is based on Itella's four values, which were updated based on the innovative exploitation of skills in information technolin 2011 in all of the company's countries of operation on the basis of ogy and programming. value discussions conducted among personnel. Our most crucial goal in the near future is to restore profitability Itella’s mission has remained largely unchanged throughout to a healthy level. Profitability is approached critically, from the its history. Itella wants to manage its customers’ information and ­perspective of geographical areas and business groups alike. product flows by producing basic services that are important for the In line with its vision, Itella aspires to be a leading European comwhole of society. While the ways of accomplishing the mission have pany in all of its core sectors. In some markets, Itella is already the changed over time, especially with digitization, the core mission has industry market leader; in other markets, Itella is the most innovative remained unchanged. reformer in the industry. We seek to differentiate ourselves from other operators in the The fundamental goal of everything that Itella does is satisfied field by acquiring a deeper knowledge of all of the central selected customers, who are confident to leave their information and product processes and needs of customer groups better than competitors. To flows in Itella’s care. Responsibility Putting the customer first Profitable growth is also a central goal of Itella’s long-term strategy. The customer comes first at Itella. Therefore, we base our strategy To achieve this goal, Itella will reinforce its competitive standing and and service offering on customer needs. re-position itself on the market as a producer of services with higher Business groups In the case of our corporate customers, we help companies added value. This allows us to offer our customers comprehensive Itella's strategy online: www.itella.com/strategy sell, deliver, invoice, and manage their financial affairs. Consumsolutions with a broader scope and increase their benefits. At the ers benefit when we assist them in buying, paying, completing same time, we will improve profitability by reducing operations with transactions, and receiving mail. low added value by disposing of some business operations. INFO The starting point of a customer-focused strategy is having Itella seeks growth in parcel services, made more popular a better understanding than your competitors of companies’ by online commerce, and the forwarding of digital information. Itella Bank Ltd's range of Service process services will be utilized by selected processes, and being able to provide your customers with Simultaneously, we aim to secure the profitability of the traditional all business groups in the future. precisely the solutions they need. ­postal business. Itella continues to develop a consolidated procedure for difA clarification of business strategies ferent business operations and countries of operation. There Throughout the 2000s, Itella has focused on the systematic are processes shared by the entire Group in HR and information Strategy improvement of the same Group-wide strategy. management as well as financial management. Business group strategies ensure Itella Group’s long-term success Corporate responsibility is also promoted with the help of in a changing market place. The fall of 2011 saw us update our strateconsolidated steering and goals. The four aspects that constitute Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 gies, particularly with regard to Logistics and Mail Communications. Itella’s corporate responsibility relate to finances, society, our perLogistics will continue to reinforce its strong market areas and invest sonnel, and the environment. Our strong brands, Itella and Posti, in growing customer segments. Mail Communications will improve underline the reliability and responsibility of Itella Group. profitability and continue to develop the multi-channel service. In line with its strategy, Information will continue to strengthen its The market leader in Finland and Russia comprehensive service range in the field of financial management. From a geographical point of view, Itella’s strongest market posiAll of these business group strategies support the overall tion is in Finland, where it executes its statutory duty of offering Group strategy, which aims to increase the Group’s synergy benuniversal postal services. To Itella Group, Finland represents a efits. Group synergies are the result of interconnected business dynamic and technologically advanced home market, providing the operations and shared customer accounts. Consolidated and Group with a sound basis for innovations in other countries, too. shared management systems and support functions also produce Russia is a rapidly developing market area that provides Itella significant benefits for the Group. with an excellent opportunity for long-term growth. Goal-oriented Group synergy is also created by Itella Bank Ltd. In the future, its operations have made Itella Logistics the market leader in Russia’s services will be employed in the offerings of all business groups. warehousing services sector. In mature markets, such as the Nordic countries and Germany, Itella Corporation Increasing efficiency in 2012 competition is tough in the sector of services offered by both In 2012, the implementation of the strategy will focus specifically Logistics and Information. Success in these markets requires on the continuous improvement of efficiency and cost-cutting precise specialization and targeted services that match customer measures, both of which will help Itella to adapt to the vast transineeds. tion taking place within the industry. Other important focal points Recent years have seen Itella expand its operations into Central in the near future include the production of increased customer Europe by acquiring existing companies and also establishing new 5 benefit, leadership development, and the increasingly efficient ones. Itella Information, for instance, has centralized financial manageutilization of information technology. ment in competence centers that operate from Latvia and Poland. Itella makes your business flow 7 Itella Corporation Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Strategy Service process Business groups Responsibility We provide solutions for information and product flow management At Itella, we focus on our customer's needs and their key business processes. We help companies every step of the way, providing solutions for selling and marketing, delivery and invoicing, and financial management. Marketing, sales Supply Invoicing chain and financial Customer management administration relations Customer B2B, B2C Our complete service chain, from sender to recipient, Itella's three business groups offer a uniquely extensive ensures customer satisfaction when they use business service selection. Our services cover all the main processes services and handle their mailing needs. that customers need for business success. Our customer-oriented mindset is based on extensive Itella helps companies reach all consumers in Finland, experience with our customers' business processes. This on every business day. Posti and its services play a pivotal means we at Itella are capable of offering tailored, comrole in the lives of consumers in Finland. Posti offers prehensive solutions for our customers' information and diverse service locations and several electronic channels product flow management. for doing business. Responsibility We help corporate customers find the right target Marketing, groups for their products and tailor effective messages Business groups sales Supply for those groups. Companies can choose physical and Invoicing and chain digital delivery options, or combine the two. We even financial Customer management administration help keep customer registers up to date. Our customer relations marketing solutions create additional sales in a costeffective way. Service process Efficient direction of marketing Mailing and message handling Precise targeting and effective Comprehensive services for a Strategy Berner, a Finnish conglomerate, for the entire country campaigns fast-paced product store Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 employs the Itella Media Bank, Itella and the private health care Kitchen and bathroom fixtures proItella provides a Finnish media where it stores and maintains all of service provider Terveystalo vider Kymen Keittiötukku Oy targets company MTV MEDIA with storage, its marketing materials concerning concluded a deal on comprehensive its direct mailing campaigns with warehouse management, and logisvarious brands. When all the matecommunications handling solutions the Itella aTarget service, designed tics for the official products of the rial is found in one place, projects that comprise pricing, pickup and for the efficient segmentation of Finnish national ice hockey team, can be carried out faster, even delivery services, address updating potential customers in any given Leijonat. Itella receives product among several partners. Feedback, service, iPost printouts, invoice area. As a registered user of the deliveries at its warehouse, picks editing, and other work on the scanning, and the transmission service, the customer can select the and packs the products ­according marketing material can be carried of e-invoices. Letters are picked desired target groups on the basis to orders, and delivers them to out quickly and efficiently. up daily from the 150 Terveystalo of selected criteria and the desired recipients with delivery times offices across the country and priced postal code. The service facilitates ranging from one to three days. Itella according to the service process. the planning of direct marketing also takes care of customer returns The constantly updated invoicing and improves cost-effectiveness. and handles returned products at its data and joint invoicing enhance Keittiöpiste carried out a successful warehouse. With Itella running the Itella Corporation and improve Terveystalo’s invoicing campaign and achieved the goals day-to-day processes of its online processes. set for the campaign. store, MTV MEDIA can focus on marketing the brand. 9 Marketing, Itella specializes in customer information and sales Supply product flows. All Invoicing our productsandand services utilize chain financial our modern supply chain, supported with advanced Customer management administration information technology. Our innovative solutions relations and services provide customers with added value and a competitive edge. Itella as an international wareFast and cost-effective Electrolux Finland assigns Itella’s fashion logistics house and transport partner refrigerated transports its logistics to Itella services via Finland to Russia Itella takes care of the warehousItella manages the country-wide Starting from April 2012, Itella will Itella is the logistics partner of ing of Rautakesko's goods in transportation of Ilmajoen provide Electrolux Finland with children’s clothing manufacturer Finland, the Baltic countries, Russia, Makkaramestarit’s meat products. A comprehensive logistics services Reima in Finland and Russia. Reima Sweden and Norway. The agreement shipment picked up in the afternoon that includes warehousing services, products manufactured in Asia are covering the entire operating area of is delivered in less than 24 hours domestic freight deliveries to retaildelivered via Finland to Russian ­Rautakesko provides well-defined, to any domestic location. An online ers and construction companies. retailers. Itella stocks the goods straightforward and effective service even allows the customer In addition, the agreement covers that arrive from Asia and processes logistics processes and responsito monitor the temperatures of all home deliveries and installation them further (when necessary) at bilities. The partnership covers the the food stuffs during transit. services for consumer deliveries. its fashion logistics unit. Examples warehousing, terminal functions The products are transported in a Electrolux appreciates Itella's of value-added services include and store transport of hardware vacuum-packed crate, the top part comprehensive service range, combining shipments, re-packing, and agricultural products. In 2013, of which is cooled with the help extensive national transport network product labeling, repair, and ironing. Rautakesko will centralize its Finnish of a gel element. Itella’s service and cost-effective total solution. If needed, Itella will take care of warehouse operations to Itella's new allows Ilmajoen Makkaramestarit to customs documents and transport to logistics center in Pennala. provide its customers with faster and Russia, as well as warehousing in the increasingly cost-effective services. country. The customer may also use Itella’s international transports and delivery services in Russia. Responsibility At Itella, we provide value for our customers by developing financial administration processes as Business groups Supply Invoicing and a service. At their most extensive, our services chain financial cover the company's entire accounting and payroll management administration ­administration. Large volumes, automatic processes, and the best practices in the sector ensure costeffective financial administration solutions. Service process HSB enhances its purchase and Toyota Rahoitus chooses Nokian Tyres outsources Itella and DNA partner up in the Strategy sales invoicing Alligator payroll and travel management transmission of invoices Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Itella Information undertook the Toyota Rahoitus (Financial Services) Nokian Tyres outsourced its entire In March, Itella Information concluded management of the purchase invoice bought Itella Alligator’s comprehenpayroll and travel management to an agreement on the processing processing and printing of outgoing sive service package that covers the Itella. The outsourcing modernized of sales invoices with cell phone materials of HSB, a Swedish building processing of purchase and sales the former system solutions and operator DNA. In line with the and loan association with 500,000 invoices, ledger management, paysimplified the processes of payroll agreement, Itella receives the invoice members. As a service provider roll accounting, and reporting. The and travel management. The outdata, prints, and envelopes paper specialized in electronic operations, consolidated invoicing environment sourcing has increased the amount invoices and formats electronic Itella has the capacity to offer improves process management and of accurate data and supervisors can invoices to suit different channels. HSB an efficient solution whose cost control, while the automated now access personnel files through A personalized service integrated to results have clearly surpassed the operations reduce lead times and a single, clear system. invoicing improves DNA’s customer customer’s expectations. accelerate cash flow. communications and increases sales. The solution also includes the archiving of invoices. DNA and Itella actively steer customers towards electronic Itella Corporation invoicing, a measure projected to yield 30 percent savings in costs. 11 Three strong business groups 13 Itella Corporation Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Strategy Service prosess Business groups Responsibility Itella business groups in brief Key figures for 2011 Services Countries of operation Itella Mail Net sales • Turnover • Letter, publication, and direct mail • Finland, Estonia, and Russia delivery solutions Communications EUR million 1,200 €1,151.7 million • Domestic and international parcel 1,000 • Operating result services (Non-IFRS*) • Posti shops, postal agency shops, 800 €49.8 million pickup outlets, and SmartPOST 600 • Operating result automatic parcel terminals 400 €31.4 million • Comprehensive solutions for online • Number of staff: commerce 200 17,883 (31 December) • Electronic postal services, NetPosti 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Online tools for marketing communication • Analysis, target group, and register correction services Itella Net sales • Turnover • Global road, air, and sea freight • Finland, Sweden, Logistics EUR million 1,000 €731.6 million • Operating result • • Domestic freight Warehousing services Norway, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, 800 (Non-IFRS*) • Logistics information systems Lithuania, and Russia €–6.4 million • Global road transport 600 and sea and air freight • Operating result 400 €–15.7 million services provided with • Number of staff: 7,088 partners worldwide 200 (31 December) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Itella Net sales • Turnover • Outbound services • Denmark, Estonia, Information EUR million 300 €273.7 million • Operating result • • E-invoice operator Finance and accounting services Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, 250 (Non-IFRS*) • Outsourcing Norway, Poland, 200 €3.2 million • OpusCapita Cash Flow Automation Romania, Slovakia, • Operating result • Electronic order-supply chain and Sweden 150 €–4.1 million • Presence almost 100 • Number of staff: 2,259 everywhere in Europe 50 (31 December) and North America through the partner0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ship network 14 * Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items Responsibility Vision and mission Year 2011 Vision 01/11 Itella centralized its domestic postal services into 02/11 Itella completed the transition to the entirely Business groups The market’s leading multi-channel a new subsidiary, Itella Posti Oy. The structural carbon-neutral delivery of letters, publications, forwarder of goods and information, as change aims to streamline Group management parcels, and direct advertisements. Delivery required by the customer’s recipients and increase the transparency of operations in emissions are offset by participation in climate terms of the Group’s owner and stakeholders. projects that favor renewable energy sources. Mission 01/11 Jukka Rosenberg, M.Sc. (Econ.), was appointed 10/11 Itella Posti deployed 35 new SmartPOST The multi-channel distribution of Head of Mail Communications. automatic parcel terminals. The network, which Service prosess ­society’s goods and information 02/11 The speed with which 2nd class letters are is comprised in total of 50 terminals, covers delivered was increased and sending restrictions nearly all of Finland’s major cities. were lifted. The new practice provides consum12/11 The popularity of online shopping was evident ers and small and medium-sized companies with in the number of Christmas parcels, which grew an easy and inexpensive way to send letters. in volume by 15 percent in comparison to year 2010. Strategy Vision 03/11 Lauri Vesalainen was appointed Head of Itella 10/11 The foundation stone of Itella’s new logistics ­center Regional top performer in service Logistics. in Pennala was laid. The 77,000-square meter Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 logistics 09/11 Itella Logistics and Mainfreight USA agreed on energy-efficient logistics center, set for completion cooperation that reinforces Itella’s standing as in 2013, will house, among other things, domestic Mission a road, sea, and air freight service provider that warehousing operations for Rautakesko . We offer logistics to create customer, also offers customs declaration and forwarding 10/11 VR Group and Itella studied the cooperation and personnel and shareholder value services in the United States. synergy benefits of their transport businesses in 09/11 Itella Logistics centralized its Asian operations Finland’s groupage sector and Russian operations. in eight countries to a new partner, On Time 12/11 Itella Logistics received its first environmental Express (OTEL). The cooperation expands certification in Russia. The business group’s Itella’s transport networks in Asia and increases quality and environmental certificates cover more transport volumes and capacity. than 30 offices in seven countries. 03/11 Itella and cell phone operator DNA concluded an 06/11 Itella acquired the service center of the NorweVision agreement on the processing, transmission, and gian media corporation Edda Media Company #1 value provider in financial archiving of sales invoices and the promotion of and began to manage the corporation’s payroll, processes in Europe electronic invoicing. bookkeeping, and invoice administration. 07/11 Mekonomen – the leading spare-parts chain Itella Corporation Mission 04/11 Itella strengthened its standing as a European financial and payroll administration partner in Sweden – outsourced its entire financial Optimization of financial by acquiring the German business NewSource management to Itella. transactional processes GmbH. 09/11 OpusCapita provided its customers with direct 06/11 Itella’s acquisition of OpusCapita allowed it to links to Central European banks through the solidify its competence in financial management Electronic Banking Internet Communication and the automation of cash flows. Standard (EBICS). 15 Mail Communications offered to consumers are marketed under the Posti brand. Towards multi-channel services For businesses, Itella develops new solutions for successful customer outreach through addressed and unaddressed deliveries. Mail Communication Mail Communications’ multi-channel services – physical services online: www.itella.com/ and outlets, electronic services, or a combination of the two Increased growth in electronic service mailcommunication (sometimes referred to as hybrid services) – are Itella’s response The most fundamental change seen in Mail Communications’ busito the changing needs of the information society and today’s cusness environment is the decline of traditional communications that INFO tomers. All of the services mentioned are produced by Itella Posti rely on paper and the robust increase of electronic communications. Oy and are available to both consumer and business customers. In 2011, the fall in delivery volumes attributable to electronic subFor businesses, Itella Itella Posti Oy is responsible for providing the services. stitution was evident in nearly all of Mail Communications’ delivery develops new solutions for successful customer Itella Mail Communications’ most important mission is to products – letters, direct advertisements, and magazines. outreach through addressed and unaddressed provide postal services for all Finns. In fact, Itella is the only operaParcel volumes have been been the only exception to the deliveries. tor in the country capable of offering five-day delivery services to trend of declining volumes, and increased online commerce is the every address in Finland. Our services also include a network of primary reason behind the growing volumes of parcel deliveries. Posti outlets that covers the entire country, as well as electronic In 2011, the volume of delivered parcels grew by 7 percent in services, including the electronic mailbox NetPosti. Services comparison to the previous year. Deliveries in total Addressed letters Subscription magazines Unaddressed direct marketing and newspapers in millions in millions in millions in millions 3,500 1,500 600 1,000 3,000 500 1,200 800 2,500 400 2,000 900 600 300 1,500 600 400 200 1,000 300 100 200 500 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Newspapers • Magazines Parcels and transport units NetPosti’s electronic letters Consumers registered in NetPosti in millions in millions 1,000 30 10 500 25 8 400 20 6 300 15 4 200 10 5 2 100 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Responsibility The vast majority of postal shipments is carried from business Itella’s customers also include small domestic enterprises, which enterprises to consumers are also offered products and services to serve their needs. INFO Mail Communications’ goal is to increase the ability of recipients The goal of Itella Mail Communications is to make the purchasBusiness groups of mail to influence the kind of content and the format of content ing of its services as easy as possible. From the customers’ per96% mail shipments are sent by companies. they receive, as well as where and when they want to receive it. The spective, products are developed so that they form simply-priced 90% of mail shipment goal is to produce and provide services of such quality and added and clear offerings. At the same time, we pay close attention to recipients are consumers. value that the recipient of any letter, electronic message, or parcel factors such as cost-effectiveness. insists that the sender employs Itella’s services. The vast majority of postal shipments is carried from business Electronic services for consumers and businesses Service prosess enterprises to consumers. As much as 96 percent of outbound Itella’s electronic NetPosti service had 370,000 users by the end of dispatches are sent by companies. In contrast, 90 percent of 2011. Established in 2001, NetPosti’s popularity has grown in step recipients of postal shipments are consumers. with the growth of electronic transactions among consumers. Our goal Major customers who send shipments using Mail Commuis to make NetPosti the nation’s preferred electronic postal service. nications’ services include media houses, telecommunications Itella also helps smaller companies to complete the transition Strategy operators, operators in the banking and insurance sectors as well to the world of e-business. Companies seeking to launch or expand as public administration. In addition to its major key customers, into online commerce are offered the SmartShop service – available since June – which allows customers to outsource their online Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 store’s entire order and supply chain to Itella. Consumers as senders and receivers of addressed letters In March, Itella opened up a version of NetPosti tailored specifically for companies and organizations. NetPosti helps companies percentage of letters 100 • As recipients to overcome, for example, the challenges of digitization and also • As senders provides them with a convenient channel for sending e-invoices. 80 In April, Posti established a Facebook service accessible to all 60 customers with questions and comments. 40 In January, the NetPosti service became available for iPhones 20 and Android phones, as well as for tablet devices. Smart phones and 0 other mobile devices have made it possible for customers to take care 1991 1995 2000 2005 2011 of their business and run errands, regardless of time or place. Development of addressed letter volume in Europe The recipient chooses the channel Itella Mail Communications’ business takes advantage of the Index ”2005” = 100 constantly expanding potential of parcel and online business. The Itella Corporation 105 • Finland 100 • countries Nordic Suomi Parcel Services reform clarified our product range and facilitated Pohjoismaat 95 • EuropeEurooppathe sending and reception of parcels. The SmartPOST automated parcel terminals – designed for the 90 purposes of online commerce – allow customers to pick up and 85 send parcels according to the self-service principle. Fifty terminals 80 75 were deployed in 2011, and the network of terminals now covers 17 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 all of Finland’s major cities. From now on, the multi-channel approach provides customers with Itella Information the opportunity to decide for themselves where they wish to receive parcels. This means that parcel delivery is no longer determined by The best value provider of Get to know the SmartPOST automatic parcel terminal: the customer’s home address postal code. Parcels can now be deliv­financial processes in Europe www.posti.fi/ ered to a shopping mall or a service outlet close to, for instance, the Itella Information is the leading Nordic operator in products and aboutsmartpost customer’s workplace, if this is the more convenient option. services related to financial transactions and processes. Its service The multi-channel service was made possible by advanced offering covers the entire spectrum of financial management: from information technology and a new network of sorting machines INFO which, in the future, will allow recipients themselves to direct all purchase orders to payment, from sales orders to the control of incoming cash flow, and, at its full extent, accounting and payroll their mail to any address they choose, whether that is their home or NetPosti services are also services in addition to the automation of cash flows. available for smart phones summer cottage. In the future, customers can also choose whether and tablets. As a supplier of financial management processes, Itella Inforthey prefer to receive their mail in electronic format or on paper. mation’s advantages include solid European, local know-how, and the most modern technology on the market. Many of Itella Customers can pick up parcels from and send parcels via SmartPOST automatic parcel terminals according to the self-service principle. Information’s customers operate on the global markets and need global solutions combined with local know-how. Information’s skills involve the industrialization of financial processes. It is capable of both identifying and conceptualizing solutions based on customer needs. Its objective is to engage in the proactive development of services that support companies and CFOs operating in Europe in all issues related to financial management. Benefits to be obtained through high volumes, automated processes, and the industry’s best practices guarantee that Itella Information attends to its customers’ financial processes efficiently and flexibly. The outsourcing of financial management is on the rise Outsourcing the processes of financial and payroll management is a clearly growing trend in Europe, and one that allows comparison to the outsourcing of companies’ IT operations in the 1990s. Outsourced financial management automates processes, increases cash flow, and improves cost-effectiveness. At the moment, the outsourcing market for financial management in Europe is growing at an annual rate of 40 percent, and companies in the business are struggling to keep up with demand. The biggest growth opportunities lie in the markets of Central Europe and Germany. Responsibility Price competition in the shrinking market for information logisaddition to these new units, in the future, each country will have a tics based on traditional printed and scanned documents is tough, country manager and customer unit responsible for the business and the market in nearly all European countries is saturated. areas, marketing, sales, and customer service as well as the satisBusiness groups faction of various customer segments. More about Itella Information: Growth through active sales In April, Itella Information reorganized the processing services www.itella.com/ information The primary goal of Itella Information is to grow both organically as of purchase and sales invoices. Digitization production entered well as through acquisitions. In selected business areas, the business the era of networked operations with the objective of forming a group invests in active sales and the acquisition of new customers. functional and efficient whole out of the competence centers INFO Service prosess Itella Information wants to locate and identify customer needs located in different countries. Increasingly, digitization is carried Itella Information utilizes involving financial management and answer such needs with soluout in Estonia and Poland alongside Finland. its European organization in providing services. tions that produce clearly measurable added value for the customer. The goal is to produce new service and product concepts for customItella Alligator for comprehensive outsourcing ers and to substantially increase the level of automation in services. Itella Alligator is a comprehensive outsourcing solution that Strategy With regard to improving profitability, Information draws upon covers all transactions in the financial process: the processing of the resources of its European organization and locates the most purchase and sales invoices, general ledger accounting, payroll competent resources in all countries for each requirement. In accounting, bookkeeping, and reports. In Finland, approximately Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 certain tasks, the intelligent exploitation of offshore services, for 300 organizations have outsourced their financial management instance, clearly improves profitability and cost-effectiveness. operations to Itella. The development of financial management as a comprehensive Clear responsibilities, networked practices entity at Itella allows customers to maximize the benefits of outIn 2011, Itella Information streamlined its organizational structure sourcing. As the invoicing environment consolidates, the manageand defined its area of responsibility. Operations are now divided ability and cost control of the process improves. Lead times are into four well-defined business units: Finance & Accounting, reduced and cash flows accelerated as operations are automated E-Services, Outbound Services, and Cash Flow Automation. In and digitized. Sales invoices Purchase invoices Alligator transactions (outbound documents) (inbound documents) in millions in millions in millions 1,000 2,500 50 25 10 5 500 Itella Corporation 2,000 40 20 8 4 400 1,500 30 15 6 3 300 1,000 20 10 4 2 200 500 10 5 2 1 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 19 • Physical • Electronic • Physical • Electronic • Accounts receivable • Accounts payable • Payroll Alligator has enabled Itella Information to reduce the total The majority of Finnish companies have already implemented costs of customers’ invoicing processes by as much as 30 percent SEPA, whereas elsewhere in Europe, transition is only in its preor even 50 percent. paratory stages. OpusCapita is a European pioneer in SEPA affairs. Get to know the services of The potential market is large because the SEPA zone includes OpusCapita: www.opuscapita.com/ Thorough expertise in financial management 32 countries. solutions Itella Information’s strategic decision is to expand its operations from information logistics based on printing and scanning to its Major new outsourcing agreements in Europe INFO customers’ overall financial and payroll management. Through the In 2011, Itella Information concluded a number of major outsourcprocessing of purchase and sales invoices, competence has been ing agreements concerning financial management in the Nordic Through the ­NewSource GmbH diversified to cover other aspects of financial management. countries and Germany. The new customers gave Itella’s reputatransaction, Itella became a leading financial Whether dealing with document or cash flows or the compretion as an innovative industry operator a significant boost. administration service provider in Germany. hensive outsourcing of financial management, Itella wants to In Sweden, Itella Information began to manage the financial manage its customers’ financial processes as a whole. department of the spare-parts chain Mekonomen in July – a move With its range of services, Information strives to solve the probthat greatly improves Itella's standing as a partner in financial lems of the CFOs of large and medium-sized European companies. processes. Mekonomen is the leading Swedish spare-parts wholeIt builds functional overall solutions on the basis of a customer’s saler in terms of the Nordic countries. The outsourcing allows financial transactions and core processes. Mekonomen to increase the efficiency of its financial management and give future growth its undivided attention. OpusCapita masters the automation of cash flows In Norway, Itella strengthened its standing as a supplier of Itella’s business operations experienced a major expansion in July financial processes with a full range of services when it acquired 2011 when the Finnish OpusCapita Group Oy was incorporated the service center (SSM) of the media corporation Edda Media into Itella Information. With this corporate acquisition, Itella has Company in Tønsberg in June. The service center is responsible expanded its service offering to include cash flow automation. for the payrolls, bookkeeping, and invoice management of several OpusCapita’s core competence lies in centralized liquidity different media houses, in addition to which it offers its services to management systems as well as in financing and electronic invoice other individual customers. The transaction provides Edda Media processing solutions. The company invests in product developwith cheaper and more efficient financial management services. ment and develops the most user-friendly financial programs in In Germany, Itella Information supplemented its services by the world. acquiring the financial management operator NewSource GmbH OpusCapita's clientele includes more than half of Finland's TOP in April. The transaction provided Itella with major new customers 200 companies as well as almost 2,000 companies and organizawhile it became one of the leading service providers in financial tions in the Nordic countries. management. The German market for outsourced financial and payroll management is in its infancy and growing at a robust rate. SEPA opens up business opportunities In the future, Itella Information wants to increase investment in The introduction of the Single European Payments Area (SEPA) the countries where it already holds a good market position. Counprovides Itella Information with a good opportunity to acquire tries central to the business operations of Itella Information include more customers in Europe. Nordic countries, Germany, Poland, and the Baltic countries. Responsibility Itella Logistics The increasing importance of delivery speed Service logistics Faster delivery speed is a trend that concerns all product groups in the field of logistics. In the consumer business, the flow of logistics on a large scale Business groups – for instance in relation to various campaigns – is dictated by the More information about Itella Logistics: Itella service logistics covers warehousing, international freight, end customers. Online commerce has also increased the demand www.itella.com/logistics customs clearance and forwarding, domestic transport, and logisfor speedy delivery in the logistics supply chains. tics data systems. Our customers can choose to outsource either The outsourcing of warehousing services is a continuing develINFO an individual element of their logistics process or their entire opment trend. Customers wish to focus on their core business and Service prosess supply chain to us. invest their capital in the development of their business operations Online commerce has increased the demand The Logistics business group offers logistics solutions in Northinstead of warehousing facilities. Outsourced warehousing operafor speedy delivery in the logistics supply chains. ern Europe and Russia. We have operations in eight countries. Glotions often include value-added services such as pre-packaging bal logistics services are provided through our network of partners. and localization of products. Logistics solutions designed for Itella Logistics can supply its customers with comprehensive specific customer sectors are on the increase. Strategy management of their logistics chains, from the other side of the IT solutions are an increasingly crucial element integrated in the globe right to the doorsteps of their end customers. Itella develops comprehensive logistics and supply chain management offered to cusinnovative solutions that create added value and competitive tomers. From the perspective of a logistics partner, this demands an Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 advantages for customers. Itella Logistics aims to be a fast, flexability to integrate the partner’s systems and customers’ ERP systems. ible, reliable, and solution-focused partner. Environmental impact assessment is an important aspect of modern logistics. Customers with their own certified quality and environmental systems are particularly committed to cooperation Itella provides global freight and forwarding services through an extensive network of representatives. with operators which take such aspects into account. Profitable growth in cooperation with customers Itella Logistics seeks growth and opportunities for business expansion in cooperation with its key customers. Customer accounts are developed with new cost-effective services with capacity to generate added value. Geographically speaking, the markets offering the best growth opportunities are in Finland and Russia. Efforts aiming to increase business profitability are particularly vigorous in Sweden and Itella Corporation Denmark. Itella Logistics wishes to understand its customers’ service needs and to provide them with clearly measurable costeffectiveness and added value. The service logistics is based on Itella Logistics’ professionals an in-depth understanding of the customers’ supply chains – a familiarity that allows it to identify 21 and pinpoint opportunities for development. Itella Logistics serves companies, ranging from small local products sometimes require thousands of units of goods to be INFO operators to major international groups, for which Northern Europe deployed into delivery channels very rapidly. or Russia represent merely one market among others. To improve quality and cut unnecessary costs, Itella Logistics The service network of Itella Logistics’ expertise in customer industries is particularly has adopted the Lean model, which it has piloted in the service Itella Logistics covers all of Russia. strong in the sectors of electronics, fast moving consumer goods, warehouse of Pennala, Orimattila. The Lean model will initially be Mainfreight USA is Itella and fashion. In the future, Itella intends to reinforce its standing applied to Itella’s own operations, but will later become available Logistics' trusted partner in the United States, and reputation as a logistics expert especially in these sectors. The in services offered to customers. The model provides customers Australia, China, and New Zealand. demand for sector-specific solutions among customers is clear. with clearly measurable added value. Outsourcing potential in logistics The market leader in Russia The logistics market holds potential for increasing the amount of Itella Logistics’ home market comprises Northern Europe and outsourcing. Itella Logistics aims to distinguish itself from comRussia. We are very familiar with the local conditions and have the petitors by understanding its customers’ needs and demands and resources to locate solutions for the needs of any given customer. by its fast and flexible responses to those needs and demands. Itella Logistics’ market position is strongest in Finland and Russia. Logistics management requires an effective ERP system that For customers seeking to tap the growth potential in the Rushandles the coordination of orders, stock status, and transports sian market, Itella Logistics’ knowledge of the Russian market and produces up-to-date data on product flows. represents a great asset. Indeed, for many a company, Itella plays Itella Logistics’ near-term plans include the harmonization of the part of an important and trusted partner when entering the its IT systems. Both transportation and warehousing operations Russian market. When we manage the logistics, our customers can will be provided with a single system that increases the synergy concentrate on business. and efficiency of operations. Itella optimizes customers’ logistics In Russia Itella has service warehouses in St. Petersburg, Moscow, and stock rotation and integrates its own information technology Rostov-on-Don, Samara, Yekateringburg, Novosibirsk, and Vladivoswith customer ERP systems. tok. Our service warehouse cities have connections to 160 other Itella Logistics adapts to a customer’s scheduled order process, Russian cities. We also have an extensive partnership network for the whilst ensuring its capacity to respond to sudden peaks in loads purposes of road and rail transport as well as air freight in Russia. in accordance with agreements. Campaigns involving consumer Itella’s state-ownership is appreciated in Russia, where it is considered a factor that promotes continuity and stability. Companies in the logistics industry are sensitive to economic fluctuations and Service warehouse capacity International freight the sector has seen its fair share of bankruptcies and large-scale 1,000 square meters 1,000 items restructurings. As a state-owned company, we operate according to 1,000 1,000 long-term objectives and have the resources to withstand depres800 800 sions and slumps – a fact held in great regard in Russia. 600 600 400 400 The best partners for global service Outside the homeland market, Itella Logistics has allied itself with 200 200 the best possible partners, professional operators with excellent 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 knowledge of their respective market areas. Through its network of Responsibility partners – upgraded in 2011 – Itella Logistics has the capacity to offer cost-effective logistical solutions around the world. In October, Itella centralized its sea and air freight services Business groups in Asia to On Time Express, which possesses solid knowledge Read more about warehousing services: of Asian markets. The cooperation expands the area’s transport www.itella.com/logistics networks, increases transport frequency, and improves capacity to a substantial degree. INFO Logistics services in the United States were reinforced with a Service prosess cooperation deal made with Mainfreight USA in September. MainItella Logistics has environmental certificate freight USA gives Itella Logistics the possibility to provide land, in more than 30 locations already. sea, and air freight services as well as customs clearance and forwarding services in the United States. In addition to a delivery network that spans the entire United States, the company has a Strategy strong foothold in Australia, China, and New Zealand. Warehouse floor area nearly one million square meters Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Itella Logistics has 45 service warehouses in eight countries. The combined floor area of these warehouses amounts to 950,000 square meters. The warehouses hold 1,400,000 pallet places. New warehousing space is also under construction. In April, Itella Logistics and Rautakesko concluded an agreement on centralizing Rautakesko’s domestic warehousing in Pennala, Orimattila, the site for a forthcoming 77,000-square meter energy-efficient logistics center. Following a further expansion, the warehouse space in Pennala will exceed 100,000 square meters. The construction of the logistics center began in May 2011, and it will be fully operational in the summer of 2013. Itella has 45 service warehouses in eight countries. Itella Logistics is the market leader in service warehousing in Finland and Russia. Certification in progress Quality and environmental systems form an essential part of Itella Itella Corporation Logistics’ operations. The business group’s quality and environmental certificates (ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) already cover more than 30 offices. Customers in Russia are increasingly interested in the environmental responsibility policies of their logistics partners. In 2011, Itella Logistics obtained its first environmental certification in the 23 Moscow area. Responsible way to operate 25 Itella Corporation Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Strategy Service process Business groups Responsibility Corporate Responsibility We are a reliable and open bearer of responsibility Itella’s principal mission is to produce services required by society by securing its customers’ important information and product flows. Responsibility has been the cornerstone of Itella Group’s activities throughout our long history. We divide our corporate responsibility into four areas. Social responsibility Financial responsibility Itella's well-functioning, effective Itella wants to grow profitably because infrastructure provides all customer only a financially sound company groups with reliable services and can realize its responsibility towards enables the implementation of social society, its personnel and the responsibility. environment and all the stakeholders. People responsibility Environmental responsibility Itella wants to be the best employer in Itella helps its customers and society its sector and to follow shared values at large to reduce environmental in all of its operations. loads. Itella is world’s first carbon neutral mail service provider. Responsibility Business groups Reporting based on GRI guidelines Part of everyday management Itella’s annual corporate responsibility reports are available on its Itella manages corporate responsibility affairs as part of its normal website and in its Corporate Responsibility Report. In accordance management and leadership activities, based on the Group’s with the financial period, the reporting period extends from Janucommon values. ary 1 to December 31, 2011. On the Group’s Management Board, corporate responsibility Reporting is based on the GRI guidelines (Global Reporting matters are the responsibility of Itella's director in charge of comService process Initiative), designed for the purposes of the corporate responsimunications and corporate responsibility. Activities are steered bility reports of companies and organizations. According to its and coordinated by the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, own assessment, Itella has applied the GRI reporting guidelines which has representatives from all business groups and Group according to B Application Level. The application level has been functions central to the issue. audited by a third party, PwC. Strategy The reporting focuses on aspects essential from the perspecItella’s corporate responsibility in 2011 tive of stakeholder expectations and the business impact. The 02/11 All letters, publications, parcels, and direct advertisements essential aspects subject to reporting were determined on the delivered by Posti became carbon neutral, the first deliveries in Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 basis of an extensive stakeholder survey conducted in 2010 and the world to accomplish this. The feature will be included in all were considered as having remained unchanged in 2011. products automatically without any extra charges for customers. The intended scope of corporate responsibility reporting covers 03/11 Itella Information investigated: The carbon footprint of the entire Group. The reporting of the various sub-categories of e-invoices is now ten times smaller than that of printed ones. responsibility in the Group progresses at different paces. Envi03/11 The NetPosti service achieved zero-level emissions. The 3-gram ronmental reporting has advanced farthest, having covered all carbon footprint is offset with participation in climate projects. countries of operation since 2009. 03/11 The global climate event Earth Hour switched off lights at In respect of social responsibility, Finland’s role is underscored Itella’s headquarters and other premises. due to the provision of universal postal services. 08/11 Itella concluded an agreement on the delivery of work and protective clothing with the Finnish Image Wear Oy. The agreePrinciples and Code of Conduct ment emphasized the ethical manufacturing of clothes. Itella defined the fundamental principles of its responsibility 08/11 The three-year cost-cutting program was launched. activities in the Corporate Responsibility Principles adopted in June 09/11 Itella was recognized for its environmental work at the Post2011. In 2011, Itella also updated the Employee Code of Conduct. Expo fair held in Stuttgart, Germany. In June 2011, Itella signed the UN’s Global Compact initiative, 10/11 The foundation stone of the logistics center under construction Itella Corporation with which it reinforces its commitment to sustainable business in Pennala, Orimattila was laid. The building’s environmentally practices and commits to the initiative’s basic principles concernfriendly hybrid heating system uses both geothermal energy ing workforce, the environment, the prevention of corruption, and and natural gas. Itella's responsibility human rights. The UN’s Global Compact is the most extensive glo10/11 Itella’s natural gas vehicles switched to a domestic brand of matters online: www.itella.com/ bal initiative related to the corporate responsibility of corporations, renewable biogas, free of particulate emissions and the most sustainability with more than 8,500 corporate members from 135 countries. eco-friendly ground transport fuel on the market. Check out our Itella also requires the Group’s partners to comply with equiva10/11 The trial involving electronic mail delivery achieved good GRI Content Index: www.itella.com/ 27 lent, ethically sustainable principles. results in the village of Anttila, Porvoo. sustainability Financial responsibility In recent years, Itella has continuously improved its efficiency to Services on a sustainable basis prepare for a decline in delivery volumes and tighter competition. As the changes accelerated, the adjustment measures continued Get to know Itella's Itella bears financial responsibility by renewing its business and via the cost-cutting program. The goal of the program, launched in disclosure policy: www.itella.com/financials reinforcing its profitability in compliance with its strategy. A finanAugust, is to cut costs by over EUR 100 million over the next three cially sound company can realize its responsibility towards society, years. its personnel and the environment and all the stakeholders. The objective of the cost-cutting program is to review all of the INFO Itella proactively makes long-term financial plans, anticipating Group’s business and support functions in order to secure continchanges in the market, customer needs and risks in Finland and ued financial stability. These measures include re-organization of In its procurement, Itella optimizes the costinternationally. Managing the major transition in the postal busioperations and giving up of some business functions. Productivity efficiency and functionality of the supply chain. ness creates challenges for future development. is improved in a variety of ways, and investments are reviewed In 2011, the European financial outlook involved major uncercritically. tainty, which was also reflected in Itella’s business. The threat of a new downturn started to cast a shadow on the Finnish national economy. Research and product development Itella Group develops innovative, effective solutions for physical A market-based state-owned company and digital services. In 2011, Itella spent about EUR 14 million on Itella is a market-based state-owned company whose operations research and product development. are fully funded by revenues derived from customers. About half of The research themes focused on the profitability of postal the operations are related to postal services, while the other half operations and the analysis of factors that influence it. Many studcomprises service logistics and financial process management for ies focused on how consumer behaviour relates to the digitization companies. The share of services related to the universal service of traditional postal services. obligation in Itella Mail Communication’s net sales is 10.9 percent. In addition to research, Itella also conducts development work The share of corporate customers in net sales is about 96 that supports the business functions and is related to products, percent. Key customer industries include the media, trade and serservices, processes, and infrastructure. Examples of development vices. International business accounts for a third of all net sales. project themes were new payment solutions, automatic parcel terminals, NetPosti, the transport ordering system, and financial Changes in the sector bring challenges administration service concepts. Traditional postal services have had to relinquish their role as a means of communication for Finns, due to the breakthrough of A significant service purchaser electronic communication channels. The major transition in the Itella is a major service purchaser in Finland at both the nationpostal sector creates challenges for the profitability of Itella. wide and local level. In its procurement, Itella’s goal is to optimize The Postal Act, amended in the beginning of June, will result in the cost-efficiency and functionality of the supply chain. Aspects more intense competition in the sector and is likely to make the related to sustainable development are also important procuremarket-based funding of mail delivery in sparsely populated areas ment criteria. Itella’s goal for all procurement is open competitive more difficult in the future. Postal services are currently provided tendering and the fair treatment of suppliers. fully without tax money in Finland, only using income obtained Most procurement is related to service purchases in delivery from customers. and transport operations. Line hauls are purchased from large Responsibility Financially significant subcontracting and outsourcing Itella has a large number of staff, and it procures a large quantity (EUR million) in 2011 of tools, work clothing and protective clothing as well as services INFO EUR million related to workplace meals and occupational healthcare. Business groups Business risks are disTransports 308 cussed more extensively IT procurement 80 Comprehensive risk management in the Board of Directors' Report on page 45. Itella Group abides by comprehensive risk management. Risks are Warehouses 72 All transport subcontractmapped comprehensively during the strategy process once a year. ing in Finland is included in Itella's environmental In 2011, the focus lay particularly on improving the quality and accounting. Service process entrepreneurs, and regional transports are also purchased from extent of the risk management process. small regional entrepreneurs. Itella has about 4,700 vehicles for The most important strategic risks involve the markets, the which fuel as well as maintenance and repair services are probusiness environment, business operations' sufficient developcured. All transport subcontracting in Finland is subject to Itella's ment and regulation. Operative risks are mainly related to business environmental accounting. productivity, integration capabilities or other disruptions. Strategy Being a major property owner, Itella requires different real estate services throughout Finland, such as maintenance, repair, Principles of financial communication waste management, safety and cleaning services which are also Itella Group’s financial reporting complies with the International Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 procured from local small-scale service suppliers. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Disclosure Policy describes IT application and IT infrastructure development, and maintehow Itella meets its duty of disclosure concerning financial reporting. nance of computer centers are mainly carried out in cooperation Administrative transparency is ensured by a Corporate Governance with partners. code for Finnish listed companies, which Itella abides by. Financial impact in accordance with the income statement EUR million 2011 2010 TO PERSONNEL Salaries and fees 731.8 706.3 Social security expenses 70.6 65.0 Pension expenses 108.3 106.5 TO SUPPLIERS EUR million 2011 2010 Materials and services 549.2 504.9 Itella Corporation Other operating expenses 364.7 349.8 FROM CUSTOMERS Net sales: 1,900.1 1,841.6 TO PUBLIC SECTOR Income tax on profit for the period 12.2 18.3 TO FINANCIAL SECTOR Interest expenses 16.3 14.3 TO OWNER 29 Dividends for profit for the period 0.0 4.4 Sponsorship deals indicate the set of values Social responsibility INFO Itella has selected sponsorships that are suitable for the Itella set Postal services of values. Itella promotes sport and culture. Itella promotes sport and culture. The Football Association of Finland is Itella’s most long-term troughout Finland sponsorship partner, with cooperation that dates to 1994. Through Itella provides its customers throughout Finland with services Itella has been the partner of the Football Association the partnership, Itella supports the Finnish national teams for men that help them manage information and product flows. Itella’s of Finland since 1994. and women, the under-21national team, and junior football. functional and efficient infrastructure, coupled with its reliable In the cultural sector, Itella is in partnership with the Sibelius Acadservices, form a part of the company’s social responsibility. emy, a leading European music university. Through the cooperation, Across the country, Itella Posti is responsible for both the Itella promotes music culture and promotes the training of Finnish distribution of mail and the maintenance of the network of postal musicians into leading professionals in Finland and internationally. outlets. In Finland, Itella Posti Oy is the sole provider of the univerItella also participates in charities. In Estonia, SmartPOST sal services referred to in the Postal Services Act. The operations organized a campaign with the Uuskasutuskeskus to raise funds cover the entire country, with the exception of the Åland Islands. for the residents of the SOS Village for Children. Securing efficient and economically viable postal operations In a NetPosti campaign, one euro per each NetPosti registration requires postal services to be adjusted to meet modern customer was donated to the charity selected by the customer. The funds were behavior and needs. allocated to welfare for intoxicant abusers, the protection of the Baltic The changes in the service needs of Posti’s customers and in the Sea, and to the physical education of children at day care centers. way they conduct business are rooted in the general digitization of communications and the booming growth in consumer-driven Itella promotes Finnonline commerce. People’s mobility and the ways in which they use ish football at the national team and their time are changing. Mail recipients seek multi-channel services junior level. and the opportunity to influence on how they receive their mail. Approximately 80 percent of visits to postal outlets today involve picking up parcels. In contrast, the consumers’ need for the universal services defined in the Postal Services Act – requiring regular visits to postal outlets – is, in Finland, rather rare; according to estimates based on the volumes of dispatches, people need to make a stop at a postal outlet on average about once every two years. The universal services mentioned include the dispatch and reception of regular parcels, registered letters, and postal insurance shipments. New service channels in Posti’s network of outlets According to the Government Decree, the nearest postal outlet or service point network may be located up to three kilometers from the majority of service users, that is, at least 82 percent. Reasonable distances are promoted by a policy where the distance for up Responsibility to 3 percent of people is allowed to exceed ten kilometers from Finland. The goal is to open another 50 automatic parcel terminals their permanent residence. across Finland during 2012. INFO Posti’s nation-wide network of outlets – comprising a total of Posti’s pickup outlets are operated in conjunction with partBusiness groups more than 1,000 outlets – now includes about 120 Posti shops, ner enterprises. They serve as outlets for collecting online store Itella delivers about 11 million postal shipments nearly 850 postal agency shops attached to Posti’s service providordered parcels, buying stamps, and sending customer return to recipients every weekday. ers, 50 SmartPOST terminals, and 11 Posti pickup outlets. Stamps parcels to online sellers. The number of pickup outlets currently Our plans include increasare sold by almost 3,500 resellers. There are more than 7,000 operating is 11. Our goal is to open another 30 pickup outlets ing the number (currently 1,000) of the different yellow and blue Posti letterboxes. The network’s services also across Finland during 2012. kinds of service outlets by about 500 by 2016. Service process include home delivery and the so-called pickup-sign service. Our plans include increasing the number (currently 1,000) of Changes in letter sending the different kinds of service outlets by about 500 by 2016, when In February 2011, Itella carried out a change regarding the sending Posti's outlets would number 1,500. of 2nd class letters, and accelerated their delivery by a workday. At the same time, the approximately 300 blue Posti letterboxes Strategy Automated parcel terminals and pickup outlets alongside postal meant for 1st class letters appeared on the streets in the busiest outlets mailing locations. The past year saw the introduction of the self-service SmartPOST The change also entailed discontinuing the minimum shipment Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 terminals and Posti’s pickup outlets, meant to supplement the lot (20 letters) concerning 2nd class letters. Neither letters nor network of postal outlets with a full range of services. cards have to be taken to a postal outlet anymore, but can instead SmartPOST automatic parcel terminals are located in busy be left in a yellow letterbox. As a rule, 2nd class items are delivered business locations, such as shopping malls, so that customers can to recipients over two nights, that is, on the third working day on simultaneously take care of many tasks. They may pick up parcels weekdays. from the terminals but also return parcels they have purchased from The change was based on a customer survey concerning prean online store, and send parcels to any postal outlet or another ferred and desired methods of dispatch and delivery speeds. automatic parcel terminal. The network of 50 automatic parcel terThe results indicated that, for 80 percent of the respondents, it is minals, introduced in 2011, covers almost all of the largest cities in sufficient that the deliveries reach the recipients over two nights. Number of consumer invoices in Finland 1991–2011 Unit costs of mail delivery by type of population center in millions EUR/household/day Itella Corporation 350 • Paper • Maintenance of the delivery network • Electronic Densely • Delivered mail Jakelussa kuljettu matka 300 populated area • Delivery distance Jaetut postit 250 Jakeluverkon ylläpito 200 Medium-level 150 area 100 Sparsely 50 populated area 31 0 1991 1995 2000 2005 2010 2011 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 The new 2nd class letter – always cheaper than the 1st class letter In 2010–2011, Itella conducted a voluntary delivery experi– is well suited for such a purpose. ment in the village of Anttila, Porvoo. A total of slightly more than 140 households and businesses participated in the pilot test. Get to know Netposti: Electronic transactions and services to increase The pilot served as a platform for developing and testing www.posti.fi/ aboutnetposti Itella Posti also provides its customers with convenient electronic alternatives for mail delivery in future decades in cooperation with channels for doing business. In the next few years, the goal is that customers. The pilot was a combination of traditional mail delivery INFO most Finns use electronic services. and new electronic means of receiving daily mail. The Technical Customers may already – and more extensively in the future Research Centre of Finland (VTT) also participated in the cooperaThere is a network of more than 7,000 letterboxes in select their desired Posti services by using online and mobile tion. Finland for sending cards and letters. services. Examples include the electronic NetPosti mailbox, routMany of those involved in the pilot study found traditional ing services related to the flow of physical letter mail and parcels, postal delivery only twice a week quite sufficient. Receiving newscontact details of your circle of acquaintances updated automatipapers to NetPosti and reading them by means of an electronic cally via Posti, and hybrid products that are ordered electronically device met with very positive feedback. Some of the participants and supplied to the recipient as a physical product. were already willing to receive all of their mail in electronic format through NetPosti. New uses for the delivery network Among other developmental measures, the trial developed the Basic mail delivery takes place on business days. The combined delivery of newspapers and magazines intended for e-readers and length of daily delivery routes is 270,000 kilometers. Nearly 11 tablets. The Anttila trials made Itella the first postal company in million shipments are delivered every weekday. the world to offer a channel for receiving, reading, and archiving Itella Posti’s delivery and transport network covers the entire counelectronic publications, irrespective of the brand of the e-reader try. Therefore, it is sensible to load vehicles making regular rounds or tablet. with items other than mail. In June 2011, Itella launched Itella Thermo transports, a frozen and refrigerated product transport service. The Post Museum records history It is Itella Posti’s intention to increase the volume of homeItella’s long history is on display in the Post Museum, which coldelivery services in rural and sparsely populated areas. This is lects and stores objects and material related to the history of the proving to be a good solution particularly for senior citizens – Itella postal industry for future generations and puts them on display for Posti already handles the home delivery of the meals-on-wheels the public. The Post Museum also provides services for researchservices of several municipalities. ers and arranges guided museum tours for visitors. Declining volumes have made the costs of the transport network Itella is planning to relocate the Post Museum, located in an important topic. While five-day postal delivery is considered the Helsinki General Post Office, to Museum Center Vapriikki in important, support for allocating tax revenue to its maintenance Tampere during 2014. seems to be scarce. In order to overcome this challenge, the owner and other decision-makers require both insight and courage. Alternatives for the delivery of mail Itella Posti is actively exploring various ways of providing its services through means suitable to the modern consumer. People responsibility Responsibility severance packages, layoffs, retirement and other arrangements A challenging business came to a total of 740 man-years. The people whose employment INFO relationships were terminated were offered more generous unemenvironment Business groups ployment security terms than required by law. Itella provided 5,500 seasonal workers with jobs Itella provides work for approximately 27,500 professionals in In 2011, Itella signed 645 new permanent employment conin 2011. Europe and Russia. In Finland, Itella is the country’s largest corpotracts. These employment contracts were concluded particularly In 2011, Itella signed 645 new permanent rate employer and offers its personnel a wide range of diverse tasks. in the sector of early-morning delivery, which has high turnover employment contracts. Itella is an equal-opportunity, multicultural, and tolerant employer. rates. In addition, new areas in Itella’s business operations have Service process The transition that the postal industry is experiencing and the generated the need for wholly new specialists in different fields, efforts aimed at increasing the efficiency of business operations such as professionals in the banking sector. have highlighted the significance of good HR policies at Itella. In 2011, Itella provided summer jobs for some 2,500 people and, during the Christmas season, we provided temporary work for Reductions in workforce and new employment relationships approximately 3,000 seasonal workers. The majority of these jobs Strategy In August, Itella initiated a three-year, EUR 100 million cost-cutting involved delivery, sorting, and transportation. program due to a downturn in performance trends. As part of the cost-cutting program, Itella’s companies in Finland conducted Customer needs steer HR activities Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 statutory labor negotiations during the autumn of 2011, in which Itella’s HR activities are determined primarily on the basis of the number of personnel was adjusted to meet the prevailing situcustomer needs and customer satisfaction. Changes occurring in ation. The efficiency of operations abroad was also increased, but customer behavior are reflected directly in the services we offer. without any sizable reductions in the workforce. Our industry is in the midst of a transition that requires us to In Finland, the need for layoffs was reduced with the help of re-examine our traditional postal duties. The economic situation voluntary severance packages, taken up by 157 employees. The is also challenging and demands the continuous monitoring of our employment of 460 people was terminated due to production and cost structure and increasingly efficient operations. The declining financial reasons. The majority of these persons worked in adminvolumes of deliverable mail pose challenges for managing the istrative positions. All in all, the amount of work reduced through tasks related to the transportation of mail, sorting, and delivery. Number of personnel (December 31, 2011) Personnel by business group Breakdown of employment (December 31, 2011) contracts in 2011 4,000 25,000 % 100 Finland 21,123 Russia 4,165 Itella Corporation 80 Sweden 438 Poland 423 60 Estonia 307 Germany 271 40 Denmark 261 Norway 252 20 Latvia 178 Lithuania 120 0 Others 47 • Itella Mail Communications 17,883 • 20,077 full-time employees (71%) 33 0 100 200 300 400 500 • Itella Logistics 7,088 • 7,508 part-time employees (27%) • Itella Information 2,259 • 24,428 permanent employees (89%) • Others 355 • 3,157 fixed-term employees (11%) The changes affecting traditional business models and globaliGuidelines for leadership and supervisory work INFO zation require efficient operations and rapid responses to changes Leadership was selected as one of Itella’s strategic focal points in the business environment. in 2011. People management was stressed alongside performItella’s values are Traditionally, Itella has offered the best possible terms of ance management. The guiding principles of this approach were • Succeeding with the Customer employment, competitive wages, and secure jobs for people summarized in the Leadership Cornerstones, which serve as the • Driving for Improvement and Innovation working in the delivery sector. While we still wish to remain the foundation of a shared management culture in all of our units. • Taking Responsibility • Winning Together best employer in the industry for mail carriers, the current changes The cornerstones, based on Itella’s values, provide supervisory Itella won the HR Deed of in the business also demand a capacity for change and a degree work with guidelines and practical instructions that support all the Year competition for 2011 in Finland. of situational flexibility from our personnel. Itella supervisors in their day-to-day management tasks. They also For a long time, Itella has had good relations with trade unions. function as a basis for the further development of supervisory The imminent business challenges ahead require active dialog and work. This promotion and advancement of a culture of leadership finding common ways forward in cooperation with the unions and derives directly from our company's executive management, which personnel representatives. In the fall of 2011, the Service Sector has made a commitment to promote operations in accordance Employers and the Finnish Post and Logistics Union concluded a with the Leadership Cornerstones. two-year agreement. In 2011, Itella included a leadership indicator in its array of measurements related to supervisor performance rewards. One Itella ensures common processes In the future, we will also pay increased attention to superviItella’s Human Resources department supports the implemensors’ communication skills and their aptitude for their tasks. A tation of the Group-wide strategy with the One Itella model. supervisor’s role as a messenger and motivator will continue to The objective of the model is to ensure shared procedures and play an increasingly important role. processes in our different business operations and countries of operation. Business groups are supported by dedicated HR teams The leading company when it comes to well-being at work in each group. Itella actively promotes its personnel’s well-being and quality of In terms of Itella’s success, it is crucially important to define life. Well-being at work is invested in at every stage of a career. the kind of competence that is needed to carry out our business Indeed, Itella has been one of Finland’s leading companies in strategies in the short and the long term. terms of well-being at work for several years. In a service sector company such as Itella, the personnel Itella was granted the HR Deed of the Year competition for 2011 play a decisive and critically important role in the company’s with its project aiming to provide more well-being through interaccompetitiveness. The digitizing world demands a different kind tive and participatory leadership. The purpose of the competition, of competence than the older business model, based on physical annually organized by HENRY ry and Ilmarinen, is to encourage delivery, transportation, and sorting. companies to develop their workplaces and improve the wellItella intends to train its present personnel who have the being of the staff. potential for new tasks, but the requisite new skills are also being The indicators of well-being at work include the number of sought and recruited from external sources. In business areas absences due to sickness, occupational accidents, and disability such as information and logistics, for instance, experience in pensions, the reduction of which is a target of systematic effort. international business is demanded. In 2011, we focused especially on the safety of working environEnvironmental responsibility Responsibility ments, the further development of well-being at work indicators, and supervisory work. Itella Group’s Foundation for Well-Being at Work continued the Carbon-neutral delivery and energy-efficiency Business groups VAUTSI program, which develops new sets of tools and practices More about environmental matters here: for supervisors. The program incorporates well-being at work in Itella takes environmental aspects into account in all of its operawww.itella.com/ sustainability business planning and improves the quality of working life. tions. Particular consideration is given to the environmental impact Itella’s investment in employees’ well-being at work in 2011 of transportation and facilities. Itella’s environmental program was EUR 9.6 million. aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020 INFO Service process We also revised our job satisfaction survey in 2011 so that the (relative to turnover, with 2007 as the comparison year). Itella's goal is to reduce questions focused, in particular, on supervisory work and leaderItella’s carbon-neutral delivery service also helps its customers its carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020. ship assessments. According to the results, Itella employees’ job to improve their environmental performance. Studies have shown satisfaction averaged at 3.66, on a scale of 1 to 5. The average was that the new digital services developed by Itella reduce environhigher than last year, but due to the changes in the formulation of mental loads. Strategy the survey’s questions, the results are not entirely comparable. An increasing number of corporate customers take into account This was the first time that the survey was conducted through the environmental impact of the services they use. In such comentirely electronic means. The response rate rose to 57.9 percent, parisons, Itella’s services related to information and product flows Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 increasing by 3.9 percent in comparison to the previous year. are clearly superior in their field. Core values updated on the basis of discussions Transports to reduce carbon dioxide emissions Itella’s values were updated on the basis of large-scale value Transport and vehicle emissions are the greatest sources of Itella’s discussions held in 2011. More than 1,000 Itella employees from environmental impact. Vehicles account for 70 percent of Itella’s all countries of operation took part in the discussions. The discuscarbon dioxide emissions in Finland. Being the largest transport sions served as a platform for building a mutual understanding and delivery company in Finland, Itella plays a major role in the among people working in different types of positions and with development of eco-friendly transportation systems. various job descriptions. Itella employs about 4,700 vehicles for deliveries and transport In addition to the company values, we also revised our Employwithin Finland, and these vehicles cover about 190 million kilomees’ Code of Conduct during 2011. The Code of Conduct contains instructions on ethical and responsible operations for Itella’s Carbon dioxide emissions Itella’s carbon dioxide entire personnel. relative to turnover emissions Kg/EUR 1,000 tn All Itella employees treat each other with respect and will not 0.10 200 Itella Corporation tolerate discrimination based on gender, age, origin, cultural or 0.08 150 ethnic background, religion, or any other similar reason. 0.06 Itella employees comprise more than 70 nationalities. The 100 0.04 atmosphere of tolerance and multi-cultural working environment 50 is supported through the development of supervisory work, 0.02 recruitment, and employee orientation. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0.00 2010 2011 0 35 • Finland • Russia • Other countries eters a year. Efficient route planning, the combining of transports, and parcel delivered by Itella in Finland is carbon neutral, without INFO and training focused on economical driving may reduce fuel any extra charges for customers. consumption and emissions by as much as 20 percent. Itella reduces its product emissions primarily by developing its Itella is the first Low emissions and energy efficiency are factored in alongside own processes. Mail delivery emissions arise from sorting, transcompany in the world to offer entirely carboncosts whenever the fleet is in need of replacements. We are replacing portation, and delivery. According to calculations, the delivery of neutral delivery gasoline-powered delivery vehicles with diesel-powered alternatives, a single letter produces an average of 21 grams of carbon dioxide The carbon footprint of an e-invoice is 10 times and shifting to cleaner Euro standards in terms of heavy-duty vehicles. emissions, which equals a 140-meter drive by a car with a carbon smaller than that of a printed one. In October 2011, Itella's natural gas vehicles switched to a dioxide emission level of 150 grams per kilometer. domestic brand of renewable biogas, with exceptionally low carThe remaining emissions are compensated for by funding bon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as well as low international climate projects so that a corresponding quantity of particulate emissions in comparison to conventional fuels. carbon dioxide is saved elsewhere. The ecological approach is also applied to company cars, Compensating for emissions takes place in reliable and certiwhose maximum carbon dioxide emission limit is 180 g CO2/km, fied (Gold Standard) climate projects that include sites reviewed and especially to new company cars with maximum emissions of by an independent environmental certifier. For Itella, the fact that 120 g CO2/km, the attractiveness of which will be increased by emissions are subject to payment constitutes a further incentive to way of their taxable value. reduce continuously the level of emissions and energy consumpItella is reviewing competing offers of telematics devices tion attributable to its own operations. applicable to an economical way of driving and, in 2012, will make In 2011, Itella compensated for 80,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide decisions on how to continue training focused on the theme. emissions, which is almost double the quantity in the previous year. In terms of transport service procurement, Itella favors transportation companies who, like Itella, have signed the transportation indusElectronic services protect the environment try’s energy efficiency agreement and implemented its measures. Itella’ financial management services, such as electronic invoicing, payroll administration, and document processing clearly Carbon-neutral products to customers free of extra charge reduce the consumption of paper, the volume of printing, and In February 2011, Itella became the first postal company in the transportation. Efficiently produced electronic services constitute world to offer entirely carbon-neutral delivery services. In practice, an environmentally sustainable solution. this means that every letter, publication, direct advertisement, We have increased the environmental performance of e-invoices even further by enhancing our electronic processes and optimizing Fuel consumption Electricity consumption in postal delivery in sorting centers our server capacity. According to research conducted by Itella, the l/100km kWh/square meter carbon footprint of one e-invoice – 5 grams – is ten times smaller 12.0 190 than the carbon footprint of an equivalent paper invoice. 11.5 185 Our customers’ electronic interface service, NetPosti, has also 11.0 180 improved its environmental performance. Between the years 2008 10.5 175 and 2010, Itella reduced NetPosti’s carbon footprint from 28 10.0 170 grams to 3 grams. This was achieved by considering the environ9.5 165 mental efficiency of the equipment and methods deployed in the 9.0 160 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 provision of the service. Responsibility INFO Business groups In 2011, Itella reduced electricity consumption by 7% and heat consumption by 11% compared to 2010. The remaining minor emissions generated by e-invoices and NetEnvironmental considerations are also integrated into plans Itella was recognized for its long-term environmental Posti are offset by Itella’s participation in various climate projects. concerning new buildings. In October, Itella initiated the sizable work at the Post-Expo held in Stuttgart in September Service process logistics center construction project in Pennala, Orimattila. The 2011. The energy consumption of facilities declined 77,000-square meter building, set to be completed in 2013, will In 2011, Itella also took a special interest in the energy efficiency employ a cost-efficient and environmentally friendly hybrid heatof its properties in Finland. The energy consumption of premises ing system, which draws on both ground heating and natural gas. was reduced through means such as improving heat recovery and The construction materials selected for the project also reduce the Strategy the timing of lighting as well as by adjusting the temperatures consumption of energy. of production facilities. User guidance and the development of The spot lights in Posti shops will all soon be fitted with LED monitoring practices also produced good results. lights. The light sources of logos and advertisements on facades Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Thanks to such measures, the electricity consumption of Itella’s will also be switched to LED lights when they are next in need properties decreased by 7 percent and normalized heating energy of maintenance. LED lights use less electricity and require less consumption by 11 percent. The figures clearly surpassed the maintenance than traditional lighting solutions. targeted savings of 5 percent. More than 80 percent of all electricity consumed by Itella in More quality and environmental certificates Finland was green. The year 2011 saw us expanding our environmental systems into several new Itella offices. Itella Logistics received its first ISO In 2011, Itella improved the energy-efficiency of its property by improving heat recovery 14100 environmental certificate in Russia. Customers in Russia and the timing of lighting, and by adjusting the temperatures in production facilities. are increasingly interested in the environmental responsibility policies of their partners. Itella Logistics now has more than 30 offices with quality and environmental certificates in seven countries of operation. An international award for environmental work Itella Corporation Itella was recognised for its environmental work at the international postal industry fair, Post-Expo, held in Stuttgart in September 2011. The criteria for the Environmental Achievement of the Year award were Itella’s long-term investment in environmental issues as well as its carbon-neutral delivery services, which Itella provides for its customers free of extra charge. 37 Itella's Board of Directors 2011 Arto Hiltunen Hele-Hannele Aminoff Chairman of the Board Member of the Audit Committee Riitta Savonlahti Member of the Audit Committee b. 1960, MBA Member of the Remuneration and Nominab. 1958, M.Sc. Board member since 2006. tion Committee Detailed information on CVs: www.itella.com/ Board member since 2010. She has worked in executive positions in Executive Vice President, Human management Employed by S Group 1980–2009, most the pharmaceutical industry, being the Resources, UPM-Kymmene Corporation Remuneration statement recently as CEO and Chairman of the Board managing director of Bob Helsinki (2011) b. 1964, M.Sc. (Econ.) and other information on the corporate governance of Directors. He holds Board memberships in and Oy Leiras Ab (2006–2009) and the Board member since 2008. codes: www.itella.com/ the Foundation for Economic Education and director at Specsavers Finland Oy (2010– She has worked at UPM since 2004, and corporategovernance forest and paper industry and many funds. 2011). Board member of BSN Oy and The previously as Senior Vice President of Association of Finnish Advertisers. Human Resources at Elcoteq Network Päivi Pesola Corporation (2001–2004). Board member Vice Chairman Jussi Kuutsa of JTO Chairman of the Audit Committee Country Director, SRV Group Vice President, Business Control, Heat b. 1964 Maarit Toivanen-Koivisto Division, Fortum Power and Heat Oy Board member since 2011. Member of the Remuneration and Nominab. 1956, M.Sc. (Econ.) Previously he has held executive positions tion Committee Board member since 2009. in foreign operations at Stockmann Group Honorary Mining Councellor, President, She has worked in the Fortum Group since (2000–2010) and at SRV Group (2010–), Onvest Oy 1978 in executive positions in internal being the Country Director of Russia. b. 1954, M.Sc. (Econ.) auditing and financial administration. Board member since 2007. Timo Löyttyniemi She has worked in Onvest Group compaKalevi Alestalo Managing Director, State Pensionfund nies since 1984 where she is currently the Member of the Remuneration and Nominab. 1961, D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm) Board Chairman. Board member of Tulikivi tion Committee Board member since 2011. Corporation. Vice chairman of Federation Financial Counsellor, Ownership Steering Previously he has worked in several of Finnish Commerce. Positions of trust in Department, Government Office executive positions in finance sector Chambers of Commerce. b. 1947, M.Pol.Sc. (1994–1996) and in the State Pension Board member since 2005. Fund (2003-), being the Managing Director. He has previously worked as the Head of Board member of Itella Bank Ltd (Itella IPS). the Ownership Steering Department in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (1988–2007). Vice Chairman: Raskone Oy Itella's Supervisory Board 2011 Chairman Johanna Karimäki, MP, Green League, 2010– Eero Lehti, MP, National Coalition Party, 2008– Lauri Kähkönen, MP, Social Democratic Party, 2008– Vice Chairman Sari Moisanen, town council member, Left Alliance, 2011– Antti Rantakangas, MP, Centre Party, 2008– Outi Mäkelä, MP, National Coalition Party, 2008– Susanna Huovinen, MP, Social Democratic Party, 2008– Reijo Ojennus, True Finns Party, 2008– Harri Jaskari, MP, National Coalition Party, 2008– Markku Pakkanen, MP, Centre Party, 2011– Bjarne Kallis, MP, Christian Democrats, 2004– Harry Wallin, engine driver, Social Democratic Party, 2005– Itella's Executive Board 2011 Responsibility Jukka Alho Juhani Strömberg Ari Ollila President and CEO Senior Vice President, Strategy and DevelVice President, Major Accounts b. 1952, M.Sc. (Tech.) opment b. 1961, LL.M, MBA Joined Itella Group in 2000. b. 1953, Ph.D. (Tech.) Joined Itella Group in 2008. Business groups He has previously worked at Elisa CorporaJoined Itella Group in 2006. His previous employer was Oy Internation (1981–2000) in executive positions. His previous employer was TietoEnator Cortional Business Machines Ab, where he Board member of Service Sector Employers poration (1976–2006), where he worked as worked in sales, sales management and PALTA, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Senior Vice President of Corporate Developservice development. He also held the Company and Oriola-KD. ment. Member of Ubiquitous Information membership of the Management Team of Society Advisory Board and Consultative IBM Finland (1991–2008). Service process Jaana Jokinen Committee of Logistics at VTT (Technical Senior Vice President, Human Resources Research Centre of Finland). Antero Palmolahti b. 1957, M.Sc. Strategic Chief Shop Steward of Itella Joined Itella Group in 2009. Lauri Vesalainen Group, Finnish Post and Logistics Union Previous employer Nokia Corporation Senior Vice President, Itella Logistics PAU (employee representative) (2004–2009) and Nokia Networks (2001b. 1956, eng. b. 1952 Strategy 2003) where she held executive HR posiJoined Itella Group in 2011. Joined Itella Group in 1971. tions. He has previously served in international He has worked at Itella Group as postal and global sourcing, manufacturing and worker, safety representative and chief Heikki Länsisyrjä logistics fields at Nokia Corporation shop steward. He is the Board Chairman of Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Senior Vice President, Itella Information (1995–2011). Itella Personnel Fund. b. 1960, M.Sc. (Econ.) Joined Itella Group in 2007. Management Board Tomi Pienimäki His previous employer was Fujitsu Services Vice President, CIO Oy (1987–2006) where he worked as the Päivi Alakuijala b. 1973, Ph.D. (Tech.), M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Director of Infrastructure Services. Vice President, Communications, CorpoAdm.) rate Responsibility Joined Itella Group in 2005. Jukka Rosenberg b. 1967, M.Sc. (Agr. & For.) His previous employers were Hackman Senior Vice President, Itella Mail CommuJoined Itella Group in 2004. Metos Oy (2000–2005), where he worked nication Her previous employer was the PR comas a CIO, and John Crane Ltd in the UK b. 1962, M.Sc. (Econ.) pany CW Works Oy (1998–2004), where (1999–2000). Joined Itella Group in 2011. she worked as the Senior Communications Previous employers include IBM Global Consultant. Iiro Wester Services (2006–2011) and TietoEnator Vice President, Brand & Marketing Corporation (1997–2006), where he held Hannu Lanteri b. 1963, Student of Economics executive positions. Managing Director, Itella Bank Ltd (Itella Joined Itella Group in 2006. IPS) His previous employers were Cloetta Fazer Itella Corporation Sari Helander b. 1955, MBA Ab (2000–2006) and Fazer Confectionery CFO of Itella Group Joined Itella Group in 2009. Ltd (1997–2000), where he worked in b. 1967, M.Sc. (Econ) He has previously worked in development brand and marketing management. Joined Itella Group in 2011. and bank manager tasks at savings banks, She has previously worked in controller SKOP and Samlink (1985–1996). He was and financial management functions at the Deputy CEO of Säästöpankkiliitto Nokia Corporation (2001–2011). (1996–2009). 39 A challenging year Financial Statements in Brief Board of Directors Report................................42 Comprehensive Consolidated Financial Statements in Brief Income Statement...........................................50 Consolidated Balance Sheet............................51 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.................52 Statement of Changes in Shareholder’s Equity...................................53 Key figures of Itella Group...............................54 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Itella Corporation Read Itella's 2011 Financial Statements in their entirety here 41 www.itella.com/annualreport2011 Board of Directors’ Report 2011 Business environment tions interested in outsourced services is the possibility to focus on their core Following the positive growth of the first half of the year, general economic business and to accumulate direct cost savings. uncertainty increased towards the end of the year, as the crisis in the euro zone deepened. Alongside the economic uncertainty, the postal industry is in Change program the midst of a vast change. The significance of traditional postal services has In August, Itella initiated a large-scale cost-cutting program with the objective changed and the change in demand attributable to electronic communications of saving more than EUR 100 million over the next three years. Measures conis evident in the clear drop of delivery volumes for printed communications. cerning the Lappeenranta mail center, Itella Customer Relationship Marketing, The 9 percent value added tax on newspapers and magazines, effective Posti’s own shops, Itella’s administrative functions, and Itella Information since the beginning of 2012, is expected to contribute to a further decline in were carried out during the autumn. The change program’s impact on the pervolumes. In contrast, e-commerce grew throughout the year, culminating in formance of each business group is presented in the results for the period. record-high Christmas sales. This was evident in the increased parcel volumes of Itella Mail Communications. Profit performance and net sales The new Postal Act entered into force on June 1, 2011. In the new Act, Itella Group’s net sales in 2011 totaled EUR 1,900.1 million (EUR 1,841.6 universal service products are specified more clearly than before, and they are million), representing growth of 3.2%. In local currencies, the increase in now exempt from VAT. The main principles of the universal service obligation net sales was 2.9%. Acquisitions did not have a significant impact on net remained basically the same. The Finnish Ministry of Transport and Communisales performance. The Group’s net sales increased in all business groups. cation established a working group to solve questions relating to the financing The increase was 1.6% in Finland and 6.7% in other countries. International of universal services. The group’s work will continue until the spring of 2012. operations accounted for 33% (32%) of net sales. The new Act requires the infrastructure of postal operations – including the The Group’s operating profit before non-recurring items amounted to EUR 30.5 postal code and the address register – to be opened to competing postal million (EUR 49.6 million), or 1.6% (2.7%) of net sales. The operating profit before service companies. Currently, Itella Posti Oy is the sole operator in Finland non-recurring items decreased in Itella Mail Communications and Itella Informawith a universal service obligation. tion. The operating loss of Itella Logistics decreased from the previous year. Uncertainty returned to the logistics market. The short-term growth expectaFinancial performance in 2011 was clearly taxed by non-recurring items to tions of national economies and the logistics market alike are uncertain. The the amount of EUR 36.4 (17.3) million, of which EUR 27.0 million related to significance of transparent supply chains continues to grow, and IT solutions personnel and the cost-cutting program initiated by Itella in August 2011, EUR constitute an increasingly integral element of the management of the overall 16.6 million to a write-down of goodwill, and EUR -7.2 million to other items. logistics and supply chains offered to customers. From the perspective of a The Group posted an operating loss of EUR 5.9 million (a profit of EUR 32.4 logistics partner, this demands an ability to integrate the partner’s systems and million), representing -0.3% (1.8%) of net sales. Operating profit decreased customers’ ERP systems. The significance of value-added services in the outslightly in all business groups. sourcing of logistics services has increased. In practice, this translates into the The Group’s net financing costs came to EUR 10.6 (7.1) million. Net financpre-delivery assembly, supplementation, and localization of products. At the ing costs in 2010 were improved by a EUR 1.9 million revaluation gain from an same time, solutions designed for specific customer industries are increasing. interest rate swap. From the beginning of 2011, Itella has been applying fair Itella Information’s market in the printing business is shrinking in all counvalue hedge accounting to this interest rate swap, which means that changes tries of operation. Excess capacity and a decline in volumes have resulted in fair value have no material effect on net financing costs. in tough price competition. In contrast, the market for electronic business The Group’s performance after financing costs showed a loss of EUR 16.4 million is growing, as paper flows are converted into electronic transactions. The (operating profit EUR 25.3 million). Income tax totaled EUR 14.2 (16.0) million. outsourcing market for financial services is in its infancy. In addition to major The Group recorded a net loss of EUR 30.7 million for the period (net profit IT companies with global resources, the market operatives include local and of EUR 9.3 million). regional organizations that offer financial services. The objective of organizaReturn on equity stood at -4.5% (1.4%). Key figures of Itella Group 2011 2010 2009 The operating result of Itella Mail Communications fell by -33.9% to EUR Net sales, MEUR 1,900.1 1,841.6 1,819.7 31.4 (47.5) million. The operating result percentage was 2.7% (4.2%). The Operating result (Non-IFRS), MEUR *) 30.5 49.6 86.3 result of the review period was burdened by a total of EUR 18.4 (15.9) million EBIT margin (Non-IFRS), % *) 1.6 2.7 4.7 of non-recurring items, the majority of which related to personnel adjustment Operating result (EBIT), MEUR -5.9 32.4 46.7 measures EUR 16.1 (15.9) million. EBIT margin, % -0.3 1.8 2.6 Result before tax, MEUR -16.4 25.3 19.6 Addressed letter communications constitute the most significant component of Return on equity (12 months), % -4.5 1.4 -0.7 profitability in Mail Communications. Although the total volume of addressed letter Return on investment (12 months), % -0.2 4.2 5.8 communications fell only slightly (by -2%), profitability decreased due to a decline Financial Statements in Brief Equity ratio, % 46.1 50.5 48.5 in average prices and the rigidity of the cost structure. Postal operations are largely Gearing, % 22.1 18.4 19.7 based on fixed costs, which are not very flexible and do not respond rapidly to Gross capital expenditure, MEUR 102.9 89.5 144.9 changes in demand. Performance in the first part of the year was also weakened Personnel on average 28,493 28,916 30,217 Dividends, MEUR 4.4 by the postponement of increases in postage fees. This, in turn, was partly due to *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items the fact that the new Postal Act entered into force later than planned. The company’s management expects the 9 percent value added tax Itella Mail Communications imposed on newspapers and magazines as of the beginning of 2012 to have a Itella Mail Communications’ net sales increased by 0.9% to EUR 1,151.7 negative impact on both the company’s net sales and future performance. (1,141.8) million. The increase in net sales during the final quarter was largely Itella Posti Oy and Sanoma News have concluded an agreement concerning Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 attributable to the positive development in parcel volumes. The portion of newspaper deliveries that ensures the continuance of early morning delivery work Mail Communications’ operations subject to the universal service obligation in the Helsinki metropolitan area and the Uusimaa region for a long time to come. accounted for 10.9% (11.6%) of net sales, or EUR 125.1 (126.3) million. Itella Mail Communications’ investments totaled EUR 33.3 (51.8) million. A clear shift from first class letters to second class letters was evident The largest single investment, EUR 19.3 million, involved delivery vehicles. during the period, and the total volume of addressed letters fell by 2% due to electronic substitution. The volume of electronic letters transmitted via NetItella Information Posti increased by 63% in comparison to the previous year. Direct marketing Itella Information’s net sales grew by 5.4%, to EUR 273.7 million (EUR 259.7 decreased due to increased competition. The decline in the delivery volumes million). The fourth-quarter increase in net sales amounted to 6.1%. Net sales of newspapers and magazines serves as an example of the change affecting increased primarily in Finland and the other Nordic countries as well as in centhe structure of communications in our society. Parcel services saw continued tral Eastern Europe. Net sales fell in the Baltic countries and Germany, mostly growth attributable to general market trends and particularly the popularity due to the decline in printing volumes. Net sales picked up in all product lines, of online commerce. Simultaneously, Itella’s market share in parcel services particularly in the outsourcing services for financial management and due to targeted at consumers grew during the second half of the year. the OpusCapita acquisition. Itella Corporation In 2011, the delivery volumes of mail items developed as follows in comThe business group’s operating result before non-recurring items fell to EUR parison with 2010: 3.2 (14.0) million. The profitability of the printing business decreased largely • The total volume of addressed letter deliveries decreased by 2% due to increased competition. The growth of financial management outsourc• Unaddressed direct marketing decreased by 11% ing services in Finland and the entry into new markets in Germany, Sweden, • Newspaper delivery volumes fell by 4% and Norway caused an additional burden on profitability during the growth • Magazine delivery volumes fell by 5% phase. The profitability of German operations attests to a substantial need • Parcel services increased by 7% 43 to improve performance, attributable to declining printing volumes. Remedial • Electronic letters increased by 63% measures are under way. The period’s performance was weighed down by non-recurring items to the amount of EUR 7.3 (1.2) million, primarily related -2.1% (-1.6%) of net sales. Net sales before non-recurring items developed to the large-scale cost-cutting program initiated by Itella in August which, in positively, particularly in Finland and Russia. Profitability remained in the black the case of Itella Information, focused on Finland and Sweden. Furthermore, in the Air & Sea business line and improved in the Contract Logistics business the Munich office in Germany was closed, resulting in a restructuring provision line. Warehouse fill rate in the Moscow area is on a good level, but elsewhere of EUR 3.5 million. The business group recorded an operating loss of EUR 4.1 in Russia, the economy is only beginning to recover from the financial crisis. million (a profit of EUR 12.8 million), representing -1.5% (4.9%) of net sales. The net sales of the Road Transport business line in Finland and Russia have Itella Information’s business structure and management models were increased and profitability has improved. Profitability in Sweden and Denmark reformed during the fall of 2011. The essential objective of the changes was is still in need of improvement, however, and remedial measures have been to reinforce the company’s growth, profitability, and market position, improve initiated. customer satisfaction, simplify the organizational structure, and increase Performance was weakened by non-recurring items totaling EUR 9.3 (0.1) transparency. The new organizational structure entered into force on January million, the most significant of which was the EUR 15.4 million write-down 1, 2012. of goodwill carried out in the Freight and Forwarding unit of Logistics. By the Itella Information’s investments totaled EUR 30.0 (12.5) million, of which end of the year, Itella Logistics furthermore centralized its Danish warehousing EUR 25.4 (6.5) million were attributable to acquisitions and EUR 4.6 (6.0) operations to Kolding and Hvidovre, due to a tough competitive environment. million to additions in production capacity. During the final quarter of the period, non-recurring items included an accrual of During 2011, Itella Information expanded by acquiring the entire share capivaluation in respect of the contract price of the Russian logistics corporation NLC, tal of both the German company NewSource GmbH and OpusCapita Group Oy. acquired by Itella in 2008. The final contract price will be confirmed in March The OpusCapita acquisition allows Itella to broaden its service offering to cover 2012. In addition, Itella Logistics began to unify its brand towards the end of the the automation of cash flows, a move that supports Itella’s competitiveness as year. In the future, its operations in Russia will operate under the brand of Itella. an innovative outsourcing partner creating added value for customers in the The business group’s investments amounted to EUR 31.0 (11.4) milfinancial management sector. OpusCapita’s net sales in 2010 were nearly EUR lion. In the second quarter, Itella started to build a new service warehouse 17.5 million, and it has 134 employees. At the turn of June – July, Itella Informain Orimattila. The total investment in the project, set for completion in June tion signed two important financial management outsourcing agreements in 2013, amounts to more than EUR 60 million, of which nearly EUR 20.8 million Sweden and Norway. At the end of the year, the business group sold its Danish has been invested in projects already completed. A new service warehouse subsidiary, Itella Information A/S, which produces printing and digitization was taken into use in Yekaterinburg, Russia, during the final quarter. This services. The transaction did not have a significant impact on Itella Information's warehouse accounted for approximately EUR 9.2 million of investments. financial performance or personnel. The business group’s operations in Russia In October, Itella and VR Group announced the establishment of a joint were also discontinued during the fourth quarter of the year. The divestments study aiming to map possibilities for increasingly close cooperation in the secwill not have an effect on the overall service offering of Itella Information. tor of domestic groupage logistics. The study will also investigate the chances for deeper collaboration in Russian operations. Itella Logistics Itella Logistics’ net sales grew by 8.0%, to EUR 731.6 million (EUR 677.3 million). Net sales developed positively in the units of Road Transport and Contract Logistics and in almost all countries of operation, especially in Finland, Russia, the Baltic countries, and Norway. The rate of growth slowed down during the fourth quarter of the year, when it stood at 2.5%. The business group’s operating loss before non-recurring items decreased from the year before, and stood at EUR 6.4 (10.6) million. Itella Logistics recorded a loss of EUR 15.7 million (operating loss of EUR 10.7 million), representing Key Figures of Business Groups Other activities of the Group 2011 2010 Change In August 2011, Itella’s subsidiary Itella Bank Ltd. was granted a deposit bank Net sales license pursuant to the Finnish Credit Institution Act by the Financial Supervisory Itella Mail Communications 1,151.7 1,141.8 0.9% Authority. Itella Bank specializes in the transmission of payments and invoice Itella Information 273.7 259.7 5.4% data, particularly in relation to online commerce, parcel services, and other mail Itella Logistics 731.6 677.3 8.0% business. The starting point is extensive cooperation with both commercial Other activities 55.8 55.0 1.4% operators and the banking sector. Customers can use the services of Itella Bank Intra-Group sales -312.7 -292.2 7.0% as a fixed feature of the other service offerings of Itella and its partners. Itella Group 1,900.1 1,841.6 3.2% Itella Real Estate Oy began operations on January 1, 2011. The subsidiary Financial Statements in Brief Operating result (Non-IFRS) *) manages all properties in Finland owned by Itella Group. In the autumn, comItella Mail Communications 49.8 63.5 -21.5% pany also initiated preparations to take over the management of the Group’s Itella Information 3.2 14.0 -77.0% properties abroad. Itella Logistics -6.4 -10.6 .. Other activities -16.1 -17.2 6.5% Business risks Itella Group 30.5 49.6 -38.5% The Group’s risk management is based on the principles of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), and covers all Group operations and forms an integral element Operating result of Itella’s management and strategy processes. Risk identification, analysis, and Itella Mail Communications 31.4 47.5 -33.9% management planning is carried out once a year as part of the Group’s strategy Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Itella Information -4.1 12.8 neg process. The status of the risk profile and management measures are updated Itella Logistics -15.7 -10.7 -46.4% regularly once a year and whenever significant risks are identified or the profiles Other activities -17.5 -17.2 -1.4% of major risks undergo material changes. The Group’s risk portfolio is compared Itella Group -5.9 32.4 neg against the risk-bearing capacity based on a financial model developed within Operating result (Non-IFRS), % *) the Group. In 2011, the focus lay particularly on the increased improvement of Itella Mail Communications 4.3% 5.6% the quality and the extent of the risk management process. Itella Information 1.2% 5.4% The most important strategic risks involve the markets, the business enviItella Logistics -0.9% -1.6% ronment, business operations' ability to develop, and regulation. The principal Itella Group 1.6% 2.7% operational risks, on the other hand, involve the profitability of business as well as business interruptions and other disruptive risks. Operating result, % Itella Mail Communications 2.7% 4.2% Strategic risks Itella Information -1.5% 4.9% Major market risks consist of the faster-than-expected rate with which tradiItella Logistics -2.1% -1.6% tional letters and print products have been substituted with electronic formats Itella Group -0.3% 1.8% Itella Corporation and any further unanticipated changes on this front. For several years now, *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items Itella has prepared for this risk by systematically improving the productivity of its physical delivery network. During 2011, electronic substitution progressed at a slightly faster rate than anticipated. This trend has also provided Itella with growth opportunities, which have been exploited in the multi-channel business of both Itella Information and 45 Mail Communications. NetPosti and Itella Bank Ltd. have also introduced new solutions for electronic transactions, invoicing, and payment. The past year also saw the considerable volatility of the financial markets Operational risks becoming a strategic market risk. This turbulence and related serious disturThe rigidity of cost structures slows the improvement of profitability, especially bances could have an impact on the implementation of Itella’s business plans. in Finland; the universal service obligation presents a further constraint on the In Russia, the development of the social, legislative, and overall business potential for increasing efficiency. As volumes decline, a new economic recesenvironment may come to constitute a significant market risk for Itella. Itella sion would further complicate the efforts to maintain profitability. The continuLogistics’ investments in Russia are substantial. Risk management measures ing decline in volumes in 2011 has made risks related to business profitability include the continuous monitoring of developments and trends, as well as a an increasingly important focus of attention for Itella’s executive management. solid establishment in the Russian market by means of Itella’s own companies The most significant business disruption risks involve the vulnerability of and personnel and effective networking. information security, networks, and the production infrastructure. In nature, Itella Information’s ability to increase its market share in the market for these risks are operational and image-related. outsourced financial processes involves a material strategic risk. A possible failure in the management of corporate acquisitions and in Other risks the integration of the acquired companies and their operations to the Group An account of financial risks and their management is available in the Notes would constitute both direct financial losses as well as a strategic risk that to the Financial Statements. would constrain business development. Insurance has been taken out to cover all risks for which insurance is the Another significant risk associated with Itella’s business environment is best alternative for financial or other reasons. Insurance policies concerning the competition in addressed deliveries – set to increase as a result of the personnel, business continuity, property, and liabilities are managed centrally. new Postal Services Act – which may lead to unexpectedly steep falls in prices. Liability risks include risks arising from operations and products as well as Itella’s readiness to respond to changes in the competitive situation is maincorporate management liabilities. The determination of deductibles accounts tained through the continuous development of the delivery network’s quality for the Group’s risk-bearing capacity. and productivity. With regard to parcel deliveries, the company monitors competitors’ activities and prepares for changes in the competitive situation Changes in corporate structure by continually developing its own delivery network; the SmartPOST automatic The legal structure of Finnish operations changed on January 1, 2011, when parcel terminals deployed in Finland during 2011 being the most recent exampostal operations in Finland were transferred under the new subsidiary, ple of such measures. Itella Posti Oy, part of Itella Mail Communications. The operations of another The most significant business development risks are related to how well subsidiary, Itella Real Estate Oy, began at the same time. This subsidiary is the standardization of IT systems and common practices progresses, particuresponsible for the Group's property management in Finland. larly in Itella Logistics and Itella Information. The further development of the Itella Information grew with the acquisition of the entire share capital of the Group-wide IT infrastructure and the schedule of its international deployment German company NewSource GmbH on April 1, 2011, and OpusCapita Group Oy, also involves risks, as do IT resources and competence in general. on July 1, 2011. The OpusCapita acquisition allows Itella to broaden its service Itella’s position as an operator with a partially dominant market position offering to cover the automation of cash flows, a step that supports Itella’s comand as a producer of universal services may introduce risks involving governpetitiveness as an innovative outsourcing partner that creates added value for ment regulation or supervision. At the moment, these risks relate to Itella customers in the sector of financial management. On December 30, 2011, Itella Posti’s pricing solutions in terms of letter and parcel products – an issue that Information sold the entire share capital of the Danish Information A/S. involves the interpretation of the former Postal Services Act, which remained On August 18, 2011, Itella Corporation acquired a minority interest (5.88%) in force until the end of May 2011. The related dispute between Itella and in Oy Samlink Ab. Oy Samlink Ab is the banking system supplier of Itella’s the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority is pending in various court subsidiary, Itella Bank Ltd. instances. Should the courts not find in favor of Itella, the financial repercusItella Real Estate Oy, which specializes in property management, sold the sions for the company will be considerable. entire share capital of KOY Laitilan Postikulma on August 30, 2011, and the entire share capital of KOY Kulmakeskus on September 30, 2011. On October Environmental impacts 5, 2011, Itella Information Oy sold the entire share capital of KiinteistöosakeyThe vast majority of environmental impact attributable to Itella’s operations is htiö Tampereen Kuoppamäentie 3 a. related to greenhouse gas emissions. Itella has made a commitment to reduce Kymppiposti Oy merged with its parent company Itella Corporation on April its carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by the year 2020 (in proportion to net 1, 2011. A similar step was carried out in Poland on March 1, 2011, when sales, reference year 2007). This target and the reporting system that supports Outsourcing Solutions Sp. z o.o. merged with its parent company, Itella Inforit encompass all of Itella’s business operations and countries of operation. mation Sp. z o.o. The special focus of measures in 2011 was the improvement of properties’ On November 22, 2011, the sub-group NLC – a part of the business group energy efficiency. The environmental management system has been certified of Itella Logistics – carried out the merger of OOO NLC companies OOO NSC in compliance with the ISO 14001 standard in 70% of the business (in proporFinancial Statements in Brief and OOO NLC-SPb. On November 10, 2011, the sub-group sold its companies tion to the number of personnel). OOO Complex Logistics Service and OOO Logistics Service Center. Itella will publish a corporate responsibility report in pursuance of an In accordance with an agreement signed on October 3, 2011, the printing annual report from the year 2011. Report contains a more detailed account and mailing services of Itella Mail Communications were sold to Mailhouse Oy also of environmental issues. The Group does not publish an environmental and TP-Avuksenne Oy as a transfer of business on November 1, 2011. report certified by an independent third party. Capital expenditure Financial position Itella Group’s capital expenditure totaled EUR 72.5 million (EUR 80.5 million). The consolidated net cash flow from operating activities increased and totaled Acquisitions accounted for EUR 30.4 (9.0) million of the total expenditure. A EUR 85.7 (81.9) million before investments. Capital expenditure amounted to EUR Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 total of 82% of capital expenditure was allocated to Finland. A more detailed 76.3 (81.7) million, of which acquisitions accounted for EUR 23.7 (1.4) million. account of capital expenditure is available in the financial reports of each In December, Itella Corporation issued a domestic bond for EUR 100 business group. million. The loan period is for six years and its fixed rate of interest is 4.625 percent. The bond was listed on the Helsinki Stock Exchange maintained by Research and development NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd on January 16, 2012. Itella Group’s research and development expenditure in 2011 totaled EUR 14.0 At the end of 2011, liquid assets amounted to EUR 190.7 (134.1) million, million, or 0.7% of the Group’s total operating expenses. The corresponding and undrawn committed credit facilities totaled EUR 120.0 (120.0) million. No figures in 2010 and 2009 were EUR 9.5 million (0.5%) and EUR 8.1 million commercial papers were in circulation at the end of the period (EUR 19.0 mil(0.5%), respectively. lion). The Group’s interest-bearing liabilities were EUR 335.4 (263.6) million. The research themes in 2011 focused on the profitability of postal operaThe equity ratio stood at 46.1% (50.5%) and gearing was 22.1% (18.4%). tions and the analysis of factors that influence it. Further activities included a survey of expectations concerning delivery services, the use of targeted Share capital and shareholding and mass communications, the digitization of consumer invoicing, and the Itella Corporation is wholly owned by the State of Finland, its share capital Itella Corporation development of e-commerce. consisting of 40,000,000 shares of equal per-share value. The company holds The focal points of Group-level R&D work included multi-channel mail no treasury shares and does not have subordinated loans. No loans have delivery and the large-scale deployment of various tools that promote innovabeen granted to related parties and no commitments have been given on their tion. Business group-specific development projects involved, among other behalf. The company has not issued shares, stock options, or other rights initiatives, the development of deposit bank operations, electronic consumer with entitlement to company shares. The Board of Directors is not authorized services, the transportation order system, and service concepts for financial to issue shares, stock options, or other rights with entitlement to company shares. 47 management. Administration and auditors land was 21,123 (22,326). At the end of 2011, the parent company had 336 Itella Corporation’s Annual General Meeting on March 9, 2011, decided (20,511) employees. The parent company's average number of employees was that the Board of Directors will be composed of 8 members and elected the 350 (20,269). The reason behind the major change in the parent company’s following members: Arto Hiltunen, Economist (Chairperson), Päivi Pesola, number of personnel was that, on January 1, 2011, the majority of Itella Mail Vice President (Vice Chairperson), Kalevi Alestalo, Financial Counselor, HeleCommunications’ domestic operations, personnel included, transferred into Hannele Aminoff, Managing Director, Jussi Kuutsa, Country Manager, Timo Itella Posti Oy, the new subsidiary. Löyttyniemi, Managing Director, Riitta Savonlahti, Executive Vice President, and Maarit Toivanen-Koivisto, President and CEO. Group personnel 2011 2010 2009 The AGM decided to set the number of Supervisory Board members at 12. Wages and salaries, MEUR 731.8 706.3 716.3 MP Markku Pakkanen (Centre Party) was elected as a new member. Eero Lehti, Employees on Dec. 31 27,585 29,022 29,568 MP (National Coalition Party) was re-elected as Chairperson of the Supervisory Employees on average 28,493 28,916 30,217 Board and Antti Rantakangas, MP (Centre party), as Vice Chairperson. The following Supervisory Board members were re-elected: Paavo Arhinmäki, MP The Group’s personnel expenses increased by EUR 25.5 million, or by approxi(Left Alliance), Susanna Huovinen, MP (Social Democratic Party), Harri Jaskari, mately 3.6% in comparison to the previous year. Personnel expenses included MP (National Coalition Party), Bjarne Kallis, MP (Christian Democrats), Johanna restructuring costs in the amount of EUR 27.0 (17.3) million. Karimäki, MP (National Coalition Party), Lauri Kähkönen, MP (Social Democratic At the end of the review period, the number of employees in Finland Party), Outi Mäkelä, MP (National Coalition Party), Reijo Ojennus, Entrepreneur had decreased by 1,203 in comparison to the previous year. In Finland, the (True Finns), and Harry Wallin, Engine Driver (Social Democratic Party). reductions in the number of personnel were attributable to the reductions The Extraordinary General Meeting stated that Minister Paavo Arhinmäki in workforce related to the cost-cutting program. In total, the reductions (Left Alliance) had resigned from the Supervisory Board and appointed Sari amounted to 740 man-years. Of this total, 460 man-years were reduced due Moisanen (Left Alliance) as a new member. to production-related and financial reasons, 166 through voluntary severance The authorized public accountants firm KPMG Oy was elected as Itella Corpackages and pension schemes, and 69 through corporate transactions. The poration’s auditor, with Authorized Public Accountant Pauli Salminen acting company also signed 645 new permanent employment contracts in Finland as the principal auditor. in 2011. Jukka Alho, M.Sc. (Tech.) acted as Itella Corporation’s President and CEO The profit for the period in 2011 and 2010 did not include an expense in 2011. provision for the employee profit-sharing scheme. Human Resources Events after the reporting period At the end of 2011, Itella Group employed a staff of 27,585 (29,022), the In January, Itella filed its report concerning the closure of postal outlets to average number being 28,493 (28,916). This corresponds to 21,736 (21,534) the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority. The report also included man-years if part-time employees are converted to full-time equivalents. an account on the plans to increase the number of service points by 500 over a period of five years, in the form of SmartPOST automatic parcel terminals Personnel distribution was as follows: for example. Itella Mail Communications 17,883 Itella Logistics 7,088 Outlook for 2012 Itella Information 2,259 Itella expects the Group’s net sales to remain on the 2011 level, but develGroup and other activities 355 opment may suffer from a stronger reflection of economic uncertainty on The number of employees working outside Finland at the end of the year was consumer demand and due to tougher competition. In Finland, the net sales 6,462 (6,696), and the corresponding number of employees working in Finof Mail Communications are expected to experience a modest fall. The development is affected by customers’ increasing use of electronic services. This reduces the delivery volumes of addressed items, first class letters in particular. The 9 percent value added tax, which entered into force at the beginning of 2012, is further expected to have a negative effect on net sales and financial performance. The competition enabled by the new Postal Services Act may also have an impact on both net sales and performance. The conditions for improved performance do exist. Measures that increase productivity and efficiency, including the Group's three-year cost-cutting program initiated in August, are expected to create the conditions needed to Financial Statements in Brief improve profitability. To secure profitability in the long term, the Group will continue to implement measures which may have non-recurring effects on the Group’s financial performance. The level of capital expenditure is expected to remain on the same level as in 2011. The volume and timing of investments and acquisitions will still remain under careful consideration. Net cash flow from operating activities is expected to remain on the level of the past year. Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM According to the financial statements, the parent company’s distributable funds total EUR 636,898,299.92, of which loss for 2011 accounts for EUR 43,520,092.45. No material changes have taken place in the Group’s financial standing since the end of the financial period, nor does the solvency test, as referred to in Section 13(2) of the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, affect the proposed distributable profit. The Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting that dividend not be paid and that the profit for the period be transferred to deductions from retained earnings. Itella Corporation Helsinki, February 16, 2012 Itella Corporation Board of Directors 49 Comprehensive Consolidated Income Statement EUR million Note 2011 2010 Net sales 1,3 1,900.1 1,841.6 Other operating income 4 25.5 14.5 Share of associated companies' results 0.1 0.1 Materials and services 5 549.2 504.9 Employee benefits 7 910.7 877.9 Depreciation and amortisation 9 88.7 85.4 Impairment losses 9 18.3 5.7*) Other operating expenses 10 364.7 349.8 Operating profit (EBIT) -5.9 32.4 Financial income 11 25.1 24.4 Financial expenses 11 -35.7 -31.4 Profit before income tax -16.4 25.3 Income tax 12 -14.2 -16.0*) Profit/loss for the financial period -30.7 9.3 Result for the financial period attributable to Parent company shareholders -30.7 9.3 Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 Comprehensive consolidated income Profit/loss for the financial period -30.7 9.3 Other items of comprehensive income Available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 0.0 Translation diffrences -3.4 20.0 Comprehensive income -34.0 29.3 Comprehensive income attributable to Parent company shareholders -34.0 29.3 Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 *) The non-current assets classified as held for sale in 2010 were shown in that year's income statement incorrectly as a discontinued operation. This method of presentation has been corrected in the financial statements for 2011 by transferring the impairment of EUR 5.7 million and the deferred tax asset of EUR 1.5 million recognized from the item on the correct rows of the income statement. Consolidated Balance Sheet EUR million Note 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Non-current assets Goodwill 13 171.7 170.9 Other intangible assets 13 77.5 73.5 Investment property 14 3.8 4.1 Property, plant and equipment 15 664.1 684.6 Investments in associated companies 16 0.8 0.7 Other non-current investments 19 6.4 1.4 Non-current receivables 20 12.1 9.7 Deferred tax assets 21 12.0 14.8 Total non-current assets 948.5 959.8 Financial Statements in Brief Current assets Inventories 22 5.8 5.9 Trade receivables and other receivables 23 299.1 290.0 Current tax assets 7.3 5.2 Financial assets available-for-sale 24 1.5 2.2 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 25 58.7 58.5 Cash and cash equivalents 26 132.0 75.6 Total current assets 504.4 437.4 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 27 12.4 14.9 Total assets 1,465.3 1,412.1 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Equity Share capital 28 70.0 70.0 Contingency reserve 142.7 142.7 Fair value reserve 0.1 0.0 Translation differences -4.2 -0.8 Retained earnings 456.3 492.2 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 664.9 704.1 Equity attributable to equity holders of non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 Total equity 664.9 704.2 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 21 53.1 50.4 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 31 304.9 214.2 Other non-current liabilities 32 4.0 17.7 Non-current provisions 30 20.3 15.7 Defined benefit pension plan obligations 29 7.5 6.6 Total non-current liabilities 389.8 304.7 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 31 30.5 49.4 Itella Corporation Trade payables and other liabilities 32 372.1 351.2 Current tax liabilities 3.0 0.3 Current provisions 30 4.5 1.6 Total current liabilities 410.1 402.6 Liabilities associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale 27 0.5 0.6 Total liabilities 800.4 707.9 51 Total equity and liabilities 1,465.3 1,412.1 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement EUR million Note 2011 2010 Result for the financial period -30.7 9.3 Adjustments: Depreciation and amortisation 9 88.7 85.4 Impairment losses 9 18.3 5.7 Gains on sale of intangible assets and PPE 4 -2.6 -1.3 Losses on sale of intangible assets and PPE 10 2.6 0.9 Financial income 11 -25.1 -24.4 Financial expenses 11 35.7 31.4 Income tax 12 14.2 16.0 Other adjustments -8.2 -0.1 Cash flow before change in net working capital 92.9 122.9 Change in trade and other receivables -6.4 -19.0 Change in inventories 0.0 0.6 Change in trade payables and other liabilities 12.7 16.1 Change in provisions 8.4 -5.3 Change in net working capital 14.6 -7.6 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items and income tax 107.5 115.4 Interests paid -17.0 -13.8 Interests received 6.9 6.0 Other financial items 0.1 -0.6 Income tax paid -11.7 -25.1 Cash flow from financial items and income tax -21.8 -33.4 Cash flow from operating activities (net) 85.7 81.9 Purchase of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (PPE) -52.6 -80.3 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets and PPE 6.5 4.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries less cash and cash equivalents at acquisition date 2 -23.7 -1.4 Change in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1.9 20.2 Cash flow from other investments 1.1 1.2 Cash flow from investing activities (net) -66.8 -56.1 Repayment of current loans 31 -21.4 -22.6 Drawings of non-current loans 31 99.5 Repayment of non-current loans 31 -25.0 Finance lease principal payments -7.1 -8.3 Acquisition of non-controlling interest -2.7 Dividends paid -4.4 -0.1 Cash flow from financing activities (net) 41.6 -33.7 Change of cash and cash equivalents 60.4 -7.9 Cash and cash equivalents at period-start 26 75.6 82.3 Effect of change in exchange rates -4.1 1.2 Change of fair value of cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents at period-end 26 132.0 75.6 Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Contingency Fair value Translation Retained Non-controlling EUR million Share capital reserve reserve differences earnings Total interest Total equity Equity 1 Jan 2010 70.0 142.7 0.0 -20.7 483.6 675.6 1.6 677.2 Dividends paid -0.1 -0.1 Acquisition of non-controlling interest -0.7 -0.7 -1.5 -2.2 Result for the financial period 9.3 9.3 0.0 9.3 Other items for the Comprehensive income Change in fair value reserve 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in translation differences 20.0 20.0 20.0 Financial Statements in Brief Equity 31 Dec 2010 70.0 142.7 0.0 -0.8 492.2 704.1 0.0 704.2 Equity 1 Jan 2011 70.0 142.7 0.0 -0.8 492.2 704.1 0.0 704.2 Dividends paid -4.4 -4.4 -4.4 Non-controlling interest 0.0 0.0 0.0 Result for the financial period -30.7 -30.7 -30.7 Other change -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 Other items for the Comprehensive income Change in fair value reserve 0.1 0.1 0.1 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Change in translation differences -3.4 -3.4 -3.4 Equity 31 Dec 2011 70.0 142.7 0.1 -4.2 456.3 664.9 0.0 664.9 Itella Corporation 53 Key Figures of Itella Group IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operations Net sales, MEUR 1,900.1 1,841.6 1,819.7 1,952.9 1,710.6 Personnel 31 Dec. 27,585 29,022 29,568 31,672 25,211 Personnel on average 28,493 28,916 30,217 28,163 25,623 Capital expenditure, MEUR 102.9 89,5 144.9 351.5 94.2 % of net sales 5.4 4.9 8.0 18.0 5.5 Profitability Operating result (Non-IFRS), MEUR *) 30.5 49.6 86.3 95.1 101.8 % of net sales 1.6 2.7 4.7 4.9 6.0 Operating result (EBIT), MEUR -5.9 32.4 46.7 69.0 101.8 % of net sales -0.3 1.8 2.6 3.5 6.0 Result before tax, MEUR -16.4 25.3 19.6 46.6 109.5 % of net sales -0.9 1.4 1.1 2.4 6.4 Result for the financial period, MEUR -30.7 9.3 -4.6 18.6 78.5 % of net sales -1.6 0.5 -0.3 1.0 4.6 Balance sheet and key ratios Equity, MEUR 664.9 704.2 677.2 696.3 732.4 Total assets, MEUR 1,465.3 1,412.1 1,408.1 1,370.5 1,119.1 Return on equity, % -4.5 1.4 -0.7 2.6 11.1 Return on investment, % -0.2 4.2 5.8 12.4 15.6 Equity ratio, % 46.1 50.5 48.5 51.1 65.9 Gearing, % 22.1 18.4 19.7 14.8 -36.4 *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items Formulas for key figures (IFRS) profit for financial period Return on equity, % 100 x total equity (average for the financial period) profit before income tax + interests and other financial expenses Return on investment, % 100 x total assets non-interest-bearing liabilities (average for the financial period) total equity Equity ratio, % 100 x total assets advances received interest-bearing liabilities cash and cash equivalents financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Gearing, % 100 x total equity Corporate history Responsibility 1638 Governor-General Per Brahe establishes postal services in 2007 The parent company’s name is changed to Itella CorporaFinland, then part of the Kingdom of Sweden. tion. Itella Mail Communications launches an investment and development program of EUR 160 million focusing 1811 A central postal administration is established for the Business groups on postal infrastructure. Sweden-based PS Logistics is postal services of autonomous Finland. acquired as part of Itella Logistics. 1927 The Telegraph is merged with the Finnish Post to form Post 2008 Acquisitions in Itella Logistics: NLC Group (National and Telegraph. Logistic Company) in Russia and Kauko Group in Finland. 1990 Posts and Telecommunications of Finland becomes a First international corporate acquisition in Itella Mail Service process state-owned enterprise known as Posti-Tele. Communications: Connexions in Russia, a company 1998 Postal and telecom services are demerged into separate specializing in direct marketing services. Itella Information companies (Finland Post Group Ltd and Telecom Finland expands to Poland through the corporate acquisition of Group Ltd), which are wholly-owned by the State of Finland. BusinessPoint. Strategy 2001 Finland Post becomes a public limited company. Informa2009 Itella Information expands into financial management tion logistics operations are expanded through corporate through a corporate acquisition (Tuottotieto) and launches acquisitions in Finland (Atkos) as well as Sweden, Norway business in Russia and new countries in Central Europe. Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 and Denmark (Capella Group). Culmination of the investments of Itella Mail Communications. Launch of climate-friendly Itella Green delivery 2002 Information logistics operations expand to Germany services. through corporate acquisitions (Eurocom Depora and Data Informatic). The Logistics business group launches 2010 New sorting technology successfully deployed by Itella operations in Estonia. Mail Communications. The mail process is awarded the ISO 14001 environmental certificate. The parcel terminal 2003 The early morning newspaper delivery business acquired business of SmartPOST is acquired in Estonia. Itella Logisfrom Sanoma Osakeyhtiö as part of Mail Communications. tics reinforces its position in Russia in transport services. 2004 Information logistics operations expand through the Itella Information concludes the first major customer corporate acquisition of the subsidiaries of Swedish Post deals on the Alligator solution for financial management in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Further expansion in outsourcing. In Poland, Outsourcing Solutions is acquired Finland through the corporate acquisition of Elma Oyj as part of Itella Information. Electronic Trading. 2011 Itella Bank Ltd is granted a deposit bank license per the Itella Corporation 2005 Finland’s largest personnel fund established. Logistics Act on Credit Institutions. OpusCapita is acquired by Itella operations expand to Denmark, Latvia, and Lithuania by Information, expanding services to cash flow automation. acquiring Combifragt Group. The number of distance-sales parcels starts to increase. SmartPOST automatic parcel terminals introduced. In 2006 Logistics operations expand through corporate February, Itella becomes the first postal company in the acquisitions in Sweden (Roadlink Spedition) and Norway world to offer entirely carbon-neutral delivery services. (Universal Spedisjon). Foundation for Well-being at Work 55 The new Postal Act takes effect in June. established. Itella Corporation – Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Content and layout • Spokesman Oy Photos • Petri Artturi Asikainen, Itella image bank Printing • Erweko Oy Paper • cover Invercote Creato 220 g inner pages MAXI Silk 130 g Ecolabelled printed matter 441 032 Financial Communications Itella online www.itella.com/aboutitella Financial information, annual reports, interim reports: www.itella.com/financials Corporate Governance: www.itella.com/corporategovernance Photos and logos: www.itella.com/media Interim reports 2011 Q1 May 3rd Q2 July 25th Q3 October 31st Contact persons in Financials CFO Sari Helander Tel. +358 (0)50 379 1819, sari.helander@itella.com Vice President, Communications and Corporate Responsibility, Päivi Alakuijala Tel. +358 (0)40 840 0251, paivi.alakuijala@itella.com Senior Communications Manager Hanna Kauko Tel. +358 (0)50 376 0437, hanna.kauko@itella.com Corporate Communications Itella Corporation Corporate Communications P.O. Box 1 FI–00011 ITELLA FINLAND Tel. +358 (0)20 451 5415 communications@itella.com Media Desk Tel. +358 (0)20 452 3366 (Mon–Fri 8.30 a.m.–4.30 p.m., EET time zone) 57 Itella Corporation • Posti Customer Service for Consumers P.O. BOX 1 Tel. +358 (0)200 71000, customerservice@posti.fi, www.posti.fi FI-00011 ITELLA, Finland • Itella Customer Service for Corporate Customers Tel. +358 (0)20 4511 Tel. +358 (0)200 77000, www.itella.com communications@itella.com www.itella.com Registered Domicile: Helsinki, Business ID 1531864-4
