Kromann Reumert’s CSR-Report May 2012 Foreword by our Managing Partner Welcome to Kromann Reumert’s CSR Report 2012. This marks ting our sights even higher in our efforts to reduce our carbon the third time that we report our CSR activities to the UN’s corfootprint. Read more in this report under the section Environment porate network Global Compact, the world’s largest initiative for and climate. corporate social responsibility. We continue to support the Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labour, the enviEven though we seek to make a contribution in multiple areas, ronment and anticorruption, and we persist in our efforts to inteour business is driven by legal advice and it is therefore within this grate them into our organizational and commercial processes so area that our core strengths in CSR lie. It is here that we can help that CSR can become an even more natural part of our business. make the biggest difference. We have already made significant progress towards fulfilling our We continue to provide legal assistance to our selected pro bono goals for CSR work heading towards 2013. This is first and forepartners, which this year count 11 organizations. Detailed informost due to a very high level of commitment from our employmation regarding the status of the goals set in our last report and ees. They are the entire driving force behind the initiatives that our objectives for pro bono work going forward are included in we are currently implementing in our efforts to help promote the the section Partnerships and pro bono. UN’s goals on sustainable development. During 2011 we supported the Danish campaign Verdens BedOver the past year we have been working towards becoming ste Nyheder (in English, ‘The World’s Best News’) and until 2015, more ambitious in CSR by, among other things, helping to drive we will continue to support the UN’s 2015 goals to fight poverty the development of CSR in business and promote awareness of worldwide. Our involvement in helping the poorest people in the Global Compact. It is for this reason that we have added CSR as world makes sense – along with the rest of the initiatives we have a parameter for consideration when Kromann Reumert’s partners described in this report – because ‘credibility’ is one of our core want to assume directorships and seek permission from the firm’s values. management to do so. This ensures that consideration of CSR and discussion about how such companies can work with CSR We hope you enjoy the report! becomes a central part of board work. It is our vision to set the standard within the legal profession. Similarly, our vision on climate is that we will set the standard within our industry for environmental and climate issues. And we are well on our way. In fact, by the end of 2011 we had already reached our goal of reducing our CO2 emissions by 20%, even though our original expectation was that it would take us until the end of 2012 to achieve this goal. Therefore, we are now setClaus Juel Hansen, Managing Partner FOREWORD BY OUR MANAGING PARTNER 2 Contents Kromann Reumert: In brief 5 About this report 8 Our ambitions 9 FACTS ABOUT OUR CSR ORGANIZATION 10 Global Compact’s ten principles 13 Human rights 14 Labour 16 Environment and climate 21 ANTI-CORRUPTION – AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29 Partnerships and pro bono 34 Thank you! 42 We welcome your feedback Kromann Reumert is interested in receiving comments on this report or, more generally, on our work within CSR. You can email our Communications Manager, Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen, at kje@kromannreumert.com, or our Communications Consultant, Henriette Sørensen, at hes@kromannreumert.com. 3 Vision We set the standard Values Quality We provide practical solutions with commercial and professional insight. Commercial insight We take the time to understand the business and needs of each client. Spirited teamwork We stand together as a team, dedicated and attentive in our work with each other and with our clients. Credibility We take responsibility for our actions, for our development and for one another. Mission Valueadding solutions and advice with dedication and focus. VISION . VALUES MISSION 4 K Kromann Reumert: In brief Kromann Reumert is Denmark’s leading law firm, with offices in Copenhagen, Aarhus, London and Brussels. We employ a team of around 600 dedicated people who work with each other and with our clients in a dedicated and attentive manner. We have approximately 300 lawyers that cover a long list of practice areas and we continue to work on developing new areas to meet our clients’ needs. WE SET THE STANDARD It is our vision to set the standard within the legal profession. Good is not good enough – we want to be the best. This is why we continually place demands on ourselves to stay up to date on the latest in Denmark and internationally. We want to stay a step ahead. OUR BUSINESS STRUCTURE Kromann Reumert is a partnership that shares risk and revenue equally. This ensures that all partners maintain a mutual interest in working together and always strive to handle each case in the best way possible – legally as well as commercially. It also guarantees an internal arrangement that assigns cases to precisely where we have the resources so that they can be addressed in the most efficient way by the most appropriate specialists. KROMANN REUMERT: IN BRIEF 5 The firm’s supreme governing body is the Partners’ Meeting It is our experience that flexibility and accessibility are keywords which comprises all of the partners. The partners elect a Board in the ongoing cooperation with our clients. That’s why at Kroof Directors consisting of five partners, who typically hold office mann Reumert the office is never closed. We are always ready to for three-year terms. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is step in whenever our assistance is required. Partner Marianne Philip. Our international outlook Kromann Reumert is an internaKromann Reumert’s Managing Partner, Claus Juel Hansen, is tionally oriented firm with both Danish and international clients. responsible for the day-to-day management of the firm. He works together with a professional Executive Management We are Denmark’s only member of the worldwide Lex Mundi asteam, consisting of three directors: Tina Larsen, Sille Stener and sociation, an extensive international network of 160 premier and Søren Villadsen. Together they are charged with providing supindependent law firms comprising more than 21,000 lawyers port to our practice areas and developing them to the highest from around the globe. We are also active in most of the interlevel possible. national lawyers’ organizations – including IBA, ABA and AIJA, and several of our partners currently hold or have previously held Legal advice that can be applied in practice When we executive-level positions in the international legal community. receive a new client, it is important to us that we develop an For our clients, the benefits of our unique international position inherent understanding of how their business works. We ensure include high-quality multi-jurisdictional advice and unique access that accumulated knowledge about key aspects of our client’s to a range of specialists in almost every part of the world. At the business is shared within the firm so that we can address individsame time, we are well placed to help our clients stay abreast of ual tasks as well as possible, and with emphasis on creating value the latest international trends and developments, including those that the client can benefit from. We endeavour to deliver practithat may extend to Denmark. Through our Outbound Service we cal solutions and to be proactive, particularly where changes or assist Danish companies, among others, with their international potential changes in legislation, administrative practice or case activities and the legal challenges that follow. law may be relevant to our clients. KROMANN REUMERT: IN BRIEF 6 This requires that we follow our clients around the world. We are Compact’s fundamental principles and raise the level of their apcurrently focusing in particular on China and India, both of which plication in many other places around the world. are still experiencing economic growth. Among other activities, we have established a team of lawyers who have extensive exFurthermore, Kromann Reumert is the first Danish law firm to perience with Chinese relations, and our lawyer Mandeep Singh establish ‘International trade’ as an area of focus, which covers Rathour – who has an Indian background – is part of the team topics like the global trade of goods and services of increasing advising in connection with transactions in India. Over the last 12 importance both economically and politically. months we have been involved in client acquisitions in, for example, Brazil, China, Australia, Ecuador and the US. This means that In 2011 Kromann Reumert was awarded such titles as the ‘Chamour lawyers must proactively immerse themselves in the laws, bers Europe Awards for Excellence 2011 Denmark’ and ‘WHO’S cultures and traditions in each of these countries. Included within WHO LEGAL The International Who’s Who of Business Lawyers’. these areas is CSR as an important focal point for us and Danish The year 2011 also saw PLC Which Lawyer, Chambers Europe, companies in connection with acquisitions and launching busiIFLR and Legal 500 give our firm top rankings within a long list of nesses abroad. specialties, and similarly recognize a long list of our partners for their individual expertise. Danish companies typically have very high internal standards for CSR-related areas, and through our own knowledge and experiRead more about Kromann Reumert at www.kromannreumert. ence in this area, we can assist to increase awareness of Global com. KROMANN REUMERT: IN BRIEF 7 About this Report This report is Kromann Reumert’s third CSR Report – and also our third COP Report (Communication on Progress Report) – that we are required to present to Global Compact on an annual basis. Our goal with this report is to provide our clients, employees and other interested parties with an understanding of how Kromann Reumert works with CSR and how we aim to make a difference. The report is structured around Global Compact’s ten principles that address aspects of the four themes: human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Additionally, the report also features a strong focus on partnerships, since the foundation of our CSR work is our employees and their desire to carry out pro bono work in a number of organizations. The reporting year runs from Spring 2011 to Spring 2012. Within each theme of the report we also describe the specific period that is being addressed. ABOUT THIS REPORT 8 Our ambitions Our CSR report for 2011 outlined two overarching goals or ambitions for our CSR work leading up to 2013: Ambition 1 Ambition 2 We will strive to integrate CSR into our own business and We will strive to be part of the driving force behind the organizational processes so that it becomes a completely evolution of CSR within business. natural part of good business. FRAMEWORK GLOBAL COMPACT AS THE FRAME FOR CSR STRATEGY AND INITIATIVES Ambition 1 Employee-run pro bono work + CO2 emissions targets Ambition 2 Raise awareness of CSR and Global Compact 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 These ambitions also form the basis for the CSR activities deseek permission from the firm’s management to do so. In this scribed in this report and will remain so until 2013. But even way we seek to ensure that CSR becomes a part of board work though our overall ambitions stay the same, we continually strive in external businesses, since members of the board are invited to expand our goals and objectives within the four themes of huto directly consider and discuss how the respective business can man rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. work with CSR. Ambition 1 With respect to Ambition 1, and as described in the We have further attempted to increase awareness of CSR by prosection on Environment and climate, we have already reached viding meeting facilities and conducting various brunch meetings our CO2 targets – prompting us to set new and more ambitious for SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages), as well as holding goals. Additionally, we retain a high level of commitment to our a seminar for directors of charitable organizations where we ademployeerun pro bono work which has been further integrated dressed board responsibilities and Corporate Governance. into our legal business. More information about this is included in the section Partnerships and pro bono. Moreover, through our involvement in the Danish campaign Verdens Bedste Nyheder (‘The World’s Best News’), we have AMBITION 2 Regarding Ambition 2, our goal has been to inhelped to spread the word about reducing poverty. And Christian crease awareness of the Global Compact and CSR in business. Lundgren, the partner responsible for pro bono work within our We have achieved this through several initiatives. Among other firm, featured in a Berlingske Business article about Kromann things, our Communications Manager, Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen, Reumert’s CSR work with pro bono partnerships. has had the opportunity to speak about CSR on multiple occasions and has given presentations on CSR in the context of introThe activities mentioned above are just some of the things we at ducing the Global Compact into small and medium enterprises. Kromann Reumert have done to raise awareness of both CSR and Global Compact. Other initiatives aimed at fulfilling Ambition 2 We have also added CSR as a parameter for consideration when are described in detail within the individual themes of the report. Kromann Reumert’s partners want to assume directorships and OUR AMBITIONS 9 CSR Facts about our organization Kromann Reumert has established a CSR Steering Committee. The Committee is made up of the partner responsible for our pro bono work, Christian Lundgren, our HR Director, Søren Villadsen, our Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding, Sille Stener, the firm’s Facilities Manager, Jane Meier Christiansen, and Communications Manager Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen who – together with Communications Consultant Henriette Sørensen – fulfils the practical role of project manager. CSRORGANIZATION 10 Steering Committee Member Responsibilities Christian Lundgren, Partner Pro bono work Søren Villadsen, HR Director Pro bono work Sille Stener, Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding Ensuring our commitment to the Global Compact, and other CSRrelated initiatives Jane Meier Christiansen, Facilities Manager Environment and climate and management of suppliers Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen, Communications Manager & Henriette Ensuring our commitment to Global Compact, and other CSRSørensen, Communications Consultant related initiatives. On a day-to-day basis, both take on project manager roles The Committee meets four to five times a year to discuss both well as supplier management. Our Director of Corporate Strategy strategic goals and practical initiatives. Our HR Director Søren & Branding, Sille Stener, together with Communications Manager Villadsen works together with Christian Lundgren, one of the Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen and Communications Consultant Henrifirm’s partners, to oversee pro bono projects and maintain conette Sørensen, has overall responsibility for ensuring our committact with the employee-run pro bono groups. The pro bono ment to the Global Compact and other CSR-related initiatives. groups themselves are responsible for the work they undertake through their selected pro bono partnerships. Overall responsibility for Global Compact is therefore placed within the Corporate Strategy & Branding area so as to exploit its full Jane Meier Christiansen, our Facilities Manager, is responsible for potential in relation to our business, and integrate it into our corKromann Reumert’s work with climate and the environment, as porate strategy and value chain. Overall responsibility for Global Compact is therefore placed within the Corporate Strategy & Branding area so as to exploit its full potential in relation to our business, and integrate it into our corporate strategy and value chain. The world’s best news WE SUPPORT The 2015 Millennium Development Goals: Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education Goal 3: Promote gender equity and empower women Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership for development CSRORGANIZATION 11 About the campaign In 2011 Kromann Reumert continued its work as a partner in Kromann Reumert’s role was to raise awareness about the UN’s the Danish campaign Verdens Bedste Nyheder (‘The World’s Best Millennium Development Goals by broadcasting The World’s News’), which is a cooperative effort between Danida, the UN Best News to as many Danes as possible. and the Danish developmental organizations – including our pro bono partner SOS Børnebyerne (the Danish branch of SOS ChilWe anticipate that in 2012 we will again support the UN’s 2015 dren’s Villages) – in the fight against poverty on a global scale. goals to end poverty throughout the world. ABOUT THE CAMPAIGN 12 Global Compact’s ten principles HUMAN RIGHTS 1-2 LABOUR 3-6 1. Businesses should support 3. Businesses should uphold the and respect the protection of freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed effective recognition of the right human rights. to collective bargaining. 2. Businesses should make sure 4. Businesses should uphold the that they are not complicit in elimination of all forms of forced human rights abuses. and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. ENVIRONMENT 7-9 7. Businesses should support a 6. Businesses should uphold the precautionary approach to elimination of discrimination environmental challenges. in respect of employment and occupation. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, of environmentally friendly including extortion and bribery. technologies. GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES 13 Principle 1-2 Human rights The first two of Global Compact’s principles concern human rights. Kromann Reumert helps protect human rights through several partnerships. Among others, we work with Institut for Menneskerettigheder (The Danish Institute for Human Rights), Copenhagen Pride, Reden (The Nest) and Reden International (The Nest International). We mainly provide legal assistance to these organizations, but in 2011 we also contributed by collecting various donations. Read more about these in the section Partnerships and pro bono. HUMAN RIGHTS 14 RESULTS: MARCH 2011 – MARCH 2012 Last year, under the heading of human rights, we set a goal to create a code of conduct. We chose this goal because we strive to maintain a responsible supply chain. A code of conduct places demands on our suppliers to comply with particular standards regarding human rights. The status of this goal is: Goal Activities We will require certain standards from our In 2011 we created a code of conduct to promote respectable working conditions main suppliers and environmental standards in cooperation with our suppliers. NEW GOAL: MARCH 2012 – MARCH 2013 In the coming year, we at Kromann Reumert will continue to make demands on our suppliers. We have therefore set out to achieve the following: Goal Activities We will require certain standards from our In 2012 we will facilitate and implement our code of conduct. Among other things, main suppliers this means that we will demand that our 20 largest suppliers live up to our code and the guidelines it contains. In the future, our code of conduct will be incorporated as a mandatory part of all supplier agreements with Kromann Reumert. HUMAN RIGHTS 15 Principles 3-6 Labour COMMITMENT Kromann Reumert’s most important resource is its employees. They are fundamental to our business and the source of the results that are achieved every day – and the key to helping us maintain Kromann Reumert’s position as the leading law firm in Denmark. It is therefore absolutely essential that we do our very best to ensure that our employees can continue to deliver highlevel results. That means that they must be nurtured and carefully managed within an environment that inspires and creates enjoyment through teamwork. LABOUR 16 RESULTS In our last CSR report we described a series of goals We have also had success with implementing Key Account Manand activities in areas that included knowledge sharing, workagement for a number of large clients. This has helped us gain loads and cooperation. In the following sections we outline the a better understanding of our clients’ businesses so that we can status of these goals for the period March 2011 to March 2012. provide more specific advice that creates real value for their work. KNOWLEDGE SHARING Over the past year we have worked ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES During the year we have also to improve the sharing of both technical and commercial knowlfocused on how we can best allocate our resources so that we edge within local departments and across the firm. Sharing provide the right skills to departments that sometimes need extra knowledge is an important aspect of our business because we help – at the same time as respecting our employees’ work-life need to deliver the newest and most up-to-date knowledge to balance. our clients in order to provide the best quality advice and meet their specific needs. At a firm as large as Kromann Reumert, it is not always sufficiently clear who needs help. At the request of both managers and emThe sharing of knowledge is also essential for problem solving. ployees, our new intranet will introduce a resource barometer that The more knowledge you have about a problem, the more confimakes it possible for each employee to indicate their workload dent you can be in finding a solution for it. With this in mind we level. This will make the process of allocating resources more transhave created an introductory folder for all of our newly recruited parent and make it easier for managers to distribute work. lawyers that essentially functions as an abbreviated guide to navigating all aspects of the job – from start to finish. The folder is Further, in 2012 we have introduced a new, flexible arrangement a tool to increase the ease and efficiency with which our lawyers for trainee lawyers rotating from one legal department to another can tackle everyday problem solving. as part of their training. Our new system ensures that they develop strong ties with and stay closely connected to the department they We are currently developing a new intranet which will help make have previously worked in and are given the opportunity to help our work processes more transparent and, importantly, significantout both their new and their old departments – depending on ly increase the effectiveness of our knowledge sharing process. where resources are most needed. LABOUR 17 COOPERATION We are consistently working to improve colWe have done a great deal over the past year to increase emlaboration across the firm. As one example, we use our annual ployee welfare, including improving the working environment, company day (known as ‘V-Dag’ in Danish) to concentrate on switching raw ingredients in our kitchen to organic foods, ora series of team building activities. Additionally, we have also ganizing health weeks and giving all employees unlimited acmade efforts to strengthen the role of leadership in each of cess to organic fruits, juices and coffee. We have also focused the legal departments by giving selected lawyers more manon subsidies for sports clubs, discount memberships for fitness agement responsibilities. In 2011 we commenced a networkcentres, massages during work hours, and offering an ergoing project that appoints selected lawyers as mentors for a nomic evaluation of workstations. Alongside this, absenteeism number of trainee lawyers in order to give them guidance in has dropped from 5% in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 to only building both their own and the firm’s professional networks. 3.4% per employee in 2011 (and as low as 3.1% if absences The networking aspect is also one part of our extensive efforts due to sick children are omitted). We cannot prove a direct link to continually provide our employees with the best training between these health initiatives and the decrease in absence possible so that they can continue to develop their skills. due to illness, but we presume that this is a contributing factor. We will therefore continue to focus on health in 2012. EMPLOYEE DATA Our employee data for 2011 shows that the firm is continuing to grow with more employees and more partners, as well as also slightly more women than men. LABOUR 18 EMPLOYEE DATA Employees in total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of employees 483 547 596 585 588 Number of partners 57 54 59 67 70 Total percentage of women 54,9 53,2 53,2 53,2 54,9 Percentage of female partners 12,25 12,96 13,56 22 20 Average age 35,9 36,2 36,1 35,3 34,6 Health Percentage of absence due to illness, per employee 5 5 5 5 3,4 Work-life balance Women working reduced hours 37 42 34 32 39 Men working reduced hours 0 1 1 1 2 Number of mobile workplaces 250 320 380 410 400 Results of employee satisfaction survey – work-life balance 60 67 -* 67 -* (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is the highest) Education Total number of days that employees spent attending 2400 2600 2600 2700 courses Number of course days per employee 4,3 4,4 4,5 4,5 Number of internal courses 70 80 82 80 Employee satisfaction Combined result – employee satisfaction (rated on a scale of 73 81 -* 80 -* 1-100, where 100 is the highest) Management (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is 70 74 -* 77 -* the highest) The above table features employee data that is compiled every year from 1 January to 31 December. *Since employee satisfaction surveys are not carried out every year, there are no results for 2009 and 2011. The next survey will be carried out in Spring 2012. LABOUR 19 GOALS FOR THE COMING PERIOD Rated against other Norto introduce the network Women Corporate Directors (WCD) into dic countries, Denmark sits at the bottom in terms of the number of Denmark (also called a WCD Chapter). women in top-level management or board positions. We are therefore faced with the particular challenge of creating greater diversity Among other activities, a networking event will be held on 30 Auin the workplace and encouraging more women to take on mangust 2012 to bring together board members from the highest levels agement positions. Studies have shown that there is a relationship of the Danish business community and female board candidates between diversity and innovation, so it is important to make room who could potentially join as new members of the Danish WCD for more women in management so that Danish companies can network. At the event, a number of influential speakers will disachieve the best results possible going forward. cuss board diversity, and participants will have the opportunity to network with each other in a speed networking session. Kromann One of Kromann Reumert’s goals for the coming period is to help Reumert’s office in Copenhagen will host the WCD arrangement. drive the changes that are needed to put more women in board positions. Our Chairman of the Board and Partner, Marianne Philip, Other goals selected for the coming period are described in the taand our Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding, Sille Stener, ble below. have collaborated with Heidrick & Struggles’ Copenhagen office NEW GOALS: MARCH 2012 – MARCH 2013 In the coming period we will work with the following goals and related activities: Goals Activities Employee satisfaction survey 2012 We will conduct an employee satisfaction survey in Spring 2012. Focus on secondment We will continue to focus on making it both attractive and relevant for our employees to be seconded to businesses for short periods. It often increases the depth and breadth of our lawyers’ commercial insight to get outside the firm and experience business challenges from a different perspective. Focus on health initiatives We will continue to focus on providing an environment that our employees can thrive in, with optimal conditions for maintaining a healthy lifestyle – even at work. More leadership responsibilities for In the coming period we will retain our focus on giving our lawyers more managelawyers ment responsibilities. Focus on an increase in diversity and the Using the network Women Corporate Directors (WCD) as a starting point, we will appointment of more women to board highlight the need for more women in board positions through activities like a positions networking seminar that brings together directors from the top tier of the Danish business community and women that are potential board candidates. LABOUR 20 Principles 7-9 Environment and climate COMMITMENT Kromann Reumert’s work within the area of environment and climate originates from our vision on climate: We will set the standard within our industry for environmental and climate issues. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 21 In 2008 we set a goal to reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% by LED tubes that use only 18 watts per tube – or almost half the the end of 2012. We have already reached that goal. Therefore, wattage per tube. we have set ourselves a new target to reduce our carbon footprint – and in doing so we have dared to be even more ambitious At the Copenhagen office our work to replace the fluorescent because our employees are so committed. We will cut our CO2 lighting with LED lights in our stretch ceilings turned out to be a emissions by an additional 10% within the next four years – that greater challenge than first thought. An examination of the instalis, between now and the end of 2015. lations revealed that all of the electrical installations in the ceiling were illegal. Such work needed to be repaired by the landlord ACTIVITIES Our staff in the Facility Services department are still before we could switch to LED lights. In any event, we managed highly involved in efforts to conserve CO2, and they are especially to complete the work in November 2011 and have now replaced proactive with regard to finding new ways to go the extra mile all of the fluorescent lights with LED tubes in both Aarhus and to reduce CO2 emissions. At the same time, they have also faced Copenhagen, and have also replaced all of the transformers. a number of challenges in working towards the goals that we have set for ourselves. TRANSPORT An increasing number of our employees are choosing to cycle to work. The number of bicycles in our parking First and foremost, we had torrential rain in Copenhagen garage is on the rise, particularly in Copenhagen. Thereon 2 July 2011; the likes of which had not fore, we have almost doubled the number of bike been seen for 55 years. The result was racks in our basement and now have room flooding in many places – even in for up to 241 bicycles. the basement of our offices at Sundkrogsgade in CopenhaAt the same time, we have also gen. That meant that we increased the promotion of needed to have seven video conferencing to an undehumidifiers running precedented level and the in our basement for result has been a growbetween three to ing interest among our four months, and it employees in the use of used a significant video conferencing facilamount of power. ities instead of travelling between Aarhus and In connection with Copenhagen. This opthe flooding we had tion is attractive because to empty out our enit both saves time and tire collection of apreduces CO2 emissions. In proximately 33,000 arFebruary 2012 we arranged chived cases to put new for two additional offices – floor joists under the floor, one in Aarhus and one in Coand at the same time we depenhagen – to be fitted out with cided to switch out all the lightvideo conferencing equipment. We ing. We changed out 48 basic can now simultaneously hold two fixtures of 32-watt fluorescent separate internal meetings with video lamps, replacing them with new conferencing. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 22 In 2008 we set a goal to reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% by the end of 2012. We have already reached that goal. RESULTS: APRIL 2011 – APRIL 2012 Between April 2011 and April 2012 we reached the following goals and completed the following activities: Goals Activities We will set new goals within the environWe will reduce our CO2 emissions by 10% between 2012 and the end of 2015. ment and climate area We will make our heating more efficient In our Aarhus office we have replaced 24 windows and are planning to replace some of the further 102 original windows to avoid heat loss. At our Copenhagen premises the heating is regulated in all offices. Reduce CO2 emissions when setting up In constructing our mezzanine level in Aarhus we have installed only LED lighting new workstations and motion sensors for automatic on/off activation. Replacement of the four ventilation fans Replacement of the fans was completed in Autumn 2011. We anticipate that this on the roof of the Copenhagen office will reduce our CO2 emissions by 29 tonnes per year. Continue our switch to LED lighting in At the Copenhagen office our work to replace the fluorescent lighting with LED both offices lights in our stretch ceilings presented a greater challenge than first thought. Analysis of the electrical installations in the ceiling revealed that they were illegal. Such work has now been repaired by the landlord and the lighting has been changed to LED. We completed the work in November 2011. In connection with this work we also replaced all of the transformers since this will improve efficiency. All of the fluorescent lights have been replaced with LED tubes in both Aarhus and Copenhagen. We are continuing to monitor developments in this area and to make changes where the reductions in CO2 emissions will give us a return on investment in 2 years. Increased efforts in sorting waste Our focus on the sorting of waste in Aarhus has resulted in an increase in the amount of recycled materials from 18% to 38%. Transport The number of cyclists has increased, particularly in the Copenhagen office. We have installed bike racks in our basement to create 90 more bike parking spaces, which means that we can now cater for 241 bicycles. Effectively, this corresponds to giving 48% of our employees the opportunity to cycle to work. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 23 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE DATA The activities we have undertaken result in the following data: 2008 2009 2010 2011 Comments Waste (tonnes) 121 118 142 105 The reason for the reduction in waste is that our Copenhagen office has not shredded archived case files to the same extent as in previous years. Waste sent to be recycled (tonnes) 68 67 43 Focus area for 2011 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,670,161 1,855,118 1,776,946 1,746,576 Electricity consumption per m2 84 78 68 66 (kWh) District heating (MWh) 1,542 2,090 2,777 2,304 District heating figures for 2010 are corrected here because data for the Aarhus office included in our CSR report for 2011 was incorrect. This means that the total figure for district heating in our two offices increased from 2,090 MWh in 2009 to 2,777 MWh in 2010. But it also means that the reductions between 2010 and 2011 are greater than originally calculated. District heating (MWh per m2) 0.08 0.09 0.11 0.09 Water usage (m3) 5,669 6,830 5,485 6,757 Water usage (m3 per m2) 0.28 0.26 0.21 0.25 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 24 Waste Affaldini tons tonnes Electricity consumption per m2 90 160 80 140 70 120 60 100 50 80 40 60 30 40 20 20 10 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 The reason for the reduction in waste from 2010 to 2011 is that The reduction in our electricity consumption from 2010 to 2011 is our Copenhagen office has not shredded archived case files to the the result of efforts by Kromann Reumert’s Facility Services departsame extent as in previous years. ment to specifically focus on saving electricity – and thereby reduce CO2 emissions. District heating in mwh per m2 Water usage, m3 per m2 0.12 0.30 0.1 0.25 0.08 0.20 0.06 0.15 0.04 0.10 0.02 0.05 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 The primary reason for the large increase in 2010 compared to The increase in our water usage for 2011 was due to a defective 2009 is the difference in average outdoor temperature. The mean industrial dishwasher in our Copenhagen office, and we also idenannual temperature is +7.7°C. tified an urgent need to replace old heating vents in our Aarhus office. Now we can prevent the inappropriate overuse of water in 2009 was a very hot year with a mean temperature of +8.8°C, the future. while 2010 was somewhat colder at only +7.0°C. Naturally, this means that there was a much greater demand for heating in 2010 than in 2009. Moreover, our Aarhus office had challenges in 2010 with the ventilation system’s heating surface and some heating vents. tThe average temperature for 2011 was estimated at 9.0°C. The milder weather meant a reduction in our heating needs, which produced a good result for 2011. Measuring CO2 Our goal to reduce our CO2 emissions does not include district heating or transportation. Our CO2 targets are based on CO2 reduction per square metre and the following parameters are relevant to the calculations: 2008 2009 2010 2011 M2 19,938 25,925 25,999 26,561* *We significantly increased our office space between 2008 and 2009, and again between 2010 and 2011. CO2 emissions – electricity consumption 2008 2009 2010 2011 CO2 emissions in total (kg) 761,747 845,610 810,352 795,470 CO2 emissions (mwh per m2) 38 36 31 30 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 25 Overall, we have reduced our electricity consumption per square metre by 21.6% during the period 2008 to NEW GOALS 2011. This means that we have reached our goal to reduce our overall CO2 emissions by 20% from 2008. We have therefore set a new target to reduce our overall CO2 emissions by a further 10% by the end of 2015. Next year’s CSR report and others leading up to 2015 will be based on the 2011 figures. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 26 NEW GOALS APRIL 2012 – APRIL 2013 We have identified the following goals to work towards before reporting again to Global Compact in Spring 2013: Goals Activities We will further reduce our CO2 emissions Replacement of the existing cooling system with free cooling in the server room at the Copenhagen office is scheduled to take place in the first half of 2013. Finetuning of the cooling system in Copenhagen in Summer 2013, particularly if the weather is warm. We will further reduce our electricity We will work on finding ways to make our automatic on/off lighting sensors activate consumption from shorter distances in our hallways. We will further increase our savings on In cooperation with our landlord at the Aarhus office, we will review the central heatheating ing system with a view to replacing the 25 year-old pumps that use too much power. At the Aarhus office we will measure the flow temperature of water running into the radiators. If the water is too hot, we will have it regulated. At the Aarhus office we will investigate the return on investment involved with installing motorized control valves on all radiators within the leased premises, since there is currently no regulation of the heat relative to ventilation. Our heating must not use in excess of 120 kWh per square meter, which is the average consumption level for 75% of all office buildings. All figures will be published in subsequent CSR reports leading up to 2015, with the 2011 measurements serving as our point of departure. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 27 FACTS Environmentally friendly paper In 2011 we finished replacing all of our letterhead paper with FSC-certified paper. We have changed our stationery, envelopes, writing pads, business cards, records and file folders, as well as greeting cards with matching envelopes. this year’s report in order to protect the environment and reduce We are extremely satisfied with the change and have not enboth our paper usage and CO2 emissions. countered any problems with quality. Kromann Reumert will therefore use only certified environmentally friendly paper in the WHAT IS FSC? FSC is an international certification for wood future. and paper that ensures sustainable use of the forests that the wood is taken from. The certification guarantees consideration In the preceding two years, we have printed our CSR reports for nature, and the animals and communities that exist in and on FSC-certified paper. However, we have chosen not to print around the FSC-certified forests. Kromann Reumert’s climate partnership with Dong Energy At the end of 2010, Kromann Reumert entered into a climate partnership with DONG Energy. The joint initiative is designed to help us further reduce our CO2 emissions through access to professional advice, and at the same time support the production of renewable energy. KROMANN REUMERT IS CO2 NEUTRAL Kromann Reumert buys RECS certificates from DONG Energy corresponding to the 1500 MWh of electricity that we consume annually for our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus. The purchase of RECS certificates means that DONG Energy allocates to us 1500 MWh of energy produced from its wind farm at Horns Rev II. This means that the same amount of power that is used by Kromann Reumert is produced in wind energy. We are therefore CO2 neutral in our power usage. In the course of 2012 we will seek to gain more from our collaboration with DONG Energy and through professional advice find out how to achieve greater savings on our energy consumption. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 28 Principle 10 Anticorruption -and Corporate Governance COMMITMENT Transparency International Danmark is the Danish branch of the global organization Transparency International (TI), which aims to combat corruption and bribery on a global scale. According to Transparency International Danmark, it is countries like Sweden, Finland, New Zealand and Denmark that are the world’s least corrupt. Consistent with our efforts over the last two years, we have sought to adapt Global Compact’s tenth principle to Danish conditions. With this report we have added ‘Corporate Governance’ to the title. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29 Kromann Reumert’s structure is a partnership, which means that it is not subject to the same regulation as listed companies on the Copenhagen stock exchange (NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen A/S) who are required to explain how they meet the good corporate governance recommendations that Denmark’s Committee on Corporate Governance has produced. Nevertheless, we support the Committee’s work to promote the development of corporate governance in listed companies. And we also seek to live up to a number of the Committee’s recommendations – albeit adapted to reflect our own corporate structure – and the ethical guidelines that we must observe as a law firm. Among other things, we strive to maintain a high degree of transparency in our organizational structure. Read more about this in the section Kromann Reumert: In brief in this report. FACTS FACTS Kromann Reumert’s Chairman of the Board Kromann Reumert publishes regular newsletand Partner Marianne Philip is Vice-Chairman ters to inform our stakeholders about the latof the Committee on Corporate Governance est developments in CSR and corporate govin Denmark. The Committee published recomernance, and on issues such as trade barriers mendations in Denmark’s first report on corin international trade. Read our newsletters porate governance in 2001, entitled: ‘Nørbyat www.kromannreumert.com/en-UK/Publicaudvalgets rapport om Corporate Governance tions/Pages/Publications.aspx. i Danmark – anbefalinger for god selskabsledelse i Danmark’. Read more about the Committee and download the report at www.corporategovernance.dk. FACTS A number of Kromann Reumert’s partners are associated with Business Kolding/INSEAD, which is one of the world’s leading business schools. Partners from our firm teach corporate governance in the education programme for board directors. RISK MANAGEMENT As is stated in last year’s CSR report, we also work with risk management as part of achieving better transparency in our corporate governance. In line with this, we support one of the recommendations published by the Committee on Corporate Governance in Denmark – that risk management work is a managerial task, and a prerequisite for a company’s board of directors being able to perform their duties. At Kromann Reumert we used 2011 to identify, analyze and categorize all of our risks. In 2012 we have commenced focused efforts to consolidate the work of the entire organization and make risk management an integral part of our management strategy. We have implemented a risk management system to highlight the risks that the firm faces. The system also serves as a tool that can help manage and minimize the most critical risks. We have established a Risk Management steering group that includes our Managing Partner, Claus Juel Hansen, and our CFO, Tina Larsen. The group is charged with making sure that we continue to develop our methods, processes and procedures together with an optimal risk management strategy for Kromann Reumert. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 30 ethics BUSINESS ETHICS As a law firm, it is imperative that we are consistently proactive in relation to our ethical responsibilities. We therefore allocate a considerable amount of resources towards ensuring that we maintain high ethical standards in our work. All Danish law firms are required to comply with the Administration of Justice Act on legal professional practice. The Danish Bar and Law Society oversees compliance with professional responKromann Reumert’s Ethics Committee, which is made up of five partners. The Ethics Committee must be consulted where there is any doubt about obligations, and must also take up issues on its own initiative. BEFORE A NEW CASE OR CLIENT IS ACCEPTED Kromann Reumert’s clients are businesses. Before a new client or case can be approved, a thorough review of all ethical issues must be undertaken. The responsible partner within the firm will then sign sibility and has created ethics rules for lawyers that require strict a declaration stating that there is no existing conflict of interadherence to legal professional standards and ethics. The legal est and no foreseeable risk of a conflict of interest arising, that professional practice rules are a code of conduct that regulate, Kromann Reumert’s rules on preventing money laundering have among other things, confidentiality and conflicts of interest. been observed, and that there are no circumstances that should prevent Kromann Reumert from accepting the matter. If there As part of our general quality assurance, we have put in place are any questions or any doubts as to whether a particular matter a number of internal procedures and rules that supplement the should be accepted, they must be referred to the Ethics Comlegal ethical rules. These help us detect and resolve any potenmittee. tial conflicts of interest. Aside from Kromann Reumert’s rules on conflicts of interest, we have also created a specific set of rules The Ethics Committee ensures that the partners in the firm share designed to prevent insider trading and money laundering. a common understanding about what the ethical principles are and what they mean. The Committee maintains a continuous INTERNAL PROCEDURES AND RULES Each individual lawdialogue with the partnership to ensure that day-to-day activities yer is responsible for complying with the rules administered by remain consistent with the firm’s values. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 31 RESULTS FOR APRIL 2011 – APRIL 2012 Below is the goal that we set out in our last report, together with the results we have achieved in the period April 2011 to April 2012: Goal Results We will help raise awareness of CSR and We have added CSR as a parameter for consideration when a partner seeks permiscorporate governance at the highest levsion from our Ethics Committee to take up a directorship. If companies do not have els of management within businesses. a CSR strategy, we encourage the partner to discuss with the board how the company can work with CSR, as long as it makes sense in relation to that business. In 2011 we continued our active cooperation with Business Kolding/INSEAD, where a number of Kromann Reumert’s partners teach corporate governance. Kromann Reumert has also contributed with activities like hosting a graduation event for the Business Kolding/INSEAD Executive Board Programme, where around 50 business managers participated. In last year’s CSR report we stated that we would design a practical CSR tool for directors to use at board level. However, we have decided not to go ahead with this work since our research has shown that there is already a range of tools available that can be used for board work. Read more at www.samfundsansvar.dk. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 32 NEW GOAL: APRIL 2012 – APRIL 2013 In the coming period we will work towards the following goal and related activities: Goal Activities We will help raise awareness of CSR and We will continue our active cooperation with Business Kolding/INSEAD, where a number corporate governance at the highest levof Kromann Reumert’s partners teach corporate governance. els of management within businesses. We will continue to help raise awareness of Global Compact and corporate governance. Anti-corruptionMiljø Labour Human ri corruption Environmen and climate Human rights Anti-corr Human right nvironment nd climate Labour Human rights ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33 Partnership and Pro Bono Kromann Reumert has created partnerships with a range of organizations that our employees assist by providing legal services for free or at a significantly reduced price. The work is done pro bono, which means for the public good. COMMITMENT Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work is carried out in accordance with our pro bono policy, which consists of the following principles: PRINCIPLE 1 Kromann Reumert’s pro bono projects include work that the firm’s employees perform for free or at a significantly reduced price, without such work being predominantly for Kromann Reumert’s own benefit. PRINCIPLE 2 Kromann Reumert carries out relevant pro bono work that is not religious or political in character (although there are some grey areas). PRINCIPLE 3 The scope of our pro bono work is proportionate to our firm’s size and character. PRINCIPLE 4 The individual departments within the firm have the autonomy to take on pro bono projects in the same way that they can take on other cases, but in order to coordinate the firm’s collective pro bono efforts we have put in place a ‘Pro Bono Committee’ that assumes responsibility for Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work. PRINCIPLE 5 As a general rule, we apply the same rules in handling pro bono cases as for all of our other work. However, when we consider whether or not to engage in pro bono projects, we undertake a more extensive assessment to ascertain whether a case might involve a conflict of interest or otherwise adversely affect Kromann Reumert. PARTNERSHIP AND PRO BONO 34 pro bonoOur partnerships: In brief We signed agreements with two further orLANGSIGTET HJÆLP TIL NØDLIDENDE BØRN ganizations in 2011: BØRNEHJÆLPSDAGEN SOS BØRNEBYERNE OMBOLD Børnehjælpsdagen (in English, SOS Børnebyerne (part of SOS ChilOMBOLD is the driving force behind Ønskefonden and ‘Children’s Help Day’) works to dren’s Villages International) is the an initiative aiming to put sport for help the 15,000 foster children and world’s largest private humanitarthe homeless and socially marginalHovedHuset. Read young people in Denmark, as well ian organization that seeks to help ized on the sociopolitical agenda. as supporting volunteer work in children in need. Read more at Read more at more about our partchildren’s and youth associations www.sos-borneby.dk (in Danish), www.ombold.dk (in Danish). ners below or on each and sports clubs. Read more at www.bhd.dk. or see www.sos-childrensvillages. org (in English). individual organization’s website. ASHOKA REDEN REDEN INTERNATIONAL COPENHAGEN PRIDE Ashoka is a global organization for Reden (The Nest) provides female Reden International (The Nest InterCopenhagen Pride’s mission is to the world’s leading social entrepreprostitutes with an escape from the national) is an organization dedicatpromote equality for homosexuneurs and seeks to find innovative harsh reality of life on the street; ed to fighting against the trafficking als, bisexuals and transsexuals in solutions to some of the most urgent they can get a hot shower, a meal, of women. It provides practical supDenmark. Read more at social problems on the planet. Read a bed for the night, and support port for foreign women involved in www.copenhagenpride.dk. more at www.ashoka.org. and advice to help them create a prostitution in Denmark. Read more life outside of prostitution and drug at www.redeninternational.dk. abuse. Read more at www.reden.dk (in Danish). Hjerneskadeforeningen HJERNESKADEFORENINGEN HOVEDHUSET INSTITUT FOR ØNSKEFONDEN Hjerneskadeforeningen (The Danish HovedHuset (in English, ‘The Head MENNESKERETTIGHEDER Make A Wish Ønskefonden aims to Brain Injury Association) is a nationHouse’) opened in February 2006 Work undertaken by Institut for fulfill the wishes of children who live wide, independent organization as a project initiated by the Danish Menneskerettigheder (The Danish in Denmark, are aged between 3-18 that works with families affected by Brain Injury Association. As at 1 Institute for Human Rights) includes years and suffer from a lifethreatbrain injury. Read more about the November 2011, HovedHuset was research, information, education and ening illness. They strive to meet Association at a private institution. HovedHuset documentation on human rights in each child’s ultimate and innermost www.hjerneskadeforeningen.dk. offers specialized services for Denmark and abroad in cooperadesire – to make each sick child the people of working age who have tion with organizations and public centre of attention and foster hope, sustained a brain injury. Read more authorities in Denmark, the Nordic strength and joy during a period at www.hovedhuset.dk. Council, the Council of Europe, when illness threatens that child’s OSCE, the EU and the UN. Read life. Read more at more at www.menneskeret.dk. www.onskefonden.dk. PARTNERSHIP AND PRO BONO 35 Results for 2011 Between March 2011 and March 2012 our legal staff recorded 1,099 pro bono hours. Additionally, a number of our administrative employees assisted with pro bono work, including our Project Center and Printing Services, and their time was not registered. It is therefore difficult to calculate the total contribution we have made to the organizations we are partnered with. We have also collected donations for various causes at the request of different employees. For example, in the winter seasons of 2011 and 2012 we collected winter clothes for Reden and Reden International. In 2012 we donated around 120kg worth of jackets, sweaters, pants, hats and gloves. In connection with the replacement of our coffee machines, we have also donated 400-500 porcelain coffee mugs to Reden in Aarhus and Copenhagen. Reden in Aarhus also received three desks. The level of involvement in Kromann Reumert remains high, and there is a growing interest among our employees to help organizations by providing legal assistance. This is evident when, for example, we use our intranet to advertise for new members to join our pro bono groups. RESULTS FOR 2011 36 RESULTS IN RELATION TO OUR INDIVIDUAL PRO BONO PARTNERS FOR THE PERIOD 1 MARCH 2011 TO 1 MARCH 2012 Organization Goals articulated for 2011 Activities in 2011 OMBOLD We have provided advice to OMBOLD on their employment contracts. OMBOLD’s shortterm goal is to transition from a grassroots organization to a more Kromann Reumert’s Printing Services department has carried out printing established organization active within the tasks for OMBOLD. area of social marginalization. As part of this process, OMBOLD has – for the first We have provided suitable premises, equipment and catering for OMBOLD’s time – received funding from the Danannual twoday employee seminar. ish state. In this connection, Kromann Reumert will assist with helping to put We have assisted with various applications within OMBOLD’s regulatory in place the legal framework necessary framework, including applications to Civilstyrelsen (the Danish Department for the institution, including establishing of Civil Affairs). dialogue with the public authorities and updating OMBOLD’s Articles of AssociaWe have also provided assistance on an ad hoc basis where required, and tion and employment contracts. In 2011, have generally fulfilled OMBOLD’s needs regarding legal advice. OMBOLD plans to launch a sponsorship concept called ‘Klub 2011’ (‘Club 2011’) Klub 2011 remains on standby and we did not undertake any activities in which is intended to secure a higher relation to this project in 2011. degree of selffinancing. For this project, Kromann Reumert will assist OMBOLD with establishing framework agreements and individual sponsorship agreements. SOS Børnebyerne We have advised in relation to various legacy cases where SOS Børneby(SOS Children’s Villages) erne has been appointed beneficiary, including correspondence with other We will continue to provide the current beneficiaries and any administrators, and guidance and advice about the level of assistance with a view to continutreatment of estate assets or liabilities. ing to improve, among other things, internal procedures within SOS Børnebyerne We have helped with advice for the association’s members on the modifiso that it can be seen to be a professional cation of existing wills and the creation of new wills, especially guidance organization and partner from both interregarding inheritance laws. nal and external perspectives. We have assisted in the preparation of documents for SOS Børnebyerne, We will take care of SOS Børnebyerne’s particularly in relation to gifts and bequests in favour of the organization, needs with regard to legal advice within and we have assisted with general information on inheritance rules and the any area and at the same time continue options for making donations to SOS Børnebyerne. with and build on our role as ‘trusted advisor’. We have also advised SOS Børnebyerne on various questions concerning the legality of donations. In this context, we have helped establish an associaSOS Børnebyerne is expected to join our tion so that SOS Børnebyerne can publically solicit new members without special training event for board members violating the law that prohibits collecting money in public places. We have in voluntary organizations. also provided advice to SOS Børnebyerne on different contractual issues regarding an agreement on the provision of recruitment services. We have also assisted SOS Børnebyerne in relation to a long list of isolated questions concerning issues like campaigns, and have provided advice on a series of internal matters, including revising the Articles of Association. RESULTS FOR 2011 37 Organization Goals articulated for 2011 Activities in 2011 Børnehjælpsdagen We have assisted Børnehjælpsdagen with a revision of the rules of pro(or ‘Children’s Help Day’) cedure for its board, together with amendments to the fund’s Articles of We will continue to provide the same Association, questions about intellectual property and the preparation of kinds of legal assistance on an ad hoc consent forms and advice on disclaimers for events taking place on property basis as required, as well as project assisloaned for that purpose. tance for various projects. Kromann Reumert will take care of Børnehjælpsdagen’s needs with regard to legal advice. RESULTS FOR 2011 38 Organization Goals articulated for 2011 Activities in 2011 Ønskefonden We have handled various legal tasks for Ønskefonden on an ongoing basis. (or ‘The Make A Wish Foundation’) Among other tasks, we have assisted Ønskefonden in relation to questions Goals were not listed in last year’s report. about internal compliance rules set out by the international parent organization, Make A Wish Foundation International, including (but not limited to) interpretation and consistency issues regarding the types of illnesses that qualify a child to have his/her wish granted. We have had various documents from Make A Wish Foundation International translated into Danish and adapted them according to Danish law. We have also assisted Ønskefonden in getting key areas regulated by agreements, including the development of a sponsorship agreement and an ambassador agreement. We have also helped with employment law advice in relation to volunteer workers and concerning a specific employment relationship. Hjerneskadeforeningen We have helped Hjerneskadeforeningen separate out the project Hoved(The Danish Brain Injury Association) Huset to create a private institution. The project, which commenced in 2006 We will advise Hjerneskadeforeningen on with funds from Socialministeriet (The Ministry of Social Affairs and Integraseparating out a particular project to cretion), is a work community for people afflicted by brain injury who seek an ate a separate legal entity. active life with employment. HovedHuset’s philosophy is that everyone can do something, and that everyone is good at something! Kromann Reumert We will conduct a seminar on board assisted with the transfer of projectrelated activities and assets from responsibilities, to which members of the Hjerneskadeforeningen to HovedHuset. board from all of our pro bono partners will be invited. Additionally, we held an especially wellattended seminar on directors’ responsibilities for charity organizations. The seminar came about through the We will provide legal advice on an ongoregular exchange of ideas between Hjerneskadeforeningen and Kromann ing basis and continue the existing coopReumert. eration, including drawing up wills for the association’s legacy donors. We have also provided advice that has required input from many of our specialty departments. Such advice has concerned issues like: employment matters, lease contracts, changes to the Articles of Association, material for the association’s website including IP-related issues, and ongoing over-thephone advice to Hjerneskadeforeningen’s staff in response to questions about contributions from donors, gifts and bequests, and pending legacy cases. RESULTS FOR 2011 39 Organization Goals articulated for 2011 Activities in 2011 Reden (The Nest) Assistance provided to Reden has included the analysis of a funding agreeWe will provide legal advice on an ment for operations from the City of Copenhagen and its significance in ongoing basis and continue the existing relation to appeals against decisions, rights for the use of logos and the cooperation. review and assessment of Reden’s Articles of Association. We have also helped Reden by giving them Kromann Reumert’s unneeded coffee mugs, and we have collected clothing for Reden customers. This can now be used at various shelters. Reden International (The Nest International) We have assisted Reden International with employment law issues associWe will provide legal advice on an ated with being an institution that is operationally dependent on fixed-term ongoing basis and continue the existing funding, an update of Reden International’s employment contracts, advice cooperation. on whether or not to join a collective agreement, and help with handling claims made by several former employees and their unions. We have also assisted with legal advice for putting in place a scheme where women in Reden International’s EXIT system can be offered fixed-term contracts for paid cleaning work at Reden International’s premises. This is intended to help women prepare for entry into the labour market. We have also helped Reden International with a clothing collection for its patrons. This can now be used at various shelters. RESULTS FOR 2011 40 Organization Goals articulated for 2011 Activities in 2011 Copenhagen Pride We have provided legal assistance for matters such as a dispute with an We will provide legal advice on an actor/comedian, and other ad hoc tasks. ongoing basis and continue the existing cooperation. Institut for Menneskerettigheder We have provided all of the legal advice that Institut for Menneskerettighe(The Danish Institute for Human Rights) der needed in 2011. We will provide ongoing legal advice, which includes identifying important and We have helped to investigate and evaluate whether a particular contract urgent matters that need to be prioritized that was awarded was required to be put out to tender. over other tasks. We have assisted Institut for Menneskerettigheder in concluding a lawsuit regarding the dismissal of an employee. Judgement was received in December 2011. The case is being appealed to the High Court and we are currently awaiting a ruling from Civilstyrelsen (The Department of Civil Affairs) as to whether the former employees can access free legal aid to appeal. Ashoka We have assisted Denmark’s first Ashoka Fellow, Specialisterne (The SpeciaWe will provide legal advice on an ongolist People Foundation), in the preparation of standard contracts designed ing basis to Ashoka and Ashoka Fellows in for cooperation with foreign partners who seek to pursue Specialisterne’s Denmark. concept in other countries. Specialisterne aim to change the world’s view of autistic people and take advantage of these people’s special abilities, including by creating more jobs for them for the mutual benefit of the individual and society. We have also assisted Specialisterne with ongoing advice regarding structural, employmentrelated and other internal matters. Educational efforts We have taught students at CBS West (the hairdresser school) about interWe will place increased emphasis on idennet trading (online sales) and starting a business. tifying educational institutions where our teaching about the meaning and impact We have also assisted Dansk Skoleskak (an educational organization for of the law will make a difference. Our school children) in a case concerning the allocation of funding. We have pro bono education group will continue helped them lodge a complaint with tribunal Tipsungdomsnævnet regarding teaching at CPH West and Erhvervsakadthe Danish Youth Council’s decision on the allocation of grants. No decision emiet (The Business Academy). has been taken yet. We have also helped with board work at Stiftelsen Georg Stages Minde, a foundation that trains deck hands and operates a training ship. The foundation’s Vice-President is Lars Rosenberg Overby, Partner at Kromann Reumert. NEW GOALS FOR THE COMING YEAR WITH OUR INDIVIDUAL PRO BONO PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE PERIOD 1 MARCH 2012 TO 1 MARCH 2013 Between 1 March 2012 and 1 March 2013 we will continue to provide legal advice and maintain our existing cooperation with all of the organizations that we have created pro bono partnerships with. RESULTS FOR 2011 41 Thank you! Dear Kromann Reumert employees, Thank you for the considerable interest you have shown in helping to make a difference. Your everyday commitment to Kromann Reumert’s work with social responsibility means that a number of organizations are able to assist people in need, homeless persons, sick children and many more. Your commitment also means that with each passing day, we find new ways to further protect the environment through cutting down our CO2 emissions – as well as significantly more initiatives and activities. It makes us proud that you want to help make a difference. Sincerely, Management Claus Juel Hansen Sille Stener Søren Villadsen Tina Larsen KORT OM KROMANN REUMERT 42
