METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 → Contents → p. 01 Letter from the Management Board → p. 03 Group structure → p. 04 Review of 2011 → p. 06 Mission statement on sustainability → p. 09 our approach → p. 10 Global challenges → p. 12 Supply chain and products → p. 14 Other projects and measures → p. 16 Energy and resource management → p. 18 ­METRO ­GROUP’s carbon footprint → p. 20 Other projects and measures → p. 22 Employees and social affairs → p. 24 Other projects and measures → p. 26 Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → p. 28 Other projects and measures → p. 31 OUR RESULTS → p. 32 Sustainability management system → p. 33 Key performance indicators → p. 33 Company → p. 34 Supply chain and products → p. 34 Energy and resource management → p. 39 Employees and social affairs → p. 42 Goals 2011 → p. 50 UN Global Compact → p. 53 Information bilit y es → Back join in the dialogue ts a n d figur a i n a /sust cover: , fa c – d ata it y on line o u p . d e etrogr in a b i l s u sta w w . m in f o r m at io n fa st ? N 100 w l ink! c if ic a c c ess s p e q u i c k wa n t t o t he just use METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 → Letter from the Management Board → p. 01 N 101 Dear Readers, 2011 was an eventful year, both for the global economy and for ­METRO G ­ ROUP. The year was hallmarked by dramatic events such as the Arab Spring, the nuclear disaster in Fukushima and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. These radical changes had a social impact in many of the countries where ­METRO ­GROUP operates and also affected our customers and business partners. We felt the consequences keenly and are still feeling them now in 2012. Nevertheless, ­METRO G ­ ROUP succeeded in posting a net profit for 2011 that ­almost matched the record figure from 2010. This was only possible because all of the units and sales divisions worked together. We initiated a large number of p­rojects and measures because it is crucial to move with the changing times in order to survive. 2011 also prompted us to overhaul our sustainability management and thereby pave the way for us to make fundamental decisions about our ­future course in 2012. Our report reflects this development. It conveys our basic understanding and the principles at the heart of our sustainability activities. It also shows the fields of ­action within our core line of business, which are the areas where we believe we have a responsibility to act. This is where we aim to enhance value added for our customers in various ways, one of which is our sustainability management system. Along with our strategic focal points – Transform, Grow, Improve, Expand and Innovate – thinking and acting in a sustainable way enhances the value of METRO GROUP for our customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and ­investors. In short, for s ­ ociety and environment. METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → Letter from the Management board → p. 02 Our next step is to use this report to offer a preview of our sustainability concept for 2012, which lays the foundations for the further development of our sustainability management system in the future. In doing so, we will draw on our experiences to date and build on existing projects that are already enabling us to make a contribution towards sustainable business. Read on to find out more about our approach to socially and ecologically responsible business. We hope you find the report interesting and informative. for ­METRO ­G ROUP, our sales divisions and our colleagues Düsseldorf, May 2012 Olaf Koch mark frese heiko hutmacher frans w. h. muller ch a irm a n of the chief financial member of the m a n agement member of the m a n agement boa rd of officer boa rd, responsible for m a n agement boa rd metro ag hum a n resources our international success has a strong base 280,856 dedicated employees at more than 2,100 locations in 33 countries. Strong sales brands with a comprehensive service spectrum and convincing concepts: wholesale stores, hypermarkets, consumer electronics stores, online stores, ­d epartment stores and real estate management. This is the diversity of ­METRO G ­ ROUP. METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → Group structure → p. 03 N 102 made to trade ­METRO ­GROUP’s structure With approximately 280,000 employees in 33 countries, Media-Saturn is Europe’s No. 1 consumer electronics re­M ETRO ­G ROUP is one of the most important international tailer. The sales division’s retail brands Media Markt and retail and wholesale companies in the world. The Group’s Saturn are represented in 16 different countries. The pure parent company is METRO AG, its central management play online retailer Redcoon, which has been part of Mediaholding company. Saturn since 2011, distributes products in ten countries. A decentralised organisational structure, attractive offers, Our four sales divisions are responsible for the operatdedicated staff and innovative marketing all contribute toing business. They offer private and business customers wards the sales division’s success. a variety of goods and services tailored to their specific shopping habits. All of the sales divisions have sole reGaleria Kaufhof is one of the leading department store sponsibility for their entire supply chain – from procureoperators in Europe with locations in Germany and in Belment to logistics and sales. The Company’s real estate gium, where the sales division is known as Galeria Inno. All portfolio is managed by METRO PROPERTIES. Ser vice of its stores boast highly competitive, international product companies provide ­M ETRO ­G ROUP with comprehensive ranges and high-quality own brands twinned with eventsupport. orie­ntated product presentation. Galeria Kaufhof is positioned as a modern retail brand with a distinctive profile. Metro Cash & Carry is the leading international cash & carry wholesaler. Its brands Metro and Makro operate in 30 counMETRO PROPERTIES is ­METRO ­GROUP’s real estate comtries throughout Europe, Asia and Africa. The wholesale pany. It is responsible for managing the world’s most int­ stores’ range of products and services is geared specifically ernational portfolio of retail and wholesale properties towards the needs of business owners. Its main customers spanning some 30 different countries. METRO PROPERTIES’ are hoteliers, restaurateurs, catering firms, independent reprime objective is to increase the value of the Group’s real tailers, service providers and public authorities. estate assets long term by means of active, strategic port­ folio management. Its services include the identification of Real is one of Germany’s leading hypermarket chains. The new sites, the development and construction of retail/wholesales division also has stores in Poland, Romania, Russia, sale properties and energy management for the sales outlets. Turkey and Ukraine. All of its hypermarkets offer a large percentage of high-quality fresh produce, a varied nonfood range and good value for money. Overview of ­METRO ­GROUP and its segments ­M ETRO ­G ROUP METRO AG Media Markt Metro Cash & Carry Real Saturn Galeria Kaufhof Real Estate Makro Cash & Carry Redcoon METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → review of 2011 → p. 04 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 s e l e c te d e v e n t s review of 2011 N 103 Certificate for ­family-friendly ­human resources policy selected events from the reporting period 2011 05/2011: For the second time since 2007, ­ ETRO ­GROUP’s Düsseldorf Campus was M awarded the “audit berufundfamilie” certifi­ cate for family-friendly employers.  M ­ ETRO ­GROUP a sustainably managed Certified quality business for the first time and awarded the Successful energy-­ 01 / 2011: The subsidiaries ­METRO ­GROUP Company Prime status. This serves to rec­ saving campaign Energy Production & Management (MEM) – ommend the retail and wholesale company 06/2011: The Media-Saturn campaign “SPAR now METRO PROPERTIES Energy Manage­ to investors who attach special importance MAL WAT(T)” was nominated for the Ger­ ment – and ­METRO ­GROUP Energy Solu­ to ecological and social ethics.  man Prize for Business Communication. tions (MES) were certified according to the The project aimed to encourage employees standards ISO 9001 (quality management to use energy responsibly and thereby slash systems) and EN 16001 (energy manage­ Top German power usage. ment systems). ­METRO Group Asset Man­ ­employer 2011 agement Poland – now METRO PROPER­ 03/2011: The CRF Institute (Corporate TIES Poland – was certified in line with ISO Research Foundation) acknowledged 9001 and ISO 14001 (environmental man­ ­M ETRO ­GROUP for its outstanding hum­a n agement systems).  resources management. Every year since 2003, the institute has awarded its stamp of approval to companies with excellent Ban on ­ HR strategies and practices.  sandblasted clothing 02 /2011: ­M ETRO ­GROUP and its sales div­ isions issued a Group-wide ban on the pro­ Award for fair Partnership with food curement of sandblasted denim. The ban ­employment banks extended applies to all orders placed by any sales div­ 0 4 / 2011: The service sector union Verdi 06/2011: ­METRO ­GROUP renewed its com­ ision with existing or new suppliers. presented two Real stores in Hamburg with mitment as the main sponsor of Germany’s the “Handeln ausgezeichnet 2011” award. food bank organisation. The retail and whole­ Both hypermarkets fulfilled all six cri­ sale company extended its financial support teria for fair employment defined by Verdi for Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V. by as part of a nationwide retail campaign further three years.  in Germany.  “Shopping for all International sponsor ­generations“ at 05/2011: ­M ETRO ­GROUP was the inter­ ­Galeria Kaufhof national sponsor for the Eurovision Song 07/2011: The quality badge “Generationen­ Sustainably Contest with its sales brands Metro freundliches Einkaufen” (Shopping for all ­ anaged business m ­Cash & Carry, Saturn and Galeria Kaufhof. generations) was awarded to two of the de­ 02 /2011: oekom research, one of the Metro Cash & Carry was also one of the partment store chain’s outlets in Düssel­ world’s leading rating agencies in the event’s chosen suppliers.  dorf and its shops in Leipzig and Freiburg. field of sustainable investments, named An impressive 56 of the sales division’s 2011 METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → review of 2011 → p. 05 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 s e l e c te d e v e n t s stores had been granted the certificate to Galeria Kaufhof GmbH and Real as “Sus­ by the end of 2011. Purchasing tainable companies 2011”. Galeria Kaufhof g ­ uidelines for fish took a silver medal for its dedication to en­ 09/2011: ­M ETRO ­GROUP established a vironmental and social ethics within its tex­ Group-wide purchasing policy for fish to tile product ranges, Real was awarded silver protect global fish stocks. The guidelines for food and bronze for textiles. define the criteria that apply to fish procurement and contain general rules for all sales divisions and national organisations within the retail and wholesale group.  PR prize for ­ Corporate Responsibility compliance campaign unit established at Real 10/2011: The PR experts from Deutsche Pub­ 07/2011: The new unit pools and coordin­ DJSI World listing lic Relations Gesellschaft e. V. (DPRG) and ates all social and ecological activities at 09/2011: ­M ETRO ­ ROUP was again listed G F.A.Z.-Institut honoured ­METRO ­GROUP’s Real. Cross-divisional projects are divided in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index compliance communications. The retail into four fields of action: supply chain, en­ World (DJSI World). The index includes and wholesale company was awarded the ergy and the environment, employees and companies that outperform the rest of International German PR Award 2011 in corporate culture, and customers and their sector in ecological, social and comthe internal communications category for ­society.  mercial terms.  its Group-wide campaign “einfach richtig” (simply right). Galeria Kaufhof’s Inclusion in the ­climate target raised ­Carbon Disclosure Voluntary commitment 08/2011: Galeria Kaufhof succeeded in Leadership Index to female managers r­educing its climate impact per square 09/2011: The Carbon Disclosure Project 10/2011: ­M ETRO ­GROUP pledged to in­ metre of selling space by 28 percent since (CDP) included M ­ ETRO ­GROUP in the Global crease the percentage of women in man­ 2006, meaning it has already exceeded its 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. agerial positions around the world to 20 climate protection target. The company This index highlights firms that take a percent by the end of 2013 and to 25 per­ stepped up its commitment even further highly professional approach to ­publishing cent by the end of 2015. 2011 serves as the and raised its climate protection target to information about climate change.  reference year (19.2 percent).  40 percent by 2015. Award-winning ­ Cooperation with energy management UNIDO expanded 10/2011: The EHI Retail Institute presented 09/2011: The United Nations Industrial its Energy Management Award 2011 to Metro Development Organization (UNIDO) and Cash & Carry Germany. The sales division ­M ETRO ­GROUP strengthened their com­ was awarded a special prize for outstand­ mitment to more efficient supply chains Galeria Kaufhof and ing technical achievements for a micro gas and improved food supplies. In 2011, the part­ Real acknowledged as turbine that supplies the wholesale store in ners launched training programmes for farm­ sustainable retailers Schwelm with eco-friendly electricity, heat ers and suppliers in India and Russia.  09/2011: The consumer organisation VERand commercial refrigeration.  BRAUCHER INITIATIVE e. V. awarded prizes 2011 METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → Mission Statement on Sustainability → p. 06 N 104 ­METRO ­GROUp’s Mission Statement on Sustainability Our commitment to sustainability L ong-term economic growth can only be achieved if it is in harmony with a responsible approach to society and the environment. We fully endorse this principle of sustain­­ab­ility. It therefore acts as a framework for the five strategic focal points of our corporate strategy. In 2010, we initiated the “Go sustainable 2012” programme, which paved the way for integrating sustainability into our core business activities. In concrete terms, this means that all our commercial decisions and processes take ecological and social ­requirements into account, especially with a view to pressing global challenges. These ­include safeguarding food supplies, conserving resources, coping with demographic change and making consumption sustainable. For us as a retail and wholesale company, these challenges pose both opportunities and threats. We incorporated sustainability-­ related factors into our risk management system in the reporting year. This will enable us to prevent possible negative ramifications and identify positive trends at an early stage. Product and environmental risks are among the aspects that are now monitored. W e see it as our responsibility to make a sustainable contribution towards solving global challenges within the scope of our business activities. At the same time, we want to meet the increasing expectations of our various stakeholder groups with our commitment to sustainability. With all this in mind, we drew up a sustainability mission statement for our Company in 2011. It takes external requirements and global challenges into account and describes ­METRO ­GROUP’s four fields of action and the way in which our sustainability management system is organised. Above all, however, it defines our understanding of ­sustainability, which is the basis for our actions. B uilding on the sustainability mission statement, the Management Board of METRO AG will develop a sustainability vision for the Group in 2012. This will underline the strategic importance of this issue and further sharpen our ­sustainability profile. The sustainability vision will be managed at strategic level and translated into sales-specific strategies, enabling it to filter through into the sales divisions’ core business. METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → Mission Statement on Sustainability → p. 07 Our definition of sustainability Principles and guidelines As a reliable partner for our customers and suppliers, we We have adopted the following principles, which shape the want to do business in a way that enables us to cater for the way in which we anchor our sustainability concept in day-toneeds of future generations. day Company operations: Motivation → Economic feasibility: We maintain a balance between the economic demands of our core line of business and exact­ We believe that adopting a sustainability policy that incorp­ ing ecological and social standards. orates economic, environmental and social factors into our → Materiality: Our work identifies and focuses on aspects of core business activities enables us to permanently secure sustainability that are strategically relevant for our core our competitive position. Specifically, we want to: business activities. Information is provided about factors our customers and stakeholders deem r­ elevant to their Effectively capitalise on opportunities and advantages decision-making. →  Utilise growth opportunities that present themselves → Responsibility: Codes of conduct and duty of care guidewhen we improve our sustainability activities or tap new lines result in clearly defined responsibilities within the product segments, markets and customer groups, for Group for the operational implementation, further devel­ example. opment and improvement of our sustainability perform­ → Reliably provide a sustainable product range that meets ance. customers’ needs. → Spirit of partnership: We engage in open, constructive → Make full use of potential cost savings. dialogue with all stakeholder groups. Whenever possible, we collaborate with national and international organisaIdentify risks early on and prevent negative consequences tions to make our sustainability measures more effective. → Permanently safeguard the availability of resources and → Ongoing improvements: Our sustainability targets are goods. specific, quantifiable and of prime importance. We regu→ E stablish quality, environmental and social standards larly publish details of the progress we have made and set to reduce the risks to our reputation and commercial ourselves new targets when existing ones are achieved. success. → Reduce the impact of impending expenses arising, for These principles are supplemented by specific guidelines that ­instance, from soaring energy and commodity prices. are tailored optimally to the requirements of our operating business. We are also guided by established external sustain­ Strengthen our reputation and confidence in our Company ability guidelines, such as those published by the UN Global → Improve our competitive position and give ourselves Compact, the OECD or the International Labour Organization great­er scope for action by sharpening our stakeholders’ (ILO). It is crucial for the Company’s long-term credibility that perception of METRO GROUP as a responsible company. we consistently uphold these sustainability guidelines and → Manage society’s expectations by means of constructive principles and act on them in a verifiable fashion. dialogue with our stakeholders and heighten their accept­­ ance. →  Generate social value added via our commitment to our locations’ attractiveness and competitiveness as a ­responsible corporate citizen. 1 We define our stakeholders as employees, customers, capital market operators, policy makers, the media and non-governmental organisations METRO GROUP : progress report Sustainabilit y 2011 → Mission Statement on Sustainability → p. 08 Our fields of action Employees and social affairs Our customers’ individual requirements are at the heart of Against the backdrop of global social and ecological chaleverything we do. That is why we need dedicated employees lenges and our stakeholders’ various expectations, we have who put this pledge into practice every day. We have thereidentified four Company-wide fields of action for our sus­ fore adopted a forward-looking, caring human resources tainability commitment: policy with the goal of attracting, developing and retaining enough qualified staff within the international competitive → S  upply chain and products environment. → Energy and resource management → Employees and social affairs The following aspects are relevant in this context: → Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → Compliance with human rights and international working standards. These fields of action cover the whole supply chain and the → Promoting diversity and equal opportunities. many points at which METRO GROUP interfaces with society. → Occupational health and safety, health management. They clearly show where we have the greatest influence over → C onsistent training and continuing professional devel­ sustainability-related processes. opment. Supply chain and products Social policies and stakeholder dialogue As well as distributing brand products, METRO GROUP marMETRO GROUP is part of society, be it as a partner engaged in kets a large number of high-quality own-brand items for economic and sociopolitical dialogue, an employer, a supporwhich it is directly responsible at product level. In addition ter of the local region, or a supplier of a wide range of products to guaranteeing flawless product quality, our suppliers have for its customers. Accordingly the Group is confronted with to comply with environmental standards and ensure that fair, various stakeholder expectations. Assessing these expectahumane working conditions are in place. tions gives us important input for our sustainability management and helps us to make it more effective. As key opinion The following aspects are relevant in this context: shapers and representatives of METRO GROUP, our staff →  C onserving resources, ethical procurement and pro­play a major role in communicating our messages to the d­uction. ­w ider public. They deal directly with our customers and → Traceable raw materials and processing stages. suppliers and therefore receive important feedback every day, which we use to further optimise our range of products Energy and resource management and services. The production, distribution and use of the goods we sell are associated with different environmental aspects throughout The following aspects are relevant in this context: the supply chain. As a retail and wholesale company, we have → T  ransparent, open dialogue with all stakeholder groups. a special responsibility for utilising finite resources ­carefully → Shaping new networks and partnerships of shared re­and reducing climate-relevant emissions, especially at our sp­onsibility. stores and in our own logistics processes. Within the above-mentioned fields of action, the sales div­ The following aspects are relevant in this context: isions define their own issues and targets in line with their → Recording greenhouse gas emissions within our carbon specific operational requirements. This set of issues and footprint reporting. targets forms the basis for making ongoing improvements →  Energy-efficient processes and the enhancement of to our Group-wide sustainability performance. As part of our ­employees’ energy skills. sustainability management throughout the Group, we record → Waste and packaging management. relevant activities, chart developments, document the implementation of measures, and communicate all this to both internal and external stakeholders using tools such as our sustainability report. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 → p. 09 1 OUR 1 our approach 2 APPROACH RO DU CT S ENE RGY AN DR ES O UR our results DP CE AN MA A IN NA LY C UP PL IE S C ON SE R GEM H DS V IN EN T F OO G SUPP G RE D IN SO UA R URC S A F EG ES N P TIO ! DEM UM OG RA NS ? HI CC CO E P E HA A BL OGU EMP NGE SUS TA I N IAL LOY 2050 RD DE EE S OL AN EH DS OC TA K S IA D LA AN FFA IRS IC IE S P OL IAL SOC METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Global challenges → p. 10 N 105 Global challenges ­METRO ­GROUP has identified four global challenges that have a direct impact on its core line of business and present both opportunities and threats for its operating activities. It is crucial to recognise the relationship between cause and effect in order to minimise the threats and to make use of the opportunities. Doing this is absolutely essential if we are to develop targeted measures to ­overcome these challenges. – one – Safeguarding food supplies A s the world population grows, it is increasingly important for us to safeguard the supply of food through farming and fishing. A study by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates that a 60 to 70 percent increase in food production is needed by 2050 in order to safeguard food supplies. The environmental impact of intensifying primary production restricts the use of soils and inshore waters and threatens the ability of whole ecosystems to function. This situation is further exacerbated by the use of land that is suitable for food production to grow crops for industrial processing and energy. Against this backdrop, ­METRO ­GROUP is dedicated to boosting yields per acre whilst conserving ­resources throughout the supply chain. Reducing food waste is another priority. Optimising production methods sustainably increases the crop harvested from the same amount of land. Improving processing also ups the amount of marketable ­produce. Sophisticated logistical and ordering systems help to decrease food waste en route from the field to the store. Responsible product range management, packaging and consumer information also minimise the spoilage of edible produce. – two – Conserving resources P opulation growth and increasing industrialisation around the world – including in developing countries – are prompting the demand for goods and services to rise. Pressure on both finite and renewable resources is increasing. These ­resources include energy carriers, metals, wood and food. In the case of finite resources, this places a strain on dwindling supplies and prompts new, previously inaccessible sources to be tapped. This has drastic consequences for ecosystems: a reduction in biodiversity, droughts, erosion and flooding. All of this in turn makes it more difficult to grow and use ­renewable agricultural commodities. ­METRO ­GROUP takes a three-pronged approach to supporting efforts to deal with our dependence on finite resources and the fundamental threat to renewable processes. One aspect is managing energy use and logistics: we take steps to increase energy efficiency and use renewables. Furthermore, we promote the conservation of ­resources at product level by developing optimised manufacturing standards and pursuing sustainable procurement strat­ egies. The volume of resources used can be reduced by means of efficient, cyclical process structures and by reusing and ­recycling materials. And last but not least, proactive waste management helps to reduce unused materials. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Global challenges → p. 11 – three – Demographic change D emographic change is bringing about structural shifts in society all around the world. While stagnating birth rates in Europe are prompting the continent’s population to age and shrink, the developing countries are experiencing a baby boom, which is driving up migration. For the European labour market, this means that there are fewer people of working age in many countries. At the same time, young people from developing countries are flooding the global labour market. Companies face the worldwide challenge of coping with this profound shift – for example by adopting a responsible human ­resources policy, enabling older employees to keep working and offering professionals and junior staff the necessary development opportunities. ­METRO ­GROUP takes a modern approach to human resources management with individual working and career options tailored to its employees’ needs. Consumers’ expectations are also shifting due to demographic change. This poses another challenge for businesses, especially in the trade sector. In established markets, companies have to reconcile the needs of ageing consumers with those of younger shoppers. To capitalise on the potential presented by this trend, ­METRO ­GROUP’s sales divisions are proactively adjusting their concepts, product ranges and marketing strategies to meet local customers’ expectations. – four – Sustainable consumption L ooking at the big picture makes it clear how much the above-mentioned challenges affect one another and the extent to which they are related to the usage and consumption of commodities, goods and services. The fundamental purpose of trade and retail is to offer shoppers goods how and where they need and want them. The issues of safeguarding food supplies, conserving resources, and demographic changes in consumer structures have a major impact on how products should be made in the future and the way in which they can be supplied. At the same time, consumption patterns – i.e. consumers’ use of goods and services – has to change in order to cushion negative developments and promote positive trends. ­METRO ­GROUP stimulates sustainable consumption by aligning its product ranges with sustainability criteria, guaranteeing traceability in the supply chain and proactively providing consumers with information using tools such as labelling and seals. Working with partners and maintaining dialogue with customers, experts and advocacy groups also helps to make supply chain structures and consumption more sustainable. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Supply chain and products → p. 12 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h Supp l y c h a i n a n d pro d u c t s Supply chain – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP and products – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP responsible W hen it comes to our own-brand ranges, we have a particular responsibility to offer as many trade sustainable products as possible and provide our customers with comprehensive N 106 information. Seals and product labelling are just two of the ways in which we proAs a retail and wholesale company, ­METRO ­GROUP takes over vide information about the production responsibility regarding its products and supply chain. Our methods used for specific items. For inaim is to inform customers, make shopping sustainable and stance, Makro Cash & Carry Netherlands work closely with suppliers. has been selling more than 40 sustain­ able varieties of tea and coffee under its own brand Rioba since 2011. Customers can also choose fair-trade tea or coffee with the Rainforest Alliance’s green frog seal. This indicates that products have been manufactured in a way that respects sensitive ecosystems. Galeria Kaufhof offers a total of 50 different items made from skin-friendly, organic cotton in its own-brand Galeria Home ranges of bed linen, bedding and towels. The company is also sharpening its focus on sustain­ ability in its baby clothing range. In 2011, it launched 34 items made from organic cotton under its own brand Bob der Bär. Most of these products are also certified in line with the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) for environmentally and socially ethical fabrics. 1 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Supply chain and products → p. 13 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h Supp l y c h a i n a n d pro d u c t s Group-wide purchasuce such as fruit, vegetables, fish and at its hypermarkets. Up to 130 growers ing policy for fish meat. To strengthen smaller-scale prod­ had the opportunity to present and sell Extensive use is made of careful checks ucers in particular, the company will dis­ their products directly to Real cus­tomers at combined with corresponding product establish end-of-year refunds for these each event. labelling for fish, an important food reproduct groups as of 2012. In the future, source. Our approach is based on inter13 central purchasing offices will overOther Metro companies are successfully nationally recognised quality standards, see the procurement of certain product following this good example. In Novemsuch as those set by GLOBALG.A.P. The groups. Four of these buying offices – ber 2011, 44 Metro Cash & Carry wholeorganisation develops voluntary standValencia, Rotterdam, Boston and Ansale stores in 38 Russian cities held a ards for the certification of agricultural talya – have already opened. The fruit regional suppliers’ event. Meanwhile, products on a global scale and is curand vegetable logistics platform linked Makro Cash & Carry Egypt sold its entire rently also forging ahead with the certiwith the procurement centre in An­ range of fresh fruit and vegetables at cost fication of sustainable aquaculture. From talya was also certified in line with price for two days in December 2011. This June 2011 until June 2012, Real Germany the International Featured Standard special offer was the company’s way of and most of the countries where Metro (IFS) Logistics Standard in 2011. This supporting a “Buy Egyptian” campaign Cash & Carry International operates are guarantees that its processes comply initiated by a TV channel. taking part in a joint purchasing project with the highest standards of quality. and selling GLOBALG.A.P.-certified frozen Complete, ­t ransparent pangasius as part of their own-brand The company is also making its procuretraceability ranges. The amount of certified fish sold ment structures in developing countries At some point, it should be possible to trace in this way corresponds to around 40 permore sustainable by setting up local the origins of all goods throughout the cent of the volume of frozen pangasius purcollection centres for farmers. Metro supply chain to the same extent that rechased worldwide by Metro Cash & Carry Cash & Carry established centres of gional products can currently be tracked. International and Real Germany. this kind in the Indian states of Andhra With this goal in mind, we are committed Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and to introducing modern technical methods To promote global standards and supPunjab in 2011. As the centres are close to of product labelling. These include, for export sustainable fisheries and aquathe areas where produce is grown, fruit is ample, SGTIN labelling (Serialized Global farms, we approved a Group-wide fish now delivered to stores less than 15 hours Trade Item Number), which encodes addipurchasing policy in September 2011. after it was picked. This process previtional information about the best before ­METRO ­GROUP’s sales divisions have ously took 36 hours. Customers can buy date or weight of a product. The data caradded their own guidelines to tailor the high-quality, fresh fruit and vegetables riers used to label goods or objects allow overall policy to their specific areas of as a result. This minimises the amount of items to be clearly identified anywhere business and are implementing it step food going off on its way from the field to in the world. Interested members of the by step. The range of sustainably sourced the store. public can experience the practical adfish will be extended further. Around vantages of traceability and its benefits for the world, the sales divisions Metro Strengthening regional customers at the 1919 Traceability Bistro Cash & Carry, Real and Galeria Kaufhof suppliers and farmers in Shanghai, China. The bistro, which is currently market more than 110 Marine SteWe are taking targeted action to strengthen supplied by Metro Cash & Carry, is an exwardship Council-certified (MSC) fish proour local suppliers and encourage consuample of best practice for food safety. Most ducts under their own brands. mers to buy regional products. One such inof its dishes are prepared using traceable itiative is the project “Produceti româneste, food. This ensures that food is transported Efficient procurement vindem româneste!” – “Grow Romanian from field to fork in a transparent process So as to cater for the needs of profesproducts, we sell Romanian prod­ucts!” – and also guarantees that it is 100 percent sional customers and further ramp up which was launched by Real Romania in safe and fresh. its collaboration with local producers, 2011. In Romania, Real was also the first Metro Cash & Carry has optimised its retailer to organise supplier shows purchasing strategy for ultra-fresh prod­ for traditional and organic products 1 / 4 other projects and measures : please turn the page METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Supply chain and products → p. 14 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h Supp l y c h a i n a n d pro d u c t s Other projects and measures – ­METRO ­GROUP – – GALERIA KAUFHOF – Supplier development Clarity in the and safeguarding food supplies labelling jungle M ­ ETRO ­GROUP suppliers have to meet high quality requireGaleria Kaufhof introduced a new “Natürlich Galeria” (Natur­ ments and comply with environmental and social standally Galeria) logo in autumn 2011, which aims to make it ards. We offer various training programmes to support them, easier for customers to choose more sustainable products. ­including measures that help to reduce post-harvest losses Items with the icon have been manufactured in line with by up to 40 percent. As this means the growers have more strict environmental or social ethics – often both. The green marketable produce, this also improves their income. These leaf logo with the “Natürlich Galeria” lettering is used for projects are run in conjunction with strategic partners from products that comply with recognised standards, including the development sector, such as the United ­Nations Industrial the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS), the NATRUE ­Development Organization (UNIDO), the German Society for symbol for natural and organic cosmetics, the Forest Steward­ International Cooperation (GIZ) and the International ­Finance ship Council® (FSC®) label and the Blue Angel. ­“ Natürlich Corporation (IFC). ­Galeria” is used in the department stores’ advertising, on in-store signs and – in some cases – on products to give We also collaborate with business partners. In 2011, we ­customers guidance. Galeria Kaufhof’s range of sustainable ­i nitiated a food chain partnership with Bayer ­CropScience, products currently consists of over 4,000 articles and more which aims to promote sustainable farming for both food are constantly being added. and nonfood crops. The project is based on joint ­i nitiatives that have been successfully implemented for farmers in India and China in the past. 1 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Supply chain and products → p. 15 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h Supp l y c h a i n a n d pro d u c t s – REAL – – METRO CASH & CARRY – New Corporate Meat warehouse Responsibility unit in Groß-Gerau All ­METRO ­GROUP sales divisions have named sustainab­ A central supply system for national and international ility officers to instil a systematic approach to sustain­ fresh meat was set up at the beginning of 2012 for Metro ability management. In July 2011, Real also established Cash & Carry Germany and C+C Schaper. The wholesalers’ a new Corporate Responsibility unit, which pools and co­ 108 locations are now supplied via the meat warehouse ordinates all social and ecological activities and drives in Groß-Gerau, which is right next to the fish centre that ­forward Real’s sustainability initiatives. This went hand opened close to Frankfurt Airport in 2010. Some 300 tonnes in hand with the launch of a new intranet page that int­ of meat are dispatched to the wholesale stores every week roduces staff to the issue of sustainability. In addition to from the warehouse. this, customers are given information about the wide range of products manufactured in line with environmentally Orders of meat and fish can now be transported together in and socially responsible standards. Real describes audit­ a single truck while still complying with hygiene requireing processes online and shows which steps the company is ments and being stored separately. This allows order voltaking to comply with its purchasing guidelines and uphold umes and work for the store to be pooled, reduces the cost its high social, ethical and environmental standards. of deliveries and makes minimum order quantities for both meat and fish superfluous. Regionality is one of the focal points of Real’s sustain­ ability commitment. The company offers its custom­ As these ordering systems take account of the stores’ actual ers in Germany a variety of different regional products. needs, less produce is written off, which also makes for less This shortens transportation routes and ensures that waste. In addition to this, the optimised delivery routes cut produce is fresh. Some 70 percent of the goods sold at the amount of diesel used for transport. Real’s fresh meat counters are sourced locally. Regional produce can also be found in the stores’ fruit and vege­ table departments: apples, potatoes, stone fruit and root vegetables in particular are grown in 54 local pro­ duction areas. For example direct supply agreements for strawberries were signed with 165 Real hypermarkets in 2011. Real hopes to establish additional supply relation­ ships with more than 40 local fruit and vegetable produ­ cers by the end of 2012 with the aim of becoming a reliable source of local fresh ­produce. 1 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Energy and resource management → p. 16 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E n erg y a n d re s our c e m a n a geme n t Energy and – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP resource management – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP efficient C N 107 onserving resources, protecting the climate and increasing energy efficiency are not just top operations priorities in the political arena. These challenges also have a direct impact on our Company’s core line of business – from energy management for our stores, Targeted energy and resource management enables outlets and administration offices to the ­METRO ­GROUP to assess alternatives and conduct its use of raw materials for our products and business sustainably and efficiently. our responsibility throughout the supply chain. Our energy and resource management efforts strive to identify alterable factors within the Company that could have a negative impact on the climate and to promote climate and environmental protection. The first step within this process is to pinpoint efficiency potential. Building on this, we can proactively optimise the energy consumption of existing properties, implement innovative concepts and make greater use of technology that harnesses renewable energies in new builds. To achieve this, we have launched an additional, international energy-saving programme for the period from 2011 to 2014. As part of this scheme, the sales divisions Metro Cash & Carry, Real and ­Galeria Kaufhof are drawing up ways of successfully saving energy within a relatively short time frame. The project rolled out by a Real hypermarket in Passau is a good example of one such measure. Staff at the hypermarket managed to reduce energy usage by making comparatively small changes, such as fitting timers. The changes are saving the store around €11,000 per year, which is equivalent to 2 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Energy and resource management → p. 17 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E n erg y a n d re s our c e m a n a geme n t almost 44 tonnes of CO 22 . In the course use of efficient technology. Our expanwards conserving resources with this of the programme, T8 fluorescent tubes sion in these areas will therefore drive move. At the same time, the initiative will will be replaced with energy-saving T8 up ­METRO ­GROUP’s average energy conhelp to reduce waste and environmental ECO tubes at outlets and stores. Heatsumption, in spite of countless efforts to impollution caused, for example, when plasing and ventilation systems will also be prove ­efficiency. tic bags are blown out to sea. replaced or optimised. Simply by changing our strip lighting, we were able to Conserving resources Web-based data collection reduce electricity consumption at 128 in the supply chain ­METRO ­GROUP has been publishing its of our sales brands’ stores by a total of carbon footprint since 2008. In 2011 we 18,228 MWh between 2010 and 2011. The launched a comprehensive data collecstores will use an energy management tion and calculation system for CO2 emissystem to monitor and check their lower sions. This will enable the Company to usage in the future. effectively oversee the many energy and resource management measures it is Sustainable ­ taking. The Web-based program records energy management and processes all the factors relevant to We use state-of-the-art measurement techemissions. Besides energy usage, these nology to gauge our stores’ usage of elecinclude, for example, the diesel we use tricity, gas and heating oil on an ongoing for logistics, coolants for our refrigerat­ basis outlining actual consumption. This ors and the paper needed for advertising. enables us to identify concrete energy-savIn addition to this, our resource manageStarting in 2013, we will keep even more ing potential. By the end of 2011, we had ment system examines aspects such as detailed records, listing energy consumpinstalled digital smart metering systems raw materials production, efficient utilisation per location throughout the Group, at approximately 1,700 stores and outlets tion and waste disposal within the supply for ­i nstance. around the world – that is about 80 percent chain. As well as considering whether raw of our locations. However, saving energy materials can be replaced with more ecoAcknowledged by the is not our only objective. We also want to friendly substitutes, we consider prodcapital market lessen our dependency on finite resources ucts’ environmental impact by analysing We have also managed to impress the capsuch as oil and gas in the long run. For this their life cycles. In concrete terms, this ital market with these targeted measures reason, we are already making targeted means that we analyse and assess enat our locations. In 2011, ­METRO ­GROUP use of renewable energies at several locavironmental factors during the manuwas listed in the Global 500 Carbon Distions. Metro Cash & Carry is particularly facturing, use and disposal of products. closure Leadership Index for the first active in ramping up its use of renewables Metro Cash & Carry Pakistan completed time. One year earlier, the Group was acon an international scale too. It has been an exemplary project in the field of recepted into the Germany 200 Carbon Disoperating solar thermal systems, a micro source conservation during the reportclosure Leadership Index as part of the gas turbine and photovoltaic arrays for seving year. The cash & carry wholesaler Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The eral years now. In 2012, 10 percent of the switched to reusable fabric shoppers made independent organisation CDP aims to power used by the sales divisions Metro from rice fibres and paper carriers inmake the way in which companies report Cash & Carry, Real and Galeria Kaufhof stead of conventional plastic bags. As part climate-relevant data transparent. The in Germany will consist of green electri­ of its “REthink, REduce, REuse” initiative, Global 500 report includes just 52 of the city produced solely using regenerative the Asian country’s wholesale stores gave world’s 500 largest corporations. It highsources of energy. Due to the difficult clitheir customers approximately 140,000 lights those companies that are taking mate in Eastern Europe and Asia – along fabric shoppers and almost 90,000 paper the most professional group management with longer shop opening times in these carriers in 2011. By way of comparison, approach to publishing information about regions – energy consumption is higher at over 964,000 plastic bags were handed climate change. our locations there than in Germany and out in 2010. Metro Cash & Carry Pakistan the rest of Western Europe, despite the is making an important contribution to2 / 4 2 Here and in the following, CO 2 emissions represent CO 2-equivalent emissions ­M ETRO ­G ROUP‘s carbon footprint : please turn the page METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Energy and resource management → p. 18 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E n erg y a n d re s our c e m a n a geme n t N 108 N 109 ­METRO ­GROUP’s carbon footprint M ­ETRO ­GROUP has been publish­ The Group amended its reporting because consumption was higher due to extremely ing its carbon footprint since it wanted to make it easier to work tocold weather at the beginning of 2011 in 2008. The Company’s aim is to wards its emissions targets – and thereby Europe and the further expansion of the bring about a 15 percent reduction in damreduce operating costs – by making data energy-intensive range of fresh and frozen aging greenhouse gas emissions per square collection more transparent and more produce stocked by our stores. This latter metre of selling space by 2015. 2006 serves comprehensive and by producing reports figure is not shown on a like-for-like basis in as the reference year. Both the carbon footat regular intervals throughout the year. our carbon footprint. In order to maintain print and the target relate to the following Starting in 2011, key emission sources the quality of our extended range of fresh emission sources: energy, logistics, paper, and extended emission sources are reand frozen products, more of our lorries business travel and refrigerants. The corported on side by side, showing the old also had to be pre-cooled. It proved imposresponding emissions are converted into and new scope of the carbon footprint sible to compensate for the associated diesel CO2 equivalents. As well as being audited (see illustration). This will improve transusage, despite converting our fleet of l­orries in-house, our carbon footprint underwent parency and comparability. in Germany almost completely to loweran operational audit by KPMG AG in 2011 emission Euro 5 models. Logistics-related to further enhance the transparency and Developments in 2011 CO2 emissions also rose due to an increase credibility of our data quality. At the end of 2010, ­METRO ­GROUP’s in kilometres driven in the countries where carbon footprint was 4.2 million tonnes. we are expanding. As a rule, the store netGreenhouse Gas This meant the Company was already more work is still less dense in these regions. ­ rotocol and more P than halfway towards achieving its CO2 re­extensive reporting duction target. ­METRO ­GROUP’s carbon In 2011, we succeeded in aligning our reIn 2011, ­METRO ­GROUP extended its carbon dioxide emissions totalled 4.4 million porting with the GHG Protocol, signififootprint reporting commitments. It now tonnes at the end of 2011. This increase is cantly optimising our data collection, and complies with the international Greenhouse largely attributable to two factors: considredefining our carbon footprint’s scope Gas (GHG) Protocol standard and the Corpor­ erably more detailed reporting in line with and reference figures. At the same time, ate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and the GHG Protocol and a change in our funhowever, the data trend in 2011 makes it Reporting Standard. The Group is thereby damentals. Adopting the GHG Protocol led much clearer where we need to make furmeeting demands for international compar­ to changes in our data collection and more ther improvements. To ramp up our efforts ability by providing standardised data in its concrete definitions of the report’s scope to reduce the impact of our business activ­reports. As a result of this amendment, the and reference figures. The change in our it­ies on the climate, we will tailor the corscope of the carbon footprint was expanded fundamentals primarily drove up emisresponding measures even more closely to by adding further categories to the existsions generated by energy, refrigerants developments in our operations as of 2012. ing emission sources. This is shown in the and logistics. There were several reasons We will also keep enhancing our Group-wide ­illustration to the right. for this development. For example, energy reduction management system. 2 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Energy and resource management → p. 19 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E n erg y a n d re s our c e m a n a geme n t Key emission sources and extended emission sources (= new boundaries) 818 kg CO2 /m2 selling space Key emission sources (= old boundaries) equals 10.4 m t emitted CO2. 347 kg CO2/m2 selling space equals 4.4 m t emitted CO2. Scope 2 inDirect purchased electricity, steam, heating & cooling for own use Scope 3 Scope 3 inDirect inDirect leased assets Scope 1 investments Direct employee commuting franchises business travel leased assets company facilities Waste generated in operation end-of-life treatment transportation of sold products and distribution fueland energyuse of sold products related activities company vehicles capital goods processing of sold products purchased goods transportation and services and distribution reporting company upstream activities Downstream Activities Old boundaries /quantitative reporting New boundaries /qualitative reporting New boundaries /quantitative reporting Old and new boundaries/quantative reporting 2 / 4 other projects and measures : please turn the page METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Energy and resource management → p. 20 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E n erg y a n d re s our c e m a n a geme n t Other projects and measures – Media-Saturn – – real – Smart metering ­provides Responsible use of sound data basis ­cleaning agents E R lectricity usage accounts for approximately 90 pereal Germany ensures that cleaning agents are cent of Media-Saturn’s energy requirements and is used responsibly so as to conserve the environtherefore the largest single factor. In view of rising ment and resources. The company has been runenergy prices and finite resources, the sales division has set ning a pilot project at 39 stores since October 2011, which itself the goal of making greater use of its efficiency poteninvolves using four products in its fresh produce sections tial. As part of the company-wide energy-saving programme that have been awarded the EU Ecolabel or its Scandi­launched in 2008, the consumer electronics stores adopted nav­ian equivalent, the Nordic Swan. These products are more the target of reducing their carbon footprint by 15 percent readily biodegradable, offer more efficient cleaning, and per square metre of selling space by 2020. A sound data have an optimum life cycle as regards their use of raw mabasis is the first step in this process, and the sales division terials along with their formula, production, packaging, achieves this by using digital energy meters and sensors dosage, method of application, user safety and recycling. to monitor both temperature and air quality. These smart Thanks to new dosage aids and staff training on the correct ­metering systems constantly measure a site’s electricity, use of these cleaning agents, the company uses considergas, district heating/cooling and heating oil consumption, ably less detergent at its pilot stores than it did in the preenabling immediate reaction to rising usage if necessary. vious year. The new products are also more effective and Digital energy meters have been fitted at approximately 850 more eco-friendly. Following the success of this initiative, of the 893 stores worldwide since June 2011. This has enathe project will be rolled out nationwide in 2012. bled systems to be switched on and off in line with opening times and has also allowed the control parameters for the heating and ventilation equipment to be optimised. Analyses of 588 stores from 2008 to 2011 show that this has slashed electricity consumption by 12.9 percent or 69,000 MWh. 2 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Energy and resource management → p. 21 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E n erg y a n d re s our c e m a n a geme n t – Metro Cash & Carry – – Galeria Kaufhof – Sustainable ­building Climate protection ­target management for 2015 raised M I etro Cash & Carry gears its building managen 2008, ­METRO ­GROUP pledged to reduce its spe­ ment specifically towards sustainability cricific greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent per teria. Since 2011, possible energy efficiency square metre of selling space until 2015 compared to measures have been examined for all new builds as well the reference year of 2006. As the carbon footprint shows, as when making alterations to existing properties. These Galeria Kaufhof had already lessened its climate impact by include, for example, installing photovoltaic arrays on 28 percent by the end of 2010. For this reason, the sales divi­ the wholesale stores’ roofs. sion has raised its climate protection target. It now aims to improve its carbon footprint by 40 percent per square metre The wholesaler is also leading by example with its of selling space until 2015 (compared to 2006). use of energy-saving lighting. In August 2011, Metro Cash & Carry Vietnam fitted energy-saving solar tube To achieve this ambitious objective, the company is further lighting systems at a pilot store. By making greater use of cutting its outlets’ energy consumption and decreasing the daylight and regulating its heating/cooling, the company amount of paper used for advertising. In 2011 and 2012, cut the store’s energy consumption by a projected figure the handrail lighting on its escalators and the lights set of around 154 MWh per annum. The new system will be into its stores’ ceilings to create a “starry sky” effect will installed at another store in Vietnam in 2012. be replaced with LED technology. More than 110,000 fluor­ escent bulbs have already been swapped for more energyMeanwhile, Metro Cash & Carry Denmark is taking its efficient alternatives. In addition to this, ­Galeria Kaufhof sustainable building management one step further and has installed CO2 sensors at 25 stores to date as part of having its stores independently audited in line with the its energy-saving drive. The sensors ensure that fresh air internationally recognised environmental management is supplied when it is needed. The various measures are standard ISO 14001. As well as looking at sustainable starting to bear fruit: in 2011, the sales division drove energy management, the assessments examine resource down its specific energy usage per square metre of selling conservation, emissions reductions and risk limitation. space by 3 percent at its outlets. All of the Danish stores were successfully re-audited. 3 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Employees and social affairs → p. 22 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E mp l o y ee s a n d s o c i a l a f f a i r s Employees and – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP social affairs – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP Joint action O N 110 ur 280,856 employees play a major role in making ­METRO ­GROUP one of the world’s leading retail and wholesale companies. The diverse ­METRO ­GROUP has adopted a responsible human resources range of qualifications and personalities policy and succeeds in remaining capable of within our workforce is also crucial to our action and adaptable even in the fast-paced retail and success and enables us to respond to all wholesale industry. sorts of different customer needs, develop new ideas and keep improving. Our forward-looking human resources policy aims to retain our existing staff, offer them ongoing development opportunities and fill the majority of managerial vacan­ c­ies from within the Company. In the light of demographic change and the resulting competition for professionals and executives, we also want to inspire potential employees to choose ­METRO ­GROUP as a place to work. Training and ­f urther development We proactively develop staff from within the Company to meet our staffing needs at professional and managerial level. Our staff development system starts with the vocational training offered within ­METRO ­GROUP and its sales divisions, both via the dual education system in Germany and by means of other country-specific forms of on-the-job training. In 2011, we had 9,891 trainees around the world. With METRO University, we have also established a central platform for the development and training of our existing and prospective managers. We run spe3 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Employees and social affairs → p. 23 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 E mp l o y ee s a n d s o c i a l a f f a i r s cial training programmes that help them measures include preventing accidents – Proactive ideas to enhance their professional knowledge for example by bringing in safety experts management and give them the skills they need to to conduct workplace checks – providTo ensure our Company stays fit for the meet the ever-changing demands of the ing special protective clothing at the future, we must react quickly when our retail and wholesale industry. In 2011, sales brands’ stores, and running firstoperating environment and customers’ we extended the range of courses offered aid courses so that help is on hand if needs change. Our employees play a key by METRO University to include current something does happen. The GO health role here. That is why we motivate them strategic approaches to managerial and drive comprises the Group’s initiatives to help shape change and make an active staff development. to keep its employees healthy. These incontribution. Raising their awareness of clude advice on ergonomic working and sociopolitical issues and the challenges Because starting work is a crucial milenutrition, stress prevention programmes specific to our business enables them to stone in a young person’s life, we also and sport/fitness courses. We also enproactively develop ideas that help imbelieve that it is our duty to offer disadcourage our staff to eat a healthy, balprove our workflows and also benefit sovantaged young people a starting point anced diet. For instance, the canteens at ciety and the environment. Our company for vocational training. In Germany, the ­METRO ­GROUP’s Düsseldorf site have suggestion scheme is a good ­ e xample sales divisions Metro Cash & Carry, Real signed up to the JOB&FIT initiative opof how we do this. The sales division and Galeria Kaufhof offer work experience erated by the Federal Ministry of Food, Real launched its own ideas manageplacements and qualification schemes Agriculture and Consumer Protection. ment system in October 2011 by the name in conjunction with the Federal EmployAll JOB&FIT dishes on offer have been of “genial@real” (brilliant@real). This ment Agency and training organisations prepared in accordance with the quality programme seeks to identify and acknow­ for people with disabilities. They thereby standards for staff catering issued by the ledge practicable solutions that optimise help to provide training for young people German Nutrition Society (DGE) since processes, reduce costs or increase cuswho are struggling to find work, either due July 2011, when the canteens were also tomer satisfaction. Galeria Kaufhof also to a lack of qualifications or because of a awarded the relevant certification. The rewards employees who come up with disability. Since 2011, Metro Cash & Carry meals are designed with a focus on facgood ideas. One such staff suggestion was Germany has also been supporting the tors such as nutritional balance, enjoyto reduce the line spacing on till receipts Christoph Metzelder Foundation, which ment and a zest for life. to slash the amount of paper used by 25 to initiates and runs school projects focusing 30 percent. on education, training and migration. Work-life balance Many of our employees face the chalSafe and healthy lenge of reconciling their work, family ­METRO ­GROUP makes it easier for its life and leisure time. We help them to employees to stay fit for their day-todo this in various ways, for example by day work and is committed to providing offering flexible working models and a a safe, non-hazardous working environrange of pension plans. In addition to ment. Its occupational health and safety this, our day care centres, holiday childcare and range of options for family carers – which go beyond those required by law – make it easier for our staff to meet their family commitments. In 2011, ­METRO ­GROUP’s Düsseldorf Campus H E A LT H was awarded the “audit berufundfamilie” certificate for family-friendly employers FE NS IVE by the charitable Hertie Foundation for GE SU ND HE ITS OF ME TR O GR OU P the second time. 3 / 4 other projects and measures : please turn the page METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Employees and social affairs → p. 24 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E mp l o y ee s a n d s o c i a l a f f a i r s Other projects and measures – Galeria Kaufhof – – real – An attractive employer Building up skills with Germany’s knowledge factory G aleria Kaufhof develops employees of all ages. A More than 1,000 apprentices are currently comt the end of 2011, Real became the first retailer pleting one of seven vocational training courses to join the education initiative “Wissensfabrik – or a combined vocational training und degree programme Unternehmen für Deutschland e. V.” (Knowledge at the company. The sales division also values its more exfactory – companies for Germany). The non-profit organ­ perienced staff: it makes sure that teams are made up of is­ation sees knowledge as the key to commercial success different age groups and endorses lifelong learning with and aims to help secure Germany’s future by means of a wide range of training measures. 40 percent of staff at edu­cation. To this end, the platform brings together com­ ­Galeria Kaufhof are over the age of 50. panies, educational institutions and initiatives that would like to share their skills in the fields of science, technology Galeria Kaufhof’s attractiveness as an employer is quantifiable: and business. The educational partnerships include everyon average, employees spend almost 20 years at the company. thing from projects to promote early learning with nurse­ It is not rare for staff to celebrate 40 or 50 years with the reries and primary schools to helping young entrepreneurs tailer. In 2011, less than 5 percent of employees left G ­ aleria act on their business ideas. Unlike the other programmes Kaufhof. This puts its staff turnover well below the industry supported by Real, which focus on careers guidance for young average, which is 12.6 percent according to a study by the people, the “Wissensfabrik” is a broader initiative providing management consultancy Kienbaum. the company with a means of helping to develop even very young children’s skills, for example. Children are given access to economic relationships by means of hands-on primary school projects geared towards their age group. 3 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Employees and social affairs → p. 25 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h E mp l o y ee s a n d s o c i a l a f f a i r s – ­METRO ­GROUP – – ­METRO ­GROUP – Dialogue forum for The many faces prospective managers of diversity M M ­ TRO ­GROUP pioneered a new approach to E M ­ ETRO ­GROUP does not believe in dated gender managerial development in 2011 with its Interroles. In September 2011, the Group launched a national Young Talent Day. Approximately 100 nationwide testimonial campaign in Germany prospective managers attended the event in Düsseldorf, entitled “We put our trust in female leadership”. Using five which had the slogan “I have a say @­ METRO ­GROUP”. female managers as examples, the retail and wholesale The forum focused on issues such as management culture, company illustrated the varied, fascinating career opporresponsibility and openness to dialogue. Its aim was twotunities offered by the Group in an authentic and emotive fold: to offer would-be managers an opportunity to discuss fashion. With the campaign, M ­ ETRO ­GROUP hopes to attheir thoughts and to motivate them to bring their skills tract more female professionals and managers to a career and ideas to bear at the Company. In addition to its use in the retail and wholesale industry. The campaign’s high for the event, the slogan “I have a say” conveys the Group’s media profile and visual presentation offer a means of reculture of embracing dialogue and change. It sums up the placing old gender roles with new alternatives, which will core message that everyone can make an important contribecome permanently established given time. bution in their daily lives. Women already make up 19.2 percent of top executives at ­M ETRO ­GROUP, which is above the average for DAX 30 companies. In October 2011, the retail and wholesale company announced that it intended to further increase the percentage of women in senior management positions to 20 percent by the end of 2013 and 25 percent by the end of 2015. As a lot of female staff sign up for our development and skills enhancement schemes, women already account for 40 to 59 percent of our talent pool. G. EN SIE SCHN ELL SIEBENSTELLI KA UFSZE TTEL SCHREIBE, WERD Heidi Sörgel, Einkäu ferin WENN ICH EIN Metro Cash & Carry Italien FRAUEN IN WIR SETZEN AUF TIONEN. FÜHRUNGSPOSI SICH JETZT. BEWERBEN SIE in China Nach Stationen hat es geschaf ft: Heidi Sörgel (33) führenden Einkäufe rinnen ist sie zu einer der die und Deutschland egen. Damit hat Carry in Italien aufgesti bei Metro Cash & für Kultur und Genuss e Manage rin mit dem Faible und Beruf deutsch : Leidenschaft viele nur träumen das erreicht, wovon die Chance zu einer inter­ auch Sie zu verbinden. Nutzen ellen Fort­ und Weiter­ e mit individu natio nalen Karrier bewegen die Zukunft hkeiten. Denn Frauen bildungsmöglic n Sie mehr unter handeln jetzt. Erfahre des Handels . Wir up.de/karriere www.metrogro 31.08.11 11:19 3 / 4 08058_AZ_Soergel_ 297x210_MASTER. indd 1 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → p. 26 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h So c i a l po l i c i e s a n d s t a k e h o l d er d i a l ogue Social policies and – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP stakeholder dialogue – 2011 – ­M E T RO ­G ROUP open for A N 111 s an international retail and whole­ sale company, ­METRO ­GROUP operates at the interface between dialogue producers and consumers. At the same time, the Group is an important part of society as an employer, training provider and taxpayer. This means we have a spe­METRO ­GROUP broadens its horizons by means of stakeholder cial responsibility both at product level dialogue. This shows the Group what it is already doing well and regarding our wider actions. We emand what it can do better. brace this responsibility and fulfil it in many different ways. Cooperation, a constructive exchange of views, and stable, trusting relationships are important to us in our dealings with employees, business partners, customers and other stakeholders. We believe that this approach paves the way for responsible business practices and social acceptance. Wherever actions affect one another, it is essential for companies to know their stakeholders’ needs and expectations. This is the only way to achieve long-term success. We can find solutions and proactively shape our operating environment by fostering contact with our diverse stakeholder groups and participating in discussions, even when they revolve around critical questions. Sharing knowledge and pooling different skills also allows us to align the various parties’ expectations and objectives and to translate them into practical approaches. Representative ­offices as established ­platforms for dialogue Thanks to our presence in 33 countries and our extensive industry expertise, we 4 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → p. 27 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h So c i a l po l i c i e s a n d s t a k e h o l d er d i a l ogue can make a real difference on a global Co.?). The competition focused on surf­METRO ­GROUP Prime status, designatscale. At the same time, we are increasing the Internet,­protecting personal data ing it as a sustainably managed business. ingly confronted with our stakeholders’ and using social media in school contexts. Thanks to its transparent reporting of climany different requirements. This is why The winning team received their award in mate-related data, ­METRO ­GROUP was we want to be on hand in the places where September 2011. also listed in the Global 500 Carbon Disforward-looking discussions are held and closure Leadership Index for the first decisions are made. Several years ago, we Customer focus time in 2011 as part of the Carbon Disclos­ established Group representative offices Metro Cash & Carry regularly conducts ure Project. In another significant dein five locations as a means of liaising surveys tailored to national specifics and velopment, we were also included in the face to face with policymakers, associat­i­ customers regarding its product range, Dow Jones Sustainability World Index ons and non-governmental organisations service and advice. This is a means of again. The analysts primarily highlighted to exchange our views on pressing sociosystematically recording different cus­METRO ­GROUP’s good risk management, political challenges. The representative tomer groups’ requirements. The soeffective anti-corruption regulations and offices are located in strategically imporcalled MetroNom scheme, for instance, efficient customer management. tant markets where several of our sales is an important customer satisfaction divisions operate. benchmark. This programme was speCorporate responsibility cially developed for the cash & carry ­METRO ­GROUP is part of society and acInformation ­creates wholesaler and has been assessing the knowledges its social responsibility, both transparency satisfaction of more than 40,000 business within the Company and beyond. We thereWe are also constantly ramping up diaowners throughout Germany by means fore help to support local communities by logue with our customers. Among other of a survey every year since 2006. With means of selected projects. We are espethings, they rely on us to supply safe prodits Customer Centricity project, Metro cially dedicated to various initiatives in ucts that can be traced back throughout Cash & Carry is aiming to further enour home town of Düsseldorf, with a parthe supply chain. They also expect us to hance its ability to respond quickly and ticular focus on culture and sport. For incomply with social and ecological standdecisively to the needs of customers in stance, ­METRO ­GROUP was an official ards. It is therefore important that we different regions. The pilot phase of the partner of the Eurovision Song Contest in provide both private consumers and busiproject was initiated in July 2011 and 2011. The Group also sponsored the new ness customers with comprehensive ingives the managers of 17 selected wholepresentation of the art collection owned formation about these issues. To do this, sale stores in eight countries extensive by the “museum kunst palast” in Düssel­METRO ­GROUP and its sales divisions are commercial responsibility in areas such dorf. We have also been demonstrating making increasing use of the Internet. as customer management, HR, product our close ties with the City of Düsseldorf – For example, our websites include details ranges, pricing and marketing. Its objecwhere our Group headquarters are based – about official labels and standards for tive is to speed up decision-making and by acting as name sponsor of the annual fair-trade or organic products and about increase local flexibility. ­METRO ­GROUP Marathon since 2002. steps we are taking to improve traceability, e.g. for sustainably sourced fish. Rating on the Another example of our social commitment ­capital market is the support given by Media Markt Italy Saturn Austria takes preventive steps The capital market’s expectations conto the “House of Smiles” in South Africa, to raise youngsters’ awareness of how to cerning corporate responsibility are rewhich provides women who have become use social media safely and protect perflected in the categories used for various victims of violence with a safe haven for sonal data. It promotes online safety by ratings and rankings that sustainablythem and their children. The national subaddressing young consumers directly and minded investors use as a basis for desidiary has been backing the refuge since by educating parents and teachers. As cision-making. This means of assessing back in 2005 and encourages the public to part of this work, the division launched our sustainability commitment is therehelp as well. As part of its fundraising efa competition for schoolchildren in 2010 fore important to us. In 2011, oekom reforts, Media Markt Italy sold a CD recorded called “Bist du fit für Social Media & search – one of the world’s leading rating by its staff, “Voci dal Cuore”, which reached Co.?” (Are you ready for social media and agencies for ethical investments – awarded Italy’s top ten in 2006. 4 / 4 other projects and measures : please turn the page METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → p. 28 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h So c i a l po l i c i e s a n d s t a k e h o l d er d i a l ogue Other projects and measures – ­METRO ­GROUP – Support for food banks ­M ETRO ­GROUP has been supporting the ­German foodstuffs to needy families at the Vietnamese New Year. food bank charity Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel This scheme has been in place since 2009. The company e. V. since 2006. The retail and wholesale company helped some 4,500 families in this way in 2011. extended its sponsorship by another three years in 2011. Its financial assistance in Germany is supplemented by donations of food and other goods at operational level by Metro Cash & Carry and Real stores. All of this helps to ensure that people in need regularly receive healthy food. The scheme also has a sustainable secondary benefit: less food goes to waste. At international level, Metro Cash & Carry also makes an important contribution to society with its Care & Share programme, which it now operates in 22 countries. This initiative is driven by the wholesale stores’ employees. For instance, Metro Cash & Carry Hungary provided 1,000 food parcels and worked with the children’s charity GYEA to supply food to disadvantaged youngsters in ten Hungarian c­ ities during the summer holidays. In Serbia, staff from Metro Cash & Carry collected donations of money and food in collaboration with Crédit Agricole and the food bank initiative. Customers at various wholesale stores had the opportunity to take part in the scheme by buying pre-assembled food parcels. The partners used the cash donations to help disabled children with the Magic Breakfast campaign. In ­Vietnam, Metro Cash & Carry distributes parcels containing basic 4 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → p. 29 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h So c i a l po l i c i e s a n d s t a k e h o l d er d i a l ogue – Galeria Kaufhof – – Real – Shaping Customer advisory demographic change boards established T S he changing population structure has far-reachince 2011, Real Germany has been establishing ing effects on society and therefore also on local customer advisory boards as a means of identhe retail industry. As a sustainable business, tifying potential improvements at store level and ­G aleria Kaufhof is actively facing up to this challenge. giving customers more opportunities to talk to the retailer The sales division aims to position itself as spearheadon an equal footing. These groups – which consist of ten to ing the issue of demographic change. In 2008, ­G aleria 15 people from different customer segments – meet four Kauf hof became the first German company to cretimes a year. At the meetings, the members of the advisory ate the position of demography officer within its orboards specifically talk about store concepts which they ganisation. The demography officer’s job is to anchor believe are successful. They also discuss areas which they this issue within the company in a holistic way. Back think could be improved further. One suggestion was that in 2009, the company also signed the Berlin Declar­the range should be expanded to include certain regional at­ion – a ten-point programme that helps companies products. Real has set up more than 150 customer advisory to actively structure demographic change while takboards to date. The sales division’s long-term goal is to ing the older generation’s interests into consideration. ­int­ro­­duce this form of customer feedback for all Real hyper­ markets in Germany. The department store chain is also demonstrating its commitment by means of its shop design: in 2009, ­G aleria Kaufhof helped the German Retail Federation to develop the quality seal “Generationenfreundliches Einkaufen” (Shopping for all generations). This symbol of quality is awarded to stores that offer customers from every generation a comfortable, low-barrier shopping ­experience. More than half of Galeria Kaufhof’s department stores had received the badge by the end of 2011. The sales division is also working with its suppliers to expand its range of products that cater for changing customer structures in the wake of demographic change. For example, in 2011 the company launched a crockery set developed in line with the principles of universal design. This means that the products are designed so that as many people as possible can use them intuitively and comfortably. 4 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our approach → Social policies and stakeholder dialogue → p. 30 ­M E T R O ­G R O U P 2 011 our a pproac h So c i a l po l i c i e s a n d s t a k e h o l d er d i a l ogue – ­METRO ­GROUP – Stakeholder survey: culture of dialogue well received Participants “entirely”/“rather” agree with the statements that ­METRO ­GROUP … Difference to total Work of ­METRO ­GROUP perceived …is a driving force in trade +4 +– 0 Contact with ­METRO ­GROUP … offers many approaches and topics for interesting discussion +7 +15 … is an innovative company +4 +5 Total … is a crisis-restistant company +4 +8  ontact with C METRO GROUP-­ representative office … is willing to engage in dialogue even about controversial issues +9 +19 Work of METRO GROUPrepresentative office … has a sustainable, +4 +10 perceived forward-looking strategy Reference: … is a sustainable company +6 +16 Stakeholder survey (200) 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% ­METRO ­GROUP, 30/1– 9/2/2012 T wo years after establishing its representative office resentative office in Berlin, the survey participants consider in Berlin, ­METRO ­GROUP commissioned the market “willingness to engage in dialogue even about controversial research firm Forsa to conduct a stakeholder ­survey issues”, “forward-looking strategy” and “being a sustainable in 2012. 200 opinion leaders from politics, business, noncompany” to be particularly important. Sustainable business governmental organisations and the media were selected practices and active dialogue with stakeholder groups are from a pool of 600 potential respondents and asked about therefore perceived as important challenges for responsible ­METRO ­GROUP’s activities, the Berlin office and corporate companies. responsibility in general. The results of the survey show that 85 percent of the stakeholders questioned believe that com­METRO ­GROUP takes these stakeholder expectations ser­ panies should use their influence at policymaking level to iously and actively fosters constructive dialogue in one-oncreate social conditions that facilitate sustainable business. one conversations, political workshops and as part of the 19 percent of the respondents called on the retail industry regular “Mittwochsgesellschaft des Handels” (Wednesday to make sustainability more of a focal point in the dialogue Society of the Retail Industry). This series of discussions between policymakers and society. Working conditions, conis organised in conjunction with the German Retail Feder­ sumer protection and environmental conservation were also ation (HDE) and the Federation of German Wholesale, Foreign listed as important aspects of corporate social responsibility. Trade and Services (BGA). It brings together people from the political arena, business and society as a whole and The data gathered by Forsa also shows that dialogue formats offers them a forum to debate current social issues and gain and open discussions can make a quantifiable contribution new ­i nsights. towards a company’s reputation. As regards our Group’s rep4 / 4 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 → p. 31 1 OUR 2 our approach 2 RESULTS EMPLOYEES AND our results SOCIAL AFFAIRS SUPPLY CHAIN AND ! PRODUCTS ? SOCIAL POLICIES AND STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE ENERGY AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → sustainability management system → p. 32 N 112 Our sustainability management system S ustainable value creation at M ­ ETRO ­GROUP is based on integrated management systems and an organisational structure with clearly defined responsibilities. In 2011, all the sales divisions joined METRO AG in appointing their own sustaina­bility officers, who act as the driving force behind sustainability management at oper­a­tional level. T he Sustainability Board established in September 2009 is ­M ETRO ­G ROUP’s ­central sustainability management body and ensures that the issue is integrated into all relevant Group functions and divisions. A number of systematic amendments were made to the Board in early 2012 to optimise its management of sustainability-related processes by streamlining decision-making procedures. The body is headed by the Management Board of METRO AG and consists of decision-makers from all sales divisions. It issues guidelines, standards and targets that are compulsory for the whole Group, pools and manages existing measures, and thereby con­ tinuously enhances sustainability-related strategies. Furthermore, the Sustainability Board defines the focal topics and benchmarks used to assess the Company’s perform­ ance. Together with Risk Management, it also ensures that opportunities and risks pertaining to sustainability are systematically defined and that business processes are optimised accordingly. The Sustainability Board is assisted by various working committees that are dedicated to specific topics and consist of specialists from the ­corporate departments and sales divisions. This ensures that all decisions are geared towards the sales divisions’ day-to-day business. The working committees liaise with the operating segments to develop concrete measures and establish correspond­ ing monitoring processes adhering to the relevant compulsory rules. The operating segments continue to report on project progress and provide the data needed to gauge the initiatives’ success. Performance is assessed using defined indicators that provide information on the extent to which targets have been met and thereby enable the sustainability activities to be managed. I nternal sustainability management is flanked by ­METRO ­GROUP’s sustainability reporting. We believe that the quality of our ­reporting can be improved by adopting the guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which we plan to do in 2012. This adjustment also gives us a framework for the optimisation of our ­management approach. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 33 Key performance indicators Selected key performance indicators provide concise information about the course of business at the Company as well as charting circumstances and trends within the four fields of action. They serve as a means of assessing our sustainability performance. Data range 2011 2009–2011 in % 2009 2010 2011 Sales 100 100 100 EBIT 100 100 100 Suppliers who passed the social audit 100 100 100 Carbon footprint 100 100 100 Energy 92 96 99 Waste 83 85 89 Recycling rate 83 85 89 Water 74 83 97 Refrigerants 86 88 97 Eco-friendly paper 95 96 86 Diesel usage 100 100 100 Employees 100 100 100 Gender distribution in managerial positions 100 100 100 Personnel expenses 100 100 100 Staff turnover 100 100 100 Work-related accidents 39 39 39 Trainees 39 * Continuing professional development 39 ** *Trainees were not included in the data range prior to 2011 **The 2011 report is the first one to publish details of CPD Company N 113 Sales (net) EBIT before special items* in € million in € million ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 67,258 65,529 66,702 26,130 26,511 25,865 21,528 16,880 2,415 2,372 20,932 20,859 2,024 15,766 16,953 2,320 2,720 3,025 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 *Adjusted for special items relating to Shape 2012: 2009: €343 million; 2010: €204 million; 2011: €259 million METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 34 supply chain and products N 114 Social audits relating to own imports by MGB Hong Kong Suppliers who passed the audit BSCI-relevant Thereof with Definition: suppliers (active) passed audit Status of BSCI audits of active suppliers for own imports by MGB Hong Kong from (in %) countries viewed as risk areas by the BSCI. Active suppliers are defined as those who provided ­METRO ­GROUP with clothing, shoes, toys and hardware for the EU market 987 922 901 as of 31 December of the year under review and generated actual sales as of this date. Suppliers who have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliance with the BSCI standard by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third party. Alternatively, suppliers may produce a certificate issued by an independent third party attesting to successful compliance with the SA8000 or ICTI standards. 52.1 68.0 71.6 627 645 514 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Energy and resource management* N 115 Carbon footprint in kg of CO2** per m2 of selling space ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 588 609 578 545 520 511 336 326 347 262 263 258 217 197 211 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Specific greenhouse gas emissions generated by ­METRO G ­ ROUP stores in relation to selling space. Included are the emissions from key emission sources, i.e. electricity and thermal energy usage (heating oil, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas [LPG] and district heating/cooling) at stores, offices and warehouses, refrigerants, ­METRO ­GROUP’s own fleet of lorries in Germany, external logistics (warehouse to store), paper consumption for advertising material and photocopying, and business trips (excluding company cars). The calculations were performed by METRO PROPERTIES Energy Management. Explanation: Due to the change in reporting, the data for 2011 cannot always be compared with the figures for previous years (see page 18, “METRO GROUP’s Carbon footprint”). Nevertheless, a number of figures did rise in comparison to 2010. The higher energy consumption is partly attributable to an extremely cold start to 2011 in Europe and a further extension of the energy-intensive ranges of fresh and frozen produce at our stores. The CO2 emissions associated with logistics rose due to factors including an increase in the number of kilometres driven in the countries where we are expanding. The developments in refrigerant leaks show us where we need to keep improving. ** Here and in the following, CO2 emissions represent CO2-equivalent emissions * Energy and resource management performance indicators (excluding Change in CO2 emissions by segments and Water consumption ) are verified by an external auditor N 109 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 35 Energy and resource management CO2 emissions according to GHG Protocol – key emission sources Scope 1 = heating oil; natural 27% 19% Definition: gas; liquefied petroleum Total volume of CO2 emissions from the key emission sources subject gas (LPG); refrigerants; own to targeted management at ­METRO ­GROUP since 2006, shown using fleet of lorries in Germany the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol standard. Scope 2 = electricity conExplanation: sumption; district heating/ The total amount of CO2 emitted in 2011 was 4.4 million tonnes. At cooling 54 percent, the Scope 2 emission sources – electricity consumption Scope 3 = external logistics and district heating – accounted for the largest proportion. (warehouse to store); paper consumption; business travel 54% Total amount of CO2 in 2011: 4.4 MtCO2 (equivalent to 347 kg per m2 selling space) CO2 emissions according to GHG Protocol – key emission sources and extended emission sources Scope 1 = heating oil; natural 9% Definition: gas; liquefied petroleum gas Total volume of CO2 emissions from the key emission sources and (LPG); refrigerants; refriger­ extended emission sources, shown using the methodology of the ants for air conditioning; own Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol standard. fleet of lorries; company cars Explanation: Scope 2 = electricity ­METRO ­GROUP amended its reporting in 2011 and broadened the ­consumption; district heating/ 23% scope of the carbon footprint it reports. In 2011, a total of approx­ cooling imately 10.4 million tonnes of CO2 was emitted by the key and Scope 3 = all external logistics; ­extended emission sources. At 68 percent, Scope 3 accounts for paper consumption; business the largest proportion of the overall volume. travel; purchased goods and 68% services (not for sale) with the exception of paper; capital Total amount of CO2 in 2011: ­assets; upstream emissions 10.4 MtCO2 (equivalent to 818 kg from energy; waste; staff per m2 selling space) ­commutes; leased assets Change in CO2 emissions by segments – kg CO2 per m2 of selling space Key emission source 2006 2011 Change in % Definition: Electricity consumption 207 200 –3 Change in area-specific CO2 emissions per segment in 2011 compared to reference year 2006. Refrigerant leaks 37 46 24 Logistics 36 50 39 Explanation: See the explanation in the “Carbon footprint” section. Thermal energy consumption 35 26 –25 Paper consumption 34 24 –31 Business travel 6 1 –76 METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 36 Energy and resource management Electricity consumption and thermal energy consumption in kWh per m2 of selling space Thermal energy Electricity ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 562 553 536 539 525 508 414 441 408 371 403 390 131 101 34 368 363 361 119 81 112 81 98 84 109 54 78 82 56 52 458 452 491 417 396 432 333 324 343 290 289 294 335 307 309 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Specific energy consumption by M­ ETRO ­GROUP stores in relation to selling space. Energy consumption consists of electricity usage and thermal energy consumption (heating oil, natural gas and district heating/cooling). Explanations: The Company was unable to reduce its specific energy consumption in kWh per square metre of selling space in 2011. This was partly due to a change in the way data was collected. We hope to counteract this trend in the future by means of our energy-saving programme 2011–2014 and the many energy efficiency measures that have been implemented since 2011. Amount of waste in kg per m2 of selling space/Recycling rate in % ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 72.5 65.2 66.6 57.9 55.0 51.6 46.2 44.9 45.2 43.2 43.0 41.9 43.7 34.8 32.1 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 76.2 76.2 67.3 86.9 86.6 84.0 75.3 76.2 75.1 62.7 62.5 53.9 36.7 37.9 10.7 Definition: Specific amount of waste (total quantity of waste for disposal, for recycling or heat recovery, hazardous waste and organic waste) generated by ­METRO ­GROUP’s stores in relation to selling space. The recycling rate is calculated on the basis of the quantity of waste for recycling or heat recovery and the organic waste in relation to the total quantity of waste. Explanation: Due to the new level of data quality, the specific amount of waste recorded for 2011 is not always comparable with the previous years. Several figures had to be estimated in the previous year, especially in Asia/Africa. This is why the actual figures for 2011 differ substantially. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 37 Energy and resource management Water consumption in l per m2 of selling space ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 2,318 2,251 2,001 1,229 1,211 1,143 751 797 707 533 523 425 431 398 380 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Specific water consumption by ­METRO G ­ ROUP stores in relation to selling space. Explanation: We succeeded in further reducing water consumption in Germany and the rest of Europe. However, the considerable regional differences between Europe and Asia/Africa show where we need to further strengthen our focus on water as a scarce resource. Refrigerants – refill rate in % (excl. MGL) ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 21.0 17.3 15.5 16.7 16.1 15.4 15.5 15.1 15.1 14.4 13.6 13.0 13.6 12.2 11.6 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Quantity of refrigerant that, according to the service records of the refrigeration companies, was refilled in the commercial refrigeration systems of the Metro Cash & Carry, Real and Galeria Kaufhof sales divisions in relation to the overall capacity of the systems. Refrigerant has to be added due to emissions caused by leaks or malfunctions such as burst pipes. Explanation: The rise in the refill rate indicates that we need to make our reduction efforts even more efficient. We hope to slash the refill rate over the next few years by implementing the “Refrigerants” directive at ­METRO ­GROUP. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 38 Energy and resource management Paper – share of eco-friendly paper in % ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe (excl. Germany) 88.0 89.5 81.0 84.0 81.0 75.0 79.0 78.0 75.0 62.0 60.0 54.1 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: The following types of paper are considered eco-friendly: newsprint containing 65–100 percent recovered paper fibres, and magazine paper that is FSC®-certified or made of pulp bleached without the use of chlorine and/or with a minimum recovered paper content of 20 percent. The percentage of these types of paper is calculated in relation to the total quantity of paper purchased via ­METRO ­GROUP Advertising (MGA) for advertising materials and brochures. Office paper is not included. Explanation: ­METRO ­GROUP is still successfully implementing its environmental guidelines concerning paper purchased for advertising materials. The Company now plans to prioritise the steady improvement in the use of eco-friendly paper that has already been achieved in Germany in other ­METRO ­GROUP regions. Own fleet of lorries in Germany Number of Share of Euro 5 Diesel consumption ­company lorries ­lorries in % in l per 100 km 195 170 156 94.9 67.1 46.2 31.82 32.04 32.36 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Share of vehicles among the entire fleet of company lorries in Germany that meet at least the Euro 5 emission standard and the average amount of diesel used by all company vehicles per 100 kilometres driven. Explanation: Despite efforts to reduce consumption – such as fuel economy courses for drivers – diesel usage stagnated. The reasons for this include higher ­consumption figures for lower-emission lorries, changing requirements for lorry pre-cooling and more traffic jams on logistics routes. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 39 Employees and social affairs N 116 Employees ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 252,258 253,792 249,953 94,169 89,149 96,941 91,189 89,863 90,260 52,746 51,813 50,675 16,194 15,175 17,829 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 42.8 43.9 44.4 38.8 39.3 39.2 52.1 53.0 52.9 39.5 40.8 42.1 57.7 58.8 59.7 57.2 56.1 55.6 61.2 60.7 60.8 47.9 47.0 47.1 60.5 59.2 57.9 42.3 41.2 40.3 Share of men in % Share of women in % Definition: Full-time equivalents, average for the year. Due to later adjustments, some of the figures reported here differ from those published in the 2010 progress report. Gender distribution in managerial positions in % Share of men Share of women ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 70.5 67.1 67.2 65.0 84.0 81.4 80.8 81.9 79.8 86.5 85.1 84.9 85.9 87.0 87.4 29.5 32.9 32.8 35.0 16.0 18.6 19.2 14.9 15.1 18.1 20.2 13.5 14.1 13.0 12.6 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Managerial positions are those in levels 1–3 (Management Board, general management, divisional management, departmental management and store management). The proportion of male and female employees in these positions is calculated. Explanation: Overall, the percentage of women in managerial positions is on the rise. This trend will be heightened by our voluntary pledge to increase the p ­ ercentage of women to 25 percent worldwide by the end of 2015. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 40 Employees and social affairs Personnel expenses in € million ­METRO ­GROUP Thereof wages Thereof social contributions and salaries and expenditure for pensions and employee benefits 7,185 7,367 7,286 5,910 6,066 5,959 1,275 1,301 1,327 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Personnel expenses include wages and salaries, social contributions and expenditure for pensions and employee benefits. Wages and salaries also include income taxes and the employee’s contribution to social insurance. Social contributions include contributions to insurance for pensions, health care, unemployment benefits and long-term care, as well as contributions to the employers’ liability insurance association (accident insurance). Employee benefits include subsidies for on-site meals. Staff turnover rate in % ­METRO ­GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 26.1 26.8 26.1 24.7 23.5 23.0 20.0 20.1 19.2 18.0 18.5 16.6 14.7 8.3 8.5 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Staff turnover is defined as all employees leaving, i.e. those who retire, die or hand in their notice. The staff turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. In 2010, the method used to report the average number of employees was adjusted. As a result, this figure now includes trainees as well as all permanent employees. The figures for 2009 have been restated accordingly. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Key performance indicators → p. 41 Employees and social affairs Work-related accidents Continuing professional development in Germany per 1,000 employees *Excl. Media Markt and Saturn Germany Continuing profesAverage CPD sional development expenditure per employee per year in € 22.8 750.5 737.0 18.9 18.4 723.4 1.1 0.7 0.8 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010* 2011* 2009 2010* 2011* Definition: Definition: Number of reportable work-related accidents per Continuing professional development (CPD) comprises statutory training 1,000 employees, based on the number of full-time (hygiene, occupational health and safety), courses focusing on ongoing equivalents. operations and medium-/long-term CPD opportunities that are offered with a view to enhancing the course of business. Explanation: The definition of the rate per 1,000 employees has Explanation: been adjusted since the previous years. The figures This key performance indicator is being published for the first time because for prior years shown here were calculated using the CPD is an important element of human resources policy. new method. Vocational trainees Germany Percentage Thereof success Thereof hiring of trainees rate in % rate in % in % 8,300 7,894 7,176 95.9 96.5 96.4 2009 8.6 63.3 64.3 61.1 2010 8.4 2011 7.9 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Definition: Based on the definition issued by the German Federal Statistical Office, trainees are people completing vocational training to qualify in a recognised occupation on the basis of a traineeship contract as per the German Vocational Training Act (Berufsbildungsgesetz). Explanation: Macroeconomic developments are the main reason behind the fall in the number of traineeships on offer. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 42 Goals 2011 Within the focused fields of action, we have set specific goals for the purpose of continuously improving our sustainability N 117 ­efforts and defined the steps that we will take to reach these goals. The extent to which a goal has been reached is reflected in the reported status of each individual goal and the measures related to it. Degree of goal achievement Measure Measure Measure Goal not Goal not Goal initiated ongoing concluded reached yet reached rea­ched Company Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Compliance organisation M ­ ETRO G­ ROUP continuously updates its → Implementation of the comprehensive and management compliance management system. communication strategy to inform employees through Group-wide awareness campaigns in various formats (e.g. Compliance Day), reports in newsletters, the Intranet and employee magazines, etc. → Introduction of Group-wide anti-corruption guidelines and enhancement of the Group-wide competition law compliance programme with extensive training programmes. → Implementation of an internal control system to manage compliance risks within operational processes, including systemic controls, dual-control principle and separation of functions. → Group-wide online survey among managers on levels 1, 2 and 3 to measure the progress of compliance at ­METRO ­GROUP. The results are reported to the Management Board and included in the Compliance Newsletter. The next survey will be conducted in 2012. Risk management Establishment of the integration of → Systematic inclusion of sustainability criteria into the risk sustainability criteria that are management system by 2012. critical to M ­ ETRO ­GROUP into the risk management system. Beginning in 2012, this will be covered by risk management guidelines. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 43 Fields of action: supply chain and products Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Conservation of ­ ETRO ­GROUP continues to refine its M → In 2011, training of fish buyers resources/food safety/ strategy on sustainable fishing. in the use of the fish inventory supplier qualifications database www.portal-fischerei.de by von Thünen Institute. → Internal training for buyers to increase awareness of the issue of sustainable fishing. → Preparation of a M ­ ETRO ­GROUP purchasing policy on sustainable fishing. → Development of divisionand countryspecific implementation guidelines for ­METRO ­GROUP’s purchasing policy on sustainable fishing. The sustainable range of fish is being → Systematic procurement of MSC items. expanded by 15 percent from 96 items (brands and own brands) in 2009 to 110 MSC-certified items at the end of 2011. ­ ETRO G M ­ ROUP is expanding its supplier → In March 2011, a UNIDO partnership training programme in developing and project with 120 own-brand suppliers emerging countries. of Metro Cash & Carry and Real is launched in Russia. → In 2011, a UNIDO partnership project with own-brand suppliers of Metro Cash & Carry is launched in India. → In 2011, an IFC partnership project with suppliers of Metro Cash & Carry is launched in Ukraine. → The “Star Farm” programme of Metro Cash & Carry was further expanded in 2010. A training programme starts in Pakistan in 2011. → A partnership agreement regarding supplier development programmes was concluded with Bayer CropScience. Conservation of Conversion of several Real own-brand → An agreement was concluded with resources/design of cleaning agents to A.I.S.E. certification. A.I.S.E. in 2011. Individual cleaning product range agents are being converted. Conservation of Real Germany contributes to the → Beginning in 2011, conversion of resources/ development of more sustainable several Real own-brand Tetra Pak/ packaging design packaging. Combi Block packaging materials to Forest Stewardship Council®. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 44 Fields of action: supply chain and products Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures International Integration of all nonfood own-brand import → Development of a project plan to reach labour standards/ suppliers who serve via MGB Hong Kong this goal. social standards into a BSCI or equivalent social standard system by 2015, provided the product was made in a risk country (definition of risk country according to BSCI). ­METRO ­GROUP intensifies its → Internal procedures to monitor and commitment to fair working conditions document social standard systems are among its suppliers. improved through the introduction of systematic IT support. → In cooperation with GLOBALG.A.P., the new social standard for agricultural production GRASP was to be tested by five suppliers. The project was not carried out. → Ban on the harmful production technique sandblasting, e.g. for jeans, beginning in February 2011. Animal protection Improved animal husbandry conditions. → At Real Germany, definition of in-house criteria regarding goose and duck husbandry. First suppliers are recruited for the goose and duck criteria. Since 2011, Real Germany has stopped selling rabbits raised in cages. Quality assurance 90 percent of nonfood suppliers of → Two introductory training courses were ­METRO G ­ ROUP who have the greatest conducted with suppliers in China in risk and sales potential will be certified 2010. The current version of the BRC under the BRC Consumer Product standards proved to be impractical. Standard by the end of 2015. The revision of this standard is still pending. For this reason, the measure has been put on hold. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 45 Fields of action: energy and resource management Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Climate protection/ Improvement of data quality by upgrading → Introduction of a new CO2 emission resource management primary data coverage and increasing collection and calculation system with the quality of primary data for targeted a shortening of reporting times in 2011 management and increased planning and 2012. security by the end of 2013. Greenhouse gas emissions are to fall by → Implementation of the “low hanging 15 percent from 355 kg/sqm (figure fruit” programme in 2011–2014. adjusted) in 2006 to 302 kg/sqm in 2015. Energy consumption per sqm of selling → Energy efficiency steps were introduced space is to fall by 3 percent from 414 kWh as part of the “low hanging fruit” in 2009 to 402 kWh in 2011. programme 2011–2014. The goal of 402 kWh per sqm of selling space was not reached in 2011. The reasons for this include changes in data collection. ­ ETRO ­GROUP continues to improve its M → Expansion of collection and monitoring energy management. of energy consumption with the help of smart metering systems. At the end of 2011, 80 percent of all stores around the world were equipped with such systems. → Expanding the qualifications and responsibilities of employees, e.g. by regular training of in-house technicians and annual energy checks. → Development of uniform standards for new and remodelled sites. → Roll-out of successful efficiency measures. Complete installation of the M ­ ETRO ­GROUP → Implementation of the “low hanging energy management system (>95 percent) fruit” programme in 2011–2014. in 2012. Beginning in 2012, review of every new store → Development of a project plan including opening regarding the possibility of using a work instructions. photovoltaic system. Revision of energy primer in 2012. → Development of a project plan. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 46 Fields of action: energy and resource management Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Climate protection/ The refill rate of refrigerants was to fall → The goal cannot be met in 2011. By resource management from 14.4 percent in 2009 to 12 percent implementing the work instructions in 2011. on refrigerants at ­METRO ­GROUP, we intend to significantly reduce the refill rate in the coming years. Beginning in 2015, use of natural → Review of technical feasibility. refrigerants in the cooling systems of every new store. → Conversion of pilot units. → Conducting of lifecycle analyses. Beginning in 2012, expansion of e-mobility → Creation of a loading infrastructure at at ­METRO ­GROUP Germany. the Düsseldorf location (five charging stations) and purchase of electric vehicles (initially two e-vehicles). Installation of charging stations at new stores built between 2012 and 2015. By the end of 2011, we intend to upgrade our → By the end of 2011, we have reached fleet of trucks in Germany to meet the Euro 5 95 percent of our goal. We will reach standard at the very least. the goal completely in 2012. The average level of diesel used by the → The goal cannot be reached. Diesel trucks in the fleet of MGL (­METRO G ­ ROUP consumption has grown. The causes Logistics) in Germany is to fall by 5 percent of this increased diesel usage infrom 31.8 l /100 km in 2009 to 30.3 l /100 km clude higher consumption levels for in 2011. low-emission truck models, changed requirement for the pre-cooling of trucks and increasing congestion on logistics routes. ­ ETRO ­GROUP is reducing the environM → Rolling environmental training courses mental impact of logistics with programmes help drivers to reduce fuel consumpdesigned to change drivers’ behaviour. tion. All drivers undergo this training at least once. ­ ETRO G M ­ ROUP continues to carry out its → Continuously increased purchase of environmental guidelines covering paper environmentally optimised and certified purchased for advertising material. paper for the advertising material of our sales brands. → Relative reduction of amount of purchased paper by reducing the format of advertising fliers, e.g., Real Germany has saved about 10,000 t of paper from 2008 until today. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 47 Fields of action: employees and social affairs Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Occupational health M ­ ETRO ­GROUP will intensify its → Expansion of key figures and and safety commitment to occupational safety reporting systems regarding and health of its employees. on-the-job accidents. → Expansion of employee health programmes and optimisation of occupational safety in stores and warehouses. Diversity M ­ ETRO G ­ ROUP will continuously increase → Intensification of recruitment marketing the number of women in managerial with a focus on the target group of positions. women and increased consideration of women in managerial development activities and successor planning. → As part of the DAX-30 voluntary commitment, the share of women in managerial positions (Metro managerial levels 1–3) is to rise by 20 percent by the end of 2013 and by 25 percent by the end of 2015. With active demographic management, → Expansion of the qualification and ­METRO G ­ ROUP will systematically develop promotion programmes as well as the strengths of its diverse workforce. the development of age-appropriate ­working conditions, including preventative programmes. Employee retention M ­ ETRO G ­ ROUP will expand its further → Development of new training modules education effort for employees. in the areas of customer management, sales and procurement as well as the expansion of e-training modules. ­ ETRO ­GROUP will further expand the M → Further expansion of internal “Interprofessional development and support of national Development Centres” (IDC) employees. to evaluate the skills and abilities of employees. → Development and support of employees with the help of individual development plans. M ­ ETRO G ­ ROUP will continuously improve → Regular employee survey to measure employee commitment in order to increase employee commitment. customer satisfaction and business success. → Preparation of action plans by employee teams to increase employee commitment. International M ­ ETRO ­GROUP will expand its commitment → A deepening of the working relationlabour standards to the labour standards of the International ship with the European works council Labour Organisation (ILO). of ­METRO ­GROUP “Euro-Forum”. → Continued partnership with the international union organisation UNI Global Commerce. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 48 Fields of action: social policies and stakeholder dialogue Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Corporate citizenship Assumption of corporate social → Proceeds from the sale of nearly 38,000 responsibility by donating food and copies of the cookbook “Das Gute essen” money while reducing food waste. (Eat good food) and 3,800 full versions of an app of the same name were donated to the food bank organisation “Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel”. → Increased support for the Tafel and food bank movement at the international level by internally addressing sales countries in an effort to expand or initiate such activities. → The “Care & Share” programme at Metro Cash & Carry is expanded from 18 countries in 2009 to 22 in 2011. → Real’s donations to the Tafel organisation included five tonnes of food to the national Tafel conference and other food donations to the ecumenical/­ Protestant church conference. As part of its “familymanager” initiative, Real → “real,familymanager” will have supported more than 1,500 kinder“Sie kaufen. Wir spenden!” gartens in Germany by the end of 2011. (You buy. We donate!) Real: national support for socially deprived → Real: Christmas Wish Tree Campaign children. – 15,000 children received gifts; marketing support for the children’s aid organisation SOS Children’s Villages Germany, e.g. a customer breakfast – total donation: €43,000 Stakeholder dialogue ­ ETRO ­GROUP continues to conduct M Work includes: dialogue with experts and stakeholders → Animal Protection Advisory Council of regarding animal protection. North Rhine-Westphalia. → Expert discussion on lobster husbandry at the Bavarian Ministry for Food, Agriculture and Forests (BayStMELF). → Expert discussion on castration of young pigs with QS GmbH. → Meeting with the German Animal Protection Association. → Expert discussions with the Albert Schweitzer Foundation on the topics “eggs from caged hens” and “rabbit husbandry”. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → Goals 2011 → p. 49 Fields of action: social policies and stakeholder dialogue Status Theme Goals Status goals Measures measures Stakeholder dialogue ­ ETRO ­GROUP conducts dialogue with M These activities include experts and stakeholders on the subjects of → Participation in a conference on food their specialities. waste in North Rhine-Westphalia. → Participation in the Stakeholder Council of the Marine Stewardship Council. → Active further development of the Aquaculture Stewardship Council. → Participation of FSC® stakeholder dialogue formats. → Participation in the Consumer Goods Forum on such topics as deforestation, refrigerants, health and well-being. → Participation at the World Economic Forum, including new visions on agriculture, ocean governance and sustainable consumption. → Co-chair of the European Retail Forum for Sustainability. Creation of the Berlin “Mittwochsgesell→ Implementation of the format by schaft des Handels” (Wednesday Society initiating a preliminary discussion on of Retail) as a fixed stakeholder format of a website and the organisation of the ­METRO ­GROUP. events. Set-up of development or cooperation → Regular meetings with development partnerships. organisations such as UNIDO, GIZ, IDH, IFC, KfW and with cooperation partners like Bayer CropScience. Establishment of 79 customer advisory → Quarterly meeting of 10 to 15 Real councils at Real Germany in 2011. customers from various age groups to Expansion to 154 councils in 2012 and discuss the improvement potential of 229 in 2013. local stores. METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → un Global Compact → p. 50 N 118 united nations Global Compact By joining the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest initiative for ­corporate responsibility – ­METRO ­GROUP emphasises the fact that sustainability is an integral part of its corporate strategy, and makes even more transparent its ­longstanding commitment to responsible and ethically correct business activities. With this Communication on Progress, ­METRO ­GROUP complies with its obligation to disclose through which guidelines and measures its performance in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against ­corruption improves, and how it is ensured that the ten core principles of the Global Compact are respected – not only today, but also in future strategic decisions as well as in day-to-day work. Düsseldorf, May 2012 Olaf Koch ch a irm a n of the m a n agement boa rd of metro ag METRO GROUP : Progress report sustainabilit y 2011 : our results → un global compact → p. 51 United Nations Global Compact communication on progress 2011 Responsibilities and Principle Management Systems Measures 2011 Performances 2011 Human Rights Principle 1: Support of → ­METRO ­GROUP Business Principles → Support of non food suppliers* → 72 % of BSCI-relevant suppliers human rights → METRO ­ ­GROUP's principles on fair for own imports through MGB passed the BSCI social audit, thus inworking conditions and on social Hong Kong in the implementation creasing the share by 4 % compared Principle 2: Prevention of partnership of the BSCI standard (Business to 2010 (Status November 2011) human rights violations Social Compliance Initiative) or an → oekom research Prime Status → International standards along the equivalent social standard system, supply chain (BSCI) provided that the imported goods → Listing in the Dow Jones → ILO (International Labour Organizawere manufactured in countries ­Sustainability Index tion) Declaration on Fundamental categorised as risk areas by the s ee key performance indicator Principles and Rights at Work BSCI. (*Suppliers who provided supply chain and products social embedded in different corporate ­METRO G ­ ROUP in the corresponding audits , p. 34 guidelines year with clothing, shoes, toys and →O  ECD Guidelines for Multinational hard goods for the EU market) Enterprises embedded in different → Kick-off for renewed attention to corporate guidelines ­METRO G ­ ROUP’s principles on fair working conditions and on social partnership Labour Principle 3: Protection of →M ­ ETRO G ­ ROUP Corporate Principles → Social standards clause in supplier → In 23 of the currently 33 countries the freedom of association → ­METRO ­GROUP Business Principles contracts in which ­METRO G ­ ROUP is active, and the right to collective → Awareness campaign on occupaticollective labour agreements on the bargaining → Guideline on Antidiscrimination sector or company level, depending onal safety at METRO Cash & Carry Principle 4: Elimination → ­METRO G ­ ROUPʼs principles on fair International on the sales line are already appliof all forms of forced and working conditions and on social cable or currently being prepared. partnership → Kick-off for renewed attention to These collective labour agreements compulsory labour ­METRO G­ ROUP’s principles on fair → International standards along the are the result of social dialogue betPrinciple 5: Abolition of working conditions and on social ween local management represenchild labour supply chain (BSCI) partnership tatives and one or more of the local Principle 6: Elimination of → ILO (International Labour Organizaemployee representative bodies, e.g. discrimination tion) Declaration on Fundamental the labour unions. Principles and Rights at Work embedded in different corporate →L  aunch of the female leadership guidelines campaign →O  ECD Guidelines for Multinational →O  f the 249,953 employees at Enterprises embedded in different ­METRO G ­ ROUP, 55.6 % are female. corporate guidelines (full-time employees, status 4th quarter 2011) → oekom research Prime Status → Listing in the Dow Jones ­Sustainability Index s ee field of action employees and social affairs, p. 22–25 s ee key performance indicators employees and social affairs, p. 39–41 METRO GROUP progress report Sustainability 2011 : our results → un Global Compact → p. 52 United Nations Global Compact communication on progress 2011 Responsibilities and Principle Management Systems Measures 2011 Performances 2011 Environment Principle 7: Precautionary → ­METRO ­GROUP Corporate Principles → Reduction of climate impact →R  elease of a special budget for environmental protection → ­METRO ­GROUP Environmental → Joining the Round Table on energy efficiency measures at the Principle 8: Promote Guidelines ­Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) business locations greater environmental →P  urchasing guidelines, e.g. Fish → Implementation of the Fish →L  isting of M ­ ETRO ­GROUP in the responsibility Procurement Policy ­Procurement Policy “Carbon Disclosure Leadership Principle 9: Diffusion of Index” of the Carbon Disclosure → I nternational standards along the → Implementation of energy efficiency Project (CDP) environmentally friendly supply chain (Global GAP, IFS) measures technologies → ­METRO ­GROUP Logistics was → Standard requirements for efficiency → Preparation of a carbon footprint presented with the BME Innovation optimisation with regard to new → Initiation of logistics projects Award 2011 for its holistic Supply buildings and their technical service Chain Management concept systems → Committee functions (sustainable consumption, ocean protection, etc.) → Sale of efficiency class A+ appliances → The Consumer Goods Forum Board at Media Saturn Resolution on Deforestation → Voluntary taking back of waste ­electronic goods at Media Saturn s ee field of action energy and →T  he Consumer Goods Forum Board ­resource management, p. 16–21 Resolution on Sustainable Refri→ Pilot projects for CO2 refrigeration plants see key performance indicators geration energy and resource management, → Warehouse locations with ammonia p. 34-38 refrigeration plants Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Anti-­ → ­METRO ­GROUP Business Principles → Group-wide introduction of the → By the end of 2011, more than 7,000 corruption measures → OECD Guidelines for Multinational ­METRO ­GROUP Anti-corruption employees of all hierarchy levels Enterprises embedded in different guidelines on the dealings with were trained face-to-face for 2.5 corporate guidelines officials/government agencies and hours on Anti-corruption guideliwith business partners nes across the group (this already → E xecution of compulsory face-tocorresponds to more than 80 % of the face training sessions (up to 2.5 hours) target group). for the relevant addressees of the → The electronic Hospitality Log has guideline already been introduced in almost → Ensuring the necessary accompanyall affiliated corporations. The ing “Tone from the Top” communicafunction of the Hospitality Log is the tion of the METRO AG Management transparent documentation of inviBoard tations made by business partners to M ­ ETRO G­ ROUP employees which were accepted. → To prevent corruption, use of clear “Tone from the Top” messages by all members of the Board of METRO AG on the Group-wide intranet, in the Compliance Newsletter which is distributed Group-wide to all executives and in employee trainings. s ee ­METRO ­GROUP annual report 2011, p. 79 INFORMATION Publisher Reporting period Certifications METRO AG The reporting period is the calendar year 2011. This progress report on sustainability is printed Schlüterstraße 1 For reasons of topicality or to provide updates on on FSC®-certified paper. By purchasing FSC® pro40235 Düsseldorf developments, additional information has been ducts we foster responsible forest management Postfach 23 03 61 included that was available at the time of going to that is controlled according to the strict social, 40089 Düsseldorf press (30 April 2012) or that relates to the period ecological and economic criteria of the Forest Stebefore 2011. The cut-off date for figures in the “Key wardship Council. We only use fully recycled paper M ­ ETRO ­GROUP on the Internet performance indicators” section is 31 December bearing the EU Ecolabel in this publication. In addiwww.metrogroup.de 2011. The frame of reference for the information in tion, this progress report carries the Saphira Eco the section ‘Targets 2011’ is given within the tarlabel of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG. This Sustainability gets and measures. certifies that the material used in the production Tel.: +49 (211) 969-9094 of this publication, such as inks, lacquers, chemiFax: +49 (211) 969-4909094 Reporting limits cals and printing plates, fulfils the requirements nachhaltigkeit@metro.de The scope of applicability of the information is of the most important international environmengiven in the respective texts, key performance intal certificates. For additional information, see Responsible dicators or targets. www.heidelberg.com. Hans Jürgen Matern UN Global Compact Printed on Circle Offset Premium White bearing the Concept and editorial Since 2010, ­ M ETRO ­ G ROUP has subscribed EU eco-label, registration Nina von Radowitz to the principles of the UN Global Compact, a number FR/11/003. Karolina Otto United ­Nations-led global initiative that aims to Chantal Wagner encourage businesses to adopt universal sustainability principles. By subscribing to the UN natureOffice.com | Printed with Saphira Eco Project management Global Compact, we have committed ourselves to Chantal Wagner continuous improvements in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protecCreative execution tion and anti-corruption measures. With its proDisclaimer Strichpunkt GmbH, Stuttgart / Berlin gress report on sustainability 2011, ­METRO ­GROUP This progress report on sustainability contains is fulfilling its obligation to show what the Company forward-looking statements that are based on cerEditorial support and realisation is doing to make improvements in these areas tain assumptions and expectations at the time of its Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf (Communication on Progress). publication. These statements are therefore subject to risks and uncertainties, which means that actual Printing results may differ substantially from the futureDruckstudio GmbH, Düsseldorf oriented statements made here. Many of these risks and uncertainties are determined by factors that are Photo credits beyond the control of M ­ ETRO ­GROUP and cannot BBDO be gauged with any certainty at this point in time. Galeria Kaufhof Operational audit of the carbon footprint 2011 This includes future market conditions and econoHandelsverband Deutschland (HDE) For the reporting year 2011, the auditing company mic developments, the behaviour of other market Helmut Hannes KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft asparticipants, the achievement of expected synergy John M. John sessed our data collection processes and data effects as well as legal and political deci­ sions. Marco Urban capture system as part of an operational audit and ­METRO ­GROUP does not feel obliged to publish corMETRO AG also verified our carbon footprint for 2011 in acrections to these forward-looking statements to Metro Cash & Carry Deutschland – Christian Foth cordance with ISAE 3000. The certification by the reflect events or circumstances that have occurred Metro Cash & Carry Pakistan – Bashir Ahmad independent auditor can be seen on the Internet at after the publication date of this material. Metro Cash & Carry Vietnam www.metrogroup.de/sustainabilityreport. QUOC VIET TECHNOLOGY JSC. → p. IV Join in the dialogue Dialogue with our readers is important to us because it shows us what you expect of our Company and where we can make further improvements. We would therefore like to hear any questions or comments you may have about the M ­ ETRO ­GROUP progress report ­sustainability 2011 and our sustainability activities in general. To share your thoughts, use one of our online dialogue tools or send us an e-mail: www.metrogroup.de/sustainability sustainability@metro.de N 100 The quick link will direct you to the corresponding content and additional information on the internet. Please use the search field on the frontpage of our online report to type in the quick link.
