Communication On Progress 2012 Communication on Progress of the company ELKA, a.s. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to inform that ELKA reconfirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We use this annual Communication on Progress to describe our actions of continual improvement and the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. Sincerely yours, Ing. Helena Oravcová, PhD CEO Page 1 of 5 Communication On Progress 2012 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals • ELKA is committed to furthering the UN Global Compact in the area of Human Rights. Our company policy is in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Slovak legal system; we fully support all thirty articles of the declaration and avow to fulfill these promises to the best of our ability. • With respect to Human Rights ELKA ´s specific company policy is fully convenient with all national as well as UN Global Compact requirements for are of Human Rights. • We make efforts to create suitable conditions for our employees respecting fully all national as well as UN Global Compact requirements in the area of human rights. • Our goals for the upcoming year on the issue of human rights are strictly in line with UN Global Compact Principle 1, “to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.” • Our continuous strategy in area of people training is to ensure that our staff is aware of potential human rights abuses. Implementation • With respect to our company policy we recognize that realizing human rights involves strict respecting human rights within own company. • ELKA is committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees and job applicants. • Harassment, discrimination or inappropriate conduct on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion, national origin, marital status, age or disability are prohibited. • The company training program includes regular training in the area of human resource policy. The company managers of all levels take part in meeting with the employees in our manufacturing facilities to discuss about the situation in company and to eliminate potential human rights abuses. • To secure that ELKA is abiding by the UN Global Compact’s second principle, to make sure we are “not complicit in human rights abuses”, we have a regular monthly employee committee meeting. In case anything negative is discovered, we have the opportunity to create an action plan to deal with the situation. Measurement of outcomes • ELKA has had no incidents of Human Rights violation in the time since initial application for the United Nations Global Compact. The president and CEO, Mrs. Helena Oravcová, regularly visits monthly employee committee meeting We believe that our proactive attitude, as well as our commitment to the UNGC are indicative of our zero tolerance for human rights violations. • Potential incidents of human rights violation would be registered and solved by the competent persons under supervising of the top management. The solving procedure is monitored and reported inclusive all taken measures. The trainings in the area of human resources are recorded as well. Page 2 of 5 Communication On Progress 2012 Labour Assessment, policy and goals • ELKA is committed to furthering the UN global Compact in the area of Labor Rights. We support the ILO’s 1998 “Declaration” as well as its “Four fundamental principles and rights at work.” In addition to the ILO’s proclamations we also are in strong support of Articles 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. ELKA fully support Article 24 that proclaims, “everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.” • Furthermore on the issue of discrimination, ELKA, strongly supports Article 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states, “All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.” ELKA does not discriminate and take all necessary actions to ensure against discrimination in employment, recruitment, advertisements for employment, compensation, termination, upgrading, promotions, and other conditions of employment against any employee or job applicant on the bases of race, creed, color, national origin, or sex. Implementation • ELKA works in accordance to the Slovak labour law fully and respects a 40-hour workweek, shift work conditions, holiday time, working hours, overtime limit and other regulations. • It is very important for us to create convenient working conditions for all our employees. The employees are regularly trained according to the company training program. • ELKA invests in improving the working environment in its all manufacturing facilities. Measurement of outcomes • As of the time of application there were no incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labor principals. The management feels that the lack of an issue is demonstrative of the company’s high regard for labor rights and its continuing attempts to educate company employees about their rights. • ELKA monitors and reports that the legal requirements in the area of the Labour rights are respected. The internal audits and inspections by local authorities are regularly performed. All actions are reported. Page 3 of 5 Communication On Progress 2012 Environment Assessment, policy and goals • ELKA is fully committed to furthering the UN global Compact in the area of Environmental Protection. • ELKA is a company producing the environment friendly products – electrical oil filled radiators • ELKA is on the very forefront of supporting programs that encourage environmental protection. • It is one of our priorities to protect the natural environment. ELKA is very creative in its application of environmentally friendly policies. Our main target in this area is “being green”. There are a variety of ways in which we are trying to “green” ELKA. One of the ways is with respect to transportation. • ELKA also activelly work on recycling of materials and separation of scraps. Implementation • ELKA realise this policy by working with employee in the area of education, as well as investing in new energy-saving technology and recycling programs. • The company takes all measures to minimaze environmental risks and makes all action for the protection of environment organizes training and consultation with employees to describe principles of environmental protection defines allocation of responsibilities for the protection of environment comunicate and colaborate with external partners Measurement of outcomes • ELKA do its best to be in harmony with the UN Global Compact goals. E.g. turning computers off during meeting times, making a full pot of coffee or tea rather than individual cups, ensuring all unnecessary lights are turned off when not in use and many other small changes that have helped make our company more environmentally friendly. • Internal and Management review regularly 1 per monthly • Internal and external audits and reports and corrective measures implemented in given terms Page 4 of 5 Communication On Progress 2012 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • ELKA is committed to furthering the UN global Compact in the area of AntiCorruption. The country of Slovakia is a party to the UN convention against corruption and both ELKA and its employees are supporting this document. ELKA has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. In doing business anywhere in the world, ELKA nor any person associated with the company may offer, pay, promise, authorize or receive any bribe, kickback or other illicit payment. In employee orientation, employees are given education about what to do should they encounter an issue within the company that deal with corruption, the employee SKILL MATRIX involves this issue as well. ELKA ´s 2013 goals for the company are to continue to provide education for all level of employees up to management about corruption as well as what to do if one should encounter it. Implementation • ELKA provides employees education about what to do in case one witnesses corruption as well as the confidence of an employee-appointed person – General Manager to assist with matter of corruption. Employees are referred to in-house as well as external agencies that may offer them assistance on these matters. Measurement of outcomes • ELKA is pleased to report that there have been no incidents of corruption alleged at the company from either internal or external agencies. Because of the company’s zerotolerance policy, it is obvious that there is a great deal of social and legal pressure not to participate in such acts. Page 5 of 5
