DANOFFICE IT COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS (COP) 2012 Danoffice IT in brief Danoffice IT provides professional and efficient IT & IS turnkey solutions to international organizations and businesses operating worldwide. Danoffice IT offers a one-stop-shopping platform with an array of services and logistical solutions, backed by professional products and certified personnel ready to assist your HQ or local offices, anytime and anywhere. Danoffice IT elaborates on more than 17 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to international Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. Danoffice IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS-solutions, from desktops, laptops, server & storage, networking to Cloud computing, print management, maintenance and staff training. We cooperate closely with our clients, not only while selecting the equipment, but throughout the entire process, from analyzing the needs, supplying and installing the most efficient turnkey solution to offering a number of valuable after sales services. Danoffice IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 250 organizations in over 163 countries. Danoffice IT is a recognized brand to multinational corporations and organizations who need a true global IT partner, supporting any need wherever it may be. Today the staff counts over 70 dedicated sales personnel and IT specialists with a vast experience within the field of customized IT solutions to International businesses and humanitarian organizations operating cross-border and often in developing countries and remote locations. Contents: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Global Compact inititative Page 3 Communications on Progress (COP) 2012 Page 4 • Human Rights Page 4 • Labour standards Page 4 • Great Place To Work initiative Page 5 • Environment Page 6 • Anti-corruption Page 7 Englandsvej 14 DK-5700 Svendborg Denmark Submitted, March 31st 2012 by: Per E.E. Svehag, eMBA President & Partner ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Global Compact initiative The 6th. of June 2007, Danoffice IT joined the UN Global Compact which is the world´s largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network-based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organizations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. The UN Global Compact state ten principles based on a universal consensus about what comprehensive CSR ought to contain. All ten principles are part of the Danoffice IT policies and have been so for some years and with the UN Global Compact initiative we have increased our focus on CSR and feel proud and humble to be member of an organization whose mission it is to create a world where nature and people live in peace and harmony. An organization where committed partners recognize, that if we really wish to make the world a better place we need to start with ourselves. We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organizational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our Communication On Progress (COP) will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Danoffice IT COP 2012 report is a part of the ”Statutory Statement of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the annual report for 2011, cf. the Danish Financial Statement Act, § 99a.” ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT Communications On Progress (COP) 2012 Being part of the global society, Danoffice IT believes it is important to have an active Corporate Social Responsibility policy and operating according to the values we believe in. Our CSR and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and staff through company staff manual, posters placed within our premises and on the Danoffice IT corporate web site: www.danoffice.com. Human Rights: 1. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We shall respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT finds that social interaction between people and cultures are the most inspiring and valuable assets in life and aim at a mix organizational culture. 2. Danoffice IT supports all human and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Danoffice IT makes annual donations of equipment or contributions to humanitarian organizations who work for the improvement of life quality. Labour standards: Such standards protect the rights of workers, foster positive workplace environments and proactive relationships between managers and employees. Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, customers, vendors, investors or competitors. 3. Danoffice IT workers have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, firing and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies. The Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management and whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees have a contact person to turn to for ideas for improvement of health or safety conditions. We constantly implement new policies and standards to create a safe, likeable and motivating physical workplace. In 2009 we implemented a healthy diet program in our canteen following the WHO recommendations on healthy diet to maintain and improve health and prevent risk for obesity, heart disease and diabetes. The diet program is combined with a company sports club with physical activities and massage. Danoffice IT has a work-life-balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Great Place To Work initiative During September 2011, Danoffice IT participated in the exciting ”Great Place To Work” initiative including in depth surveys, culture analysis, employee feedback and satisfaction questionnaire followed by an achievement and assessment conference with great success! Achievements and survey: Our main goal was to gain an in depth knowledge of what our employees were thinking, doing, believing and achieving in their every day balanced work life. We completed Employee Trust Surveys and Culture Assessment analysis tests and received very positive results throughout all country offices, disregarding official managerial and employee assignments, roles or job titles. In light of the survey, questionnaires and feedback we have developed individual training programs, competence programs and aided the possibilities to achieve more and be more in the workplace. On basis on many employee satisfaction statements we have added alleviation days to conform to illness and child care which we believe to be of big significance for a balanced work/life environment. Next Steps: Our next step is to pursue the “Great Place To Work” initiative in the years to come. Our aim is not to be number one, but to understand and learn. We want to improve with a solid foundation and with purpose Our passion for our workplace comes from our employees, each and every person in our company is an invaluable asset who reminds everyone; both partners, colleagues and customers that we work and perform via our Danoffice IT 7-P system: • Personal • Proud • Passionate • Positive • Persistent • Proactive • Professional • ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT’s cARPE dIEM is an employee association for all employees, where we arrange social and educational events after working hours. The cARPE dIEM association is addressing and working with issues which reinforces and supports cultural differences and promotes the understanding and diversity of the international world we live in. 4. Danoffice IT does not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioural policy before a co-operation and future business-endeavor can take place. 5. Danoffice IT does not use forced labour or child labour nor do we accept partners who encourage the means of child labour. The Danoffice IT labour policy is not to employ any in our organization under the age of 16 or to have partners that are engaged in child labour in any form. 6. With presence in Europe, Africa and USA our HR department constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Every year in December we carry out an analysis to review the workforce balance in the organization to monitor how the groups are represented and to plan adjustments if necessary. Latest survey in 2011 showed a good balance between the groups. All employees receive equal conditions and equal rights, regardless of the physical location. Environment: Mother Earth is a wonderful place, which we must guard and hand over to the future generations with care. Environmental friendly practice is also about business efficiency – it´s about optimal usage of valuable raw materials, with reward through benefits of action and thought leadership in true sustainable policies and business processes. 7. Danoffice IT only works with vendors with environmental friendly policies. 8. Danoffice IT has an environmental friendly packing policy, where we pack consignments in attempt to reduce weight and volume to a minimum and recycle what is possible and destroy waste under environmental friendly conditions. All packaging material is 100% bio-degradable, reinforcing our belief in a cleaner environment through bio-degradable and environmental friendly products. It is in our nature to save energy via responsible use of energy efficient appliances, conforming to the latest standards of energy efficiency. In-door and out-door lighting is today part of a greener approach by using environmental friendly, low Watt LED bulbs. By narrowing down and focusing on the reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emittance, our long term energy and CO2 reduction plan will result feasible once applied and supported throughout all our offices, branches and partners. In 2009 Danoffice IT implemented the “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. A worldwide recycling and destruction program for Toner/Cartridges with continuous focus on improvement and sustainability. ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com 9. Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TIE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We always strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. Anti-corruption: 10. Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. “Our goal is to apply an honest and realistic Corporate Social Responsibility, throughout all our phases of business and partnership programs, with reward through benefits of proactiveness and thought leadership in true sustainable business processes.” Per E.E. Svehag, eMBA President & Partner ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com
