22 2010 METŲ VEIKLOS ATASKAITA / AB „Lietuvos draudimas“ Our Contribution to the Society ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas 23 Social Responsibility Report of AB Lietuvos Draudimas The What does corporate social responsibility mean? The objective of the Global Compact member companies contribute to the creation of value added to the society. RSA has accounted for its business and behaviour is to encourage companies to act responsibly, without damage to the environmental responsibility since 1999. AB Lietuvos Draudimas became a member environment, society, other businesses of the Global Compact initiative in 2008, of both and, through common efforts with the UN, governmental authorities and NGOs, and its social responsibility report has been drawn up for the second time. Before the individuals to take part in the solution of social and environmental issues, contribute to the development of the society and to Company started to draft and present its social responsibility reports to the public at large, it had regularly provided and the economic growth. its shareholders with information about different social responsibility policies Corporate social responsibility is the implemented by the Company. company is principle when companies take into account the needs of the society through Business responsibility is a process responsible their socially responsible behaviour in all their activities that have impact on consumers, employees, shareholders, through which the Company integrates environmental and social issues into its business operation and interactions with its and ethical. communities and the environment (Ministry of Social Security and Labour of stakeholders. the Republic of Lithuania). The approach of RSA and AB Lietuvos Draudimas, as a member of the Group, to business responsibility is based on business Corporate Social Responsibility principles and its brand, which underlie Policy of RSA Group all actions and interactions with the RSA and its Group companies worldwide stakeholders.These actions are supported are committed to seriously manage by the following major polices: the impact of their business on the Environmental, environment, people and communities. Community interaction, It means that the behaviour of both Human rights. individuals and the company is responsible and ethical. The Group focuses its major attention on the following three strategic subjects: Being a major insurer of commercial, environmental and climate change, security, industrial and personal risks, generating and social cohesion. commercial benefits, RSA Group and its 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas Appreciations, Awards, Participation in Public Initiatives The It has been a number of years in a row that the Company has been nominated among the top fifteen most desirable employers listens to client opinions and, based on them, measures the Net Promoter Score.AB Lietuvos Draudimas constantly measures Company in Lithuania.The list of the most desirable employers is published by the business daily the customers’ NPS and analyses how this indicator fluctuates after mass claims (for encourages Verslo Žinios, the public opinion and market instance, after a summer storm) among research company TNS Gallup and the customers who suffered damage and those career portal cv.lt, after having conducted a customers who did not suffer damage in to share good public survey. Moreover, in 2010, CV-online together with the student organisation AIESEC organised the competition of the the current year.The Company has set and announced to the employees its goals, the periods in which a certain NPS is expected practice. Most Attractive Employer. AB Lietuvos Draudimas was recognised as the most to be achieved. attractive company in Lithuania, which The long-term cooperation with the students or young graduates aged 19-27 organisation Junior Achievement of would most want to work for. Lithuania is further maintained. Further continuing the tradition, the Company AB Lietuvos Draudimas is a long-term joined the initiative Young Colleague in member of the Lithuanian Insurers 2010 and provided an opportunity to Association. It is a non-profit organisation talented Lithuanian schoolchildren to uniting insurance companies, taking active part familiarize themselves with the insurance in the development of common insurance activities from inside the Company. policy and promoting a positive image of the insurance industry in the society. Since 2008 AB Lietuvos Draudimas has been a member of the National In 2007, together with the leaders of the Responsible Business Network, which banking and telecommunications markets belongs to the global network of socially and the organisation gerasaptarnavimas. responsible companies Global Compact. lt, AB Lietuvos Draudimas established In 2010, AB Lietuvos Draudimas chaired the Service Quality Association and the activities of this network for the became its full-fledged members.The entire year. During the entire year, the Association is engaged in the development Company encouraged the members of the of service quality standards for shared network to share good practice of socially customers, setting of assessment criteria, responsible companies, and the main theme and implementation of common standards. in the annual conference of the network Seeking to further develop the idea organised with our assistance was a socially of good service and strengthen the responsible employer; how the employer Company’s excellent service culture, AB motivates and engages its employees, how Lietuvos Draudimas installed and launched its employees are protected and nurtured. a special Voice of the Customer system The employee engagement rate as one of in 2010.This system enables to identify the key factors determining the productivity customer expectations, assessment of the and satisfaction of an employee with his/her Company’s performance and, based on the work was addressed by Kęstutis Šerpytis, results, measures aimed at improving the the CEO of AB Lietuvos Draudimas, at the target indicators.The Voice of the Customer special event for managers. ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas 25 Human Rights, Responsibility on the Market and to the Society The RSA Group and all its member Special emphasis is placed on the following risk for human rights and also in resale. companies adhere to the accepted policy of areas: It is impossible to assess each individual human rights protection, aimed at minimising supplier and the entire supply chain. the risk of potential infringements of the • Procurement services, when important international human rights standards by RSA offers for contracts with third parties, • Services dealing with business partners individually or together with its business business partners, suppliers and their (commercial lines, joint ventures, etc.), in partners and suppliers. supply chains are considered and order to ensure that partners adhere to performed. Priority should be attributed the same principles in their activities and It aims at protecting business by setting forth for the application of the principles in their supply chains in the course of a system of principles of fundamental human to the existing suppliers, taking into implementation. rights, which RSA follows in its activities. consideration the actual and potential Support and Charity Community and Charity Policy already and was significantly expanded on Community Care For us, being a responsible company this occasion. During the initiative, which In 2010, seeking to draw attention to means participation in joint activities with for the first time continued for an entire the driving culture, the knowledge of stakeholder groups for the sake of our month and covered all roads and streets in our drivers and road safety, AB Lietuvos communities. Our community programme Lithuania, the Company provided personal Draudimas organised the National Road is aimed at promoting return, helping accident insurance to all schoolchildren on Traffic Regulations examination for the first the deprived and ensuring support for all streets and roads of the country, not time. During the examination, cooperation local communities of the customers and only at crossings. During the campaign, 3 was maintained with the Lithuanian Road employees. fatal car accidents involving schoolchildren Police and the Vilniaus City Municipality.This were reported in the districts of examination, which will become a tradition Priority areas of focus by RSA, all associated Marijampolė, Šilalė and Šiauliai.The parents in the future, seeks to show the safety of with insurance, are as follows: of the killed children received 10,000 litas driving through a positive example and help • Safety for each event. Another 8 children suffered the public understand that a good driver • Social inclusion (e.g., education, youth, serious or minor injuries, and they received must have an excellent knowledge of the financial integration, etc.) the benefits as well. Road Traffic Regulations. • Environment • Volunteering The Company organises this campaign The analytical survey Burglars See It the every September in order to draw the Other Way, which was conducted among Strategic directions of support are as follows: attention of all of us to the youngest traffic persons serving their sentences for thefts, The safety of children, environmental participants – children and to protect was initiated by AB Lietuvos Draudimas protection, projects of scientific progress, them. As this campaign has entered into and carried out in cooperation with its social traffic safety and youth programmes as well the second decade, the initiative gradually partners, namely, the Prison Department as sports.The contribution for support and develops as the sign of goodwill – “protect under the Ministry of the Interior of charity totalled LTL 95,000. my children and I will protect yours”, and it the Republic of Lithuania and the Policy also involves all employees of the Company Department, and won recognition on a who watch road crossing points on the global scale. AB Lietuvos Draudimas received Safety of Children 1st of September and help children reach the so-called Oscar of the public relations AB Lietuvos Draudimas organises two schools safely. industry – the Sabre award – for “Best Use social campaigns to ensure the safety of of Research for Communication”.Attention children: In addition, every year before summer was paid to the fact that this survey The objective of the campaign Protect holidays AB Lietuvos Draudimas conducted by the Company delivered Me is to ensure the safety of children on encourages paying attention to the safety of invaluable information to residents on the road after their return to school after children in water and next to water bodies. the issues of home security, and such high summer holidays. In 2010, this campaign Special campaigns are organised for this award has never been won by any Lithuanian was organised for the eleventh time purpose as well. or even Baltic company before. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas Volunteering RSA actively encourages its employees to • Completed the first aid training course • The LD Talents invited all the LD people voluntarily participate in various charity organised by the Red Cross and learned to join the Food Bank initiative. During events during working hours and applies a how to provide first aid this campaign, foodstuffs were collected flexible policy to volunteer activities during • Helped clean and fix the premises of the for the needy and the hungry, and they working hours.AB Lietuvos Draudimas Lithuanian Red Cross after the repairs were delivered to the Food Bank. also actively promotes the principles of • Not only donated the most essential • On the 1st of September, the Company’s volunteering among its employees. In 2010, items to mothers who suffered violence employees volunteers, as every year, when the RSA Group marked its 300th and their children supported by the watched the road crossing points by anniversary worldwide, all the companies of Lithuanian Caritas Society but also went schools and helped schoolchildren who the Group participated in volunteer projects. to communicate and play with these have returned from their summer children.The items donated to these single holidays cross the street safely, reminded The result of the volunteer activity of AB mothers included clothes, footwear, bed the road traffic regulations and the Lietuvos Draudimas in 2010: 2,196 litas was sheets and other essential items. principles of road safety. donated by the employees themselves, 46.5 • Participated in the public environmenthours were spent while voluntarily helping cleaning campaign DAROM. During this AB Lietuvos Draudimas supports: those who were in need of assistance, and campaign, the LD volunteers together • The British Embassy in Lithuania 559 gifts (various items) were collected and with thousands of people who support • Mykolas Romeris University given to the needy. this initiative cleaned the surroundings, • Public institution Tauragės Futbolas parks, forests and river banks, as well as • Lietuvos Rytas basketball team In 2010, the employees of AB Lietuvos collected waste in all cities and towns • Events organised by D.Ibelhauptaitė Draudimas voluntarily: around Lithuania. AB Lietuvos draudimas supports Young Colleague: one of the strongest clubs of the country Together with the organisation Junior Lietuvos Rytas.A total of LTL 350,000 was Achievement of Lithuania, the project allocated to this club in 2010. Young Colleague intended for the education of schoolchildren has been initiated and Šarūnas Marčiulionis’ Basketball supported since 2007 to promote active and Academy: business-minded society. AB Lietuvos Draudimas supports the development of the young generation of In 2010, more than 100 participants of the basketball players. Since 2005 support has Junior Achievement of Lithuania programme been allocated to one of the strongest – schoolchildren and their teachers – visited basketball schools in the country – Šarūnas the branches of AB Lietuvos Draudimas Marčiulionis’ Basketball Academy. One of the throughout Lithuania and familiarised teams of the Academy’s students has been themselves with the business model of the named after Lietuvos Draudimas since 2005. Company. Support and Charity Indicators: Sponsorship for Sports: 2010 LTL 95 000 Basketball Club Lietuvos Rytas: AB Lietuvos Draudimas supports Lithuanian values and spreading of the fame of the country’s name worldwide. Since 2006 AB Lietuvos Draudimas has been a sponsor of ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas 27 Labour Relationships The aim of AB Lietuvos Draudimas Indicator of Employee level managers to insurance consultants as the leader of the country’s non-life Engagement participated in this survey. insurance market is to be the first choice AB Lietuvos Draudimas places the highest • Last year, the private sales structure of AB for everybody.This applies not only in importance on the development of engaged Lietuvos Draudimas underwent a heavy respect of our future customers who employees because only they can create reorganisation; however, thanks to clear, choose an insurance company or our real value for the Company and ensure high transparent and timely communication, partners who want to work with us. financial performance.An engaged employee we managed to maintain the engagement What is equally important for us – we is satisfied with his/her workplace, tasks of sales employees – it was even higher seek to be the first choice in terms of the and duties, is aware of what is expected of than the overall average of AB Lietuvos criterion “most attractive to employees” him/her at work, has all the conditions for Draudimas – 4.44 (the overall average and we are concerned about the wellbeing improvement and feels recognised for the was 4.42). of our employees.We are proud of work performed. Based on the survey data, our strong, motivated and professional the most engaged organisations boost the AB Lietuvos Draudimas takes initiative to team of employees. A general employee 12% higher customer satisfaction rate and clarify in greater detail how its employees development, promotion and motivation 18% greater productivity level; besides, there feel at work and, therefore, it conducted system, comprising the fields from the is a 15% lower employee turnover in these a new survey “How do you feel at work” introduction of a new employee until the organisations. in 2010 in order to determine what tend maintenance of effective relationships with to motivate its employees most, what the retired employees, has been developed Seeking to measure its employee annoys them, or what they do not like and for the team working in AB Lietuvos engagement and satisfaction with their would like to change at work. Based on the Draudimas. workplace, the Company conducts an results of this survey, action plans on how annual Employee Engagement Survey and to change or improve the things to which For New Employees determines the Indicator of Employee employees responded negatively were • Having joined the team of AB Lietuvos Engagement.This anonymous survey drawn up and some of them have been Draudimas, a new employee is conducted by Gallup, the global research already implemented. immediately assigned a senior friend leader in this field, measures engagement – an employee of the division, who according to 12 core questions applied to serves as the newcomer’s guide in the measure employee engagement worldwide. Collective Agreement Company, irrespectively of whether this Having obtained the results of the survey, • The rights of all AB Lietuvos involves an introduction to a certain every manager with his/her team draw up Draudimas employees are protected business process or sharing daily an action plan on how the engagement by the constantly updated Collective practical advice. indicator could be retained or enhanced Agreement, which also defines the • All new employees are invited to and implement it during the entire year. benefits granted to them. a specially organised Newcomer’s • There is an active Trade Union Introduction, during which they AB Lietuvos Draudimas is one of the representing the interests of employees are familiarised by the Company’s leading companies in the RSA Group in in the Company, which is consulted when Management, including the CEO, with terms of engagement results: resolving issues that are most relevant to the Company, its strategy, objectives, • In 2010, the Company increased employees, and the approval of which is functions, etc. In addition, all new the engagement of its employees first sought in case of any organisational employees can get acquainted in up to 4.42 points (the results of changes. Representatives of the AB greater detail with the Company on the employee engagement survey Lietuvos Draudimas Trade Union also their own initiative in the LD Intranet conducted in 2010), whereas the take part in the social dialogue of the Section “For New Employees”. objective was 4.24 points – this is the European Advisory Forum held within • As we develop our employees’ highest quartile showing the top 25% the RSA to share problems faced by orientation towards the result and of the world’s companies with the trade unions in different countries and seek to ensure that a newcomer would highest levels of employee engagement. ways to resolve them. know what is expected of him/her at • In 2010, the Company’s employees • All the principles applicable to work, the new employee must agree assigned 4.60 points (out of 5 points) employee incentives and salary with the supervisor on the SMART to the statement “I am proud to say enhancement are implemented objectives of his/her trial period which that I work for this company”, whereas according to the uniform structured are used to assess his/her performance the statement “I would recommend remuneration strategy and incentive at the end of the trial period. my company as a very good employer” system, which provides for particular scored 4.42 points (out of 5 points). In incentive actions for particular results 2010, 94% of employees from the top achieved. In addition, the employee 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas salary ranges by positions are measured The employees are encouraged to share Health Care and Insurance on an annual basis so that they would their ideas in the “Bank of Ideas”, and Based on the best performance, the comply not only with Lithuanian but each employee plans and discusses his/her Company’s employees are offered also with global standards.We are career with the relevant managers; personal incentives through health, health care or delighted that even the economic employee plans are drawn up. other insurances. downturn did not prevent us from • In 2010, a capacity structure project was • Health insurance (LTL 178,000 annually) finding solutions how to retain the launched within the entire RSA Group, is granted to the Company’s employees existing employee salary levels. as a result of which a special electronic with the most outstanding and the best • All employees jointly and individually, Training Space was developed.The performance results. In the meantime, based on results achieved, are entitled Training Space helps each employee 189 employees enjoy health insurance to additional benefits: a 24-hour cover of AB Lietuvos Draudimas identify, in the Company. against accidents effective worldwide, according to the general and functional • All employees of AB Lietuvos various educational training courses capacities assigned to him/her, their Draudimas have a 24-hour cover against enhancing professional conduct, weaknesses and improve their capacities accidents. compensation for telephone and fuel by participating in e-courses offered at a • All willing employees can get a free costs, health insurance for employees global level. vaccination against flu in Septemberwith the best performance results, all • LD Academy, the main purpose of October. employees participate in motivational which is continuous development of • Discounts for medical services in the corporate events at least twice per employees, training of highly professional institutions of the Company’s partners. year and in motivational events of sellers, formation of professional skills individual divisions, sports, leisure and high customer service culture, competitions, etc. In 2010, additional serves the largest sales forces of AB Sports, Leisure benefits granted per employee, on Lietuvos Draudimas. In the LD Academy, • Annual festivals organised for average, comprised almost LTL 3,000. training courses intended for sellers employees are as follows: Summer • Furthermore, a separate special are conducted by both internal training Festival, Christmas Celebration, LD motivation programme – LD Stars managers and external lecturers. Bowling Tournament, and motivational – was developed for the largest • AB Lietuvos Draudimas provides events. employee group of AB Lietuvos conditions to its employees to combine • The basketball team participates in the Draudimas – insurance consultants: their work and studies in external tournament for the Lithuanian Insurers each insurance consultant receives a institutions of higher education. In Association’s Cup. certain number of stars, signifying the addition, we support the studies of our respective additional benefits according best employees by reimbursing part of Mobile phones and calls, a card, fuel cards, to their sales results. their study fee. allowances and additional leave are granted • Based on the RSA job appraisal system • The Company’s employees with the according to the position level, as expressly and the experience of the international greatest potential, who are capable regulated. consultative company HAY, an Employee of replacing the existing managers, Benefit Scheme depending on the are united under a special leadership There is a system which allows combining position held by employees has been development programme LD Talents. family and work duties introduced in the developed. Each employee can find These employees have an opportunity Company, as each employee is able to use a information about the benefits he/she is to participate in special self-knowledge, flexible work schedule: entitled to in a specially published booklet. leadership and cooperation training • Each employee can choose a flexible courses as well as manage various schedule of working hours: to start business projects implemented in the working at 7-9 a.m. and finish work Training Company. During the past few years, 21 at 4-6 p.m. It is convenient not only The Company seeks continuous out of 40 talents who participated in for employees, but also contributes development, the acquisition of new the programme climbed up the career to energy saving and environmental knowledge and skills by its employees. Every ladder inside the Company. protection – the chosen time of arrival year, based on the expressed training needs, • Membership in the RSA Group has at work helps avoid and does not the Personnel Office prepares an employee given an opportunity to AB Lietuvos contribute to traffic jams in the city. training programme which each and every Draudimas employees to take part in • In 2010, the Company further expanded employee of AB Lietuvos Draudimas can take international training programmes such this possibility – since the last autumn part in. Leader development programmes as Fast Track, Graduates, and Leadership insurance consultants, who reside are also implemented in order to discover Development Program. More than LTL in residential areas that are located and nurture new talents, managers of various 110,000 was provided by AB Lietuvos further from the divisions and who find areas among the employee.The Company Draudimas to these international it inconvenient to go to the meetings places special emphasis on the upbringing of trainings in 2010. with the manger or his/her workplace the young generation. all the time, have been granted the ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas 29 opportunity to work from home.These that unites companies of the finance Heating in 2010: 2,303 (MWh) employees received laptops, Internet sector. It aims at contributing actively to the connection, compensation for phone and minimization and elimination of negative Waste: 91 t (paper -4.9 t), 13.6% of paper fuel costs in the chosen amount, and a environmental impact and hazards. Saving processed facilitated system for remuneration and resources and protecting the environment in communication with the manager. its activities, AB Lietuvos Draudimas follows Consumption of paper: 36 t 9 fundamental principles according to the methodology of Forge Group, covering 2011 forecast. Having regard to the trends Seniors Club priority of electronic communication of recovering economy, the Company plans Seeking to maintain efficient and warm and electronic archiving over hard copy a 5-10% growth in the costs. relationships with retired sales employees, communication and archiving, assessment the LD Seniors Club was established of the necessity of business travel, for them. First of all, retiring employees while choosing contacts by conference Focus on Environmental help their successors to take over their communication, travelling to work by Protection and Significance customers by visiting them together so bicycles, energy saving, paper processing, and of Socially Responsible Business: that customer would have his/her contact reduction of the amount of waste. Social responsible business is one of the person at all times.The members of the main objectives of the activities of the LD Seniors Club not only receive holiday Furthermore, the employees of AB RSA Group. During the recent years, the greetings but also are invited to corporate Lietuvos Draudimas participated in the RSA Group was particularly active in the and other events of AB Lietuvos Draudimas initiative “A Day Without A Car”. Last fields of climate change and environmental intended especially for seniors; they are year this initiative was supported by 500 protection as well as in other fields related also encouraged to remain the Company’s company employees who came to the to socially responsible behaviour.This ambassadors outside the Company. office without a car on that particular day. can be proved by different awards and recognitions won at the Group’s scale The Company’s employees joined the as well as the recognitions of the RSA Fight against Discrimination, global initiative “Earth Hour” and turned Group for socially responsible and ethical Violence and Abuse at Work off their non-essential lighting.This operations. In 2010, the RSA won the The Company ensures the highest standards campaign is aimed at reducing pollution following international awards: of equal opportunities band sexual abuse at least for a short time and thus draw • The RSA Group raised to the prevention.This policy has been approved in attention to ecological problems. silver class in the 2010 Dow Jones accordance with the standards of the RSA Sustainability Index Group, communicated to all employees and In 2010,AB Lietuvos Draudimas started to • Won the Oekom Research award for adhered to strictly. use “green electricity”, which means electricity leadership in the activities of socially produced from renewable resources.The responsible companies “green procurement” is implemented in the • Sunday Times included the RSA into Environmental Protection. entire procurement system. the list of the Best Green Companies; Sustainable Use of Resources • Corporate Communications Magazine The impact of AB Lietuvos Draudimas on AB Lietuvos Draudimas adheres to the awarded the Group for the best strategy the environment is insignificant, because the RSA Group’s policy Think Green and seeks of a socially responsible company core activity of the Company is insurance to become an environmentally friendly • The Group won the 2010 Arabian CSR services. Major sources of impact on company. award environment: emissions from corporate • The Irish Chamber of Commerce award vehicles, use of heat and electricity in the The volume of waste over 2010 remained for ongoing efforts made to become an Company’s premises, waste (mostly paper) the same as in 2009. environmentally friendly company generation in the operational process. • The RSA Group was included as • AB Lietuvos Draudimas, being a socially Unfortunately, over 2010, AB Lietuvos a member into the FTSE4good responsible company, takes care of the Draudimas slightly increased the costs of responsible investment index environment and invests into resource electricity +5%, water 1% and heating • The RSA Group became a partner of saving and environmentally friendly +11%. the World Wildlife Foundation, thus, technologies. AB Lietuvos Draudimas together with • There is also an efficient Internet safety Consumption of electricity in 2010 the RSA Group, is going to contribute system in place, protecting employees 3,316,000 kWh to research into the risks of climate against unsolicited mail (spam) and Consumption of water in 2010: 9,070 m3 change, in particular in the Baltic region, potential viruses. (cubic metres) over the next three years. The Company is a member of the Consumption of gas in 2010:32,000 m3 international organization Forge Group (cubic metres) 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2010 / AB Lietuvos draudimas Anti-Corruption Measures All member companies of the RSA Group Any attempts to bribe must be reported by adhere to a strict anti-corruption policy. members of the Group to representatives of local law enforcement institutions and to The companies of the RSA Group are the corporate management. committed to fight bribery and corruption in accordance with the most rigid ethical and The rules and guidance on how and when legal standards of the countries where they RSA companies can give and accept gifts operate. and other services without infringing anticorruption laws are available on the intranet of the Group.
