His Highness His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani Heir Apparent Emir 0f the State of Qatar TABLE OF CONTENTS 03 OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING 05 ABOUT QAFCO 08 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 13 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 15 MESSAGE FROM THE VICE CHAIRMAN AND CEO 18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 22 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 24 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 36 HUMAN RIGHTS 38 SOCIETY 44 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 50 ENVIRONMENT 69 GRI CONTENT INDEX 02 Our Approach to Reporting Reporting Scope: The QAFCO Sustainability Report covers our entire organisation and includes quantitative This is the first Sustainability Report produced by and qualitative data for Financial Year 2010. Q at ar F e r t ilis e r C om p a ny ( “ Q A F CO”). Some indicators are partial and only relate to It covers our responsibilities to our stakeholders certain divisions or activities as indicated in the and the contributions we have made to text. sustainable development. Previously, we have Reporting Period: re po rt e d e le m e nt s of our C or po ra t e January 1st to December 31st 2010 Sustainability performance on our website. Reporting Cycle: Once a year About this Report Reporting Framework: OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING • QAFCO commissioned comprehensive GRI G3 Guidelines stakeholder analyses and materiality tests to identify and highlight major issues of Reliability of Information Disclosed i n te r e s t t o our s t a k e hold e rs a nd We strive continually to improve the materiality develop our approach to these issues. and reliability of the information presented and have adopted an approach aligned with the • This Sustainability Report highlights our Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global strategies, achievements and future Compact. This report has been veriﬁed by an plans for sustainability management external third party and has also been especially in the areas of sustainable assessed by the Global Reporting Initiative environmental management, community (GRI) for how comprehensively we have and social contributions, ethics in applied the atest GRI-G3 guidelines, achieving marketplace and corporate culture. the top Application Level of A+. • The Report has been examined by Our approach to sustainability is also widely OWW Consulting Sdn Bhd to measure its endorsed by our stakeholders. We have not reliability. Their conclusions are presented won any awards in this reporting period as we in an Assurance Statement that can be have been focusing all our efforts on found at the end of this Report. improving our Sustainability processes including working towards and achieving • We have continued our commitment Responsible Care certiﬁcation. to provide detailed disclosure with indicators and clear performance trends. Feedback In this Report we have also tracked data This report is available to all stakeholders in and statistics of our performance to date hard copy on request and can be and evaluated our progress in achieving downloaded from our website. For further targets. information and comments, please contact QAFCO [please refer back cover • Our transparency efforts are not limited inside] to this Report. Other material issues, such as Corporate Governance, and detailed data on our internal operations and business activities are reported in other publicly available documents, such as our internal documents and website, and are Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 03 The QAFCO-5 expansion project will raise QAFCO's annual production capacity to 3.8 million MT of ammonia and 4.3 million MT of urea. This will make QAFCO the world’s largest single-site producer of both ammonia and urea. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 04 About QAFCO QAFCO was founded in 1969 as a joint venture between the Government of Qatar and a number of foreign shareholders. The country’s ﬁrst large-scale venture in the petrochemical sector, QAFCO, was established with a view to diversify the economy and utilize the nation’s enormous gas ABOUT QAFCO reserves. After successfully implementing several expansion projects over the past three decades, the Company has evolved into a world-class fertiliser producer. QAFCO is now owned 75% by Industries Qatar (IQ) and 25% by Yara Netherland. With a sizable annual production capacity of two million metric tonnes (MT) of ammonia and three million MT of urea from four Ammonia and four Urea plants, QAFCO is now the world’s largest si n gl e si t e p r od u c e r of ur e a . T he QAFCO-5 ex p a nsio n p ro jec t , w hic h w ill b e completed in late 2011, will raise QAFCO's annual production capacity to 3.8 million MT of ammonia and 4.3 million MT of urea. This will make QAFCO the world’s largest single-site producer of both ammonia and urea. The QAFCO-6 project, which is expected to be taken over by QAFCO in 2012, will increase the Company’s annual production capacity of urea to 5.6 million MT. Consequently the project will strengthen the Company’s position as a key player in the global fertiliser market. To cater to the world markets, which are showing increasing developed fertiliser consumption patterns, the Company currently seeks to maximise its production of granular urea as opposed to urea prills. Granular fertilisers are considered more suitable for the technology-dependent cultivation methods adopted in developed countries. In addition, QAFCO is planning to produce Sulphur-Coated Urea (SCU), a product that will increase the nutrient recovery and improve crop yields. It will also reduce the negative environmental impacts of urea. Currently, QAFCO exports ammonia and urea to more than 35 nations across the globe, with its primary markets being the countries of South East Asia, North America, Australasia and Southern Africa. We pursue a policy of retaining existing customers while forging ties with new ones. This has enabled the Company to maintain a large network of distributors, with utmost care being taken to ensure that all are satisﬁed with the quality of our products, services and level of commitment. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 05 Our vision •Implement Occupational Health and S a fet y, Env iro nment a l, Qu a lit y a nd To become the world’s largest producer of Responsible Care Integrated Management Quality Ammonia and Urea Systems as a prime-line responsibility at all levels of our organization and continually Our mission improve their performance and effectiveness. We shall operate the plants Efﬁciently, Safely and in an Environmentally Responsible •Involve and consult with our employees manner to Produce and Supply Ammonia and on matters related to our Integrated Urea at the Quality required by our Customers Management Systems. and to carry out investments to Maximize Shareholders Returns. •Comply with all relevant Qatari Legislations, Regulations and Standards Our main objectives adopted by the Company. Our main objectives are to: •Communicate this Policy and systems performance measures to our employees, •Achieve the highest possible production contractors and other stakeholders at comparatively low cost. including the public and make it available to them and other interested parties. •Operate the plants with maximum online factor. •Monitor, study and record the environmental impacts of our operations •Design and operate the plants in a safe, caused by discharges to the sea and secure and environmentally responsible emissions to air for possible reductions. manner. •Encourage re-use and recycling and •Meet customer’s expectations with manage our solid waste to reduce regard to Quality and Timely Delivery. environmental impacts. We are committed through our Occupational •Conduct regular reviews of relevant Health and Safety, Environmental, Quality and Occupational Health, Safety, Security, Responsible Care Integrated Management Environmental, Quality and Responsible Systems to: Care activities for compliance with the adopted Standards. •Lead QAFCO in ethical ways that increase the benefits to society by •Open information, communication and protecting our people, environment and share experiences with all parties affected community. by or interested in our activities on safe use, transportation and disposition •Increase the competency of personnel of our products and to recognize, respect and use of adequate technology to and respond to our community concerns enhance Customer Satisfaction while about our products and operations. improving environmental, safety, health QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY and security performance. •W o rk w it h Go v ernment s, Agenc ies and Associations at all levels in the •Prevent pollution and control operational development of effective and efﬁcient and security risks in order to protect the health, safety, security and environmental environment, the safety and health of our laws and industry standards and support e m pl oye e s , c ont r a c t or s , v is it or s, t he research. neighbours and the community. •Steward our products and services through each life cycle stage in order to protect people and the environment. 06 COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT APPROACH SET TARGETS WHERE RELEVANT DISCLOSE OUR PERFORMANCE IN ACHIEVING THE GOAL Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 07 Strategy and Analysis Materiality Mapping We conducted materiality analysis using a materiality map to determine the priority of issues that we should address in the long term. The map was created by plotting various issues we faced along the two axes of materiality to stakeholders ( Level of Concern to Stakeholders ) and materiality to QAFCO ( Level of Impact ). As such, it inherently reﬂects the principles of materiality and inclusiveness, and where they are captured in the development of sustainable competitive advantage. We use a materiality matrix to map these issues and focus our efforts on each area according to the following criteria: 1. High: We report our comprehensive management approach, set targets where relevant and STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS disclose our performance in achieving the goal 2. Medium: Issues covered in this area are reported but not necessarily with quantitative performance indicators 3. Low: These issues have been identified as low materiality and are not reported in detail Materiality Matrix showing the Level of Concern of Issues to our Stakeholders and their Impact Levels Impact of Concern to Stakeholders 01 02 07 Signiﬁcant disclosure 08 03 04 Issues for disclosure 09 05 11 Issues not disclosed 10 06 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 12 13 Impact Level 08 ITEM DESCRIPTION SELECTION 1 Occupational Health and Safety Labour Practices and Decent Work 2 Impact on the Environment Environment 3 Human Capital Development Training and Education 4 Community Society 5 Customer Health and Safety and Product Labelling Product Responsibility 6 Environmental Performance Indicators Environment 7 Product Stewardship Product Responsibility 8 Qatarization Labour Practices and Decent Work 9 Biodiversity Environment 10 Public Policy Society 11 Stakeholder Engagement N/A 12 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 13 Direct Comparison N/A Stakeholder Engagement We have been diligently working towards obtaining the Responsible Care certification throughout 2010. This commits chemical companies to be open and transparent with stakeholders at the local, national and international level. Identifying and selecting stakeholders is based on the level of interaction and impact from or to our business. Dialogue and cooperation helps our industry work much more closely with local communities, governments, trades unions, international organizations, environmental groups and others to understand and address their concerns. We also promote co-operation with governments and organizations in the development and implementation of effective regulations and standards. This helps companies meet or exceed these requirements. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 09 QAFCO Stakeholder Engagement Programme STAKEHOLDERS ISSUE OF CONCERN QAFCO APPROACH Customers • Product information • We ensure that all our customers • Quality and cost of services are well-informed about our • Response to complaints products and their satisfaction • Safety Information is monitored regularly Shareholders • Shareholder value • We acknowledge risk and Investors • Transparency and good associated with investment and Governance inform our shareholders and • Return on Investment (ROI) investors on the projection of • Beneﬁts, prospects and historical return trends Analysts and • Ability to ﬁnd information • We continue to engage in a Media • Disclosure and media coverage wide media network to ensure • Attendance and event agenda transparent disclosure of our activities and events Employees • Qatarization and local hiring • We are committed to maximising • Employee beneﬁts the number of Qatari Nationals • Communication with management in our workforce. • Decent labour practices (non• We respect employee rights and discrimination, career mobility individuality while valuing diversity and training) in the workplace • Response to issues, future plans, • We implement fair remuneration current positioning and available and promote shortand long-term prospects employability Government • Income generation, lobbying • We comply with local and and Regulatory issues and compliance with laws international laws in addition Authorities to a fair contribution to the Government Value Chain • Transparent and logical • We include Sustainability as part Partners procurement channels of our supplier audit process • Supplier training content, • We engage actively with method of communication, suppliers to ensure a smooth sustainability supply chain and sustainable supply chain process coverage of training Industry Peers • Fair trade and competition • We support fair competition practices among peer companies • Partnerships • Joint effort with peer companies • Scope of industry peers QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY The Public • Impact of products • Impact analysis was conducted • Communication with management on our projects • Environmental Awareness • We implement good corporate Programmes citizenship and dialogue with the public and NGOs • Environment Corner at Flower Show, QP Environment Fair and School Awareness Programmes 10 Commitment to UN Global Compact QAFCO became a signatory of the UN Global Compact on 25th January 2010. The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 11 We remain steadfast in our commitment to helping feed the world. With the phenomenal rise in QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY population predicted and the ever-depleting land resources, we have a big role to play as a fertiliser producer in the coming years. 12 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN I am de lig ht e d t o int r od uc e ou r first We have worked hard to ﬁght corruption while Sustainability Report. The year 2010 was an aiming to eliminate anti-competition, anti-trust MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN extremely good year for QAFCO. Sustainability and monopolistic behaviour. has become a primary focus of our business discussions. We became a signatory of the UN We remain committed to preserving the Global Compact on 25th January 2010 and we environment in which we live. Our are fully committed to upholding the ten Environmental Management System (EMS) is principles in the areas of human rights, labour, benchmarked against international standards the environment and anti-corruption. including ISO14001 and we have been systematic in the collection and monitoring of D u ri n g 20 1 0 , we we r e in t he p r ocess o f all environmental indicators including water, achieving “Responsible Care” certification energy, waste and emissions. which I am delighted to announced we have now achieved. This is our commitment to We remain steadfast in our commitment to promoting sustainable development, with due helping feed the world. With a phenomenal care for future generations and bringing further rise in p o p u la t io n p redic t ed a nd t he beneﬁts to our people, the environment and ever-depleting land resources, we have a big community. Our product stewardship initiative role to play as a fertiliser producer in the has inculcated environmental protection into coming years. I hope more such milestones are t h e pro d uc t it s e lf . We ha v e a c lo se achieved and we come closer to realising the engagement with stakeholders especially our vision of His Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa suppliers, customers, distributors and user Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar and His groups in communicating responsible care Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Bin Khalifa and product stewardship. Al-Thani, the Heir Apparent. I am grateful to the guidance given by HE Abdulla Bin Hamad Al Our employees are our most important asset. Attiyah, Deputy Premier & Chief Of Amiri Diwan I am delighted to announce that records were and HE Dr. Mohammad Bin Saleh Al Sada, made without a single lost time accident for Minister of Energy and Industry and the QAFCO fi ve mi l l ion m a nhou r s . T his is a hu ge board. I express my gratitude towards achievement by our safety staff and I would Industries Qatar, Yara International and like to thank them for setting exemplary safety QAFCO Management and staff who have standards and ensuring nobody gets hurt. We helped QAFCO to the pedestal it is on today. are pleased to be able to offer our employees a happy workplace with attractive beneﬁts, career development plan and effective two-way communication system so every work feels respected and valued. We have continued to contribute to the development of our country in many ways. We have helped build the nation through Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Al-Malki education, sports and women empowerment Chairman and nurtured a wide diversity of cultures through our clubs and local amenities. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 13 We realise that sustainability requires our concerted efforts to conserve and contribute to the environment. In 2010, we continued to mitigate the burden of our business activities on the environment while developing a sustainable society. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 14 MESSAGE FROM THE VICE CHAIRMAN MESSAGE FROM THE VICE CHAIRMAN AND CEO AND CEO On behalf of QAFCO, I am pleased to present our ﬁrst Sustainability Report, which highlights our contribution to sustainable development and the effects that our actions have on our main stakeholder groups – customers, shareholders, employees, business partners, society and the environment at large. At QAFCO, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is deeply integrated into all aspects of our operations. Sustainability is at the heart of our business. We consider the socio-economic impact of our actions as part of our effort in creating value for our stakeholders. In an intensely competitive and rapidly evolving fertiliser industry, sustainable development plays an essential role in ensuring our viability. We realise that sustainability issues can affect our investment value, our risk proﬁle and potential liabilities. As a result, the Board of Directors and senior management are increasingly focused on ensuring the sustainability of all our activities. To us, sustainability is a value proposition that augments our inherent strengths while reinforcing the positive impact we make on the communities in which we have a presence. We believe in safeguarding the long-term interests of our stakeholders in order to ensure our own viability. Sustainability has been built into our corporate DNA. What’s more, our sustainability has been intricately linked with that of the nation, and we feel duty bound to maintain this. Commitment to Better Disclosure and Transparent Reporting In preparing this report, we have been guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) which evaluates sustainable development according to the three parameters of economic, social and environmental performance. By and large, these parameters correspond to the areas that support our CSR programmes in our employment practices, health and safety, human rights, society, product responsibility and the environment. We have achieved an excellent result by being awarded an Application Level A+ in accordance with the GRI-G3 framework for Sustainability Reporting. The independent assessment by GRI in Amsterdam confirms that QAFCO has reported on all required core indicators under GRI-G3 which measures disclosure and transparent practices in business. We have integrated a responsible code of conduct into our strategy and activities. This is also part of our commitment to continue improving our management decision making in achieving greater transparency. This Sustainability Report presents our Corporate Social Responsibility achievements in the year 2010 and clearly sets out the actions we have planned to build on our solid performance in the future. We have extended our efforts in identifying the gaps and formulated our strategy to ﬁll these gaps. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 15 Our Milestones in Achieving Greater been on building the nation. For the record, we Sustainability have annually provided the largest number of jobs to Qatari citizens and we provide the right W e w e re in t he p r oc e s s of a c hiev ing employment opportunities, in conjunction with “Responsible Care” (RC) certiﬁcation during the Qatarization policy. 2010 which is a comprehensive Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) performance improvement initiative. I am pleased to Acknowledgements announce we have subsequently achieved this target. Our commitment goes beyond this None of the initiatives highlighted above as Qatar Melamine Company, which received would have achieved the required results if not the consent to operate this year, is in the ﬁnal for the dedication of our most important stages of certiﬁcation for Quality, Occupational stakeholders our employees. Our own efforts Health & Safety and Environmental to create a conducive and rewarding work Management Systems based on ISO 9001, environment for our employees are detailed in OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 standards. We the Labour Practices and Decent Work section strive to be a leader across all aspects of in this report. Needless to say, we truly sustainability. We realise that sustainability appreciate the hard work and commitment of requires our concerted efforts to conserve and all our employees, to whom I would like to contribute to the environment. In 2010, we express my heartfelt gratitude. I would also like continued to mitigate the burden of our to thank all our business associates, partners business activities on the environment while and customers for their continued loyalty. developing a sustainable society. Finally, I would extend a word of acknowledgement to the regulators and We value the contribution of each employee government authorities for their constant and their safety is of paramount importance. support over the years. This Sustainability I am pleased to announce that during 2010, Report is dedicated to all of you. We hope you we celebrated ﬁve million working hours free of ﬁnd it useful and informative and welcome lost time accidents; our Frequency Rates and feedback on how we can improve our Accident Severity Rates were zero. I am operations, hence our sustainability. pleased to report that the hard work from our Safety Team has paid off. Looking forward, we have designed a fish hatchery which we hope to build soon. Large numbers of ﬁsh eggs are artiﬁcially fertilized and the fry will eventually be released into the open sea to increase wild stocks. We are also looking at feasible ways of introducing Khalifa Abdullah Al Sowaidi technologies which reduce nitrogen oxide Vice Chairman And Chief Executive Ofﬁcer emissions and we hope to work with the authorities to roll this out to the whole of Qatar and ultimately all GCC countries. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In protecting the biodiversity and conservation of our nature, QAFCO has continued to be actively involved in greening activities including the Sahara Forest project which is a large reforestation activity and the ecological conservations of Al-Besheriya island. QAFCO is committed to build the momentum and conﬁdence in the mindset of national citizens. Whilst there have been a number of initiatives across all aspects of sustainability over the past twelve months, the key focus has 16 Our Board of Directors is committed to adopting the highest standards of Corporate Governance as a fundamental part of our responsibilities of managing the business and affairs of the Company. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 17 Corporate Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Highlights Duties and Responsibilities •Structured Corporate Governance The Board of Directors is a body of elected or systems in-line with the Corporate appointed members who jointly oversee our Governance Code introduced by the activities. The Board has the following speciﬁc Qatar Financial Markets Authority (QFMA) responsibilities which facilitate the discharge of the Board’s stewardship responsibilities in the •Fair and balanced level of independence best interests of QAFCO: on the Board •Clear operational structure with effective •Provide strategic oversight for operations me c ha nis m in p la c e t o s u p p o rt t he and monitoring its execution CORPORATE GOVERNANCE operations, monitoring and reporting •Board leadership and composition Corporate Governance deﬁnes the framework and process by which companies •Monitoring the conduct of business to regulate their business activities. This framework evaluate whether the business is being is vital to ensure safe business operations which properly managed and sustained comply with the relevant laws and regulations. Good transparent Corporate Governance •Identifying risks and threats and ensure systems are rapidly becoming accepted as the implementation of appropriate being fundamental to an organisation’s systems to neutralise these issues competitiveness and success which facilitates the creation of shareholder value through •Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of sustainable business practices. our internal control systems including mechanisms for compliance with In February 2009, the Qatar Financial Markets a p p lic a b le la w s, regu la t io ns, ru les, Authority (QFMA) announced a Corporate directives and guidelines. Governance Code for public companies in Qatar which was developed in line with international practices and guidelines, and in collaboration with the Hawkamah Institute of Corporate Governance. Since then, we have been upgrading our Corporate Governance practices to align with this Code. Our Board of Directors is committed to adopting the highest standards of Corporate Governance as a fundamental part of our responsibilities of managing the business and affairs of the Company. We ensure that new QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY issues from our stakeholders such as the Government of Qatar a r e inc or p o ra t ed i n t o o u r C or p or a t e Governance structure. 18 QAFCO BOARD OF DIRECTORS Seven out of eight of our Board members are independent, non-executive members. H.E. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Al-Malki Mr. Khalifa Abdullah Al-Sowaidi Chairman Vice Chairman/CEO Mr. Hamad Rashid Mr. Jorgen Ole Mr. Nasser J. Al-Kuwari Al-Nuaimi Haslestad Member Member Member Mr. Meshaal M. Mr. Saeed Mubarak Mr. Egil Hogna Al-Mahmoud Al-Kuwari Member Member Member Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 19 The highest governing body in QAFCO is the Board of Directors and its Chairman is not an executive officer. The Chairman is independent and does not participate in Company operations. All members of the Board are suitably qualiﬁed in view of their respective qualiﬁcations and experience which provide the Board with a good mix of industry-speciﬁc knowledge, broad business sense and commercial experience. This balance enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership to the Company and bring information and independent judgment to many aspects of our strategy and performance. Each Director has ﬁduciary duties and must act in good faith and in the best interests of the Company with proper care and diligence at all times. The appointment of Directors is solely under the power of shareholders. Board Committees To ensure the effective discharge of its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the respective Committees of the Board. These include: Committee Duties and Responsibilities Internal Audit Committee Oversees areas such as the Company’s ﬁnancial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, internal control framework and the management of internal and external auditor’s activities. Project Steering Committee Oversees expansion projects, i.e. Urea 1 Revamp, Melamine Project and QAFCO 5 & 6 Projects. General Tender Committee Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts above QAR 10 Million and below QAR 50 Million. Limited Tender Committee Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts above QAR 500,000 and below QAR 10 Million. Small Tender Committee Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts above QAR 100,000 and below QAR 500,000. Project Approval Committee Oversees the approval of internal projects for capacity QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY enhancement, safety, environment, minor plant modiﬁcations etc. Concept Screening Oversees the screening of “Project Ideas” (Concepts) initiated Committees by various groups within the organisation to be passed onto the Project Approval Committee for further deliberation and decision making. 20 Board Meetings and Supply of Information to the Board The Board met a total of four times during 2010 and all Directors attended more than half of the meetings held during the ﬁnancial year. Issues discussed include ﬁnancial and other information deemed suitable such as new statutory and regulatory requirements concerning their duties and responsibilities; risk management and risk management updates; customer satisfaction; product and service quality; market share and market trends; manpower and human resource; and environmental issues. The Board meetings are governed by a structured formal agenda and schedule of matters arising for approval or documentation with sufﬁcient time given for consideration. Our shareholders nominate their representatives on the QAFCO Board of Directors which provides them with a mechanism to present their recommendations or direction to the governance body (i.e. QAFCO Board). We are in the process of implementing a whistle-blower process which will provide employees an opportunity to highlight their recommendations or concerns to the governing body (i.e. Audit Committee). Remuneration System of the Board There is no compensation paid to QAFCO Board members other than the annuall remuneration determined by Special Resolution of the Shareholders but is not directly linked to company performance. The compensation of senior managers and executives is directly linked with annual Company performance. CONFLICT OF INTEREST The Directors continue to observe the Company Directors’ Code of Ethics in carrying out ﬁduciary duties and responsibilities. We ensure high ethical standards are upheld and the interest of our stakeholders is always a priority. We have implemented appropriate controls to ensure the systematic identiﬁcation of potential conﬂicts of interest and procedures and have mechanisms to address such conﬂicts of interest if they arise. We have in place a ‘Fraud Awareness Framework’ and we have implemented an annual conﬂict of interest declaration that is obtained from all employees. The internal audit process operates independently and reports directly to the Internal Audit Committee who reviews all business activities based on a risk based audit plan. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 21 Business and Financial Performance Our Business: Our Shareholders: Qatar Fertiliser Company Qatar Fertiliser Company (S.A.Q) was incorporated on 29 September 1969 as a Shareholders All Qatari Company (S.A.Q) BUSINESS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE in the State of Qatar. The Company is engaged in the production and sale of Urea and Ammonia. The shareholders and their shareholding interests in the Company are as follows: Name of the Shareholder Country of Incorporation Interest Industries Qatar (IQ) Qatar 75% Yara Netherland BV Netherland 25% Total number of employees: 1,334 employees IQ is the immediate parent of the Company, which is a 70% owned subsidiary of Qatar Petroleum (QP). Thus, QP is the ultimate parent of the Company. Our Shareholders: Downstream Gulf Formaldehyde Company Gulf Formaldehyde Company (S.A.Q) was incorporated on 3rd March 2003 as a Shareholders All Qatari Company in the State of Qatar. The Company is engaged in the production and sale of Urea Formaldehyde Concentrate (“UFC”). The Shareholders and their interests in the company are as follows: QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Name of the Shareholder Interest Qatar Fertiliser Company Q.S.C.C 70% Qatar Industrial Manufacturing Company. (S.A.Q) 15% United Development Company P.S.C 10% Amwal Investment Company 5% 22 Qatar Melamine Company Qatar Melamine Company was established following a Shareholders and Services agreement between Qatar Fertiliser Company and Qatar Holding to produce and sell melamine. Name of the Shareholder Interest Qatar FERTILISER Company Q.S.C.C 60% Qatar Holding 40% Financial Highlights Consolidated Statement of Financial Income – Year End 31 December 2010 2010 (QR) 2009 (QR) Sales-net 3,880,038,408 (1,359,622,027) Cost of Sales (1,438,507,686) (1,359,622,027) GROSS PROFIT 2,441,530,722 1,946,978,109 Other Income 116,237,189 196,964,008 Selling and distribution costs (64,572,783) (55,118,244) Administrative expenses (372,377,731) (392,791,623) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 2,120,817,397 1,696,032,250 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 2,117,669,656 1,692,742,786 Non-controlling interest 3,147,741 3,289,464 2,120,817,397 1,696,032,250 A more detailed financial statement can be found in our Annual Report 2010. Financial Opportunities due to Climate Change During 2010, we signed an agreement with Mesaideed Power Company Limited to annually supply 13,000 tonnes of aqueous ammonia. This agreement is for 24 years and the aqueous ammonia solution will be used in the power generators at the Mesaieed Power Plant. We intend to supply aqueous ammonia to various companies and gas-operated industrial plants in Qatar and utilize it as an agent to reduce NOX emissions and help comply with the Qatari environmental regulations. We also signed a similar agreement with Ras Qirtas Power Plant and we are planning to tender for new contracts with a number of leading industries in the country to reduce the national NOX emissions. Aqueous ammonia, a chemical compound composed of 19% ammonia, is used as an agent to absorb nitrogen oxides produced on the utilization and burning of gas in power generators and industrial plants. We have not received any significant ﬁnancial assistance from the government. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 23 Labour Practices and Decent Work Highlights • Happy workplace with attractive benefits, career development plan and effective two-way communication system • Focus on achieving the success of Qatarization • Zero accident severity and frequency rate during 2010 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Our success relies on the dedication and engagement of our 1,334 employees across all divisions of our Company. All of our employees work in Qatar and we are committed to creating a workplace where employees are valued and have the opportunity to maximise their full potential. Our workforce has grown sustainably each year since 2007 as can be seen in the graphs below. Breakdown of Employees (Executive and non-executive) from 2006 to 2010 Executive Non-Executive 1600 1400 1200 Number of Employees 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Non-Executive 934 851 739 686 691 Executive 400 365 317 294 296 Total Number 1334 1216 1056 980 987 Year Breakdown of QAFCO Employees by region 2010 Africa, 15 Australasia, 1 Europe, 9 North America, 14 South America, 1 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Rest of Asia, 1051 Qatar, 168 Rest of Middle East, 75 24 Employment and Beneﬁts In addition to the basic salary, we offer a comprehensive attractive beneﬁts package. A housing allowance or accommodation is provided to employees in Mesaieed and Doha. Transportation is also provided to and from work and this is extended to employees’ children. It is our policy to provide education assistance to employees’ children within the State of Qatar. Education assistance is payable for a maximum of four children of the employee in any one academic year which covers tuition fees of the basic schooling levels or equivalent in the State of Qatar. We provide educational assistance, for a maximum of 13 years per child in Qatar, up to the age of 19. Employees whose children are attending schools in the State of Qatar are generally provided with company arranged transport for their children. Children attending schools which are not covered, receive a monthly School Transport Allowance, in-line with education assistance eligibility. A one-time furniture grant is provided and a renewal furniture grant is given on the completion of each four years of service. Employees who have passed their probationary period are also eligible for furniture loans. Auto insurance and AXA medical insurance is also provided to all employees. There is also an annual bonus scheme. Membership to the QAFCO clubs, gyms and swimming pools is provided for a nominal fee. There is also a mechanism for employees to request compensation for the damage or loss of spectacles during working hours. Car loans can be applied for by senior and more junior employees for specific purposes. All loans can be repaid by the expected time of retirement or upon termination of employment. Travel assistance is also provided for employees. All expatriate employees are eligible for an air ticket from home to Doha upon appointment and a return ticket home on ﬁnal departure. This is extended to the employee’s spouse and children provided they have stayed in Qatar for at least six months during the previous 12 months. Incidental travel expenses are also provided to employees upon ﬁnal repatriation to their base countries. There is a provision for reimbursement of airfreight for the ﬁrst arrival and ﬁnal departure which extends to spouses and children if the employee is married. We also provide generous travel expenses to our employees travelling outside of Qatar. An allowance is paid for each day/night of absence (inclusive of travel time) to cover accommodation, meals and incidentals. An advance on travel expenses is also available upon application. As Qatar is an Islamic state, all Muslim employees are allowed the necessary time off for praying at the appropriate time and place of worship. The QAFCO Mosque has been built for this purpose. The table below shows our employee turnover by gender and nationality from 2006 to 2010. Employee Turnover by Gender 2006 to 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Male 72 63 88 77 78 % 5.48% 5.27% 8.47% 7.98% 8.04% Female 8 2 0 1 1 % 40% 10% 0% 6.67% 5.88% Total 80 65 88 78 79 Total % 6% 5.35% 8.33% 7.96% 8.00% Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 25 Employee Turnover by Nationality 2006 to 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Qatari 6 5 8 7 8 Non-Qatari 74 60 80 71 71 Total 80 65 88 78 79 Employee Performance Appraisal System Our Employee Appraisal System (EPAS) is formalised as part of our Personnel Procedures Guide. It is our policy that the performance of all employees shall be formally appraised once each year with the aim of maximizing their competence in contributing to the achievement of our objectives. The EPAS applies to all employees occupying established positions including secondees and staff under development such as developees and trainees. A single performance appraisal system is used for all employees regardless of their categories and staff class. EPAS employs seven performance factors in its method of appraisal: job performance; discipline safety awareness; management systems (quality and environment); personal qualities; cost effectiveness; and on-the-job training and development. The EPAS aims to improve performance through fair and constructive feedback. Employees’ performance is measured against objectives and performance factors. EPAS provides a mechanism to motivate employees’ output and usefulness to our Company. This process helps employees understand their role and what is expected of them. It also identiﬁes training requirements to narrow skill gaps and for the enrichment of skills. Each of these seven performance factors is scored ‘Outstanding’, ‘Excellent’, ‘Good’, ‘Average’ or ‘Needs Improvement’. EPAS provides a grievance procedure to ensure fairness by internally reviewing EPAS decisions questioned and raised by employees. All employees may appeal a decision through this procedure. Qatarization Local Hiring Policy Qatarization is a strategic comprehensive program led by H. H. Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar and upon the directive of H.E. Abdullah Bin Hamad Al-Attiyah, Deputy Premier. The programme aims to increase the number of Qatari nationals to 50% of the workforce in the Industry and Energy sectors. We are committed to this programme by maximizing the number of Qatari Nationals in our workforce. We focus on the development of existing Qatari Nationals together with ongoing efforts to recruit fresh Qataris in various engineering, technical, vocational and administrative disciplines. Various Qatarization programmes we follow include: QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY • Training Programmes (In-house. Local and Abroad) • Development (OJT, OJDP, Scholarship) • Summer Training • Graduation Projects • Recruitment • Networking (Schools, Universities, Educational Sectors) 26 These programmes have been successful within QAFCO. Each year we managed to recruit an increasing number of Qataris, including employees and vendors, although we have not reached our target of 50% within the Company. The Company also aims to increase the number of Qataris among senior management level which is currently below 50%. This is due to our rapidly growing business which requires the employment of new employees quickly for our expanding business. This effect has been magniﬁed by the commissioning of QAFCO 5 and QAFCO 6. We are regular supporters of the Qatar Career Fair which offers Qatari students education, recruitment, training opportunities and development in order to enhance their abilities and strengthen their skills. This enables them to meet the challenges in national development. We attend this event annually to provide the largest number of jobs to Qatari citizens, provide the right employment opportunities and meet the objectives of the Qatarization policy. There are no disparities in pay between men and women. We pay fairly regardless of gender. Our salary ratio between men and women is 1:1. The table below shows the breakdown of employees by gender: Employee Breakdown by Gender 2006 to 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Female Employees 20 20 17 15 17 % 1.50% 1.64% 1.61% 1.53% 1.72% Male Employees 1314 1196 1039 965 970 % 98.50% 98.36% 98.39% 98.47% 98.28% Total 1334 1216 1056 980 987 Although there is no minimum wage law in Qatar, we follow a very competitive remuneration system that is practiced within the downstream companies. There is no discrimination in position between men and women within QAFCO. Breakdown of Employees by Age from 2006 to 2010 <30 30-50 >50 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 >50 276 247 229 227 238 30-50 876 849 738 680 637 <30 182 120 89 73 112 Year Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 27 Labour/management relations and to carry out investments to Maximize Shareholder Return. W e u se s e v e r a l m e t hod s of e m plo yee engagement such as newsletters and the company intranet. There are several events QAFCO Safety and Environment held which allow informal discussions between Committee employees and senior managers. Section parties are once or twice a year. New Year We have established a high level “Safety & parties, a QAFCO Day and shutdown parties Environment Committee” (QASEC) under the are held annually. Project completion parties Chairmanship of the CEO to discuss, promote are also held periodically. and consider policy matters in occupational health and safety and environmental issues of signiﬁcant importance to QAFCO. Occupational Health and Safety and Environment Policy QASEC is a forum for discussing major Safety and Environment issues of signiﬁcant concern to In QAFCO, we recognise that enhancing the us and agreeing actions. QASEC revie well-being of our employees is crucial in sustaining a healthy and safe workplace. • Incident statistics and monitors the Low morale can hurt productivity, increase progress of safety and environment projects work errors, increase “sick days”, decrease • New p ro jec t s inv o lv ing ma jo r p la nt cooperation between teams and modifications, new plants and extensions departments, and if left unchecked can lead for consideration of safety and environmental to larger problems. We acknowledge the consequences importance of creating the connection between employees and management. We • Safety, environment, industrial hygiene, continue to nurture a common purpose and health and ﬁre protection procedures c o m mo n g oa ls t hr oug hout t he ent ire workforce. One of the ways we practice to connect with our employees is by spending QASEC consists of 11 permanent members; time with them. Our CEO and other members Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of the management level regularly have lunch Ofﬁcer (Chairman), Production Manager, or breaks with the employees. This goes a long Maintenance Manager, Technical Services way towards maintaining the connection we Manager, Head of Material Handling, Head of value. Mechanical Section, Head of Electrical Section, Head of Medical Section, Head of We give a high priority to excellence on all Environment Section, Head of Safety Section fronts and adhere to international standards of (Secretary) and the Occupational Health and quality, safety, occupational health and a Safety (OH&S) Employees Representative. environment protection. We boast three ISO There are also three section heads selected Management System Certiﬁcations: ISO 9001: from the production plants on a rotational 2000 Quality Management System; ISO 14001: basic. The entire workforce is represented by 2004 Environmental Management System; and this committee and 0.01% of the total OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety workforce is represented directly by the Employees’ Representative. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Management System. With these certiﬁcations, we enjoy the prestige of a globally recognised manufacturer in the ﬁeld of chemical process industry. Mission We shall operate the plants Efﬁciently, Safely, and in an Environmentally Responsible manner to Produce and Supply Ammonia and Urea at the Quality required by our Customers 28 Our Contractors' Safety Requirements Our stringent safety requirements also extend to our external contractors. We aim to ensure the protection of life and property and foster construction efﬁciency through the selective use of safe work practices and the establishment and maintenance of working conditions. Contractors are required to follow the “QAFCO Contractor’s Safety Rules and Regulations” and document the speciﬁc responsibility, authority and interrelation of all personnel who implement this policy. It is the responsibility of the contractor to ensure all sub-contractors and others comply with the approved safety programme. We require that each contractor ensures that all personnel for whom they are responsible receive a thorough safety orientation which includes: • Requirements of the Safety Programme and their responsibilities • First Aid arrangements and reporting requirements • Use of personnel protective equipment • Unsafe acts, conditions and reporting requirements • Safe work practices • Attendance at safety meetings • Other safety hazards and safety instructions We ensure our contractors make available appropriate personnel protective devices. Accident reports are compiled so that a site wide record may be kept. Regular safety meetings are held to exchange safety instructions and suggestions. Contractors make a proactive contribution by reporting any risks outside their control which might place their personnel at risk. Our Successful Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OH&S) can be seen below. The process aims to continuous improvement of our OH&S policy. Elements of Successful Occupational Health and Safety Management (OH&S) at QAFCO Continual Improvement Management Review OH&S Policy Checking & Planning Corrective Action Implementation & Operation The testing of Emergency Alarms (Sirens) is conducted on the 1st Sunday of every month: the testing of Fire alarm (Local Bell/sounders) in buildings is on each Friday from 15.30 to 16.30. Incident Statistics in QAFCO In 2010, QAFCO celebrated ﬁve million working hours free of lost time accident on 29th November 2010. This demonstrates our commitment to the importance of safety in QAFCO. The table [page 31] shows our Incident Statistics against Goal during 2010. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 29 QAFCO Incident Statistics against Goal 2010 20 18 Several contractor accidents were Limit Actual reduced considerably because of various awareness and training 15 campaigns that were conducted 13 on heat stress, shutdown safety and 11 housekeeping. We also achieved 10 “zero” lost time accidents during the QAFCO 4 major shutdown. 5 5 The chart below compares our 5 contractor incidents in 2010 with 2 2009. 1 1 1 0 0 0 Lost Time Days Lost First Aid Accident Env. Release Property Damage Fire (No Goal) Accident Contractor Incident Statistics Comparison 2009 and 2010 25 23 Although the number of contractors 2009 2010 requiring ﬁrst aid assistance has 20 increased by nearly 54%, we have managed to eliminate ‘Lost Time’ 15 and ‘Lost Day’ Accidents. 15 10 5 1 1 0 Lost Time Accident Days Lost First Aid Accident The table below describes our Accident Frequency Rates, Accident Severity Rates and Accident Severity Indicators for 2009 and 2010. It also includes our calculation methodology. We are delighted to have achieved zero for all of these indicators, however, we will not become complacent and continue to improve our safety processes. Accident Frequency and Severity Rates from 2009 to 2010 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Safety Measures 2009 2010 Accident Frequency Rate = 0.081 0 (No. of Lost Time Accidents x 200,000/ Man Hours Worked Accident Severity Rate [ASR] = 4.527 0 (No. of Days Lost x 200,000/ Man Hours Worked) Accident Severity Indicator [FSI] = 0.019 0 (AFR x ASR / 100 30 Incident (Classiﬁcation & Deﬁnitions) Classiﬁcation of Incidents Incident Near Miss OR Accident Personal Environmental Fire/ Property Injury Release Explosion Damage First-Aid Lost time Fatal Training and education We have established and maintained documented procedures for the identiﬁcation of training requirements and to provide appropriate training to personnel at all levels. This includes the training and brieﬁng of contractors, visitors and other personnel entering our site. The table below shows the breakdown of training programmes: Employee Training Indicators from 2006 to 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Employee participation in training 95 135 145 156 75 Average attendance per training 629 419 384 215 204 programme Average number of hours of training 19 14 15 9 8 per year per employee Different categories of awareness training are provided for the different levels within QAFCO. These cover all QAFCO employees and induction training is given to new employees which covers the general requirements of the Management Systems. The training includes the importance of complying with Policies and Procedures. It also covers the requirements of the Management Systems. Department Managers and Section Heads are responsible for providing necessary training to their employees to ensure that they are aware of the Occupational Health and Safety; security consequences; the signiﬁcant actual or potential environmental impacts of their work activities; and the beneﬁts of improved personal performance. They are also made aware of their roles and responsibilities in achieving conformance to the requirements of the Management Systems. The training is provided internally or externally based on the competency requirements. Mock Drills on Contingency Plans and Emergency Procedures are conducted regularly to acquaint the employees with their respective roles and responsibilities in accordance with the set plans. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 31 Heat Stress Prevention Working in a hot climate, such as here in Qatar, places stress on the body's cooling system. When the heat is combined with other stresses such as hard physical work, loss of ﬂuids, fatigue or some medical conditions, it may lead to heat-related illness, disability and even death. We always give the highest priority to occupational health and safety and safety ﬂags are always visible in our plants. All workers are required to follow the heat prevention colour codes and instructions below: QAFCO Heat Stress Prevention Colour Codes and Instructions Heat Flag Colour Controls Work: Rest Water Requirements Index (°C) to be Posted Periods (Mins) (1 cup = 1/4 Litre) Up to 26 White – – – 27 to 38 Yellow Continuous 40:10 1 cups every Monitoring and 20 minutes no working alone 39 to 53 Red Work under shade 30:10 1 cup every 20 minutes 54 and Above Black STOP WORK We conducted a heat stress campaign on 3rd June 2010. During this campaign, we distributed Heat Stress Prevention leaflets written in Arabic and English (depicting the heat stress indices/urine colour, which advises workers to identify heat stress symptoms in the early stage and address them immediately. “Qatar Airways” representatives also participated in the campaign. Banner and ﬂags were posted around the QAFCO sites and ofﬁces. A Heat Stress Urine Index is a Health and Safety initiative which alerts employees of their hydration levels. Diagrams showing a gradation of urine colours from deep orange to white, and the dehydration levels these colours are likely to represent, are displayed in all QAFCO toilets. This Health and Safety initiative aims to prevent dehydration in the workplace. The Safety Section closely monitored the Heat Stress Index and communicated the status with the QAFCO contact person. No heat stress cases have been reported amongst QAFCO employees and contractors. Shutdown campaigns We conducted a Shutdown Safety Campaign on 7th March 2010 and a second campaign was QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY conducted on 21st Match 2010 which involved the distribution of pamphlets in various languages with 200ml milk to all QAFCO personnel and contractors who entered our premises. A ﬁnal shutdown “Thank you” campaign was conducted on 25th March 2010 by distributing chocolates to all QAFCO personnel and contractors who were leaving QAFCO after shutdown activities. Other Safety Campaigns A promotion recommending car “reverse parking” was conducted on 9th June 2010 which involved the distribution of an awareness pamphlet and car fragrance. A number of ﬁre brigade activities were also conducted throughout the year. 32 Safety Workshop on Repeated Accidents and Risk Assessment A fourth Safety Workshop conducted on 23rd June 2010, focused on “Risk Assessment”. During the workshop the participants were separated into 10 teams to carry out the exercises and reports were issued the same week. This was followed by a Risk Assessment Campaign which was conducted for one week from 28th February to 4th March 2010. 28 new risks were raised during 2010 and 19 risks were closed. Safety Training Training sessions were conducted by our Safety Staff with the aim of increasing Safety awareness among the employees and contractors. The table below provides a summary of our safety training throughout 2010. It covers the type and duration of training and the number of participants. Safety Training Conducted During 2010 by Safety Staff for Employees and Contractors No. of Contractors Trade Duration Type / Employees involved of Training of Training in training 5112 Contractors 2 Hours Occupational Health and Safety and Environment brieﬁng 151 New QAFCO 2 Days Safety Induction Training Employees 118 New QAFCO 1 Hour Safety Brieﬁng Employees / Others 440 QAFCO Employees 1 Day Shutdown Training (Refresher) 414 QAFCO Employees 1 Day Emergency Response Training (6 times a year) 8 QAFCO Employees 1 1/2 Hours CP&EP Incident Controller Training 15 QAFCO Employees 1 Day Aqueous Ammonia Safety Training 47 QAFCO Employees 1 1/2 Hours Risk Assessment Training 35 Canteen Staff 2 Hours Tailored training on Safety and Fire 29 QAFCO Employees 1 Day Storage and Handling (Stores) of Chemicals We have also implemented a private self-testing online safety training programme which allows individuals to refresh their memories and to become more familiar with our safety management system. The programme consists of four comprehensive educational questionnaires: Contingency Plans and Emergency Procedures; QAFCO Management System; Safety Instructions and Safety Procedures. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 33 Safety Awards and Competitions vaccination services when required. The medical centre includes ofﬁces; consultation A number of Safety Awards have been given rooms; an observation room for patients; to employees who observed and practiced audiogram, eye examination and lung testing good safety procedures. These include: facilities; a laboratory for blood testing; and an emergency room which allows patients to be • 17 QAFCO employees receiving safety admitted quickly by ambulance. awards related to reporting of risk, near miss and unsafe conditions during 2010. Diversity and equal opportunity • 20 QAFCO employees and trainees receiving safety awards during shutdown. We believe that our employees must be treated fairly and consistently in order to: • A number of contractors receiving safety awards during shutdown. • Integrate a multi-national group of emp lo yees int o a n effec t iv e a nd Safety awareness competitions are also cohesive workforce. conducted periodically within QAFCO. These competitions increase employees’ • Establish a working environment in which awareness on a number of issues including all employees are properly motivated and certiﬁcation, internal safety statistics and committed. general safety information. • Ma x imiz e t heir c o nt rib u t io n t o t he efﬁciency and productivity of QAFCO. Behaviour Based Safety We recognise that proper communication Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) is the application among our employees is essential to ensure of science of behaviour change to real world emp lo yees’ indiv idu a l a nd c o llec t iv e problems. BBS focuses on what people do, grievances are dealt with properly and that all analyzes why they do it and then applies a emp lo yees c o nfo rm t o o u r Ru les a nd research-supported intervention strategy to Regulations. improve what they do. We piloted a BBS programme in QAFCO workshops during 2010 and have completed six months of implementation. An electronic reporting system is under construction for reporting BBS observations in the Safety Information System. BBS ﬁlms on STOP programme has been included in” Safety Information System” (intranet) for awareness training of our employees. Awareness Training for Serious Diseases QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY All employees receive medical insurance and beneﬁts. Apart from that we also conducted a comprehensive education programme, providing all employees with the provision of guidelines on prevention approaches. We have a state-of-the-art medical centre within the QAFCO site and ensure that all employees are provided with medical assistance including medical consultation and 34 HUMAN RIGHTS Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 35 used by the management to communicate updates and changes within QAFCO. We recognise the importance of having a two-way dialogue between the Human Rights management and employees, regardless of how major or minor the changes are. Respecting the Human Rights of all employees throughout the organisation is important to Child labour QAFCO. The Company aims to embed a culture of understanding, awareness and Qatari law prohibits forced and compulsory continual improvement in equality and labour by children. The Labour Law stipulates diversity. the minimum age for employment as 16 years. The employment of children is forbidden at QAFCO. Although our operations and nature Non-discrimination of business does not expose us to the risk of employing children, our Personnel Procedures The Code of Ethics provides a clear NonGuide states that minimum age of recruitment discrimination Policy. Employees shall treat all is 18. The age given by the employee is persons fairly regardless of such factors as authenticated by Human Resources at the race, colour, national origin, sex, marital status, time of recruitment by a birth certiﬁcate or any age, religion, creed or political belief, other accepted ofﬁcial document. This ensures physical handicap or disability, or status. The that there are no violations of the law and Code of Ethics also contains a Sexual QAFCO regulations. Harassment Policy which forbids the sexual intimidation of anyone. Forced and compulsory labour Freedom of association and Qatar has ratiﬁed the Convention on Forced collective bargaining Labour. Our nature of operations and business does not expose us to the risk of practicing QAFCO promotes open dialogue between the forced or compulsory labour. Employees are employee and the company. Our Human encouraged to report to the Human Resources resources department provides windows for on any suspect of such cases. Under no grievances and addressing the issues of circumstance do we ever consider using employees, collective bargaining is however forced or compulsory labour. There have been QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY restricted. no instances of any Forced Labour by QAFCO or any of its suppliers or contractors during the history of the Company. Notice Period for Operational Change We are pleased to report that there have been Operational changes occurring that may no signiﬁcant incidents of discrimination. There potentially affect our employees are have been no reported incidents of risks of communicated throughout the Company. child, forced or compulsory labour. There were The Human Resources Department is required no incidents of violations of human rights to notify all employees via email or other involving the rights of indigenous people at electronic modes. These platforms are any time during QAFCO’s history. 36 SOCIETY Local socio-economic development and nurturing diversity of cultures through social activities. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 37 Society Highlights • Local socio-economic development and nurturing diversity of cultures through the Al Banush and Al Maha Clubs. • Building the nation through education, sports and women empowerment • Public policy development to ﬁght corruption, anti-competitive, anti-trust and monopolistic behaviour Our main operations are located in Mesaieed, Qatar. Mesaieed was established in 1949 as a tanker terminal by Qatar Petroleum on a previously uninhabited site along the coast. Mesaieed is an industrial city and is managed by Mesaieed Industrial City, a subsidiary of Qatar Petroleum. Mesaieed is an industrial city with many major Qatari companies having their operations here. The infrastructure per se caters to allow smooth functioning of these industries, however, QAFCO has invested its resources to provide for its employees and family members an atmosphere to provide entertainment and means to socialise. Building Our Community Al Banush and Al Maha Clubs The Al Banush and Al Maha Clubs are our sports and social centre which is available for our employees. It has many facilities including a main hall, a football ground, bowling green, tennis and basketball courts and many more indoor and outdoor facilities.It has an outside swimming pool with a slide, and diving board. There are several classes available including spin, karate, football and badminton. The Clubs is non-revenue generating: all operations of the clubs are subsidised by QAFCO. Membership of the club is open to all employees. Considering the diverse culture in QAFCO, we introduced various exciting activities in this Club including social get-togethers, Ramadan celebrations, children talent shows, cultural activities and artist performances. The Club hosts various personal development programmes to enhance the skill levels of our local community. In addition, the Club also supports its purpose as a ‘ladies club’ or meeting point for females in the surrounding community. The clubs have a restaurant featuring great lunch time and evening menus which boast cuisine from all around the world. The menus reﬂect our multicultural Company and the prices are reasonable. The club has a village hall feel and is the heart of our community. We frequently QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY celebrate countries’ national days and these events are supported well. Our highly diversiﬁed chefs support this event by preparing national dishes for the day. The annual QAFCO ﬂower and vegetable show is also held here and a cricket ﬁeld is located near the club. We have also allocated QR 65 million to a project for the redevelopment of our club over a period of 15 years. QAFCO Canteen QAFCO has its own in-house canteen catering to the different nationalities working at QAFCO. The food is of very high quality and we are pleased to have been certiﬁed with Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP). Our HACCP certiﬁcation is updated on an annual basis. 38 The QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show The QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show is an annual event held each spring. It is the largest and oldest ﬂower and vegetable show in Qatar and each year there is an outstanding array of ﬂora on display. This celebrated event highlights the initiative adopted by QAFCO in promising to have an environmentally safe policy that beneﬁts nature and encourages sustainable development. The event demonstrates the willingness within Qatar to contribute to this initiative, with the large scale participation of professionals, amateurs and young people in an outstanding range of classes. In 2010, the show attracted more than 400 competitors, displaying 4,500 exhibits in 122 categories and occupying a space of 4,000 square metres. “In these times where climate change and environment is on every discussion, the show is doing a signiﬁcant bit in generating awareness among the people here. This show allows visitors and participants alike to immerse themselves in this imperative concept, where they can learn and implement fundamental values, as well as enjoy themselves in the process.” Khalifa A. Al Sowaidi, Vice Chairman and CEO QAFCO Sponsoring Education and Building the Nation QAFCO Primary School The QAFCO Primary school is sponsored by QAFCO. The school is run by the school committee which is represented by QAFCO employees. As per 2010, there were more than 200 students studying in the school. Lanka Lions Nite We sponsored the Lanka Lions “Nite” 2010 and the musical evening on the following day. This Sri Lankan socio-cultural event was held at the traditional venue, Ramada Plaza Hotel during 7th and 8th January 2010. More than one thousand people attended the two programmes which were highly acclaimed by all those present. The band “Sohan & the Experiment” and the artistes Annesly Malewana and Lahiru Perera were specially ﬂown in for this occasion. Diplomats, distinguished guests, Sri Lankans and non-Sri Lankans attended the “Nite.” Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 39 Indian community in celebration of heritage nationals, expatriate communities from GCC countries and other parts of the world. The Indian Cultural Centre Celebration hosted The event took place on 19th April 2010 and is India’s 61st Republic Day on 29th January 2010. one of the most popular sports events in Qatar. The four-hour event at a packed-to-capacity The sponsorship demonstrates our commitment Doha Cinema was replete with patriotic skits to the Qatari community and complements and a variety of dances. The event our efforts to preserve a sport that is deeply commenced with a touching performance by ro o t ed in o u r na t io na l herit a ge. W e a re 13 children from Hope Qatar, an organisation c o mmit t ed t o t he na t io n' s gro w t h a nd for children with special needs. A semi-classical prosperity. jugalbandhi by ICC dance students; a cinematic dance by DPS-Modern Indian School; a thematic dance by Indian Women’s Qatar International Business Women Forum Association; and a dance by Vidya Arts were the other items of the ﬁrst half. The public We supported the Qatar International Business function that followed welcomed Indian Women Forum, which was launched at the Ambassador, Deepa Gopalan Wadhwa, as Sheraton Doha Hotel and Resorts, on Monday, the chief guest. Former test cricketer Syed May 10, 2010. It was attended by over 500 top Kirmani, QAFCO maintenance manager Jan ofﬁcials, business women leaders and experts Tonheim and Mowasalat sales manager Abdul from Qatar and other Gulf and Arab countries. Hamid Yousuf were the guests of honour. The forum covered: Recalling our four-decade-long relationship with India, Toneem observed that many of the • The Role of Women in Business and Indian employees who joined us in our early Investment: A Comparison between the days worked for over 30 years. Arab World and the West • Coaching Women to Take Over Leadership Ekraa Bessm Rabak Books Fair in Business and Develop a Strong Image W e spo n s or e d A l W a k r a I nd e p endent • Women in Corporate Life: Bridging Preparatory School for Girls which held a book the Credibility Gap fair entitled Ekraa Bessm Rabak on 7th 11th March 2010. The event was organized by the • Women in Family Business: What role for school library in coordination with the school's women in family-owned enterprises? information centre and was held under the supervision of the school librarian. • Women Entrepreneurs • Role of Businesswomen Organizations 3rd Open Fly-In Day and Networks We sponsored the third open ﬂy in day at Al Khor Airﬁeld which was organised by the Open Sponsorship of Various Schools Fly-In Day Organising Committee. The event took place on 13th of March 2010 from 9:00am At QAFCO, we sponsor various schools. During to 3:00pm, 50km North of Doha, on the East 2010 we sponsored schools which have been QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY side of the Al Khor Coast Road. The day successful in achieving excellence in all commenced with the First Fly Tour and Local spheres of education. We recognise that Air Show. Other activities included remote studying in a multi-cultural and healthy ﬂying, an air show and a microlights ﬂying show co-educational environment help children featuring parachute jumps. bloom into well-rounded-physically healthy, mentally agile, emotionally balanced and socially committed individuals. GCC Hejen Racing An example of our sponsorship is our support We sponsored the Annual Hejen Race for the DPS Modern India School Cultural Championship, which was attended by Qatari Fiesta. 40 The initiative was prompted by numerous requests received from members of IFA and AFA. This led to the ﬁrst workshop in Alexandria in 2008, followed by an equally successful event in Kuala Lumpur in 2009. Other Sponsorships We supported the Inaugural Annual Report of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka which We recognise that studying in a was held during May 2010. Competition golf has been multi-cultural and healthy played in Mesaieed since 1951 co-educational environment help and we consider it as part o f o u r c u lt u ra l herit a ge. children bloom into well-roundedWe sponsored the Golf physically healthy, mentally agile, Competition at Mesaieed Golf Club which was held during emotionally balanced and socially 2010. committed individuals. We also supported the Second Meeting of Gulf Sport Press. On t his o c c a sio n, a p ress conference was held by the In its short span of 10 years, the students have left an indelible football technical committee. mark in scholastic competitive areas like Sports and Games, This was attended by the Quizzes, Music and Dance, Debates, Painting and Elocution, Chairman and Board of the winning all major competitions in Doha. We sponsored a grand Arab Sports Press committee “Cultural-Musical Fiesta with Pankaj Udhas Gazal Nite and the media. We hope that on 4 June, 2010 at Hotel Intercontinental, Doha. this will boost and promote sports in Qatar. 21st QAFCO Open Bridge Tournament The QAFCO Open Bridge Tournament has become one of the regular activities at Qatar level since its inception in 1980 and it draws top players from all over the Qatar. ICIS Third Ammonia Handling and Shipping Safety Workshop We demonstrated our commitment to safety in our industry by sponsoring a workshop conducted by ICIS. It was run in partnership with the International FERTILISER Industry Association (IFA) and supported by the Arab FERTILISER Association (AFA). The workshop provides a professional and unique forum to exchange information and share company and industry best practices for the safe transportation via ship and handling of anhydrous ammonia at terminals. Safety is a priority issue for the industry which goes beyond commercial and legal issues. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 41 Corruption QAFCO has clear and well documented provision for corruption and bribery. The CEO is responsible for appointing a Conflict of Interest committee which consists of three or more members. Currently, this committee consists of the Human Resources Manager (Chairman), Financial Manager and Legal Manager (Members). The committee administers all issues related to this policy and regulations. Employees are prohibited from offering, promising, giving, paying, soliciting or accepting any bribe in the form of money or anything else of value for the purpose of improperly obtaining or receiving favourable treatment. This includes entertainment, meals, refreshments, gratuities or gifts. 100% of our employees and subcontractors are required to abide by our Code of Ethics. Employees should not knowingly be a part of any illegal, unethical or improper activity including fraud. Employees are required to complete a conﬂict of interest declaration form if they have been offered any prohibited gifts. Prohibited gifts include cash, shares, air tickets, hotel accommodation, jewellery, furniture, interest-free loans, frequent meals, house or car repairs, employment for relations, ofﬁces or apartments. The declaration form must be completed even if the gifts have been refused. Smaller items such as calendars, sweets, pens and non-valuable gifts are permitted. Employees are required to complete a Conﬂict of Interest Declaration Form and present it to the Conﬂict of Interest Committee by 31st January each year. Employees are also required to declare if their families have any interest in companies doing business with QAFCO of if their relations are working within the Company. They must also declare if they hold any paid or unpaid employment outside QAFCO. We are committed to investigate, promptly follow up and resolve all reported issues. We are pleased to report that no such cases were reported during the year 2010. Public policy We ensure full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. At all times we will not harm the relationship with government ofﬁces or departments. QAFCO is a member of Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA), International FERTILISER Association and Arab FERTILISER Association which represent a powerful segment of the Gulf region economy. We contribute a signiﬁcant share to the non-oil GDP of the Gulf and are a major provider of jobs. We are also the source of vital raw materials for a wide range of downstream industries. QAFCO is committed to continue cooperating with government agencies and regulators. Anti-competitive behaviour We strictly abide by the governing Acts, authorities, rules and regulations. Any dealing, buying or QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY selling of QAFCO shares is undertaken very carefully although the ownership structure of QAFCO avoids the possibility of breaches of insider trading laws. We handle many forms of transactions and undertake various types of business activities. Any form of business undertakings are carefully attended, to avoid the implications of money laundering as deﬁned by the statutory laws. We promote free trade and avoid any cartels or restriction for buyers to purchase or resell our products. It is part of our ongoing action plan to structure our anti-competition policies. We are pleased to report that there were no incidents or penalties for violations involving anti-competitive, anti-trust and monopolistic practices at any time during 2010. We are also pleased to report that there was no signiﬁcant incident or penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations at any time during this reporting period. 42 Our Production Department is responsible for the control, update and distribution of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for all QAFCO products. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The vast majority of our products are dispatched in bulk by road and sea. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 43 Responible Marketplace Practice Product Responsibility Highlights • Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) being issued for all QAFCO products • Close engagement with stakeholders especially the suppliers, customers, distributors and user groups in communicating responsible care and product stewardship • Integrated marketing services with sales, service, operations and information technology Customer health and safety and product labelling Our Production Department is responsible for the control, update and distribution of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for all QAFCO products. The vast majority of our products are dispatched in bulk by road and sea. Each shipment is sent with a MSDS which identiﬁes the product name along with commonly used synonyms and its molecular formula. It also contains our company contact details including a dedicated hotline for general or emergency information. Handling and storage information is supplied and the MSDS contain speciﬁc information on identifying hazards including: • Human Health: How the product affects human health including if the product is harmful if it comes into contact with skin or eyes, if it is ingested or inhaled and any long term effects or the product • Environment: If the product has any adverse effect on the environment and animal life • Other Hazards: Whether there any additional hazards such as spillage consequences and ﬁre, heating and explosion First aid measures are also documented in the MSDS including emergency procedures to be followed in event of eye contact, skin contact, ingestion or inhalation. Fire ﬁghting measures are also documented including suitable extinguishing media and ﬁre ﬁghter’s protection such as protective clothing and equipment. Exposure control information is provided for personal protection. Scientiﬁc physical and chemical properties also accompany the product. The MSDS also contains: • Stability and reactivity information • Toxicological information • Disposal considerations • Ecological information • Transport information • Regulatory information The majority of our products are sold in bulk which allows us to reuse the vessels and containers QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY many times. Our Bagged Urea reaches our customers in packaging. We encourage our customers to recycle these packaging materials but we have no control over the product once it leaves QAFCO. The table below shows the percentage of packaging materials that were reclaimed during 2010: Table 1: Packaging Materials that are reclaimed by Product during 2010 Percentage of packaging recycled We have not faced any signiﬁcant Ammonia 100 incidents of non-compliance with Bulk Urea Prilled 100 regulations relating to the labelling of Bulk Urea Granular 100 our products. Bagged Urea – 44 Product Stewardship During 2010, we have been going through the certiﬁcation process for Responsible Care. A component of this certiﬁcation is product stewardship which pertains to Responsible Care applied to our products. It covers more than just the production and use of our chemicals: it extends to other parts of our product chain such as transport, storage, use and eventual disposal. We require the close co-operation of everyone involved in the product life cycle of product stewardship to be effective. We constantly work with our suppliers, customers, distributors and user groups to spread Responsible Care throughout our supply chain. Customer Engagement and Privacy We have established a process to measure the customer satisfaction for continual improvement through a documented procedure which demonstrates our commitment to, and method of measuring customer perception in meeting our customer requirements. Customer satisfaction and dissatisfaction levels are identiﬁed and utilised for the continual improvement based on this measurement. Our customers’ perception of QAFCO including our products, shipping and customer service is very important to us. We monitor the satisfaction levels of our customers biennially with our customer perception/satisfaction questionnaire. Our customers are asked to rate a number of areas with a score from one (totally dissatisﬁed) to 10 (totally satisﬁed). They are also asked to indicate how important these areas are from one (extremely unimportant) to 10 (extremely important). Areas which are evaluated include: • Product information such as quality, composite, availability, product handling and the general end-user image of the product • Logistics information such as delivery time, shipment size, shipping terms, loading rate, berth facility and inspection • Customer relations such as sales service, staff attitude, efﬁciency, knowledge, coordination and cooperation • Other forms of communication including documentation accuracy, complaint handling, claim handling and variety of communication Customers are also asked to rate their overall satisfaction. Our customer satisfaction tools limit access to detailed customer contact lists. This secured layered access to customer data is instrumental in preventing any breaches of customer privacy. Information affecting corporate bodies, customers and employees cannot be disclosed in any manner without proper authorization. It is our obligation to protect and preserve such proprietary, conﬁdential or sensitive information of our customers. Customer privacy is protected and regulated throughout the QAFCO Code of Ethics. There have not been any breaches in customer privacy or loss of customer data during the period under review. Life-Cycle Stages and Safety Monitoring Our life-cycle stages and safety monitoring efforts have been rewarding. We have been certiﬁed against Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Service (OHSAS) 18001:2007 standard and have been working towards Responsible care with Bureau Veritas, Qatar. The table below displays our range of products with its stringent quality handling cycle and speciﬁcations. We are pleased to report that there have been no incidents of non-compliance concerning the safety of our products at any stage of our processes. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 45 AMMONIA UREA UREA FORMALDEHYDE MELAMINE Ammonia is a chemical Urea is a solid fertiliser UFC-85 is a viscous liquid Melamine is used in a wide compound made of Nitrogen containing 46.6% of Nitrogen. containing 60% formaldehyde, range of applications and is 82% and Hydrogen 18%. It is It is produced by the reaction 25% urea and balance water. primarily produced in Europe, produced using Natural gas of Ammonia and Carbon Formaldehyde is ﬁrst produced Asia and North America. The as the main feedstock. The dioxide under high pressure, by the reaction of Methanol chemical is used in laminates, other feeds required are both feedstocks being with Air. This is then absorbed surface coatings, ﬂame resistant Steam and Air. These feed supplied by the ammonia in urea solution to form materials, textiles and moulding materials undergo a series of plant. The urea produced in UFC-85. Urea Formaldehyde compounds. The melamine reactions in the ammonia solution is turned into a solid Condensate (UFC-85) is an project was proposed in 2003 plant, before ammonia is fertiliser of spherical granules, additive, which is added to to improve the downstream produced in gaseous form. in the ﬁnal section of urea the urea product to improve activities of Qatar's petrochemical This is turned into liquid under plant called granulation unit. its strength. UFC-85 is used as industry and also to take pressure and cooled down. an anticaking agent for the advantage of opportunities in Ammonia is stored at a urea. Around 80% of the the global market. temperature of minus 33°C in UFC-85 product is consumed a refrigerated ammonia internally, in all the urea plants storage tank. A major part of of QAFCO and the remaining the ammonia produced in our product is exported via Ammonia plants is consumed trucks to the neighbouring internally, as feedstock for the countries. Urea plants. The surplus ammonia is exported through ships. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 46 QAFCO QAFCO Product Melamine Ammonia Urea product Speciﬁcation Process product speciﬁcation UFC : 85 Technology : speciﬁcations Fully Refrigerated Prilled Urea • Formaldehyde Melamine is produced Anhydrous Concentrate : 60 ± using Eurotecnica's Ammonia (Fertilizer N i t r o ge n : 4 6 P c t 0.5 % by Weight High Pressure (HP) Grade) M i nimum Melamine Technology. Biuret : 1 Pct • Urea : 25 ± 0.5 % Urea is heated in a A m m o n i a : 99.5% M a x imum by Weight high pressure reactor, B y W t Mi n Mo i st u r e : 0.5 P c t which is similar to a N i t ro g e n : 81.9% M a x imum • F / U Molar Ratio : heat exchanger. B y W t Mi n Pa r t i cle S ize : 4.8 ± 0.2 Melamine is produced M o i s t u r e : 0.5% 1-2.8 m m : 90 P c t through a single-stage, B y W t Ma x M i n. • Methanol Content : liquid phase reaction. O i l C o n t e nt : 10 W hit e , Pr i l l e d, F ree 0.21 % by Weight, PPM Max Fl o wi ng a nd F ree Max. The process produces I m p u ri t i e s : f r o m ha r mful melamine by using the N e g l i g i bl e su bst a nce s at ti me • Formic Acid chemical's intrinsic Temperature : of loading. Content : 0.005 % by properties without M i n u s 3 3 d e gr e e s Weight, Max. adding any other C e l s i u s or be lo w Granular Urea chemicals or catalysts. It does not use any N i t r o ge n : 4 6 P c t recycle loops, M i nimum compressors or ﬂuid Biuret : 1 Pct beds. M a x imum Mo i st u r e : 0.5 P c t High pressure in the M a x imum reactor is maintained Pa r t icle S ize: in the downstream 2-4m m : 90 Pc t M in . equipment and in the W hi t e , G r an ular, off gases produced as Fr e e Fl o wi n g an d a result of the reaction. Fr e e f r o m harmful su bst a nce s at time By-products and o f lo a d i n g . co-products of the process are converted either into melamine or back into ammonia and carbon dioxide. The ammonia obtained is mixed with the off gases and returned to the urea plant. The process completely recovers all the products and thus causes zero discharge. It means no raw materials are wasted and no solid, liquid and gaseous products are released into the environment. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 47 Marketing Communications and Management Our forward thinking and strong commitment to customer satisfaction is an integral philosophy of our Company where on-time delivery and long term relationships with customers are of the utmost importance. Product quality, geographical location and efﬁcient on-site logistics provide us with strategic marketing advantages for a competitive edge in a free market environment. Capitalizing on these advantages, we currently export to over 35 countries worldwide and have become a key player in the international FERTILISER market. Upon completion of our latest expansion project (QAFCO V) by 2011, we will become the Largest Urea and Ammonia producer in the world. Our marketing responsibilities range from exploring potential world markets for our products, to the development and implementation of comprehensive marketing programmes, long term a g r e e m e nt s a nd p r omo t ing t he QAFCO i mage internationally. Our Sales and Logistic teams work hard to ensure the smooth loading and shipping of our products to worldwide destinations from QAFCO’s jetties. We integrate marketing, sales, service, operations and information technology to deliver value-added products and services to our customers more effectively. We are pleased to report that there have been no signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 48 ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity and conservation of our flora, fauna and marine life through the Sahara Forest Project, reef balls and Al-Besheriya island Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 49 Environment considered the ﬁnancial, operational, business requirements and the views of interested Highlights parties. The objectives are also consistent with the QAFCO and GFC Policies including our commitment to continual improvement. • Environmental Management System (EMS) which is benchmarked against Environment management meetings, chaired international standards including ISO14001 by our CEO, are held three times a year. During these meetings, all environmental issues and • S y s t e m a t ic d a t a c olle c t ing a nd performances to date are discussed with monitoring of all environmental indicators various relevant head of departments. including water, energy, waste and emissions Our Environmental Objectives are to: • Biodiversity and conservation of our • Implement legal environmental ﬂora, fauna and marine life through the compliance projects, studies or Sahara Forest Project, reef balls and programmes for the control and Al-Besheriya island monitoring of non compliance areas in accordance with the conditions of the Our motto, “Environment is Our Responsibility” Consent to Operate Permit. st e ms f ro m our m a na g e m e nt ’ s st ro ng commitment to care for and protect the • Consider the possible phasing out of environment while carrying out our core Ozone Depleting Substances in-line with business of producing fertiliser. This intention is the country’s “National Strategy”. reﬂected in our policies, objectives, various projects and our employees. We understand • Meet the expectations of our that we have our own share of emissions to air, shareholders, management and other discharges to sea and various wastes to stakeholders manage. Strict environmental considerations are in place to minimise air emissions and • Conduct an International Study on discharges to the sea as well as recycling and Chlo rine w it h t he p a rt ic ip a t io n a nd managing waste. With the recently completed supervision of the Ministry of Environment. Urea 1 Revamp project, we have successfully e l i m i n ate d t he d is c ha r g e of u r ea a nd • Conduct a study on the feasible NOX ammonia to the sea. Various projects are abatement technology that will enable ongoing to reduce our NOX emissions, SOX QAFCO to meet the legal environmental emissions as well as to monitor ambient air and permissible levels. water quality. • Develop a system to recover, treat The QAFCO Environmental Policy upholds the and use the sewage from a Sewage Environmental Management System (EMS), (Wastewater) Treatment Plant for which has been externally benchmarked environmental improvements initiatives QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY against international certiﬁcations including (irrigation and recycling to the process the ISO 14001. The relevant authority conducts etc). regular environmental auditing and inspection of our production and environmental impacts • Reduce the high coliform in treated which grant us the consent to operate. efﬂuent, to comply with the legal requirements. We established and maintained documented environmental objectives and targets during 2010 and the objectives are quantified whenever practicable. In our objectives, we have considered our environmental legal requirements, the significant environmental aspects, prevention of pollution and our technological options. We have also 50 GFC’s Environmental Objectives are to: importance of protecting our trees. The children are entrusted with the responsibility of • Manage the UFC 85 Plants as a minimum caring for their plants within their school. liquid effluent plant to the maximum extent possible or to manage the liquid Environment Corner and QP Environment Fair effluent from the UFC 85 Plant in an environmentally responsible manner and to We organise an Environment Corner at our be in legal compliance with the local laws. annual ﬂower show. We use this platform to highlight our environmental performance and • Maintain the air emission levels at the awareness programmes. Since 2008, the designed level. Environment Corner has included a Children’s Interactive Corner. This initiative encourages • Manage solid waste in an Environmentally children to draw and colour according to Responsible Manner. various environmental themes. In 2010, an exclusive “Artistic Waste Workshop” was Environmental Aspects, Impacts and conducted for 40 children, by Talents Centre, Evaluation during the Environment Corner. The children were shown various ways of using different We have established a procedure for kinds of waste material to create a display identifying the environmental aspects of our model that reﬂected ancient and modern activities, products and services that are under Qatar. our control or can be inﬂuenced by our operations. The identified aspects cover We participated in the QP Environment Fair present, past and future planned activities. The which was held at the Qatar Exhibition Centre, identiﬁcation and review of the environmental from 24-26 April 2010. This event is an aspects of our activities, products and services environmental platform shared with many are conducted annually. The “Environmental other industries in Qatar. We used the Aspects / Impacts” System is computerised opportunity to highlight our environmental and different sections can conduct the performance and our high degree of identification and evaluation of aspects environmental responsibility. We also proudly on-line. The system automatically identiﬁes la u nc hed t he o nline w eb sit e, W a st e signiﬁcant aspects. Exchange/Donation System (WEDS), which is featured in the Waste section of this Report. W e a lso relea sed t he b o o k Ba seline Environmental Awareness Ecological Survey of the Al-Besheriya Island.” Programmes The book was complimentary to env iro nment a l p ro fessio na ls o f o t her School Awareness participating industries during this Environment Fair. We conduct environment awareness campaigns for various schools in Qatar. These We are proud to report that more than campaigns target children from the ages of QR 800,000 was spent on environmental public four to eight years old, as we believe they can awareness exhibitions and school awareness make a positive impact on our present and campaigns during 2010. future. The campaigns are interactive and feature discussions with children on various good environmental habits which can protect and sustain our environment. Presentations and quiz competitions are conducted which target speciﬁc age groups. Environmental Activity booklets comprised of colour pages, crosswords, quizzes, questionnaires for children of various ages, are compiled and distributed to every child. Each child has the opportunity to plant his or her ﬂower during the campaign which aims to help the children understand the Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 51 Materials Ammonia is a chemical compound made of Nitrogen 82% and Hydrogen 18%. It is produced using Natural gas as the main feedstock. The other feeds required are Steam and Air. Urea is a solid fertiliser containing 46.6% of Nitrogen. It is produced by the reaction of Ammonia and Carbon dioxide under high pressure, both feedstocks being supplied by the ammonia plant. UFC-85 is a vi sc o u s liq uid c ont a ining 6 0 % fo rma ldehyde, 2 5 % u rea a nd b a la nc e w a t er. Formaldehyde is ﬁrst produced by the reaction of Methanol with Air. This is then absorbed in urea solution to form UFC-85. The table below displays the input materials and consumption for 2010. The ﬁgures are listed daily, monthly and annually. Input Materials and Production Consumption for 2010 by Day, Month and Year Material Unit Day Month Year Ammonia MT 4,929 149,257 1,679,531 Urea to UFC MT 24 748 7,951 Urea to Melamine MT 590 17,309 65,151 UFC-85 MT 68 2,012 23,276 Methanol MT 71 2,137 22,336 Gas KNm3 8,498 259,886 2,881,823 Power MWH 2,369 73,918 845,018 Energy Our sources of energy are gas and electric power. These are either internally generated or supplied by the national grid. The table below shows our electricity consumption from 2006 to 2010. Table 2: Electricity Consumption from 2006 to 210 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 361,897 364,082 352,424 348,026 343,973 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Total direct energy 103,382 101,995 100,821 100,372 99,995 consumption renewable primary source (TJ) Total direct energy 9,769 9,904 9,507 9,358 9,219 consumption (Gas for Electric Power generation in TJ) Total direct energy 247,854 251,279 241,228 237,441 233,916 consumption by non-renewable primary source (Imported power in MWH) 52 Water Our environmental impact relating to water use is relatively high due to the nature and size of our operations. Water is used in our plants for cooling machinery. This is drawn from the sea and approximately 800,000 to 1,000,000 M3 of water is used each year for this purpose. Water is discharged into the sea so that our operations do not affect the ﬂora and fauna. During operations, environmental controls are implemented to manage soil, waste and other materials to prevent them being washed into the sea. Actions to reduce water consumption included the ﬂow restriction devices on taps and the upgrading of toilet cisterns. Water saving awareness posters are displayed in our restrooms. The total annual volume of water withdrawn from our municipal water supplier is typically between 400,000 to 450,000 M3. Water conservation is a matter of extreme importance for QAFCO and Qatar as a whole. We recycle as much water as we can. During 2010, 40% of the treated sewage water was used for irrigation and we are working on a project which aims to use the whole quantity of 250 m3/day. High residual chlorine in industrial discharge is a concern faced by many industries. We have initiated a study on the residual chlorine and its by-products in Mesaieed Industrial Area. This study was conducted by Texas A&M University and Environmental Studies Centre-Qatar University. The study was co-ﬁnanced by Qatar Petrochemical Company (QAPCO) and QP-Gas Operations. The study found that the biodiversity of water bodies and habitats was not signiﬁcantly affected. We aimed to re-evaluate the residual chlorine limits for the state of Qatar and the thermal discharge points. The study was conducted under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment and an amendment of the environmental law with respect to the residual chlorine limits was requested. Two additional studies were also conducted to investigate the impact of different chemicals and the impact was reported. During 2010, the urea revamp projects were completed to accomplish zero discharge of urea and ammonia to the sea. An average of 912,500 m³ of water is being discharged and treated yearly from 2006 to 2010. 40% of this treated sewage efﬂuent is being used for landscaping and irrigation. Biodiversity We believe Biodiversity has an intrinsic value that is worth protecting regardless of its value to humans. We support several projects which help protect and restore our delicate ecosystem. The Sahara Forest Project The objective of the Sahara Forest Project is to develop and deploy an integrated, large scale system for reforestation and creation of green jobs through profitable production of food, freshwater, biofuels and electricity. It is designed to utilize deserts, saltwater and CO2 to produce food, water and energy. The pilot project will start with conserving and developing 50 metres of land and this will be expanded in near future. At present we are collaborating with ofﬁcials and universities in studying the project. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 53 Sahara Forest Projects: Inputs and Outputs INPUT Seawater Nutrients CO 2 Sun OUTPUT Humid air Freshwater Biomass Electricity New vegetation Biofuel Food The processes integrated into the Sahara Forest Project will work optimally in Qatar as it requires sunny and arid conditions. The unique benefit of the system arises synergistically from the QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY integration of: 1. Seawater greenhouses which allows the production of freshwater from seawater by providing a cool and humid micro-climate well-suited for food and biomass production. 2. Concentrated solar power which uses solar radiation to produce heat and power. This is the fastest growing technology for harvesting solar energy in the world. This project can potentially restore desert areas to biological activity and sequester large amounts of carbon in plants and soil. This project would also create employment opportunities in some of the poorest areas of the world. The solar power technologies have the potential to meet a huge part of future energy needs. 54 Artiﬁcial Reef Balls We recognise the increased urbanisation of the shorelines of Mesaieed has had an adverse effect on the local marine environment. This natural marine habitat has been disturbed due to the damage done to the naturally occurring reefs. These reefs provide a rich habitat for ﬁsh and other marine species which unfortunately cannot rebuild themselves fast enough to meet the environmental and human demands. We conducted a pre-deployment survey in 2005, to select the most effective sites for the deployment of Artiﬁcial Reef Balls to enhance the natural marine environment. This survey was conducted through the Environmental Studies Centre (ESC) of Qatar University. Numerous sites were identified for deployment using the Qatar National Grid (QNG) in various water depths from eight to 13 metres. 150 medium sized Artiﬁcial Reef Balls were constructed and deployed at a site close to the Sea-line Beach resort coastline, in Mesaieed. At this time, the ESC reported that the sea bottom was covered with dead and living coral reefs with sea anemones, molluscs, ﬁsh, sea worms and many other marine species. We formed a small marine monitoring team, comprising of QAFCO employees, who monitored the progress of the artiﬁcial reef balls. ESC also constantly monitored the status of the artiﬁcial reef and provided feedback to our Environment Section. A survey carried out in May 2008 showed a denser population of ﬁsh and a large school of juveniles around the reef than was observed in December 2007. During July 2008, a new growth of sponge/coral, denser populations of ﬁsh such as yellow bar angel ﬁsh, grunts, resident snapper, hamour and jelly ﬁsh were also visible on the reef balls. We continued to support this project during 2010 and will into the future. Al-Besheriya island Al-Besheriya island is a small island situated due southeast of Qatar in the vicinity of Mesaieed Industrial City. SCENR, now known as the Ministry of Environment, granted QAFCO the environmental custody of this small uninhabited island during 2006 although the Company ﬁrst organised a “Clean Up Campaign” for the island during February 1999. During this campaign, the Island was cleaned and the collected rubbish and sent to Mesaieed disposal sites. 200 mangrove trees were planted and large environmental signs were displayed. Rubbish drums were also placed on the Island. During 2010, we released the report of the baseline ecological survey that was conducted the previous year at Al-Besheriya Island. The survey found that the island is a favourable place for migratory and nesting birds. It also focused on studying bird migration and nesting season, ﬁsh biology and the island’s general maintenance. Following this, we are conducting research on the impact of chlorine on the marine life. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 55 Ministry of Environment, granted QAFCO as the environmental custodian of this small uninhabited island during 2006 although we ﬁrst organised a “Clean Up Campaign” for the island during February 1999. In communicating the importance of environmental conservation in the community, we conducted activities with children to engage with them and share the meaning of environmental protection. Activities included sharing sessions, focus groups, colouring, environmental movies and poster making on environmental themes. We are pleased to report that more than QR 1,000,000 is spent each year on environmental studies and monitoring the statuses of the artiﬁcial reef balls and Al-Besheriya island. Fish Hatchery During 2010, we commissioned a study to investigate the feasibility of creating a fish ha t c hery. All a dv a nt a ges a nd disadvantages were studied and QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY investigated all available information related to several proposed fish species. We also ascertained the required facilities to make the project a success including the design of the ﬁsh hatchery. This project is important for the biodiversity of our local marine life. We aim to introduce various species of ﬁsh back into their natural habitats. 56 Emissions, efﬂuents and waste NOX Abatement Technology NOX is a generic term for the mono-nitrogen oxides nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide NO2. These gasses are produced from the reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gasses in the air during combustion such as in motor vehicles. In large urban areas, the amount of nitrogen oxides emitted into the atmosphere as air pollution can be quite signiﬁcant. We lead the way in reducing NOX emissions by using De-NOX Technology in QAFCO and we provide this solution to Qatari industries and power stations to help control their NOX emissions. 19% aqueous Ammonia Solution and 32.5% Urea Solutions will be produced in the QAFCO's De-NOX infrastructure as a part of the De-NOX Technology. During 2010, we also completed the process of revamping an auxiliary boiler in QAFCO V to reduce NOX emissions and installed De-NOX test units in our plants. SCR technology or the Selective Catalytic Reduction Technology is one of the most cost efﬁcient and effective means of controlling NOX emissions from diesel engines. This technology uses liquid ammonia and a catalyst to reduce NOX emission from diesel engines. We are exploring this initiative in Qatar and we plan to collaborate with Qatar Fuel (WOQOD) to implement the use of this technology in all diesel vehicles in order to reduce NOX emissions. Emissions The Montreal protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is an international treaty designed to protect the ozone layer by phasing out the production of numerous substances believed to be responsible for ozone depletion. We have conducted detailed studies on alternative substances, their suitability and subsequently planned and executed the phasing out of HALON (chloroﬂurocarbons (CFCs) / HCFs ) as ﬁre ﬁghting agents. As an alternative, water mist and NOVEC 1230 agents are used in the total ﬂooding ﬁre ﬁghting system. This initiative demonstrates our commitment to environmental preservation and our people. All Ozone Depleting substances are being phased out completely and these projects are ongoing. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 57 QAFCO Air Emissions from 2006 to 2010 Efﬂuents QAFCO Discharges into the Sea from 2006 to 2010 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 58 FREE RESIDUAL CHLORINE Note: Data shown for the month of January is for Total Residual Chlorine (Legal Limit: 0.1 mg/L) TEMPERATURE DIFFERENTIAL Note: Data shown for Jan – April were an average data of three sources (Q1 outlet, Q2 outlet, Q3 and 4 Outlet). As of May 2010, the cooling water Delta ToC is presented as a single ﬁgure (average value of 3 different locations along Jetty 2 which represent the mixing zone for all cooling water discharge points of QAFCO 1, 2, 3, and 4) Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 59 Sewage Water Treatment Plant – Efﬂuent Water Quality pH DO COD BOD5 TOTAL TURBIDITY TSS COLIFORM Unit mg/L mg/L mg/L MPN/100ml NTU Mg/L Legal Limit 6-9 > 2.0 150 10 23 January 6.6 7.1 23 12 60.2 4.4 February 5.4 8 31.7 10.1 36.8 10.3 March 6.1 7.4 33.3 12.5 118.2 14.7 April 6.2 6.3 26.7 13.5 108.1 5.4 May 6.9 6.4 28.7 10.9 49.8 4.3 June 7.1 5.4 30.9 16.5 11.5 2.7 July 7.1 5.2 68.1 18.6 66.6 3 August 6.9 4.5 22.3 13.7 26 2.4 September 7.1 5.3 21.6 8.5 147 2 October 7.2 5.2 19.2 13.4 83.4 * <5 November 7.3 5.1 45.3 12.3 ** * <5 December 7.6 6.4 21.5 7.4 ** * <5 Note: Data shown for Jan – April were an average data of three sources (Q1 outlet, Q2 outlet, Q3 and 4 Outlet). As of May 2010, the cooling water Delta ToC is presented as a single ﬁgure (average value of 3 different locations along Jetty 2 which represent the mixing zone for all cooling water discharge points of QAFCO 1, 2, 3, and 4) Waste At QAFCO, encouraging the re-use and recycling and management of our solid waste to reduce out environmental impact is a fundamental part of our Company Vision. We believe in the 3R’s of reduce, reuse and recycle which has been considered to be a base of environmental awareness and a way of promoting ecological balance through conscious behaviour and choices. We believe this pattern of behaviour leads to savings in materials and energy which will beneﬁt the environment and our Company. During 2010, we recycled 60% of our waste materials. We are pleased to report that there were no signiﬁcant spills during this reporting period. QAFCO’s Recycling of Spent Catalyst from 2006 to 2010 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 60 QAFCO’s Recycling of Spent Oil from 2006 to 2010 QAFCO’s Recycling of Lead Batteries from 2006 to 2010 Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 61 QAFCO’s Handling of Waste Tyres from 2006 to 2010 QAFCO Food and General Domestic Waste Generated and Disposed of from 2006 to 2010: QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 62 QAFCO Non-Hazardous Industrial Waste Generated and Disposed of from 2006 to 2010 Total weight of hazardous waste being transported during 2010 Material Unit Amount Transorted Spent Catalyst MT 346 Waste lead acid batteries MT 0 Used Oil Litres 113412 Waste Exchange / Donation System We exercise environmentally responsible practices and during 2010 established and operated a Waste Exchange Donation System (WEDS) to serve Qatar and possibly the Gulf Region. WEDS is a free and conﬁdential non-hazardous waste materials exchange system. The philosophy is that what may be unwanted materials to one business could be a raw material for another business. WEDS is established on: • Providing a medium for sharing information on waste that needs to be donated or exchanged • Functioning as a mediator for connecting the waste owner with the requestor • Promoting environmental responsibility, care and practices by preventing the accumulation/disposal of non-hazardous waste and obsolete materials or chemicals that can be used by others Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 63 Extra or obsolete materials may be of interest to some other business or industry, so it can be exchanged for another waste or obsolete material or just donated. In this way the potentially polluting material is re-used and thus handled in an environmentally responsible manner. WEDS is available on-line and can be viewed at www.qweds.com.qa Electronic, Paper and Medical Waste Electronic waste (e-waste) describes loosely discarded, surplus, obsolete, or broken electrical or electronic devices. At QAFCO, all e-waste is disposed of safety through a specialist e-waste handler. Qatar Telecom (Qtel), working under the Ministry of Environment, have been working on Qatar’s ﬁrst e-waste recycling programme. We are looking to support this programme once it is established which will ensure the safe and secure disposal of mobile phones and other electronic equipment. Similarly, we dispose of our medical waste through a specialist medical waste contractor. We have successfully implemented a paper recycling programme for our employees since 2009. We aim to launch a trial programme for two schools and the QAFCO community in the near future. Noise Noise pollution is an excessive, displeasing human, animal or machine-created environmental noise that disrupts the activity or balance of human or animal life. At QAFCO, we constantly aim to reduce the noise pollution of our operations. Although the maximum legal limit is 75 dBA, many of our readings are signiﬁcantly less than this. The table below shows quarterly noise levels at various sites around the QAFCO site: Quarterly Noise Readings at Various Sites Within QAFCO No. Sampling Location 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter Min Max Min Max Min Max Min Max 1 At The Gate-15 (Jetty-1 Road) 68.4 72.8 66.7 74.1 68.5 68.5 71.7 75.8 At the Entrance to Jetty-1 (At 2 Radiation Room) 59.9 71.1 58.1 74.1 59.4 70 60.5 67.7 3 Middle of Jetty-1 60.6 76.2 62.6 72.3 59.5 77 64.5 68.3 4 Entrance to Jetty-2 66.1 71.1 68.4 77.8 71 73.7 70.5 72.2 5 Middle of Jetty-2 60.3 70.4 62.7 73 63 70.4 65.8 75.7 South East Corner of Bulk HallSampling locations were 6 D blocked 61.2 66.4 54 58.3 7 At Gate-6 (Escape Gate) 70.2 85.4 69 76.9 67.7 74.9 69.6 73.3 8 At Gate-Turnstile 63.2 67.1 64.3 68.2 55 65.7 63.3 65.2 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Note: The Equivalent Continuous Sound Level measurements (LAeq) were undertaken (with A weighting) at QAFCO Boundary, using a calibrated integrating sound level meter. There have been no signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions imposed on us for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 64 Transport We continue to regularly inspect smoke emission levels from our operating vehicles according to our environmental management schedule. We are pleased to report that to date, we have not received any issues or complaints from the Ministry of Environment. Overall We continue to monitor our environmental performance and regularly report its status to the Ministry of Environment. Any performance recorded below the standard guidelines i s su bj e c t e d t o p e na lt ie s a nd co rrec t io n p la ns. We are pleased to report that were no incidents of non-compliance with regards to our environmental performance during this reporting period. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 65 QAFCO Assurance Statement August 2011 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 66 QAFCO Assurance Statement August 2011 Our review included the following activities: • Interviews and one-to-one meetings with relevant personnel at corporate level including Senior Management, Heads of Department and other employees who are responsible for the information in the Report; • Documentary evidence was reviewed from communications meant for both internal and external circulation but coming from within QAFCO. This included manually generated internal reports, performance data, internal policy documents, established codes of conduct, corporate presentations, reports on events and information on safety procedures at QAFCO. • Challenges and questions related to the CSR related statements and claims made in the Report. During our investigation we discussed the necessary changes in the Report with QAFCO personnel and determined that these changes have been adequately incorporated into the ﬁnal version. We relied on representations made to us during the course of our assurance work by QAFCO personnel. Information in the Report that is directly sourced from QAFCO Annual reports is considered to be reliable based on the audit statement of the Independent Chartered Accountant and Registered Auditor to these statements. We provided advice on which data is necessary and how this data could be compiled to comply with the GRI-G3 Guidelines. All data and corrections were provided directly by QAFCO staff. In the same reporting period we have not provided any other advisory work for QAFCO which may have been used in this report. Conclusions 1. In our opinion, the Report meets the content and quality requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version GRI-G3); 2. The Report provides a fair representation of QAFCO's social accounting and reporting activity for the period covered by the Report; 3. The information in the Report is reliable and free from signiﬁcant bias; 4. QAFCO has processes in place for identifying, understanding and managing its environmental and social responsibilities and for capturing, understanding and responding to the views of its main stakeholders; 5. In our opinion the report contains extensive information in each domain which we believe is a fair and balanced reﬂection of the efforts of QAFCO to develop and improve their approach to sustainability and reporting. Recommendations: In the context of future CSR Reporting at QAFCO, we recommend that the Company: • Continues to improve the use of performance indicators; • Continues to improve the scope and quality of measurement and reporting of environmental data; • Introduces clearer links between CSR issues and ﬁnancial performance; • Extends the use of impact measures such as Social Return on Investment (SROI) and Environmental Return on Investment (EROI); • Implements GHG reduction programmes to identify and reduce overall GHG equivalent emissions; • Introduces processes for the ongoing monitoring, measurement and reporting of QAFCO against material indicators and targets to demonstrate ongoing commitment to the reporting process and stakeholder interests Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 67 QAFCO Assurance Statement August 2011 Considerations and limitations In relation to our assurance work and conclusions, the following considerations and limitations should be noted: • Certain information is excluded from the scope of our assurance work, as stated above and in the Report itself; • Due to its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating or estimating such data, environmental and social data are subject to inherent limitations. Therefore this assurance statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements in the Report. • The assurance statement cannot guarantee the quality of social accounting and reporting processes used by QAFCO. 25th August 2011 OWW Consulting Sdn Bhd Statement by OWW Consulting Sdn Bhd on Independence, Objectivity and Capability OWW Consulting Sdn Bhd (OWW) is a specialist in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) with established experience in providing independent CSR advisory, reporting and assurance services. OWW Consulting has implemented a Code of Conduct in Assurance and Assessment and a Code of Ethics across our company. Our Code requires that that all of our employees maintain high ethical standards and makes explicit reference to the independence and objectivity of our assurance and assessment engagements which we believe conform to emerging international best practice. Our assurance team conducting the work for this report have experience in conducting engagements of this type for sustainability reports, systems and processes. They are familiar with current guidelines and best practice and update their experience on a regular basis. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 68 GRI Content Index Application : C – Core; A – Additional Status : ● Fully Reported; □ Partially Reported; x Not Reported G3 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART : Proﬁle Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission Disclosure Reference & Explanation Statement from the most senior 1.1 decision-maker of the organisation P13-16 Targets for the next reporting period and mid-term objectives and goals are not reported. We are in the process of enhancing Description of key impacts, risks, our data/information collection system and 1.2 and opportunities P8-10 we aim to have this in our next reporting. 2. Organisational Proﬁle Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission Disclosure Reference & Explanation 2.1 Name of the organisation Front Cover Primary brands, products, P5 2.2 and/or services Operational structure of the P5, P22 2.3 organisation Location of organisation's Back Cover 2.4 headquarters. Number of countries where the P5, P22 2.5 organisation operates Nature of ownership and legal P5, P22 2.6 form 2.7 Markets served P5 Scale of the reporting 2.8 organisation P3 Signiﬁcant changes during the P8-10, P13, P15 2.9 reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting P3 period 3. Report Parameters Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission Disclosure Reference & Explanation 3.1 Reporting period P3 Date of most recent previous P3 3.2 report 3.3 Reporting cycle P3 Contact point for questions Back Cover 3.4 regarding the report or it contents 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content P3 3.6 Boundary of the report P3, P13, P15 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope P3 3.7 or boundary of the report Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 69 Basis for reporting on joint P3, P13, P15 3.8 ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Data measurement techniques P30-32, P58-61 3.9 and the bases of calculations Explanation of the effect of any P3 3.10 re-statements of information Significant changes from P3 3.11 previous reporting period Table identifying the location of 3.12 the Standard Disclosures P69-78 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external P66-68 3.13 assurance for the report 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission Disclosure Reference & Explanation Governance structure of the P19 4.1 organisation Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is P20 4.2 also an executive ofﬁcer Independent and/or non-executive members of the P19 4.3 Board Mechanisms for share-holders and employees to provide recommendations or direction P21 4.4 to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation and the organisation's P21 4.5 perfomance Processes in place to ensure P21 4.6 conﬂicts of interest are avoided Qualiﬁcations and expertise of P19-21 4.7 the Board Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of P19-21 4.8 conduct, and principles Identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental,and P19-21 social performance, conduct, 4.9 and principles QATAR FERTILIZER COMPANY Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own P21 4.10 performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or P8-10, P21 principle is addressed by the 4.11 organisation Externally developed economic, environmental, and social P8-10, P13 4.12 charters, principles Memberships in P42 4.13 associations List of stakeholder groups engaged by the P10 4.14 organisation 70 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with P8-10 4.15 whom to engage Frequency of engagement by type and by stakeh o l der gro u p are n o t repo rted . X We are in the process of enhancing our Approaches to stakeholder data/information collection system and we 4.16 engagement aim to have this in our next reporting. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has 4.17 responded to those key topics STANDARD DISCLOSURES: Performance Indicators Economic performance Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission To be Disclosure Reference & Explanation reported in Economic performance Di rect eco n o m i c val u e di stri bu ted: paym en ts to providers of capital and payment to government are not reported. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection Direct economic value system and we aim to have P23 2012 EC1 generated and distributed this in our next reporting. Regulatory risks due to climate change is not disclosed. We Financial implications and are in the process of enhancing other risks and opportunities for our data/information collection the organisation's activities due to system and we aim to have EC2 climate change P23 this in our next reporting. 2012 Coverage of the organisation's P24-26 EC3 deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance P23 EC4 received from government Market presence Standard entry level wage vs. P27 EC5 local minimum wage Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based P27 EC6 suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring P27 Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and P38-41 services provided primarily for EC8 public beneﬁt Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic P38-41 EC9 impacts Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 71 Environmental Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission To be Disclosure Reference & Explanation reported in Materials The total weight or volume of non-renewable materials used is not reported. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection Materials used by weight or system and we aim to have P52 2012 EN1 volume this in our next reporting. Percentage of materials used EN2 that are recycled input materials P52 Energy Direct energy consumption by EN3 primary energy source P52 Indirect energy consumption by P52 EN4 primary source Energy saved due to conservation EN5 and efﬁciency improvements P52 Initiatives to provide energy P52 EN6 efﬁcient or renewable energy Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and P52 EN7 reductions achieved Water Total water withdrawn is not classiﬁed by source type. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection system and we aim to have EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P53 this in our next reporting. 2012 Total number of signiﬁcantly af f ected water so u rces by type. We are i n th e process of enhancing our data/information collection Signiﬁcant impact of withdrawal system and we aim to have EN9 of water P53 this in our next reporting. 2012 Percentage and total volume of EN10 water recycled and reused. X Biodiversity QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, oradjacent P53-55 EN11 to, protected areas B i o di versi ty i m pacts o n species affected, extent of areas, duration of impacts an d reversi bi l i ty are n o t reported in detail. We are Description of signiﬁcant impacts in the process of enhancing of activities, products,and our data/information collection services on biodiversity in system and we aim to have EN12 protected areas P53-55 this in our next reporting. 2012 72 The size and location of all habitat protected areas and/or restored areas (in hectares) is not available. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection system and we aim to have EN13 Habitats protected or restored P53-55 this in our next reporting. 2012 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing P53-55 EN14 impacts on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas P53-55 EN15 affected by operations Emissions, efﬂuents and waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by P57-58 EN16 weight Other relevant indirect greenhouse P57-58 EN17 gas emissions by weight Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions P57-59 EN18 achieved Emissions of ozone-depleting EN19 substances by weight X The weight of signiﬁcant air em i ssi o n s f o r SOX , VOC , POP, HAP an d PM are n o t disclosed. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection NOX, SOX, and other signiﬁcant system and we aim to have EN20 air emissions by type and weight P57 this in our next reporting. 2012 The total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by treatment method is not reported. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection Total water discharge by quality system and we aim to have EN21 and destination. P60 this in our next reporting. 2012 The total amount of waste (hazardous & non-hazardous by type f o r co m po sti n g, deep well injection and storage are not reported. We are in the process of enhancing our data/information collection Total weight of waste by type system and we aim to have EN22 and disposal method P60-63 this in our next reporting. 2012 Total number and volume of EN23 signiﬁcant spills P60-63 Total weight of hazardous waste transported, imported an d expo rted are n o t avai l abl e. We are i n th e process of enhancing our Weight of transported, data/information collection imported, exported, or treated system and we aim to have EN24 waste deemed hazardous P63 this in our next reporting. 2012 Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 73 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the P5-63 reporting organisation's EN25 discharges of water and runoff Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, P63-64 EN26 and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products soldand their packaging materials that P45 EN27 are reclaimed by category Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonP65 compliance with environmental EN28 laws and regulations. Transport Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation's operations, and P64-65 transporting members of the EN29 workforce. Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by P51, P63 EN30 type. Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission To be Disclosure Reference & Explanation reported in Employment Total workforce by type and contract are not reported. We are i n th e pro cess of enhancing our data/ Total workforce by employment information collection system type, employment contract, and and we aim to have this in LA1 region P24-25 our next reporting. 2012 Rate of employees leaving em pl o ym en t du ri n g th e repo rti n g peri o d bro ken QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY down by age group is not available. We are in the process of enhancing our Total number and rate of data/information collection employee turnover by age system and we aim to have LA2 group, gender, and region P24-25 this in our next reporting. 2012 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided P25-26 to temporary or parttime LA3 employees, by major operations Labour/management relations Percentage of employees covered by collective P36 LA4 bargaining agreements 74 Minimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational P36 changes, including whether it is LA5 speciﬁed in collective agreements Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help P30-34 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety LA6 programs Occupational diseases rate (ODR) for total workforce by region is not reported. We are Rates of injury, occupational in the process of enhancing our diseases, lost days, and data/information collection absenteeism, and number of system and we aim to have LA7 work-related fatalities by region P30-32 this in our next reporting. 2012 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist P30-34 workforce members, their families, or community members LA8 regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements P30-34, P36 LA9 with trade unions. Training and education We are in the process of enhancing our data/information Average hours of training per X collection system and we 2012 year per employee by employee ai m to h ave th i s i n o u r LA10 category next reporting. Programs for skills management We are i n th e pro cess o f and lifelong learning that support enhancing our data/information 2012 the continued employability of X collection system and we employees and assist them in ai m to h ave th i s i n o u r LA11 managing career endings next reporting. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance P26-27 LA12 and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of We are i n th e pro cess o f employees per category enhancing our data/information 2012 according to gender, age group, X collection system and we minority group membership, and ai m to h ave th i s i n o u r next reporting. LA13 other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary of men to P27 LA14 women by employee category. Social: Human Rights Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission To be Disclosure Reference & Explanation reported in Diversity and equal opportunity Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human P36 rights clauses or that have HR1 undergone human rights screening Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 75 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have P36 undergone screening on human HR2 rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, P36 including the percentage of HR3 employees trained. Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of P36 HR4 discrimination and actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective P36 bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support HR5 these rights. Child labour Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures P36 taken to contribute to the HR6 elimination of child labour. Forced and compulsory labour Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, P36 and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or HR7 compulsory labour. Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation's policies or procedures concerning P36 aspects of human rights that are HR8 relevant to operations. Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of P36 indigenous people and actions HR9 taken. Social: Society QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission To be Disclosure Reference & Explanation reported in Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the P38-41 impacts of operations on communities, including entering, S01 operating, and exiting Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks P42 SO2 related to corruption. 76 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's anti-corruption P42 SO3 policies and procedures Actions taken in response to SO4 incidents of corruption P42 Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy P42 SO5 development and lobbying Total value of ﬁnancial and inkind contributions to political P42 parties, politicians, and related SO6 institutions by country Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly P42 SO7 practices and their outcomes. Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non P42 compliance with laws and SO8 regulations. Social: Product and Responsibility Proﬁle Description Status CrossReason for omission To be Disclosure Reference & Explanation reported in Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and P45-47 percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories subject to such PR1 procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and P48 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by PR2 type of outcomes. Product and service labelling The sourcing of components Type of product and service of our product or services are information required by not reported in full. We are in procedures, and percentage of the process of enhancing our signiﬁcant products and services data/information collection subject to such information system and we aim to have PR3 requirements. P44-45 this in our next reporting. 2012 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary P44-45 codes concerning product and service information and labelling, PR4 by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of P44-45 surveys measuring customer PR5 satisfaction. Q A F C O : S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2 0 1 0 77 Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing P48 communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR6 sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing P48 communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR7 sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches P44-45 of customer privacy and losses PR8 of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the P48 provision and use of products PR8 and services. QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY 78
