UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Submitted by 23 March 2012 Rue Defacqz, 52 Brussels – 1050 Belgium www.cambre-associates.com UN Global Compact Communciation Progress Information Company Cambre Associates Sector European public affairs and public relations Contact name Aart van Iterson Contact position Partner Contact phone +32 (0)2 645 79 90 Membership date 15 March 2010 Staff 26 Brief description of nature of business Our hallmark is straightforward action based on analysis, strategic advice and creativity, yielding measurable results. Cambre Associates is a wholly owned, independent consultancy. We offer clients better rates because we aren’t driven by centrally-set margin requirements or constricted by high overhead like many firms. Founded 11 years ago, Cambre has pioneered an integrated approach to public relations and public affairs, based on best practice and in-depth knowledge of PR and PA landscapes both in Brussels and internationally. Our independence allows us to be genuinely client-focused. As a growing business, we are keenly aware of the financial pressures faced by clients so we carefully consider their requirements before devising packages to ensure their investments yield maximum, tangible results. We work across the entire communications spectrum rather than in issue or practice silos, drawing on a range of disciplines to create unique and creative solutions. We regularly evaluate our work and review progress, measuring our success against concrete deliverables agreed with clients. Statement of support Cambre Associates has committed itself to the continued support of the UN Global Compact and its principles, as a member of the business community and of society at large. Our support is reflected in our daily work with clients, business partners, our global network, suppliers and staff members. In order to integrate corporate responsibility within Cambre’s activities, we have adopted a CSR policy. The policy serves as a reference point which respects the values that determine how we manage our business and how we build and maintain relationships within the world in which we operate. Tom Parker, Managing Partner Page 2 of 7 Initiative and progress relating to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals Cambre Associates supports the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human rights. These include the guidelines and restriction on the use of force, training and ensuring that equipment and facilities are not misused. Principle one and two are part of the Belgian constitution and are partially repeated in our general labour regulation policy. We adhere to both principles as part of our standing as a company in Belgium. Implementation We have developed a Code of Conduct as part of our Règlement de Travail (Corporate Manual) available to all employees. We are a member of the European Public Affairs Consultancies Association, EPACA, which is the representative trade body for public affairs consultancies working with EU institutions. As such, Cambre adheres to the EPACA Code of Conduct and supports the introduction of voluntary registration system for all lobbyists. In 2011, one of our consultants won the EPACA competition for young Public Affairs professionals. The winner was awarded a training scholarship of €2,000. In addition to this, we offer training and guidance to all of our co-workers so that everyone in our company is aware of, understands and acts in accordance with these principles. Measurement of outcomes Cambre Associates has committed itself to integrating these principles in our Code of Conduct, and where applicable, legal framework and policies. Annual reviews and internal mentoring programmes provide a mechanism for assessment of compliance with the Code. The Code of Conduct is part of the day-to-day engagement of Cambre staff at all levels in the company. Page 3 of 7 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Cambre Associates recognizes and respects the rights of everyone who chooses to be represented, either independently or collectively. As we are a small company with less than 30 employees, our organisation promotes open communication which results in direct and open dialogue between all members of staff. Force and compulsory labour are not applicable, as reflected in our company Code of Conduct. We provide a flexible work schedule for each employee; they can choose to arrive and leave within reasonable margins. The maximum of 39.5 working hours per week is compensated by 6 extra days of holiday each year. As 95% of our employees are lawyers, communication experts, public policy practitioners and business developers, the minimum age of a new employee is 23, upon completion of a university degree. If applicable, for trainees we respect the minimum age as regulated by Belgian law. Cambre Associates employs on the basis of job requirements and does not discriminate on the grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics or religion. Implementation The Junior Forum was created in 2011, for all intern and junior staff members. This platform was established to share ideas and experiences about how to work better or highlight problems faced in the office. The platform holds a monthly meeting, and Forum representatives meet with the partners to discuss any issues on a bi-monthly basis. This year, we implemented training and guidance workshops for the whole office so that everyone in our company is aware of, understands and acts in accordance with these principles. Measurement of outcomes Cambre Associates commits itself to integrating these principles in our Code of Conduct, and where applicable, legal framework and policies. Page 4 of 7 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Cambre Associates operates on a small scale however we are in full compliance with all environmental laws and regulations, not only in our activities but also in our selection process of suppliers. The nature of our company and the goals of the products we offer are environmentally friendly – the advice service we offer our clients has minimal environmental impact. If we are required to produce materials, we work to ensure that the most sustainable option is used. To reduce our carbon footprint and to integrate sustainable development practices into our business, Cambre Associates implemented a Sustainability Action Plan in 2011. To implement this plan we have appointed an in-house sustainability officer to analyse our overall environmental impact. As part of this process, we will be continuously assessing how we use resources such as energy and water; how we deal with waste; how we travel to work; and what services and products we use. A sustainable approach to consumption in our offices will contribute to increased environmental and economic efficiency. As we change our practices, our ecological footprint will be reduced. Achievements to date are numerous and include, but are not limited to: • Development of energy and water consumption benchmarking schemes; • Implementation of a fully integrated recycling regimen; • A sustainable purchasing policy for furniture and electronic equipment; • Replacement of all high energy consuming light bulbs; • Power saving features on all electronic equipment; • Use of recycled and chlorine free paper; • Standard settings on printers to use ink light fonts and double sided printing; and • Membership in the United Nations Global Compact. Implementation Cambre Associates believes that management in the use of resources – natural, human and of human origin – contributes to its competitiveness, growth and ability to provide valued services to its clients. In order to achieve sustainability, Cambre will ensure that its economic, environmental and ethical performance objectives are mutually supportive and are reflected in its management systems and business practices. Cambre has used the European Union definition of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to guide our work: “A concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis.” Page 5 of 7 In 2011, our sustainability officer regrouped a variety of long-standing initiatives and activities under a single CSR strategy. Using the UN Global Compact 10 principles as a starting point, Cambre created two core pillars to focus our CSR work: Health and Community, and Environment. We foresee training and guidance of all of our co-workers so that everyone in our company is aware of, understands and acts in accordance with these principles as part of the Cambre Sustainability Action Plan and the Cambre CSR Strategy. Measurement of outcomes Cambre Associates commits itself to integrating these principles in our Code of Conduct, and where applicable, legal framework and policies. Page 6 of 7 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Cambre Associates values transparency and transparent business practices. We do not participate in politics (regional, local or pan-European) nor do we make payments to political parties. We are a member of the European Public Affairs Consultancies Association, EPACA, which is the representative trade body for public affairs consultancies working with EU institutions. As such, Cambre adheres to the EPACA code of conduct, which expressly prohibits corrupt practices, and supports the introduction of a voluntary registration system for all lobbyists. Implementation In addition to this, we plan to offer training and guidance to all of our co-workers so that everyone in our company is aware of, understands and acts in accordance with these principles. Measurement of outcomes Policies and Codes of Conducts are part of the day-to-day engagement of Cambre staff at all levels in the company. Cambre Associates commits itself to integrating these principles in our Code of Conduct, and where applicable, legal framework and policies. Page 7 of 7
