CSR Report 2011 www.nordea.com/csr Table of contents Meet Nordea 4 A word from our CEO 6 About this report /Abbreviations 8 CSR focus and progress 9 Governance 12 Operational risk and compliance 16 Responsible lending 18 Responsible returns 22 Committed to our customers 26 Nordea people 28 Community involvement 32 Reducing our ecological footprint 34 GRI index 38 Social data 40 Environmental data 41 Auditor’ s review report 45 csr@nordea .com | www.nordea.com/csr nordea csr report 2011 3 Meet Nordea Nordea is the largest financial services group in the To help us achieve that vision we also: ­Nordic and Baltic Sea region with market capitalisation of • Pursue a strategy that ensures sufficient income approximately EUR 24bn, total assets of EUR 716bn and generation to create great customer experiences and a core tier 1 capital ratio of 11.2%. Nordea has leading long term value. positions within corporate merchant banking as well as • Aim to be the best relationship bank in the markets retail banking and private banking. It is also the leading where we operate retaining existing customers and provider of life and pensions products in the Nordic ­attracting new ones. countries. Nordea’s vision is to become a Great European • Operate according to one operating model in everything bank, acknowledged for its people, creating superior value we do in order to free up resources to serve customers. for customers and shareholders. We have had our position confirmed as the market Developments in 2011 leader in the Nordics by being defined as the only global Björn Wahlroos became Chairman of the Board in March systemically important bank in our part of Europe. To 2011. Mr Wahlroos is also chairman of Sampo Plc., meet the regulatory challenges, we have initiated one of Nordea’s largest shareholder. He succeeded Hans the most ambitious New Normal plans for any bank in the Dalborg who became Nordea’s first honorary chairman world. We have continued to attract new customers and after having served as chairman since 2001 and deepen our relations in all segments from households to previously as CEO. the largest companies in the region. We were appointed In April Nordea announced a reorganisation to take best bank in three out of four Nordic countries by World effect in June. The new organisation strengthens the Finance. value-chain-based concept. It consists of three main Today Nordea has some 11 million customers, business areas geared towards increased flexibility and 1,400 branch offices and a leading net-banking position focus on capital and cost efficiency. with approximately 5.5 million e-customers. Building A detailed organisational chart is available on relationships with our customers is fundamental. That is www.nordea.com. how we are able to provide each customer with what is In 2011 we have responded to the European banking right for him or her. Nordea offers a wide range of regulation that has been sharpened with the purpose to products, services and solutions within banking, asset reduce risks of new financial crises. Although Nordea has management and insurance. only been indirectly exposed to the euro crisis we began in Nordea’s formal name is Nordea Bank AB (publ) and 2011 to start the implementation of our New Normal it is legally registered in Sweden with Stockholm as the plan to meet the challenges of regulation and the new head office. The Nordea share is listed on NASDAQ macro-economic situation. In August we announced a OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and reduction of approximately 2,000 employees in the Copenhagen. With high market capitalisation and high Nordic region during 2011 and 2012. The ambition is to liquidity, the share is included in key indices. End of primarily reach the vast majority of the reduction in staff December 2011 the three largest shareholders were through natural attrition and voluntary agreements. Sampo Group with 21.3 (20.6)% of the shares, the Swedish state with 13.5 (19.9)% and Nordea Fonden Recognitions with 3.9%. During 2011 Sampo Group increased its Nordea received several awards and recognitions during holding. Nordea has approximately 475,000 shareholders 2011. Some of the main awards were: who hold 4,047,272,751 shares. Nordea can trace its • Best private banking service provider in the Nordics by roots as far back as to 1820. To date 250 banks have been Euromoney Magazine incorporated. • Best bank for payments and collections in the Nordic Nordea has an ambitious vision of becoming a Great region by Global Finance Magazine European bank, acknowledged for its people, creating • Biggest and safest bank in the Nordic region by Global superior value for customers and shareholders. The vision Finance Magazine is reflected in Nordea’s financial targets and supported by • Biggest and safest bank in the Nordic region by the Nordea’s values: magazine Global Finance • Great customer experiences More information on received awards is available on • It’s all about people www.nordea.com. • One Nordea team Please see pages 2-6 and 203 of the Annual Report for more detailed information. 4 nordea csr report 2011 Meet Nordea 11 million customers 33,000 employees 1,400 branches EUR 24bn market cap Finland Norway 2,646,000 565,000 customers Russia customers 68,000 customers Sweden Estonia 3,211,000 131,400 customers customers Latvia Denmark 110,800 1,314,000 Lithuania customers customers 145,200 customers Poland 717,400 customers International Markets Beijing, Frankfurt, London, Luxembourg, New York, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore Economic value generated Million euros Direct economic value generated: Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets 8,766 economic value distributed: Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments 1,914 Total monetary outflows for employees (current payments, not future commitments) 3,113 All financial payments made to the providers of the organisation's capital 1,168 Gross taxes 709 Donations, voluntary contributions 1 Nordea fact box • Offers products, services and solutions within • Nordea has approximately 475,000 shareholders ­banking, asset management and insurance. that hold 4,047,272,750 shares • 11 million customers • Largest shareholders are: • 1,400 branches • Sampo Group with 21.3 (20.6)% • 33,000 employees • the Swedish state with 13.5 (19.9)%* • Market capitalisation of approx. EUR 24bn • Nordea Fonden with 3.9% • Total assets of EUR 716bn and a core tier • Formal name is Nordea Bank AB (publ) 1 capital ratio of 11.2% • Legally registered in Sweden with Stockholm as • Among the ten largest universal banks in Europe the head office • Christian Clausen is Group President and CEO • Receives no state subsidies • Nordea shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX, • Has no major joint ventures, apart from the IT Nordic Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and ­operations jointly run with IBM ­Copenhagen * In 2011 The Swedish state sold approx 6% of its shares according to its ­stated strategy of divestment. Meet Nordea nordea csr report 2011 5 A word from our CEO 2011 was a challenging year for many European banks and their customers. The euro crisis has caused governments to take harsh measures to curb deficits. Many companies have experienced a decrease in orders as demand and growth have fallen. Growing unemployment and uncertainty led to reduced consumption and made households less optimistic about the future. 6 nordea csr report 2011 A word from our CEO In addition, the European banking regulation has been Internally, we call this “Great customer experiences”, sharpened to reduce the risk of new financial crises. which is our most important value. We believe that every Many European banks are struggling to meet the customer should meet a bank that is not only interested requirements, reach stable financial results and fund in where the customer is now, but also where he or she their operations. aspires to be. Our staff should provide professional Nordea has only been indirectly exposed to the euro advice but at the same time be easy to deal with. crisis. We are well capitalised and have a strong operating We want to be responsible in everything we do, model and good risk diversity. We have also been able to because this to us constitutes the real safety that should maintain healthy financial results and modest loan losses be the basis of any bank. But, we also want to make throughout the entire financial turmoil since 2007. This a difference – for our customers as well as for our has enabled us to already in 2011 start the implementation societies. Our ambition is therefore to always look ahead of our New Normal plan to meet the challenges of new – to decipher the challenges and take an active part in regulations and the new macroeconomic situation. shaping the future. To ensure the future stability of Nordea, we have In that context, it is self-evident for us to follow established a new financial target: to reach a return on international agreements on social responsibility and equity of 15% in a normalised economic environment. climate. We signed the United Nations Environment We have also taken measures to increase cost efficiency Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in 2001, the in order to shield our customers from the impact of Global Compact in 2002, the United Nations Principles regulatory costs as far as possible. Therefore we initiated for Responsible Investment and the Equator Principles a process to increase capital efficiency, minimise cost and both in 2007. These treaties and principles guide us in reduce the number of employees by approximately 2,000 our everyday business and our policies and procedures in the Group. We have aimed to implement the reduction support them. by way of voluntary agreements and were ahead of our To realise these ambitions we always need to listen. plans at the turn of the year with approximately 1,100 We meet customers every day in our branches. We talk to fewer employees than in the second quarter of 2011. them in our telephone bank contact centres. We have a We will use our strong position to continue to strive dialogue with them on Facebook and in other social for our mission: making it possible. As other banks have media. I would also like to take this opportunity to invite been forced to withdraw from different markets, stop new you to provide us with feedback. Please, do not hesitate to lending or even go bankrupt, we have been able to support contact us with your views on the content of this report, our existing customers even more and also keep our doors or if you have any other ideas of how we could become an open for new customers. even better bank – not only in our products and services, That is our first and foremost responsibility – towards but also in our behaviour and responsibility. the people we serve and the societies where we act: To always be ready to support and enable our customers to Yours sincerely, reach their goals and fulfil their aspirations. Our mission is to enable investments, growth and new jobs in the companies we serve and unleash the inspiration, innovation and power of our household customers. For a bank, a year is often described in terms of net Christian Clausen interest income, return on equity and operating profit. President and Group CEO But more important is that we in 2011 enabled millions of people to make it possible: • We provided EUR 145bn of credit to the households • We granted 300,000 families mortgage loans • We provided the business community EUR 154bn in credit • We raised EUR 37bn of capital for large corporates • We executed close to 1.2bn payment transactions for our customers A word from our CEO nordea csr report 2011 7 About this report Nordea based the materiality of this report on the Lithuania, Poland, Russia and in our international dialogues held with stakeholders as well as on our own locations. Nordea’s CSR reporting cycle is annual. Some know­ledge of the areas where Nordea can make a positions and initiatives described in the report may only difference within CSR. Our stakeholders agreed that apply to selected units or parts of the organisation, and responsible credit and transparent information regarding where relevant, the units concerned are identified. Our products and services have top priority. These chapters are employment-related indicators cover Denmark, Estonia, therefore e­ xtensive. We will however start by giving an Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia and overview of Nordea and how we work with CSR. Next we Sweden, unless otherwise stated. present all areas deemed important by our stakeholders, Our environmental indicators cover operations in by the CSR community based on practice and by our own Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, organisation. More in-depth information is available on Poland, Russia and Sweden, unless otherwise stated. Our the web. international network is excluded from the environmental This is the fourth edition of the Nordea CSR Report indicators as it is not material in this respect. When covering the calendar year of 2011. Our latest CSR Report indicators are related to our premises we cover only was published in February, 2011. During the period the ones that are occupied by Nordea. In some cases 2002-2007 Nordea produced an annual environmental environmental data also includes consultants working report, the Nordea Environmental Footprint (NEF). for Nordea. This report is produced according to the Global The environmental data is calculated in accordance with Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting the GHG Protocol’s guidelines for emissions calculation, Guidelines and the Financial Services Sector Supplement a corporate accounting and reporting standard by the (FSSS) Final Version (2008). Information is gathered World Resources Institute and the World Business Council from our reporting systems as well as manually. In accordance for Sustainable Development. with Nordea’s CSR strategy business areas and group This CSR report has been reviewed by external functions provide the content related to their areas. We are auditors, and the review report performed by Nordea reporting on a B+ level. The GRI indicator index is shown auditors, KPMG, is shown on page 45. on pages 38–39. Nordea is a signatory to the UN Global Compact The content of the report is guided by our materiality (UNGC), and this report serves as Nordea’s annual analysis and the dialogues that we have conducted with Communication on Progress (COP) report to the UNGC customers, employees, shareholders, analysts, suppliers, for the operating year 2011. Nordea has adopted the NGOs and governmental authorities. Equator Principles (EP). This report fulfils the annual This report covers CSR initiatives and activities in reporting requirements of the EP and serves as Nordea’s 2011 concerning the Nordea Group in the Nordic region EP status report for the operating year 2011. ­(Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden), Estonia, Latvia, Abbrevations CC Consultative Committees IFC The World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation CEO Chief Executive Officer KPI Key Performance Indicator CER Certified Emission Reduction LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design CO Customer Ombudsman NEF Nordea Environmental Footprint CO2 Carbon Dioxide NEM New European Markets: Estonia, Latvia, CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Lithuania, Poland and Russia EPF Export and Project Finance unit NGO Non Governmental Organisation EP Equator Principles OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ERAT Environmental Risk Assessment Tool QRA Quality and Risk Analysis ESD EU directive on energy and end-use efficiency RECS The European Standard Renewable and energy services Electricity Certificate System ESG Environmental, Social and Governance RI Responsible Investment EUA EU Emission Allowances SPRAT Social and Political Risk Assessment Tool FI Financial Institution SVC Sustainable Value Creation FSSS Financial Services Sector Supplement UNEP FI Environmental Programme Finance Initiative FTE Full time employee UNGC United Nations Global Compact GEM Group Executive Management UNPRI United Nations Principles for Responsible Investments GHG Greenhouse Gases HR Human Resources 8 nordea csr report 2011 About this report / Abbreviations CSR focus and progress Nordea’s CSR work focuses on our core business – responsible lending and responsible investments. Other key areas are improving clarity of products and services, developing and retaining our people and minimising the environmental impact of our day-to-day operations. Nordea’s long-term strategic CSR goal is to integrate CSR Improving ESG risk management with business, to embed CSR in core strategies, policies In 2011 the process for identifying environmental, social, and procedures, products and services. Responsible governance and political risks in the credit process was credits and responsible investments are focus areas of our reviewed with the purpose of identifying risks earlier in CSR work and the main focus areas in 2011. Ten years ago the credit process thereby freeing resources to focus on Nordea began systematically gaging ESG risks through the potential cases. The tools available to our analysts, specific tools and training within corporate credits and databases, ESG analyses and our own Environmental Risk trade and project finance. Likewise, Nordea’s asset Assessment Tool and Social and Political Risk Assessment management has been dedicated to the UNPRI since 2007. Tool will be reviewed in 2012. Identifying ESG risks in Further progress was made within both areas in 2011. the credit process benefits all parties concerned. CSR focus and progress nordea csr report 2011 9 Screening for positive impact customers. Since Nordea is rated as one of the strongest In 2011 the Responsible Investments and Governance banks not only in Europe but globally this creates team introduced more investment opportunities with opportunities for both the bank and its customers. positive screening. They actively search for companies that adhere to ESG criteria that have a future positive Meeting public opinion impact and create good returns. Another challenge is to meet the expectations and opinions of stakeholder groups in cases where there is no Improving information and transparency clear answer and society is divided. An example from We are constantly working to increase our internal 2011 is protests, mainly in Norway, regarding funds with awareness of CSR. In 2011 we worked on updating our investments in companies that produce components used intranet pages. We began to combine the CSR policies for a variety of industries, one being in the production into one to clarify and simplify. During 2012 this will be of nuclear bombs. Nordea does not invest in companies referred to the CSR Stakeholder Board and sent to Group producing illegal weapons. There is no international Executive Management and the Group Board of Directors legislation against nuclear bombs. However, Nordea for decision. decided to bar all investments in the companies in The CSR pages on www.nordea.com were updated in question for further analyses by end of Q1 2012. 2011. An extensive frequently asked questions section was added based on the questions received primarily from CSR organisation socially responsible investors. The CSR Secretariat coordinates and stimulates the CSR initiatives of business and raises internal awareness of Supportive and solid banking CSR issues. The two-person unit works with the CSR We aim to support our customers in a challenging Stakeholder Board comprising representatives from key financial climate. During the turbulence that began in business areas and group functions. The Stakeholder 2008 we worked hard to be proactive and help our Board is chaired by the responsible GEM member. The customers through the turmoil, and will do so going purpose of the Stakeholder Board is to analyse CSR issues forward. The increasing regulation of the financial from different perspectives and secure that our strategy industry is conversely providing an opportunity for gain acceptance internally and externally. In 2011 the Nordea. The regulations will make it tougher for banks composition of the Stakeholder Board was amended to to acquire funding and only the most solid banks will be reflect the organisational changes in the Group. The role able to secure good terms that they can pass on to their of the members is to promote CSR in their respective business areas or group function. The head of the CSR Secretariat reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who is a member of the Group Nordea was the best Executive Management (GEM). He is also responsible for CSR issues in GEM. All major CSR initiatives have to be bank in the Nordic CDP approved by GEM. The head of the CSR Secretariat has Report participated in GEM meetings two times in 2011. The CSR Report is distributed to the Board of Directors and Nordea received a joint fourth place in the discussed in the board meeting following its publication. ­Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) report The responsible GEM member is present to discuss and to ­released 21 October and was thereby the give an update on strategy and approach for the year ahead. best bank in the Nordics. The placement reconises Nordea’s work to promote lowStakeholder dialogues carbon alternatives by asserting influence as In 2011 the CSR Secretariat continued the stakeholder investor and lender. The CDP works on behalf dialogues that commenced in 2010 to better understand of 550 investors with assets of USD 71,000bn, the priorities of our stakeholders. The dialogues were not one being Nordea Investment Management, as extensive as in 2010 and we focused on customers, by requesting disclosure on the largest employees, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO) companies’ approach to the threats and and the socially responsible investors (SRI). opportunities of carbon emissions. CDP’s The corporate customers and household customers surveys are extensive and cover all aspects were asked about CSR in the Customer Satisfaction of business. It is not one single aspect but the Survey (CSI). Some 128,000 private and corporate aggregated work that renders a high score. customers in nine markets rated various CSR issues. Most Nordic peers participate in this survey. CSR questions were also part of the Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESI) with a response rate of 94%. Employees valued all CSR issues fairly highly (ranging 10 nordea csr report 2011 CSR focus and progress Identified stakeholder groups In 2011, Nordea also researched financial analysts’ requirements for ESG information from Nordea. The comments were mainly positive from the investors, but it was stressed that more information should be material Corporate Private Employees Customers Customers and directly linked to the bottom line. Material reporting items included transparency on products and sales, the sustainability of financing and the basis for management remuneration. Overall, management in corporations should be clearer about linking ESG into the long-term strategy of their companies, investors stressed. NGOs Analysts Nordea has also researched the number of investors in the Nordea portfolio that have a SRI profile and are working with responsible investments of some kind. 31% of the Nordea shares were owned by PRI signatories. The number of smaller specialised SRI funds in the portfolio represented approximately 0.8% of the total Shareholders Governmental Suppliers share capital. Looking at only institutional holdings, the Authorities PRI signatories in the portfolio represented 72% and the specialised SRI funds around 1.8%. Some of the largest shareholders with an RI agenda are listed in the table from 68%-80%) with combatting financial crime and below. equality being the most important issues. The ESI also A conclusion from this research is that Nordea seems showed that awareness of CSR has increased. to be an attractive investment from an ESG perspective, Meetings were held with three NGOs and will continue since close to 31% of Nordea’s shares are held by investors on a one on one basis throughout 2012. with a RI agenda as compared to approximately 15% on average. Another conclusion is that ESG issues are Vital for responsible investors becoming increasingly important for Nordea when CSR Investors today increasingly integrate ESG issues into issues become a part of investors’ governance processes. their portfolio management. Approximately 10-15% of all capital under management in Europe and the US Selection of major shareholders with a RI agenda* are screened using ESG criteria. The launch of the Swedbank Robur Fonder AB Sweden UN-initiative Principles for Responsible Investors (PRI) AMF Pensionsförsäkring AB Sweden has been a major driver behind this. Approximately 950 Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd. UK signatories have signed the initiative, promising to incorporate ESG analysis into investment analysis. BlackRock Fund Advisors USA In line with this development, the CSR Secretariat’s Norges Bank Inn. Mgmt. Norway contact with the Socially Responsible Investor (SRI) Legal & General Inv. Mgmt UK community has greatly increased during 2011. A survey DnB NOR Asset Management AB Sweden was conducted to map the SRI community and the ESG Canada Pension Plan Investment Board Canada issues connected. In a first attempt to improve our Danske Capital Denmark Denmark communication with this stakeholder group a Q&A based APG Asset Management Netherlands on the most frequently asked questions was placed on www.nordea.com/csr. * 128 of Nordea’s investors, as of January 2012, had a RI agenda. Overview stakeholder dialogues Number of Response rate/ Stakeholder Group Languages Form ­recipients Attendance Private customers Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, mail/email/phone 368,575 24% Norwegian, Polish, Russian, Swedish (netbank not included) Corporate customers Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, email/phone 117,479 18.9% Norwegian, Polish, Russian, Swedish Employees Danish, English, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, email, WEB 34,960 94% ­Lithuanian, Norwegian, Polish, Russian, Swedish CSR focus and progress nordea csr report 2011 11 Governance Nordea’s governance is strict with a clear framework. Although strict it provides means by which stakeholders can voice their opinions and influence. Whether you are a shareholder, an employee or a customer, there are ways to share your opinions in a formalised way. Shareholders can add items to the Annual General International commitments Meeting agenda, employees can communicate with their Nordea signed the United Nations Environmental union representatives in the Board of Directors, and Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in 2001. customers may contact the customer ombudsmen. In UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the addition, there are numerous less formal channels financial sector. Over 200 institutions, including banks, available internally and through the Nordea websites. insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and social CSR framework – Policies & Commitments considerations on ­financial performance. International commitments and internal policies govern Nordea signed the United Nations Global Compact our Corporate Social Responsibility. (UNGC) in 2002. UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their 12 nordea csr report 2011 Governance operations and strategies with ten universally accepted in relation to the Company’s major shareholders. Björn principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment Wahlroos is board chairman of Sampo plc and Kari and anti-corruption. The ten principles form the basis of Stadigh is managing director and CEO of Sampo plc, Nordea’s Code of Conduct. which owns more than 10%* of all shares and votes in Nordea signed the United Nations Principles for Nordea Bank AB (publ). Responsible Investments (UNPRI) in 2007. UNPRI is Thus, the number of Board members who are an investor initiative in partnership with UNEPFI and independent in relation to the Company and its executive UNGC. UNPRI consists of six principles and reflects the management as well as independent in relation to the view that environmental, social and corporate governance Company’s major shareholders well exceeds the minimum (ESG) issues can affect the performance of investment requirement. portfolios and therefore must be given appropriate No Board member elected by the General Meeting is consideration by investors. employed by or works in an operative capacity in the Nordea signed the Equator Principles (EPs) in 2007. Company. All Board members and the deputy Board The EPs are a credit risk management framework for members appointed by the employees are employed by the determining, assessing and managing environmental and Group and therefore not independent of the Company. social risk in project finance transactions. The Board adopts rules and procedures for its work (the Charter) annually. The Charter is an internal Internal policies document which contains rules pertaining to the areas The Code of Conduct is the core CSR policy. It is based of responsibilities of the Board and the Chairman, the on the ten principles of the United Nation’s Global number of meetings, documentation of meetings and Compact. The Corporate Citizenship Principles spell out rules regarding conflicts of interest, inter alia. the Group’s values and commitments to ethical business. For further details please see the Annual Report pages Both apply to all personnel and all who work on behalf of 70–76 and 200–201. Nordea. The main policies and international commitments are All employees supported by specific and concrete policies to ensure The Board adopts directives for the operations of the compliance in everyday business. Examples are the Group such as the Code of Conduct. All employees and environmental policy, the human resources policies, business activities need to comply with the standards of the anti-corruption policies, and several investment integrity and fair business ethics as stated in the Code of and credit policies. Please see www.nordea.com/csr for Conduct including those regarding conflicts of interest: further details. • Conflicts of interest between Nordea and its customers are identified and prevented or managed so that Avoiding conflict of interest customers are justly treated. The Board of Directors • Employees do not participate in business transactions Nordea complies with applicable rules regarding the where a conflict of interest could arise with their own independence of the Board. The Nomination Committee economic standing or with a third-party where a close considers all members elected by the shareholders to relationship exists. be independent of the Company and its executive management, with the exception of Lars G Nordström, who was employed as President and CEO of the Group until 13 April 2007. All Board members elected by the shareholders, apart from Björn Wahlroos and Kari Stadigh, are independent * According to the Code a member of the board, who is employed by or a board ­member of a company which is a major shareholder, is not to be regarded as independent. In this context, a major shareholder is defined as controlling at least 10% of the shares or votes in the company. As of end 2011, Sampo Plc. represented 21.3% of the shares and voting rights in Nordea. Governance nordea csr report 2011 13 Overview of corporate governance in the Nordea Group Auditors Shareholders in General Meetings The auditors are elected by the General Meeting The General Meeting is the Company’s highest decision-making body, where the for examination of the company’s annual report and ­shareholders exercise their voting rights. They are held in Sweden where Nordea is legally accounts and the administration of the Board and ­registered. At General Meetings, each shareholder is entitled to vote for the full number the managing director. The auditor’s work follows of shares that he or she owns or represents. Nordea is not entitled to vote for its own an annual audit plan based on a comprehensive shares at General Meetings. Each shareholder also has the right to have items ­included risk assessment. Auditors present the reports to in the agenda providing a request has been submitted to the Board in due time for the shareholders at the AGM in their audit report. the item to be included in the notice of meeting. The General Meeting also provides all They also provide assurance on the CSR Report. shareholders with an opportunity to express their opinions in regards to our CSR work. Governance structure Shareholders in General Auditors Nomination Committee Meeting Board of Directors Audit Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Group Internal Group Audit Compliance President and CEO Elected /appointed by Group Risk Management (CSR) Reporting to /informing Internal Framework External Framework Articles of Association, the Charter, Legislation, regulation, the Code, ­instructions for the CEO, policies, stock ­exchange rules ­instructions, guidelines and Nordea’s ­values External CSR ­framework – ­International Group Internal audit (GIA) Group Compliance ­commitments GIA is an independent function commisContinuously reviews and The international treaties we have signed guide us and help sioned by the Board. The purpose of GIA’s monitors the Group’s us live up to Nordea’s over-riding commitments. assurance activity is to add value to the ­adherence to laws and Nordea is committed to the: ­organisation by assuring the quality of the ­regulations. Group • UN Global Compact governance, risk management and control ­Compliance is a part of • U N Principles for Responsible ­Investments processes as well as promoting continuous the Group Risk Management • U N Environmental Programme ­Finance Initiative improvement. organisation. • Equator Principles. Group Risk Management Exposure to risk is inherent in providing financial Nordea has clearly defined risk, liquidity and CSR Secretariat The CSR Secretariat is services, and Nordea assumes a variety of capital management frameworks, including responsible for coordinating the CSR work risks in its ordinary business activities, the most policies and instructions for different risk types within the Group, proposing overall policies, significant being credit risk related to lending. and for the capital structure. strategies, and goals, as well as presenting the The maintaining of risk awareness in the results to GEM. Group Risk Management is a Group Function ­organisation is incorporated in Nordea’s headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) of ­business strategies. the Group. The CRO has CSR as his area of responsibility. 14 nordea csr report 2011 Governance Illustration continues on the next page Nomination Committee In accordance with the Code, Nordea has at a set date shall be entitled to appoint one ­ iving the background and the considerations g a nomination committee representing the member each. The committee prepares the of its proposals. The Statement is published on shareholders, which is established by the AGM. ­decisions on appointments, and remunerations Nordea’s homepage. In the process of drawing The committee shall consist of the c ­ hairman of to be taken by the shareholders at the AGM. up propositions of Board members, knowledge the Board and four other members. Shareholders The committee issues a Statement on the of CSR issues is one of the parameters to be with the four largest shareholdings in Nordea ­proposal regarding the board of directors taken into considerations by the committee. Board of Directors Composition of the Board The Board Board Committees In order to increase the The Board Remuneration Committee ­currently consists of eight* members elected effectiveness of the board work, the Board has (BRC) Prepares and presents proposals by the General Meeting. In addition three established separate working committees. to the Board on remuneration issues. When ­members and one deputy member are appointed The duties of the Board Committees, as well preparing such proposals, BRC shall take into by the employees. Employees are entitled as working procedures, are defined in specific ­account the long term interests of shareholders, ­under Swedish legislation to be represented in ­instructions adopted by the Board annually. investors and other stakeholders in ­Nordea. the Board. The CEO of Nordea is not a member Each Committee regularly reports on its work of the Board. The appointment of the employee to the Board. The minutes are communicated The CSR work of the Board Nordea representatives is to ensure a full process of to the Board. does not have a specific CSR committee. The ­informing and consulting employees about governance and of the CSR work is performed working relationships. Further, according to the The Board Audit Committee (BAC) by the Board as a whole. The Board is the Articles of Association the aim shall be that the Assists the Board in fulfilling its supervisory highest governing body responsible for the Board, as a whole, for its operations possesses ­responsibilities by, among other things, Group’s CSR performance. The Board the requisite knowledge and experience of the ­monitoring the Nordea Group’s financial ­assesses our sustainability performance social, business and cultural conditions prevailing ­reporting process, and in relation to this the ­whenever needed, however at a minimum in the regions and market areas in which the ­effectiveness of the internal control and risk once a year. Part of this evaluation is to ensure Group’s principal operations are conducted. management systems, established by the sufficient knowledge of CSR issues of the Board, the CEO and GEM, as well as the Board as a whole as well as for individual The Chairman The Chairman of the Board is ­effectiveness of GIA. Board members. elected by the shareholders at the General Meeting. According to the Charter, the Chairman The Board Risk Committee (BRIC) Evaluation of the Board The Board of shall ensure that the Board work is conducted Assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight ­Directors annually carries out a self-evaluation efficiently and that the Board fulfils its duties. ­responsibilities concerning management and process, through which the performance and The Chairman shall among other things organise control of risks, risk frameworks, controls the work of the Board is thoroughly evaluated and lead the Board’s work, maintain regular and processes associated with the Group’s and discussed by the Board. The evaluation is ­contact with the CEO, ensure that the Board operations, including credit, market, liquidity, based on a methodology which includes ­receives sufficient information and documentation business, life and operational risk. ­questionnaires evaluating the Board as a and e ­ nsure that the work of the Board is evaluated whole and individual Board members [as well annually and that the Nomination Committee is as personal discussions between each Board ­informed of the result of the evaluation. member and the Chairman]. President and CEO Nordea’s President and CEO is charged with The CEO is accountable to the Board for the reaches decisions after consulting with the the day-to-day management of Nordea Bank and management of the Nordea Group’s operations ­other members of GEM. the Nordea Group’s affairs in accordance with and is also responsible for developing and GEM is the highest operational body responsible laws and regulations, the Code, as well as maintaining effective systems for internal control for the Group’s CSR work. The CRO is a i­nstructions provided by the Board of Directors. within the Group. The CEO works together member of GEM, hence ensuring continuous The instructions regulate the division of with senior officers within the Group in Group communication between GEM and the CSR ­responsibilities and the interaction between the Executive Management (GEM). Presently Secretariat. CEO and the Board. The CEO works closely GEM consists of seven members and the with the Chairman of the Board, for instance with CEO. GEM has recorded weekly meetings. planning of Board meetings. These meetings are chaired by the CEO, who Internal CSR framework – Internal policies We have committed ourselves to good citizenship main standard of our role in society. Policies • Environmental Policy in Nordea, which means that we are a responsible we have developed are e.g.: • Sound Business Relationships and active member of society. The Nordea • Code of Conduct Corporate Citizenship Principles serves as the • Corporate Citizenship Principles * The Board currently consists of eight members elected by the General Meeting after Björn Savén having informed the Board of Directors on 22 December 2011 that he would resign with immediate effect from the Board of his own accord. Governance nordea csr report 2011 15 Operational risk and compliance Operational risk and compliance is an integral part of everyday business in Nordea and it is growing in importance. Banking is a heavily regulated industry and the trust and confidence from society is essential for the banks’ license to operate. It takes years to build a reputation, but only a single incident to destroy it. The compliance function’s role is to ensure that business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws, rules, codes and standards required by regulators, respecting the principles of integrity and fair dealing at all times. Board Risk Committee change management. It aims at documented decisionIn 2011 Nordea increased its focus on risk and established making regarding risk and quality aspects connected to the Board Risk Committee (BRIC). It increased the changes, explicit responsibility for decisions and actions Board’s role in reviewing the development of the Group’s taken as well as a systematic follow-up. overall risk management, control framework, the Group’s All new or changed products, processes, routines, risk profile and key risk issues. systems and organisations are analysed from a quality and risk perspective prior to launch. A QRA is mandatory in Identifying risks the decision-making process. Managing operational and compliance risks by identifying, assessing and mitigating them is part of managerial Compliance responsibility. Several tools are used. The Risk SelfCompliance risk is the risk of business not being Assessment (RSA) process provides a structured method conducted according to legal and regulatory for the above as well as the risks’ financial impact. At least requirements, market standards and business ethics. three risks per unit are reported to Group Operational Proper compliance is one of the main guardians of the Risk and Compliance where a group risk map is drawn conscience and ethics of a financial services business. annually. The most significant risks are reported to Group Nordea has a network of approx. 145 independent, Executive Management and to the Board. full-time, Risk and Compliance Officers. They proactively assist and provide advice to the business Quality and Risk Analysis concerning how to act in accordance with applicable laws, Quality and risk analysis (QRA) is a process used in rules, codes and standards and to respect the principles Nordea to limit new risks and to ensure disciplined of integrity and fair dealings at all times. 16 nordea csr report 2011 Operational risk and compliance In 2011 one of the important focus areas for the classroom training sessions. Additionally Risk and compliance organisation has been to improve the Compliance Officers offer business specific training on prevention of financial crime. Another focus area has anti-money laundering. In 2011, we trained almost been to improve the fair treatment of customers. Issues 21,000 employees and managers. are managing conflicts of interest, improving product usability by tailoring them to the intended user and Internal anti-corruption activities improving clarity of information about products. The Nordea expects all employees and other partners acting compliance organisation also helps managers and on behalf of Nordea to act with integrity and high ethical employees to understand, accept and act according to standards. Nordea’s Corporate Citizenship Principles the increasing number of rules and regulations. and Code of Conduct state the bank’s commitment to ethics, honesty and sincerity. In 2011, Group Executive Financial crime prevention Management issued an Anti-bribery and corruption Criminals and illegal organisations want to use the bank’s ­policy with an appendix on gifts, benefits and events. services for their activities. They need the financial system The policy has been written to meet international to receive payments, to transfer funds and not least to requirements and national laws such as the UK Bribery launder them. Act. Swedish laws will be updated in 2012 with a Banks and authorities work together on a global scale supplementary code that will set the standard concerning to prevent criminals from using the financial systems. prudent behaviour for the entire Swedish industry. The main focus is on combating money laundering and Nordea is evaluating a Whistle Blowing system that will financing of terrorism. It is a challenge to keep abreast be implemented in 2012. It will have both a confidential with the developments. International and national and anonymous functionality to encourage employees, or regulations evolve constantly as do criminal methods. anyone else providing services for Nordea to report Nordea has a Group wide internal framework, misconduct in the organisation. complemented by local ones, to comply with international Code of Conduct training is provided as e-learning to and national regulations. The Board of Directors has all employees and managers. A module on anti-bribery issued directives and the CEO has issued instructions and corruption procedures will be added in 2012. to ensure that Nordea has set adequate roles and responsibilities for financial crime management. The Compliance Awareness Programme purpose of the framework is to prevent Nordea from for Senior Management interacting with questionable counterparts with In the autumn of 2011, Group Operational Risk and unidentified backgrounds and from being subject to or Compliance launched the Compliance Awareness for used for criminal or unethical purposes. Senior Management programme with the purpose We have tools to track money laundering and terrorist of increasing senior management awareness of the financing. requirements and expectations governing the financial All employees are trained to identify and handle industry and more specifically Nordea. Among the topics potentially unlawful activities. Anti-money laundering are Anti-Money Laundering, Counter Terrorist Financing training is part of the initial training for new employees and Anti-Bribery and Corruption. and provided regularly both as e-learning and in For risks in credits and investments see separate sections. Financial coalition against the sexual exploitation of children Nordea is a member of the Swedish Financial Coalition reduced. The coalition consists of banks, The National against the sexual exploitation of children. The coalition Swedish Criminal Investigation Department, was formed to try and stop this horrid business from the organisation End Child Prostitution making money. Web sites sell pornographic material of and Trafficking (ECPAT) Sweden and the children and payments can be made with cards. Since card companies Visa and MasterCard. the coalition started the number of sites have been For further info: http://bankers.se/. Operational risk and compliance nordea csr report 2011 17 Responsible lending Lending is obviously an area where banks can make a difference and exercise their corporate social responsibility. We clearly understand that an environmental, social or political risk is a potential credit risk. In 2011 the credit process has been further developed. Lending principles, nor should the Group have dealings with As the largest bank in the Nordic countries many of the counterparts that we suspect to be of questionable leading Nordic companies are our customers. They have morality. many large projects both within their home region as well The credit instructions define practical guidelines and as on a global scale. It is clear to us that an environmental, processes when evaluating and granting credits in social or political risk may also entail a credit risk. general. Additionally, we have guidelines giving detailed We have a framework including instructions for instructions for business units on how to define, measure, environmental, social and political risks as well as ­execute and report on specific issues including how to processes and procedures for how to analyse and identify manage CSR risk assessment within lending. these risks. There are two high level Group directives Furthermore, we have specific industry policies (e.g. adopted by the Board of Directors; “Credit Policy and pulp and paper industry; energy with sub-groups of Strategy for the Nordea Group” and “Credit Instructions ­power, oil and gas, oil services and renewable energy; for the ­Nordea Group”. ­telecommunications; aircrafts; shipping; real-estate.) The first directive establishes the overall principles setting requirements and limits, including risks, on the such as that the granting of credit within the Group is overall industry exposure. These policies are all reviewed based on sound banking practice and high ethical by industry monitoring groups and approved by the standards. It also establishes that the Group should in no Executive Credit Committee before being reported to the way compromise generally accepted ethical and legal Board Risk Committee (BRIC). 18 nordea csr report 2011 Responsible lending The sector-specific industry policies are reviewed and political risk profile is created and included in the annually. In autumn 2011 we developed the overall credit evaluation process. SPRAT is mandatory for structure of these policies. As part of this process we customers with customer limits over EUR 5m. SPRAT is for the first time added a section covering relevant also used for customers with limits below EUR 5m for sustainability issues as well as our processes and practices companies that are predisposed to social and political related to them. Pulp and paper industry policy was risks. The higher limit threshold for SPRAT compared to reviewed ­according to the new model. The other industry ERAT is due to the fact that social and political risks are specific p­ olices will be reviewed according to the new most commonly a feature in large, international projects model in 2012. outside the Nordic region, whereas environmental risks may occur in industrial projects more generally. Environmental, social and political risks An essential aspect of our credit process is that most The main tool used to screen for environmental risks is credit analysts are dedicated to a specific industry in the Environmental Risk Assessment Tool (ERAT). Its which they have in-depth knowledge. Our analysts’ purpose is to consider environmentally related risks in the competence is essential. Internal training is offered to all customer’s business and to produce an environmental Nordea analysts. Training is provided for analysts that are risk profile, including climate change risks. In order to assigned to a new industry, which they are unfamiliar with better handle the CSR risks in the corporate lending and to new employees to ensure that they understand process, Nordea has a supplementary tool, the Social and ERAT and SPRAT since the tools are unique to Nordea. Political Risk Assessment Tool (SPRAT). Nordea’s risk Credit analysts also participate in external general definitions build on commonly accepted international training and industry-specific training. standards from the World Bank and the UN Global Compact. All customers are subject to an annual review, Development of risk assessment as a minimum. It has been decided to develop our credit processes By applying the ERAT and SPRAT tools our analysts go regarding the analyses on environmental, political and through how our clients handle environmental and social governance risks. The main change is that we will identify risks and requirements. The credit decision is based upon potential risk cases in a new way and focus our efforts and the customer fulfilling ERAT and SPRAT. Submission of analyses on the potential risk cases. The main criteria false information or withholding of facts constitutes a when evaluating the potential risk will be the geographical ­legal issue. location of components or parts, place of production and ERAT includes two checklists that are used to sales or distribution as well as the field of business of the determine the overall risk. The first checklist determines companies being analysed. For identified risk cases we industry risk, and if the industry risk profile meets certain will consider use enhanced tools i.e. internal and external criteria, a second set of checks and tests are performed on databases as well as ESG analyses. We will also investigate company level. The findings of the ERAT process result in the need for updating our existing tools ERAT and SPRAT an overall environmental risk profile that is added to the and relevant parts of the credit process, documentation as credit evaluation process. ERAT is mandatory for well as decision making process. This development work customers with customer limits over EUR 500,000. will be started in the first quarter of 2012. The main purpose of SPRAT is to identify relevant social and political risks in a particular customer’s Project finance business with potential impact on the customer’s ability to In project financing the lender looks primarily to the fulfill the credit obligations or likelihood of other negative revenues generated by a single project both as the source impact on Nordea. of repayment and as collateral for the loan. Project SPRAT is a three-step process. First, a risk profile is finance is often used for large projects for example in created for the country in which the customer is located. power plants, pulp and paper, mines or transportation Then the industry risk is identified. These two findings infrastructure where several parties cooperate in project are combined and compared to determine further actions development and/or financing. Large and complex to be taken in a third phase. In the end, an overall social projects also imply more complex risks including social Environmental Risk Assessment Tool (ERAT) Industry Assessment Environmental Analyses Conclusion Social and Political Risk Assessment Tool (SPRAT) Country Company Industry Analyses Conclusion Categorisation Assessment Responsible lending nordea csr report 2011 19 and environmental risks due to location, local population uses independent experts in category A projects, which is issues and so on. If they materialise, such risks may impose what the EP stipulates. Due to our relationship strategy large practical and financial consequences on the project, and Nordic focus the number of projects subject to the EP the project participants or other stakeholders. Therefore tends to be small; in 2011, seven projects were assessed. the aim is to have a more holistic view of the project risks. The projects included three wind parks, one mining The Export and Project Finance (EPF) unit is responsible project, one pulp mill, one food processing factory and one for project finance in Nordea. In 2007 Nordea adopted project on oil and gas sector. Three of the projects were in The Equator Principles (EP), a global, voluntary standard category A, one in category B and three in category C. for commercial lenders to identify and address social and The toolkit provides guidance on how to apply the EP environmental risks in project financing based on the in the day-to-day business of Nordea project finance International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) guidelines for deal managers (DM). In practice environmental specialist environmentally and socially responsible financing. The of the EPF unit carries out EP reviews of projects including analysts and other relevant personnel have been trained in review of reports by independent environmental and using the routines and tools. Internal seminars are held social advisers and helps the DMs in issues related to annually to provide staff with updates and the opportunity covenants and monitoring of projects. The ten principles to knowledge sharing. contained in the EP are organised into four workflow As a signatory Nordea will only provide loans to steps, 1) Initial project review; 2) Project appraisal; projects that confirm to principles 1-9 below. 3) Project negotiation, commitment and monitoring; and 4) External reporting. The steps match the Nordea The 10 Equator Principles project finance cycle and are integrated with the general 1. Review and Categorisation credit evaluation and decision workflow. Each project finance case is presented to Nordea’s EP 2. Social and Environmental Assessment Advisory Group for recommendation and classification. 3. Applicable Social and Environmental Standards If the recommendation is positive, the terms and 4. Action Plan and Management System conditions to participate in the project are established, 5. Consultation and Disclosure including environmental and social representations and 6. Grievance mechanism covenants. 7. Independent Review Nordea monitors quarterly, semi-annually or annually, depending on type of project, the performance of all 8. Covenants active projects in its portfolio to ensure compliance with 9. Independent Monitoring and Reporting environmental, social and other conditions. The borrower 10. Public Reporting will provide annual social and environmental monitoring reports usually verified by an independent expert. In case Applying the Equator Principles of any non-compliance, Nordea will determine an Nordea has produced its own Equator Principles Manual appropriate course of action together with the other lenders. (toolkit) for use in training and in the decision making Increasingly, we review environmental and social issues process. The toolkit is updated as the EP develops. of corporate loans involving projects, which may ­potentially Nordea evaluates the borrower’s capacity to adequately have moderate or significant environmental and/or social identify, mitigate and manage key social and environmental impacts. These reviews utilise the EP methodology, but risks and impacts of the project based on documentation there is more flexibility in the process. The reviews are seen provided by the borrower, independent environmental as risk management tool in these transactions. and social consultants and possibly site visits. Nordea Category A Projects Category B Projects Category C Projects Projects with potential significant Projects with potential limited Projects with minimal or no social adverse social or environmental ­adverse social or environmental or e ­ nvironmental impacts. ­impacts that are diverse, irreversible ­impacts that are few in number, or un­precedented. generally site-specific, largely ­reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Equator Principles workflow steps Project Negotiation, Initial Project review Project Appraisal Commitment and External Reporting Monitoring 20 nordea csr report 2011 Responsible lending Good for the environment Vesa Oksanen, Environmental Specialist and good for business for Export and Project Finance Vesa Oksanen works as an environmental specialist for Export and Project Finance. His position has a large scope involving evaluations of environmental due diligence reports, driving the development of internal guidelines and the Equator Principles implementation and contributing to the special industry-financing criteria. My job is to analyse the environmental and social risks in relevant projects and to compare them with ­international standards. It safeguards the environment, our customers and Nordea, says Vesa. Vesa’s expertise is called upon for large projects, often technically complex with a multitude of environmental and social risks such as mining projects, oil refineries, power plants or pulp mills including related infrastructure. Some of the projects are located in emerging markets. The risks may, for example, include deterioration of am­bient air quality, water pollution, work safety, human rights abuses, large scale industrial accidents, contamination of soil or groundwater and various kinds of social impacts on local populations at the project area. Vesa starts by reviewing the track record of the company in question, its relevant policies and publications and possible controversies. He uses both publically available information and databases. Next Vesa analyses the project at hand. He reviews the environmental and social impact assessments of the project and compares this with international environmental and social standards. In certain cases Vesa also ­visits the project in order to verify information and to interview key project personnel. After this I have an analysis of the project’s strengths and weaknesses. It is important for prospective borrowers to avoid, mitigate and manage material environmental and social risks effectively. If gaps in risk management are found, they need to be addressed in dialogue with the prospective borrower. Sometimes these issues involve potential costs not taken into account by the borrower; it is better to be aware of such costs before making a loan decision, says Vesa. Responsible lending nordea csr report 2011 21 Responsible returns Nordea has signed the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which means that we have taken the commitment to include environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in the investment processes for all assets under our management. As one of the first major banks in the Nordic market, initiatives. Whenever relevant we will discuss our policy Nordea’s fund companies and Nordea Investment and recommend others to become signatories of PRI. Management signed the PRI in 2007. By this we are committed to incorporate ESG issues into our investment Policy for Responsible Investments analysis, decision-making processes and ownership Nordea’s Policy for Responsible Investment describes our policies and practices. We interact with the investment strategy, vision and mission, what framework our work community in a wide variety of forums. As the largest with Responsible Investment (RI) is based on and how we asset manager in the Nordic region we seek to encourage address transparency with regard to RI. best practice through active participation in international 22 nordea csr report 2011 Responsible returns The policy framework is based on international norms company should be excluded from the investment universe and conventions and is applied to all funds and portfolios due to lack of progress. When a company is no longer managed by Nordea Investment Management. One measure involved in breaches of international norms, it will reenter in place is a biannual screening of the companies we the investment universe. invest in, for cases of verified violations of international One of the parameters that we assess during the norms regarding environmental protection, human rights, analysis process is if and how companies disclose ESG labour standards and business ethics. issues that are relevant for their business. During the In certain cases Nordea can take the position to analysis a dialogue is conducted with companies and in withdraw from investment. Nordea does not invest in this dialogue we emphasise the importance of ESG companies involved in the production of illegal weapons*. transparency. We participate in local and global initiatives In 2011 Nordea also froze all investments in companies encouraging companies to improve transparency of ESG that produce components for nuclear weapons, pending issues, such as CDP and Sustainable Value Creation. further analysis. Each company will be analysed and we aim to take a decision by the end of Q1 2012. Identifying the stars of tomorrow Our RI policy does not apply to funds of funds, In 2010, a new strategy and policy was adopted focusing investing in external funds and funds within Nordea’s on positive screening and in 2011 new funds were Guided Fund Universe. For these funds we inform the launched. These funds are unique in that ESG is part of external manager regarding companies’ breaches of the fundamental investment process. We have also further international norms, when these occur, and recommend developed the so-called ESG compass that gives our them to consider Nordea’s Policy for Responsible customers an easy overview of their portfolios ESG status. Investment in their own investment decisions. The ESG compass makes it easier for our customers to see what changes they may want to improve their portfolios in Engaging for change line with their policies and expectations. Nordea engages to change and to support this we have In 2010, we initiated our in-house environmental, a corporate governance policy which includes ESG social and governance (ESG) analysis and developed our considerations. We initiate engagement dialogues to own criteria and methodology. Nordea has in its research change behavior and to enhance business performance by methodology decided to track companies that have a addressing business practices employed by the companies systematic approach to manage key ESG risks and we invest in, as well as proposing possible improvements. opportunities. Furthermore, we want to identify companies Nordea prioritises engagement with companies that from an environmental and social perspective will be identified as being involved in verified breaches of the stars of tomorrow. We have therefore prioritised international environmental, human rights, labour rights identifying companies that have a positive trend and the and business-ethics-related norms. We also prioritise ones that have identified sustainability as a platform for proactive engagement dialogues with our largest holdings. growth. This is carried out by in-house expertise, our external Our in-house analysis focuses mainly on Nordic engagement service provider Hermes Equity Ownership companies, since this is our home market. For non-Nordic Services or through cooperation with other stakeholders. companies we process and assess ESG analysis conducted It is our practice to engage in direct face-to-face by our external service provider MSCI Inc. dialogues with companies. In 2011, the focus of the ESG analysis was on analysing We believe that a good understanding of business companies for our enhanced RI funds. The funds have conditions in the companies we invest in is one key both local and global focus. We have thus analysed a wide element in order to influence positive change. We see range of companies in the Swedish market and emerging field visits as one way of learning more. In 2011 Nordea’s markets to find companies performing well environmentally, Responsible Investment & Governance Team conducted socially as well as financially. pro-active engagement dialogues with companies on the ground in Africa, Asia, North America and the Nordic Read more about Responsible Investments countries. In our Responsible Investment & Governance reports we Nordea’s practice is to influence through engagement describe our approach in more detail. The reports are and to encourage best practice. Our engagements are available on www.nordea.com/csr. The PRI commitment reviewed by Nordea’s RI committee. The committee entails an annual reporting on progress which is available decides on the level of engagement and also whether a on www.unpri.org. * Illegal weapons comprise biological weapons, chemical weapons, non-detectable fragments, blinding laser weapons, anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. Responsible returns nordea csr report 2011 23 Carbon Disclosure Sustainable value creation Project Sustainable value creation is a cooperation project ­involving some of Sweden and Norway´s biggest Nordea is a signatory to Carbon Disclosure ­investors. The aim of the project is to influence listed Project (CDP). The aim of the project is to Swedish and Norwegian companies in sustainable ­collect and spread information concerning ­development and long-term value creation. Nordea greenhouse gas emissions and climate ­considers it essential for companies to work actively change strategies. Nordea uses the with environmental and social aspects in its business; ­information in the database in its ESG we therefore take part in the working team that drives analysis. CDP is a cooperation arrangement the project in Sweden. During the first part of 2011, between 534 institutional investors who the survey was, for the second time, sent out to together account for over a third of the the 100 largest companies on the Swedish stock world’s investments. ­exchange. Our active ownership • Nordea believes in positive means of engagement where we actively contribute to improvement of ­company’s management of key environmental, social and governance practices. As of December 2011, Nordea engaged with 15 norm-breaching companies worldwide. • We also believe that exclusion seldom is constructive and long-term oriented. Direct divesting from ­companies with poor management practices is used as a last resort. • We exclude companies when violations are severe and when companies are unwilling to change or ­improve their behaviour. Nordea does not invest in companies which are involved in the development, p­roduction and maintenance of illegal weapons. In 2011, 12 companies where excluded for involvement in the production of illegal weapons and/or nuclear weapons. Progress in implementing PRI ❶ ❷ ❸ We will incorporate ESG issues We will be active owners and We will seek appropriate disclosure into ­investment analysis and ­in­corporate ESG issues into our on ESG issues by the entities in which ­decision-­making processes ­ownership policies and practices we invest • Policy for RI covering all funds, the f­oundation is • Local ownership policies are in place. The Swedish • Disclosure on ESG issues is address with ­international norms. policy is recently updated with a broader ESG ­companies in our research and engagement • Norm-based screening applied to all funds ­managed ­focus. ­dialogues. by Nordea Investment Management. • We attend general meetings and participate in • Participate in national and international initiatives, • Integration of in-depth ESG analysis. ­nomination committees. such as; • Step by step in all asset under management, e.g. • Engagements based on ESG ­activities in 2011: – Carbon Disclosure Project conduct ESG research for l­argest ­Nordic holdings. – 15 ongoing extensive engagements. – Water Disclosure Project • Developed two new funds, Emerging Stars & Etiskt – Moderate engagements with about 40 companies. – Sustainable Value Creation Urval Sverige. – Basic engagements with about 100 companies. ❹ ❺ ❻ We will promote acceptance and We will work together to enhance We will each report on our activities ­implementation of the Principles our effectiveness in implementing and progress towards implementing ­within the investment industry the ­Principles the Principles • Inform RI expectations to external investment • In 2011 we have participated in 3 ­collaborative • Twice a year we publish a Responsible Investment ­managers. ­engagement activities ­through the PRI clearinghouse. & Governance report. • Interact with the investment community in a • Participate in national and international initiatives. • We report ongoing on our activities on our external ­variety of forums, such as the Nordic Sustainable blog. ­Investment Forums. • Externally publish White paper and Reports on • Whenever relevant we will discuss our policy and ­different sustainability themes. recommend others to become signatories of PRI. 24 nordea csr report 2011 Responsible returns Water Disclosure Project Nordea is a signatory to the Water Disclosure Project. The project is an initiative run by the Carbon Disclosure Project and is supported by institutional investors, such as Nordea. The aim of the project is to collect and spread information concerning water-related risks and possibilities and addresses 300 global companies with water-intensive production and water-related challenges. RI team awarded Sasja Beslik was awarded the title of Young Global Leader 2011 by the World Economic Forum. The title implies that for five years Sasja will be an ambassador of a global network aiming to influence international companies to increase their social responsibility. Field visits to South East Asia In May the RI and Governance team travelled to Singapore, Indonesia and Malaysia. The purpose of the visit was to meet with companies and other organisations involved in the palm oil industry. Palm oil is the world’s most prolific vegetable oil and the demand for it has surged in recent years. Along with the demand, palm oil production has expanded and the industry’s management practices of environmental and social issues have become increasingly scrutinised and inevitably questioned. The challenges that the industry faces were well expressed by the companies and organisations we met during our visit. The major sustainability risks and issues are not derived from the established plantation; it is rather from when companies expand into new plantation areas. When expanding the companies face several issues, such as logging without proper permits, expanding on prohibited peat land and virgin forests, corruption etc. In these situations the companies need to manage challenges related to the rights of indigenous people to their land, the risk of destroying the habitat of many species as well as climate change issues etc. Palm oil can, however, be sustainably produced. But for this to happen, companies need to have solid management systems that address not only the above challenges but also the risks related to established plantations, related to use of migrant workers, hazardous chemicals, heavy machinery etcetera. Since the ­middle of 2000, companies are able to certify their operations against the environmental and social standard developed by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). The RSPO standard address main parts of key issues, thus companies striving to RSPO certify their plantations are going to the right direction from our point of view. Responsible returns nordea csr report 2011 25 Committed to our customers A bank without money to lend isn’t much use. We are seeing this in other parts of Europe as we write. Nordea is one of the best capitalised and strongest banks not only in Europe but in the world. We are working very hard to keep it that way. Developing our services and accessibility is also an important area. Our main responsibility is to ensure that both our corporate gage what is realistic for a customer to borrow for and private customers are able to finance their plans by example, if we understand their financial situation and providing sound advice as well as competitive products long-term plans. and services. This is our responsibility even in a financially Corporate customers have a designated relationship turbulent climate. Our core value “Great customer manager in Nordea. The same applies to our private experiences” guided us through the turbulence in customers who have selected Nordea as their main bank. 2008-2009 and we worked hard to proactively stand by They are invariably so-called Gold Customers and are our customers when times are tough. That’s our mission. entitled to a dedicated personal banking adviser. The adviser will have meetings on a regular basis with the Building relationships that last customer to go through all aspects of the customer’s We aim to build long-lasting relationships with our finances including future needs. We know from our customers. This will enable us to be proactive and better satisfaction surveys that our customers appreciate help our customers in times of uncertainty. We can also proactivity. 26 nordea csr report 2011 Committed to our customers Transparent products inception and it is proving useful in many different ways. Customers have expressed through stakeholder dialogues It gives customers options and 24/7 accessibility. We are and surveys that they want products that are easier therefore now working on extending and improving these to ­understand. We are working on clear and simple services further. We will start testing remote meetings. information when we develop products and services. Initially, we see it as an option for customers with disabilities This applies also to our marketing process. We test new or for customers in rural areas. approaches and product concepts in “live labs” through a process of trial and error. Consultation with customer Reacting to feedback focus groups is also essential to the process. Work is Maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction entails ongoing to streamline and centralise processes in all reacting to feedback and having routines in place to channels leading to improved transparency and handle customer complaints and implied improvements. convenience for customers and employees. Our customer ombudsmen in the four Nordic countries write biweekly reports based on customer feedback both New branch concept positive and negative to the local banking management In 2010 we introduced a new branch model to enhance with more detailed reports each quarter. The ombudsmen customer service and adjust our branch network to work in close cooperation with many parts of the banking changes in customer behavior to be present with the right organisation. The local management is notified immediately branches at the right locations. In the future we will have when necessary. branches that are dedicated to advice and others dedicated Our customer ombudsmen receive both positive and to daily service and corporate branches dedicated to our negative feedback. During a three-month period the Corporate segments. customer ombudsmen in Finland and Sweden receive The new model makes it more clear what service the on average 9,000 calls, e-mails or letters, whereas the customer can get where and the staff is specialised and Norwegian receives 2,000-3,000 and the Danish dedicated to the specific needs of the customer. Before receives between 1,000 and 2,000. Nordea has similar being introduced on a broad scale, the concept was tested locally adopted processes in place in the other countries. and we found that our customers appreciated having In Poland, Estonia and Latvia we have designated persons dedicated branches. The work has progressed and 44% who handle customer complaints. In Lithuania we have a of our branch network is now working in the new format Customer Complaints Committee for the same purpose in the Nordic countries. and in Russia the Customer Compliance department handles customer complaints. Being accessible In 2011 we had two complaints regarding breaches Our customers want to receive advice and help when they of customer privacy or losses of customer data. We did need it and consequently our internet and telephone not receive any fines for non-compliance with laws and banking as well as mobile services are well used and regulations concerning the provision and use of products popular. We have had a multi-channel strategy since our and services. Customer satisfaction survey In Nordea we measure our ability to deliver great region can see where they stand and follow-ups customer experiences and our performance and action plans are mandatory. Group Executive compared to our main competitors in an annual Management takes a strong interest in the survey and customer satisfaction survey. During 2011 actions are taken on a group level as well. Customer approximately 128,000 customers voiced their satisfaction is also a relevant part of the strategic opinion on Nordea and gave valuable input for steering of the group, as both “Customer Satisfaction improvements. Some 26,000 customers of our Improvement” and “Delivery Satisfaction Index” are competitors responded to the same questions. The Nordea’s key performance indicators. We know that survey was conducted from late September to early there is a strong connection between great customer November. It targeted all customer segments in experiences, living our values and our financial results Corporate, Household and Private Banking. The main – they all go hand in hand. Our Customer Satisfaction focus areas in this year’s survey were proactivity, the Index remained relatively stable in 2011 and we quality of our customer meetings, our service in maintained our positive gap to competitors. During general and the quality of our advice. 2011 we welcomed 22,000 new gold and private The survey is conducted so that each branch and banking customers. Committed to our customers nordea csr report 2011 27 Nordea people Our values put people first and our People Strategy is based on our employees’ strengths and determination to pursue. Our values and leadership are the strongest drivers for performance and are building and developing our corporate culture. They guide us when recruiting and developing our people as well as when we need to restructure our organisation. 28 nordea csr report 2011 Nordea people We strive for an egalitarian corporate culture in Nordea. work in a way that secures mutual flexibility. We strive to In practical terms this means that we provide opportunities create flexible working conditions, promote and provide for our people to develop, grow and live well-balanced lives. health activities through internal health facilities or We focus on continuous learning to secure employability external providers. We offer good conditions for leave as well as competent, accurate and qualitative deliveries. of absence, not least parental leaves. We work to ensure that Nordea remains an attractive employer and to develop and retain our current and future Internal mobility talents. Annual employee satisfaction surveys are run to Internal mobility and cross-border assignments are ways ensure that we are living up to our goals. R­ esponse rates to enhance job rotation and develop the employee’s are high and in 2011 it landed on 94%, emphasising the competence, and also build overall corporate citizenship importance employees assign to this s­ urvey. and culture enforcing the “One Nordea Team” value. One way to learn about jobs and competence needs within Focus on values and leadership the group is to join our career days, run country-wise. Nordea’s values and leadership support and enable the ­Another way is to use the Career Planner tool to explore People Strategy. We define great leadership as “the ability personal values, strengths, competencies and interests. to engage and motivate people to reach out for our vision We know that the opportunity to work in different and the ability to create the right team to make it happen”. countries and different value chains is greatly valued Leaders need to be good at developing people, able to by our staff, not least participants in our Graduate ­unfold potential and give constructive feedback. programme. This is a fast track to get to know Nordea’s The employee satisfaction survey 2011 shows satisfaction culture and organisation. The programme is in high with immediate manager at an index rate of 79 and living demand, hence a measure of our ability to attract some our values 78. of the best young talents. Graduates are recruited for a particular position and combine work with the Graduate Opportunities to develop training programme during the first year as a Nordea Nordea employees should feel that Nordea offers many employee. opportunities to develop. Development is a joint Continuous learning and internal mobility are, as responsibility of the manager and the employee. Annual always, aspects of employability. Not least in the rapidly Performance and Development Dialogues form the basis changing environment we need a broad and profound for personal development plans and short and long-term competence base that secures employability for the career plans. In 2011, 90% of all employees participated individual as well as potent and accurately prioritised in a performance and development review. deliveries from Nordea. We need flexibility to find the Nordea HR provides group common leadership and right person, for the right place at the right time. Concrete employee development. Business areas provide specific actions are often local. Yet, there are common principles skills and knowledge, often carried out through internal that are applied group-wide, for example the People academies developed for securing common competence Matching Process; where vacant positions and available within a market area. Nordea also supports and rewards people are structurally matched to find a good solution to training leading to external certifications. The Talent the benefit of both the employee and Nordea. Management process ensures that we have strong leaders, competent specialists, as well as high-quality succession. Responsible restructuring Nordea embraces the “Blended learning methodology” The financial turbulence and new global requirements for development where class room training constitutes regarding capital and liquidity have resulted in a need to only one part of the total training offering. In 2011, continue ongoing cost and capital efficiency measures. 40,535 days of class room training were provided of which During the first part of the financial disturbance (20086,656 days focused on manager training. Employees in 2009) Nordea managed to reduce personnel by natural Retail Banking attended 1.8 training days per employee as turnover and utilising the possibilities of internal mobility. compared to 1.4 days for employees in Group Functions. In late August 2011 Nordea announced a reduction of In addition to this centrally provided training, training on approximately 2,000 positions in the Nordic region during specific skills is provided but not centrally recorded, e.g. 2011 and 2012. Reductions are negotiated in accordance training for controllers, legal advisors, relationship with our union collaboration structure firstly on Nordic managers or credit advisors. Group wide level and locally and in respective business area. Units identified having to limit process and/or deliveries, Balance in life hence reducing resources, inform employees at personal At Nordea, we recognise that people have different needs meetings. Affected employees are presented with options to in different phases of their lives, and that it is important join our internal People Matching Process to find a new to maintain a balance between private and working life. position within Nordea or to receive a country-specific We have different ways of ensuring this, adjusted to local voluntary redundancy package, also including outplacement conditions, rules and regulations. We aim to organise support. Nordea people nordea csr report 2011 29 Since announcing the planned reductions approximately Remuneration one thousand people have left Nordea. The People Nordea has a clear remuneration policy, updated and Matching Process has already brought together several approved by the Board in March 2011. The basic employees looking for new jobs with vacant positions and principle is that Nordea is to provide competitive but not normal turnover paired with careful external recruitment market-leading remuneration. For further information also support Nordea’s restructuring. concerning remuneration please see the Annual Report pages 77–80 and note 7 on pages 114–120 and separate Employee feedback annual disclosures on www.nordea.com focusing on risks We have two main tools for feedback targeting all active related to remuneration. employees. The Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESI) and All employees are part of a profit-sharing scheme. The the Performance Development Dialogue (PDD) are performance criteria for 2011 are risk-adjusted profit, both conducted annually. The ESI has a high response total shareholder return compared to the Nordic peers rate, 94% in the 2011 survey, indicating our employees’ and customer satisfaction. Pension schemes are subject perception of Nordea governance, processes and leadership. to l­ ocal laws, regulations and market practice applied either The PDD takes place, at least annually, between immediate in the form of determined public collective-agreements, manager and employee. It requires preparation by both company determined schemes or in a combination of parties, common understanding and constructive dialogue these elements. Existing defined benefit plans, mainly in on expectations/requirements, action plans, as well as the Nordic countries, are covered in local pension funds follow-up throughout the year. or pension foundations. The aim in Nordea is to have defined contribution pension schemes. ESI Results 2011 2010 2009 Nordea has implemented international and national remuneration regulations and revised the remuneration Satisfaction and motivation 72 73 72 policy accordingly while also honoring existing agreements. Development 71 73 72 On 6 December 2011, Nordea Bank AB and Nordea Considered a good workplace 74 79 78 Investment Management AB each received a remark and Proud to tell others where I work 76 82 82 administrative fines amounting to SEK 3m, due to not Recommend others to start having deferred parts of variable remuneration earned in working at Nordea 72 78 77 2009 and paid out 2010 to risk-takers as required by Living the values 78 79 77 Swedish FSA regulations. Great Customer Experiences 80 81 81 2011 2011 2011 2011 It's all about People 75 75 74 % of collective One Nordea team 79 78 78 OR local Country Average Male Female agreement* Denmark 8,475 4,247 4,227 90% Committed to equal opportunities Finland 7,584 1,847 5,737 83% We are committed to equal opportunities as stated in our Corporate Citizenship Principles. We do not discriminate Norway 3,536 1,897 1,640 70% on the basis of gender, age, disability, ethnicity, religion, Sweden 7,530 3,320 4,210 100% or sexual orientation. Vacancies are open to all employees Poland 2,344 810 1,534 100% and posted on the intranet. Statistics on gender show Luxemburg 354 336 18 0% there are still slightly more men holding managerial Estonia 469 76 393 0% positions than women even though the workforce is made Latvia 433 99 334 0% up of approximately 59% women and 41% men. To come Lithuania 345 91 254 0% to terms with this, it is mandatory that at least one woman be among the top three candidates for every managerial Russia 1,659 593 1,066 0% position. For 2012, we are adding aspects to our recruitment United States 89 46 43 0% process to better monitor, identify and encourage female Great Britain 71 42 29 0% candidates. Increasingly, both managers and employees Singapore 61 24 37 0% take paternity leave, but as in society at large this is a Germany 39 20 19 0% generation issue. During 2011 we did not have any China 18 7 11 0% reported discrimination cases. We do not keep statistics on the diversity of our work Brazil 3 2 1 0% force on a Group level, because the parent company is Nordea Group domiciled in Sweden where registering ethnic origin is total 33,011 13,457 19,554 79.5% ­illegal. * M  anagers and specialists having individual contracts; 10% in Denmark, 17% in Finland and 30% in Norway, are always at a minimum covered by terms in the local collective agreements and additionally holding, to various extent, more favourable terms. 30 nordea csr report 2011 Nordea people Labor rights of days absent from work but also work-related injuries.* Nordea follows local collective agreements and national Armed robberies are a safety issue among branch legislations and plays an active role in the collective employees and therefore they have received mandatory bargaining that takes place. By year-end 88.3% of our training and procedures for how to act in the event of a employees in the Nordic countries (79.52% of all robbery. A support process is activated if a robbery occurs. Nordea employees) were covered by collective bargaining Work-related stress (WRS) is a serious and agreements. In the Nordic countries managers and occasionally present factor undermining our employees’ specialists having individual contracts are always at a well-being. We have a WRS Policy to prevent WRS by minimum covered by terms in the local collective addressing working conditions and reduce absence. agreements and additionally holding, to various extent, more favourable terms. The collective bargaining Occupational health care agreements include a number of provisions that may The health care services we offer our employees are in differ from country to country. For example terms of addition to the services offered by the different governments notice vary from 1 to 6 months. In our international units and therefore vary. The goal is to promote and maintain we follow possible local collective agreements and our employees working ability throughout their careers national legislations for local staff. In Poland, for by providing preventive health and work place measures, example, a collective agreement is in force. Likewise in health screenings and examinations. In Denmark, we Luxemburg, where there is a collective bargaining provide our employees with health insurance. In Finland, agreement for bank employees, Nordea has an agreement Norway and Sweden occupational health care is closely with two financial unions concerning information and regulated. In the Nordic countries occupational health negotiation requirements. is integrated into business activities. In Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and Russia, the scope of Occupational Health and safety Health Care services provided vary depending on local Health and safety legislation in the Nordic countries is legislation and financial sector market practice. comprehensive and in some cases the collectiv bargaining agreements additionally stipulate the content of Nordea’s health and safety services. We have measured the number More social data can be found on page 40. * In Finland and Sweden injuries that occur when commuting to/from work are seen as work related injuries. Work related Illness is not registered in Denmark. Nordea people nordea csr report 2011 31 Community involvement Nordea’s community involvement is based on giving time and expertise. Our main project is helping youth gain a better understanding of their personal finances. In addition there are many projects that Nordea people have initiated spontaneously. We do not include sponsoring here as it belongs with marketing. Helping youth understand personal finances and how much a soft drink a day adds up to in the long Throughout the Nordic countries Nordea employees are run. An essential part is how you can get that special visiting schools to help students understand basic private something by making a budget and saving for it. economy. The purpose is to help students, between the In 2011 we had 62 Nordea employees who ages of 13 and 18, become aware and make informed volunteered to give financial education in the schools. The decisions. No marketing or promotion of Nordea is project does not only benefit the students but also the Nordea allowed. employees. Many of the Nordea colleagues participating The sessions tend to generate lively discussions about say that it makes their work more meaningful. pros and cons of cash and cards, loans and interest rates 32 nordea csr report 2011 Community involvement Enterprising Preschoolers First Lady Evelin Ilves visited schools to talk about and The financial education for preschoolers was initiated by encourage healthy nutrition, honest sports, achieving the City Hall in Wroclaw, Poland, in cooperation with something in one’s life and being a fully valued citizen. Nordea in 2010 and continued in 2011. The goal is to make entrepreneurship interesting and fun for preschoolers, Working to stop HIV/AIDS their parents and teachers. Together with their customers Nordea’s Private Banking Apart from classroom activities, the preschoolers in Sweden support Star for Life, an organisation working toured a branch and among other things withdrew cash to combat HIV/AIDS in Namibia and South Africa and to from a toy cash machine, adequate to their height. The increase self-esteem. The program was launched after a children also participated in two contests: an art competition survey showed that the customers wanted to be able to titled “My Dream Money” and a marketing competition “invest with their hearts”. writing slogans for their preschool. Star for Life works where the problems exist: in schools and together with young people, community members, Helping traumatised children in Poland local partners and the government in combating HIV/ feel special AIDs and stimulating socioeconomic development. It is a Poland celebrates “Kids’ Day” on June 1. In May 2011, value based programme aiming to increase the students’ employees at Nordea operations centre decided to make self-esteem and encourage them to pursue their dreams. the day special also for children at the Support Centre for The project is active in rural and urban areas of South Victims of Domestic Violence. The Nordea team organised Africa and Namibia. charity fund raising and managed to collect 3,535 PLN Today, the programme reaches over 100,000 students and to fill a big car to the brim with gifts clothes, toys, and 4,000 teachers in over 100 schools. Nordea supports cleaning products and food. one school for three years with an amount of SEK 200,000 The idea was simple to help these kids feel special per year. Nordea’s customers support other schools, and loved in spite of the family drama. For the collected classes or individual students. money the team also managed to get small symbolic gifts The programme has been evaluated by independent to celebrate Mother’s Day on the 26th of May. observers. Students in the programme are showing positive development in terms of higher grades, less Helping Latvian entrepreneurs absence from school, lower HIV prevalence and reduced Nordea launched the Nordea Business School in Latvia in number of teenage pregnancies. 2010 due to the high unemployment. It continued during 2011. The school is open to customers and the general public who would like to establish their own business. Classes run over a six-month period and are taught by leading business consulting and staff training companies in Latvia along with the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga. The sessions are filled and will continue for the foreseeable future. Encouraging Estonian children Nordea and Estonian Olympic discus thrower champion, Gerd Kanter, work together with the President’s Young Sports Foundation to encourage young athletes. Gerd Kanter has written a book about the 15 steps that helped an average small town boy become an Olympic champion. Nordea donated copies to all Estonian school libraries delivered when Gerd Kanter and Estonia’s Community involvement nordea csr report 2011 33 Reducing our ecological footprint For a bank the indirect impacts deriving from lending and investments exceed impacts from operations. But a company of our size can still achieve a lot by changing the way we conduct our day-to-day business. 34 nordea csr report 2011 Reducing our ecological footprint Energy Internal Green IT Management Paper Ecological Customer Communication Footprint Paper Programme Travel & Facility Sourcing Virtual Services Collaboration There is an increased expectation both from external Area Target Status 31.12.2011 stakeholders and from employees for Nordea to exert Energy Reduce consumption Energy consumption is itself in limiting the environmental impact of its operations. by 15% (kWh/Full-time down by 5%. Nordea has an Ecological Footprint programme to drive employee) On schedule to reach 2016 target and coordinate efforts across disciplines and business units. In 2009 we set targets to reduce our CO2 emissions Air travel Reduce air travel for Travel increased ­internal purposes by 30% ­substantially in 2009 by 2016 (using 2008 as baseline). The targets only (trips/Full-time employee) and 2010, so in spite of include Nordic countries. We are on target, with the a dramatic drop in travel exception of internal paper consumption and travel. in the last three quarters, travel for 2011 overall is above 2008 level Reducing our footprint Customer Reduce consumption by Customer paper is The focus of the program is to reduce Nordea’s CO2 ­paper 50% (g/customer) down by 36% and we emissions by reducing our consumption of energy, air are ahead of schedule to reach 2016 target travel, paper and the other significant contributing factors to our emissions. In addition, we realise that as a Internal Reduce consumption No reduction in paper by 50% (kg/Full-time 2009 and 2010, but large consumer we can influence our suppliers to reduce ­employee) ­consumption/FTE 2011 the environmental impact of their operations and to is down by 7%. increase their green product and service offerings. We do Sourcing All sourcing of materials The criteria and process this by having clear environmental requirements in our and services are made is in place sourcing and purchasing processes, by making sure ­according to a set of ­environmental criteria our suppliers adhere to our CSR principles, by having On-spot audits are Procedure is in place procedures in place for checking that they actually do and ­implemented escalations procedures if they don’t. In addition, we have All sourcing partners Achieved for all new initiated closer collaboration with some of our key suppliers ­comply with Nordea’s ­contracts. Part of the in order to increase the share of “green” products CSR principles in a legally ­renewal process for purchased. binding manner ­existing contracts Targets are set for 2016 and only cover the Nordic countries. Status compares the 2011 figures to 2008 baseline. FTE scope is identical to page 41. Reducing our ecological footprint nordea csr report 2011 35 Teams drive progress Good results We have designated teams that work hard to achieve these Our environmental targets are set for 2016 and they targets. In addition, we also have teams focusing on other currently only cover the Nordic countries. We have been areas where we see clear opportunities to reduce Nordea’s able to substantially reduce the amount of paper we send environmental impact. Altogether, the Ecological Footprint to our customers by continuing to implement electronic programme consists of 8 teams that focus on identifying statements and invoices. Last year we reduced the amount and implementing improvements in their areas of of paper we send to customers by 212 tonnes, that is responsibility. Each team has a designated driver and in 24 grams per customer and a decrease of 9%. Energy is 2010 a dedicated programme manager was hired to another area where we see good results. We have been further strengthen and drive the Ecological Footprint able to cut our energy consumption primarily by making programme. many small improvements in a number of areas. We have also installed a heat pump in one of our office buildings in Monitoring and reporting Sweden which is showing impressive results. In 2011 we In 2011 we have improved our reporting procedures and reduced the energy consumption in our premises by 11%. our environmental indicators now cover our operations When it comes to internal paper consumption and travel, in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia in both of these areas experienced an increase in 2009 and addition to the four Nordic countries. Our environmental 2010 and thus have further to go to reach the targets. reporting incorporates 96.9% of our operations (Full Time However, the development in 2011 has been very positive Employees). Our international network is excluded from and we have planned major activities for 2012 to catch up the environmental indicators as they are not material in on progress. Nordea has Renewable Energy Certificates this respect. However, the international offices participate (RECS) for all electricity consumption in the Nordic in our green efforts and are encouraged and expected to countries. do their best to reduce their environmental impact. Nordea’s 14 office buildings in Copenhagen, Helsinki, Consumption reporting related to our environmental Oslo and Stockholm have been LEED certified since indicators takes place quarterly. The results from 2011 2009 and a branch in Espoo also received a LEED show positive development in a number of areas. commercial interior certification in 2010. All new buildings are currently reviewed for possible certification in the future. 36 nordea csr report 2011 Reducing our ecological footprint Team Actions 2011 Customer Paper Feature: Cutting environmental impact and costs instead of trees Energy Switched to LED lighting in appropriate areas, ­identified the 100 most energy-consuming branches In 2008, Nordea sent approx. 125 million letters to our and identified potential to reduce their consumption customers in the form of bank statements, invoices, loan Green IT Mapped and suggested improvements to the process documents etc. We realised that reducing the number of for reuse and recycling of old IT equipment and mobile letters we send out has a positive effect on the environment, phones, improved virtual collaboration tools and our costs and customer convenience. A team has since ­conducted training on these, investigated potential ways to implement default duplex print from a technical then worked hard to cut down on the letters we send out. point of view The team has cooperated closely with Strålfors, ­Nordea’s Customer ­paper On-going project to convert physical paper letters into biggest external print partner, to identify the types of electronic media. This involves working closely with letters that are distributed in large volumes. They have ­industrial print partners and the business units that ­produce most of the physical letters. also worked closely with our product-responsible units and supported them in turning snail mail into electronic Internal paper Ran information campaign, initiated activities to ­implement double-sided print in 2012 and worked with format. business units to identify potential for reducing print “The customers’ reactions to switching to electronic Travelling & v­ irtual Ran information campaign and improved travel letters have been overwhelmingly positive,” says Nordic colla­boration ­statistics to facilitate better monitoring and reporting Portfolio Manager in Deposit & Loan Products Mikaela of ­travel consumption Laurell. “Most customers appreciate the convenience of Facility Initiated and executed dialogues with main service receiving their bank documents electronically in their services ­providers and set targets for improved environmental performance. Installed furniture in main offices to netbank rather than in the form of printed letters that end ­enable employees to sort their waste. up in the garbage.” Sourcing Put environmental criteria in place for all relevant In 2009 and 2010 we reduced the mail we send out ­product categories. Developed process for spot by 20 million letters. In 2011 we reduced by a further checks and escalation procedure 7 million letters and will meet the target of a 50% Communication Worked to increase awareness and change habits. reduction in customer print from 2008–2016. Designated teams are focusing on each area within the Ecological Footprint ­Programme. More environmental data can be found on pages 41–44. Reducing our ecological footprint nordea csr report 2011 37 GRI index GRI content index 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board Pages 13, AR 71 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board We have self-declared our reporting to be Application members 15, AR 71 Level B+ (Self-declared). Our auditors have checked our 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 13, 18–19, 22–23 ­reporting and have confirmed it to be Application Level B+ 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 14–15 (Third-party-checked). 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance 15, AR 72 The index below includes degree of reporting and page Commitments to external initiatives reference to the relevant indicators in this report. In some 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary 16–17 principle is applied instances reference is made to the Nordea Annual Report 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 2011 (AR). All core indicators are included in the table, principles, etc 18–20, 22–23 together with the additional indicators Nordea has found 4.13 Memberships in associations 13 relevant, and a selected number of indicators from the Stakeholder engagement GRI Financial Services Sector. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 10–11 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Not applicable with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 10–11 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 10–11 through stakeholder engagement GRI content index Pages 5. Economic indicators Disclosure on Management Approach 1. Strategy & analysis 4–7, 9–11, AR 2–5, 1.1 CEO statement 6–7, AR 8–9 Economic performance 10–13, 203 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 6–7, 9–11, AR 57–69 Market presence 5, AR 39 2. Organisational profile Indirect economic impacts 10, 18–25 2.1 Name of the organisation 5 The economic performance of Nordea is managed by the CEO and the CFO and their ­related organisations and due care is taken to secure that sustainability aspects are 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 4–5, AR 10–13 ­integrated where necessary. This is for example governed in the Nordea CoC and followed 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 4, AR 4, 10–13 up as part of our risk management processes. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 5 Economic performance 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 5 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5, 32–33 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4–5 EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change 9–11, 18–20 2.7 Markets 5 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined AR 107–108 2.8 Scale of the organisation 4–5, AR 3 benefit plan obligations (Note 22) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 5 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 5 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 4, 25, AR 6 Economic performance 3. Report parameters EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers Report profile EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management 3.1 Reporting period 8 hired from the local community 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 8 Indirect economic impact 3.3 Reporting cycle 8 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes hired from the local community 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 3 6. Environmental performance indicators Report scope and boundary Disclosure on Management Approach 3.5 Process for defining report content 8 Goals and performance 14, 34–37, 41–44 3.6 Boundary of the report 5, 8 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Organisational responsibility 14–15 3.7 8 of the report Training and awareness 17, 19, 22 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 8 Data measurement techniques and Monitoring and follow-up 8, 34–37, 41–44 3.9 8 calculation principles Materials Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3.10 8, 40–44 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 41–44 information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 8 EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials 43 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 38–39 Energy 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source 8, 45 external assurance for the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 41 4. Governance, commitments & engagement EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 36 Governance renewable energy based products/services 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 12–15 Water 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 13 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 42 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Biodiversity 12–15 provide recommendations to the board 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of AR 77–80 biodiversity value EN12 Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity 38 nordea csr report 2011 GRI index GRI content index Pages GRI content index Pages Emissions, effluents & waste Society EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 41 Disclosure on Management Approach EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 42 Goals and performance 16–17 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 35–37 Policy 16–17 reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Organisational responsibility 16–17 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions Training and awareness 16–17 EN21 Total water discharge – water consumption is relevant SO1 Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities to our business not discharge SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 43 SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s 17 EN23 Number and volume of significant spills anticorruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 17 Products & services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 16, 18–25 products and services SO8 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Product responsibility Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach EN28 Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws Goals and performance 26–27 Transport Policy 9–11, 13 EN29 Environmental impact of transports 42–43 26–27, AR 16–18, Organisational responsibility 24–25, 32–34 7. Social performance indicators Training and awareness 26–27 Disclosure on Management Approach PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed Goals, performance and policy 13, 28–31, 40 PR3 Type of products and service information required by Organisational responsibility AR 203 procedures, and percentage of products subject to 22–23, 27 such information requirements Training and awareness 28–31 PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, including Monitoring and follow-up 28–31, AR 42–43 27 results of surveys A group level HR unit is responsible for Nordea's HR policies and processes. These PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and CSR Report 2010 are implemented by (and when necessary adapted to the local regulatory framework) voluntary codes for marketing communications 30–31, 26–29 and followed up by local HR units in all countries where Nordea is operating. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 27 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Employment PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 30 concerning the use of products and services contract and region Rate of employee turnover by age group, Financial services sector supplement indicators (selected) LA2 40 gender and region FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social 18–27 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees components applied to business lines LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening 30–31 16–25 bargaining agreements environmental and social risks in business lines LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of 31 changes and compliance with environmental and social 18–27 requirements included in agreements or transactions LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 40 work related fatalities FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and 16–21 LA8 Education, training, prevention and risk28–31 procedures as applied to the business lines control programs in place FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal 28–31 regarding environmental and social risks and 16–21 agreements with trade unions opportunities LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 29 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 4–5, AR 14–38 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career specific region, size and by sector 29 development reviews FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting AR 42, 200–203 22–23 according to diversity indicatores organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 22–23 Human rights environmental or social screening Disclosure on Management Approach FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial CSR Report 2010 products and services 30–31, 26–27, 32–33 Human Right issues can be direct and indirect for Nordea. In the direct case these issues FS16 Initiative to enhance financial literacy by type of are governed by the UN Global Compact and the Nordea CoC, and are the responsibility 32–33 beneficiary of the Human Resource organisation. The compliance function (second line of defence) and IA functions (third line of defence) are also available to secure compliance but the overarching principle is a decentralised responsibility for the operating organisation, see Report Application Levels 11,13. In the indirect case this is mainly a responsibility for the credit organisation and the investment organisation, see 18-25. Mandatory Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured HR1 Investment agreements that include human Selt declared 18–25 rights clauses HR2 Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Third party checked Optional HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 30 actions taken GRI checked HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken 2011 C C+ B B+ A A+ HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and actions taken HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken GRI Index nordea csr report 2011 39 Social data Employee turn-over rate in Nordea Group by region Absenteeism because of sick leave in Nordea Group Employee turn-over as a percentage of total number of employees The average sick leave per employee in 2011 was 9 days, was 5.8%. Employment turn-ovar rate in Nordea Group by region as 2010. because of sick leave in Nordea Group Absenteeism same % Days 27 12 24 10 21 18 8 15 6 12 9 4 6 2 3 0 0 n Denmark 2.8% n Denmark 6.6 days n Finland 3.7% n Finland 10.8 days n Norway 3.4% n Norway 11.9 days n Sweden 3.9% n Sweden 8.9 days n Estonia 21.3% n Estonia 4.3 days n Latvia 24.5% n Latvia 0.5 days n Lithuania 19.8% n Lithuania 2.8 days n Poland 23.7% n Poland 7.4 days n Russia 8.8% n Other countries 0.0% All Managers in Nordea Group In 2011 Nordea employed on average 33,011 full 9 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011time employees 2011and on 31 December 2011 Nordea had 33,068 full time employees. 43.■ 8%Female ■8% 43. Female ■ 43.8%Female 46.■2%Female ■ Female 46.2% ■ Female 46.2% 46.1%■ Female ■ Female 46.1% 46.1% 56.■ 2%Male ■2% 56. Male ■ Male 56. 2% 53.■8%Male ■8% 53. Male ■ 8% 53. Male 53.9%■ Male ■ Male 53.9% 53.9% Work related injuries/illnesses* WORK RELATED ROBBERY ACCIDENTS WHILE WORK RELATED COUNTRY INJURIES CASES COMMUTING FATALiTIES ILLNESSES Denmark 26 288 – 0 – Finland 78 0 165 0 1 Norway 4 1 – 0 0 Sweden 14 17 23 0 1 Estonia 0 0 – 0 0 Latvia 0 0 – 0 0 Lithuania 0 0 – 0 0 Poland 8 1 – 0 0 Russia 0 0 – 0 0 TOTAL 130 307 188 0 2 The table presents the total number of affected persons to a reported injury. * In Finland and Sweden injuries that occur when commuting to/from work are seen as work related injuries. Work related illness is not registered in Denmark. 40 nordea csr report 2011 Social data Environmental data In order to ensure comparability with previous periods all trendlines measuring indicators per employee refer to data on Nordic countries only. The full-time equivalent figures used in this report refer to full-time equivalents at year end including temporary staff and external consultants working in Nordea’s premises. Data from New European Markets (NEM)* excludes the newly established Nordea Operations Centre and Nordea Life & Pension in Poland. Total CO2 emissions, 1,000 tonnes Total CO² emissions 2009 2010 2011 1, 000 tonnes 1,000 kg /FTE n Nordic 55.42 49.09 42.33 80 4 Percentage change –26.1% –11.43% –13.77% 70 n NEM** n/a 11.29 11.87 60 3 Percentage change n/a n/a 5.21% 1,000 kg/FTE 1.99 1.79 1.53 50 Total CO2 emissions have decreased steadily from 2009 to 2011. The 40 2 decrease in 2009 and 2010 was due to renewable energy certificates 30 bought to offset Nordic electricity consumption. The decrease in 2011 is mostly due to reduced heating and cooling. 20 1 10 0 0 2009 2010 2011 n Nordic n NEM 1,000 kg/FTE CO2 emissions from energy consumption, 1,000 tonnes CO² emissions from energy consumption Nordic CO2 emissions 2009 2010 2011 1,000 tonnes 1,000,000 MJ n Electricity 13.86 0.00 0.00 60 1,000 n Heating and cooling 21.26 28.02 21.80 Total CO2 emissions (Nordic) 35.12 28.02 21.80 50 Percentage change –35.3% –20.22% –22.19% 750 Total consumption MJ (Nordic) 851 860 766 40 n NEM CO2 emissions** n/a 9.27 9.38 30 Percentage change n/a n/a 1.24% 500 20 Nordic Consumption Electricity (MWh) 127,466 120,475 119,194 250 10 Heating and cooling (MWh) 108,925 118,542 93,485 Total consumption (Nordics) 236,391 239,017 212,679 0 0 Percentage change 0.7% 1.11% –11.02% 2009 2010 2011 NEM (MWh) n/a 33,588 34,144 n Electricity n Heating and cooling Percentage change n/a n/a 1.66% n NEM Total CO2 emissions (Nordic) Carbon dioxide emissions from energy consumption decreased in 2009 due to the use of green electricity. Nordea has bought renewable energy certificates to offset the electricity consumption in the Nordic premises since 1.7.2009. Total carbon dioxide emissions from energy are extrapolated to cover all Nordea’s premises in Nordic and NEM countries. * New European Markets (NEM) stands for Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia. ** The calculations of NEM flight and energy emissions for 2010 have been updated in 2011. The 2010 year figure in tables and graphs for Total CO2 emissions, CO2 emissions from energy consumption and CO2 emissions from travel regarding NEM are therefore not ­comparably with previous CSR report. Environmental data nordea csr report 2011 41 CO2 emissions from travel, 1,000 tonnes CO² emissions from travel CO2 emissions 2009 2010 2011 1,000 tonnes Nordic 30 n Short-haul air travel 14.39 15.64 15.24 n Long-haul air travel 1.90 1.51 1.71 25 n Car travel 3.89 3.78 3.57 n Rail travel 0.12 0.14 0.01 20 Nordic Total 20.30 21.07 20.53 Percentage change –1.8% 3.77% –2.57% 15 n NEM* n/a 2.02 2.49 10 Percentage change n/a n/a 23.44% 5 Distance travelled Total Nordic air travel (1,000 km) 78,701 97,776 97,131 0 Total Nordic car travel (1,000 km) 19,953 21,219 19,958 2009 2010 2011 Total Nordic rail travel (1,000 km) 5,080 5,684 6,597 n Short-haul air travel n Long-haul air travel n Car travel n Rail travel n NEM Total NEM air travel (1,000 km) n/a 4,922 6,022 Total NEM car travel (1,000 km) n/a 6,106 7,696 Total NEM rail travel (1,000 km) n/a 1,978 1,613 Short-haul flights are within Europe. Long-haul are inter-continental flights. Nordic train travel only includes data from Norway and Sweden. The factor used for train travel has been updated for 2011 based on emissions figures from NSB and SJ. Some extrapolations have been made on data from NEM countries to adjust figures to actual number of staff. * The calculations of NEM flight and energy emissions for 2010 have been updated in 2011. The 2010 year figure in tables and graphs for Total CO2 emissions, CO2 ­emissions from energy consumption and CO2 emissions from travel regarding NEM are therefore not comparably with previous CSR report. Water consumption, 1 000 m³ Water consumption 2009 2010 2011 1,000 m³ 1,000 litres/FTE n Nordic 369.28 387.81 377.35 500 15 Percentage change –4.5% 5.02% –2.70% 450 n NEM n/a 26.63 26.21 400 Percentage change n/a n/a –1.58% 350 14 1,000 litres/FTE 13.27 14.15 13.68 300 Water consumption per FTE only includes the Nordic countries. 250 Actual water consumption data from Russia is not available. 200 ­Consumption has been extrapolated based on average consumption 13 in other NEM countries. 150 100 50 0 12 2009 2010 2011 n Nordic n NEM 1,000 litres/FTE 42 nordea csr report 2011 Environmental data Waste management, 1,000 tonnes Waste management 2009 2010 2011 1, 000 tonnes kg/FTE Nordic 5 250 n Recycled 2.68 0.97 0.96 n Composted n/a 0.91 0.66 4 200 n Incinerated 0.99 0.95 1.25 n Special treatment 0.00 0.00 0.01 3 150 n Landfills 0.65 0.35 0.49 Total Nordic waste 4.33 3.17 3.37 2 100 Percentage change +7.2% –26.6% +6.1% % Recycled of total waste* 62% 59% 48% kg/FTE 155.5 115.8 122.2 1 50 n NEM Total waste n/a 1.02 0.66 0 0 Percentage change n/a n/a –35.8 % 2009 2010 2011 kg/FTE n/a 187.91 127.06 n Recycled n Composted n Incinerated n Special treatment n Landfills n NEM kg/FTE From 2010 recycled waste has been divided into recycled and composted waste. Construction waste was excluded from 2009 data, but included in 2010 and 2011. Some extrapolations have been made on data from NEM countries to adjust figures to actual number of staff. *Recycled total waste only includes Nordic countries. Flight travel, Flights/FTE Flight travel 2009 2010 2011 Flights/F TE Number of one-way flights 126,076 150,790 147,517 7 Percentage change +4.3 +19.6 –2.2 6 n One-way flights/FTE 4.53 5.50 5.35 Total air travel (1,000 km) 77,712 97,777 97,131 5 Air travel km/FTE 3,191 4,215 4,050 4 The flights/FTE indicator only includes travel activity in the Nordic countries. 3 2 1 0 2009 2010 2011 n One-way flights/FTE Internal paper consumption, kg per FTE Internal paper consumption 2009 2010 2011 kg/FTE Tonnes of paper consumed 946 946 826 40 Percentage change +1.4 +0.1 –12.7 35 n Paper (kg) per FTE 34.00 34.53 29.95 30 Internal printing covers printing in Nordea head-offices and branches. The kg of internal paper/FTE indicator only includes Nordic data. 25 20 15 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 n Paper (kg) per FTE Environmental data nordea csr report 2011 43 External paper consumption, grams per customer External paper consumption 2009 2010 2011 g/customer Tonnes of paper consumed 2,697 2,383 2,171 400 Percentage change –5.8 –3.2 –8.9 350 n Paper (grams) per customer 274 238 214 300 External paper is print produced by industrial priting partners and sent to our customers. This indicator only includes consumption in the Nordic 250 countries. 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 n Paper (grams) per customer Energy consumption, kWh per FTE Energy consumption 2009 2010 2011 kWh/FTE Nordic consumtion (MWh) 236,391 239,017 212,679 10,000 Percentage change +0.7% +1.1% –11% 9,000 n Nordic kWh/FTE 8,498 8,721 7,712 8,000 The energy/FTE indicator only includes the Nordic countries. 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 n Nordic kWh/FTE Weather corrected energy consumption, kWh per FTE Weather corrected energy consumption 2009 2010 2011 kWh/FTE Weather corrected consumption 241,704 231,227 219,662 10,000 Percentage change –3.1% –4.3% –5.0% 9,000 n Consumption/FTE 8,689 8,436 7,965 8,000 The weather corrected energy consumption is meant to show the effect 7,000 of our efforts to reduce consumption, by taking away the weather as a 6,000 variable. The weather corrected energy consumption includes the Nordic 5,000 consumption of energy for heating, cooling and electricity. This is the first year we publish weather corrected energy consumption. 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 n Consumption/FTE 44 nordea csr report 2011 Environmental data Auditor’s Review Report on Nordea CSR Report 2011 To the readers of Nordea CSR Report 2011: • Assessment of suitability and application of criteria in Introduction respect to stakeholders’ need of information. We have been engaged by Nordea’s Group Executive • An update of our knowledge and understanding of Management to review the Nordea CSR Report 2011. Nordea’s organisation and activities. The Board of Directors and Group Executive • Interviews with responsible management, at different Management are responsible for ongoing CSR activities, levels within the Group, with the aim to assess if the and for the preparation and presentation of the CSR qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Report in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our CSR Report is complete, correct and sufficient. responsibility is to express a conclusion on the CSR • Reading of internal documents to assess if the Report based on our review. information stated in the CSR Report is complete, correct and sufficient. Scope of review • Evaluation of routines used for the collection and We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 reporting of CSR information and data. Assurance of sustainability reports issued by Far (the • Review of the calculation of CO2-emissions. institute for the accountancy profession in Sweden). • Analytical review of reported information. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons • Review of underlying documentation, on a test basis, to responsible for CSR matters and for preparing the CSR assess whether the information and data in the CSR Report, and applying analytical and other review Report is based on that documentation. procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an • Review of qualitative information and statements in the audit conducted in accordance with International Standards CSR Report. on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in • Assessment of Nordea’s self-declared application level Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not according to GRI’s guidelines. enable us to obtain an assurance that would make us aware • Overall impression of the CSR Report, and its format, of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. considering the information’s mutual conformity with Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. the applicable criteria. Our assurance does not comprise the assumptions • Reconciliation of the reviewed information with the used by Nordea or whether or not it is possible for sustainability information in the Nordea Annual Report Nordea to reach certain future targets described in the 2011. report (e.g. goals, expectations and ambitions). The criteria on which our review are based are the Conclusion parts of the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, G3” Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which that causes us to believe that Nordea CSR Report 2011 are applicable to the CSR Report. We consider these has not, in all material aspects, been prepared in criteria suitable for the preparation of the CSR Report. accordance with the above stated criteria. Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, among other things included the following main procedures: Stockholm, February 9, 2012 KPMG AB Carl Lindgren Åse Bäckström Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of Far Auditor’s Review Report nordea csr report 2011 45
