Issue 2012 Balance Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group www.lufthansa.com/responsibility You will find further information on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group at: www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Order your copy of our Annual Report 2011 at: www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations The new Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental The new Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental is the advanced version of one of the world’s most successful commercial aircraft. In close cooperation with Lufthansa, Boeing has developed an aircraft that is optimized not only in terms of comfort but also in all dimensions of climate and environmental responsibility. The fully redesigned wings, extensive use of weight-reducing materials and innovative engine technology ensure that this aircraft’s eco-efficiency has again been improved significantly in comparison with its predecessor: greater fuel efficiency, lower emissions and significant noise reductions (also see page 27). The “Queen of the Skies,” as many Jumbo enthusiasts call the “Dash Eight,” offers an exceptional travel experience in all classes of service, especially in the exclusive First Class and the entirely new Business Class. In this way, environmental efficiency and the highest levels of travel comfort are brought into harmony. Lufthansa has ordered 20 aircraft of this type. Editorial information Published by Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications, FRA CI Senior Vice President: Klaus Walther Concept, text and editors Media Relations Lufthansa Group, FRA CI/G Director: Christoph Meier Bernhard Jung Claudia Walther in cooperation with various departments and Petra Menke Redaktionsbüro Design and production organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH Copy deadline 18 May 2012 Photo credits Jens Görlich/MO CGI (cover, page 5, 7, 35, 85) SWISS (page 12) Brussels Airlines (page 13) Reto Hoffmann (page 24) AeroLogic (page 29) Fraport AG/Stefan Rebscher (page 43) Werner Hennies (page 44) Ulf Büschleb (page 68 top) Dr. Günter Nowald (page 91, 98, 99) HelpAlliance (page 93, 94, 95 bottom) Cargo Human Care (page 96) Gürzenich-Orchester (page 100) Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive Paper Content: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made from 1 Source: Lufthansa Annual Report 2011 2 Values 2011 do not include bmi (see “About this report” on page 5); 100 % recycled paper. Produced without optical comparative 2010 value adjusted for bmi. brightening agents, without chlorine bleach. 3 For the reporting year 2011 the following companies are included: Lufthansa German Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa Certificate: Environmental label Regional: Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, “The Blue Angel” – RAL-UZ 14. Augsburg Airways), Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Germanwings. Excluding the share of Cover: LuxoSamtoffset third parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance nor the equipment used (see also table “Share of third parties” on page 66). 4 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. Reprints, including excerpts, only with written 5 Values do not include bmi. 6 See also table “Fuel consumption” on page 66. permission from the publisher and by citing 7 The emissions values 2010 (excluding CO2) were corrected as a “Deutsche Lufthansa AG” as the source (text and calculation error occurred in the preceding year. 8 Companies referred to as in 3, but including the services of third images). In this case we ask that you send us a parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. Types of flights copy or clipping. as in 4, but including ferry flights, as these represent costs. 9 Balance: segments (operational perspective); Annual Report: distance (customer perspective); one distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany 10 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; ISSN 1612-0906 Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 1 Balance 2012 a At a glance Business performance data1,2 2011 2010 Change Revenue million € 28,734 26,459 + 8.6 % of which traffic revenue million € 23,779 21,466 + 10.8 % Operating result million € 820 1,020 – 19.6 % Profit/loss from operating activities million € 773 1,386 – 44.2 % Net profit/loss for the period million € – 13 1,131 Total assets million € 28,081 29,320 – 4.2 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 2,356 2,992 – 21.3 % Capital expenditure million € 2,566 2,273 + 12.9 % Equity ratio percent 28.6 28.4 0.2 PP Personnel data 2 2011 2010 Change Number of employees (on 31.12., respectively) 116,365 113,406 + 2.6 % of these, in Germany 67,263 65,159 + 3.1 % of these, outside Germany 49,102 48,247 + 1.7 % Staff costs1 million € 6,678 6,491 + 2.9 % Revenue/employee1 thousand € 249 233 + 6.7 % Staff costs/revenue1 percent 23.2 24.5 – 1.3 PP Average age years 40.8 40.7 + 0.1 Y Part-time ratio, absolute percent 27.1 26.9 + 0.2 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 13.3 13.6 – 0.3 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 44.2 43.9 + 0.3 PP Share of women in management percent 13.6 13.1 + 0.5 PP Environmental data 3,4 20115 2010 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption6 tonnes 9,023,671 8,459,255 + 6.7 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l/100 pkm 4.18 4.20 – 0.4 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g/tkm 231 231 + 0.2 % Emissions7 Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 28,424,568 26,646,655 + 6.7 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg/100 pkm 10.53 10.58 – 0.4 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 133,903 124,144 + 7.9 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 49.4 48.8 + 1.3 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 20,152 19,066 + 5.7 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 8.2 8.4 – 2.0 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,252.8 2,100.4 + 7.3 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 0.9 0.9 + 0.2 % Transport performance data Balance3,4,5 Change Annual Report2,8 Change Number of flights 9 1,012,675 + 3.1 % 1,050,728 + 4.1 % At a glance i Passengers carried10 98,122,199 + 10.9 % 100,602,543 + 8.5 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 2,120,191 + 4.8 % 2,120,191 + 4.8 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 253,306 + 10.8 % 258,263 + 10.2 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,954 + 5.4 % 16,260 + 6.3 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 40,052 + 8.6 % 40,798 + 8.3 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT10 million pkm 202,656 + 8.3 % 200,376 + 7.5 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,710 + 3.2 % 10,861 + 4.1 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 30,071 + 6.5 % 29,906 + 5.8 % 2 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a continue to optimize systematically. Last year, we successfully concluded the six-month trial of biofuel in scheduled operations. As this type of fuel has proven its fitness for daily operations, we are now concentrating on suitability, availability, sustainability and certification of the raw materials needed for its production. Additionally, we are supporting climate research with our fourth project already and thus making an important contribution to researching the Earth’s atmosphere and optimizing climate models. In the future, we will do everything we can to ensure that the Lufthansa Group remains on course with regard to ecological, economic and social criteria. We will only be able to do so, however, if we are able to achieve the necessary profits. It is also against this background that we have adopted SCORE, our new corporate program to ensure the long-term success of the Lufthansa Dear Readers, Group. It incorporates all business segments and airlines as well as all administrative areas. They The past year again demanded a great deal of us. will each do their part, so that the operating result All of the business segments within the Lufthansa of our company will improve sustainably by at Group worked hard and held their own in global least 1.5 billion euros by the end of 2014, comcompetition. However, extraordinary events such pared with 2011. We need to take action now to as those in Japan or the Arab region, the Eurobe able to invest in innovative products for our pean debt crisis, record-high fuel prices, the Gercustomers, in our employees and in environmenman aviation tax and the night-flight ban in Franktal care in the future as well. furt burdened our business performance in 2011. Although we fared better than many of our comThank you for your interest in our company. petitors, the current results make it a very chalI wish you an interesting read and perhaps some lenging task long-term to bear the necessary new insights from this issue of our Sustainability substantial investments in aircraft and products in Report. the air and on the ground. By 2018 we will have taken delivery of an additional 168 highly efficient and quiet aircraft for our fleet, at a list price of 17 billion euros. The highlight in 2012 is the new Boeing 747-8, which is 15 percent more fuel efficient and 30 percent quieter than its predecessor model. Christoph Franz Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO As one of the largest companies in world aviation, Deutsche Lufthansa AG we have defined environmental care as a top-priority corporate goal and continued our ambitious fuel efficiency programs despite the current difficult business climate. As a result, the specific fuel consumption of the Lufthansa Group fleet could be reduced again in 2011 – to 4.18 liters per passenger and 100 kilometers. To reach the climate protection goals we have set ourselves, we will a Balance 2012 3 Contents 1 Editorial information 2 At a glance 5 About this report The Lufthansa Group 8 Facts and figures 10 Business segment Passenger Airline Group 14 Business segment Logistics / Business segment MRO 15 Business segment IT Services / Business segment Catering 16 Corporate responsibility 22 Stakeholder dialogue 26 The Lufthansa Group fleet 34 Prizes and awards Economic Sustainability 36 Group strategy 40 Management and corporate structures 40 Corporate governance and compliance 42 Corporate sourcing 43 Infrastructure Social Responsibility 46 Diversity 54 Employment policy based on partnership 57 Corporate training and continuing education 59 Employee health and safety protection 62 Facts and outlook Climate and Environmental Responsibility 64 Kerosene and emissions 67 Long-term trial of biofuel 70 Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group 75 Air traffic management 76 Emissions trading system 79 Environmental management 82 Energy and resource management 85 Noise emissions 89 Research projects Corporate Citizenship 92 Social commitment 98 Environmental sponsorship 100 Cultural commitment and education 103 Sports sponsorship 105 Glossary 4 Balance 2012 a About this report The present Sustainability Report Balance informs stakeholders and the interested public about the goals, activities and advances of the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial year 2011. The understanding of corporate responsibility at Emissions in absolute terms the Lufthansa Group is based on the following The calculation of emissions from flight operafive pillars: tions is based on the actual transport performance (i.e. actual load factors) and the actual • Economic sustainability absolute quantity of kerosene consumed during • Social responsibility the year in review. In this context, each aircraft• Climate and environmental responsibility engine combination that exists in the fleet is con• Corporate governance and compliance sidered separately, and the corresponding values • Corporate citizenship are calculated by means of computer programs provided by the respective aircraft and engine The section “Corporate governance and commanufacturers. The annual average flight profile pliance” is part of the chapter “Economic of each subset in the fleet is then fed into these sustainability.” programs. This allows us to determine emissions in relation to flight altitude, distance flown, thrust Scope of consolidation and load. This approach is necessary for nitroReporting with regard to transport performance, gen oxides (NOX ), carbon monoxide (CO) and fuel consumption and emissions from flight operunburned hydrocarbons (UHCs) in particular. ations in the financial year 2011 is based on the Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require following scope of consolidation1: special calculation methods, as they are generated in a fixed relationship to the quantity of kero• Companies: Lufthansa German Airlines (includsene burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of keroing Lufthansa Italia (until October 2011) and sene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Lufthansa Regional with Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Specific consumption and emission values Airways), Germanwings (since January 2011), Calculating specific consumption and emissions Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss International Air Lines entails expressing absolute values in relationship (SWISS) including Edelweiss Air (since January to transport performance. For example, the ratio 2011) and Austrian Airlines. Excepted are third“liters per 100 passenger kilometers” (l/100 pkm) party services, as Lufthansa has no influence is calculated on the basis of actual load factors, either on their performance or on the aircraft distances actually flown and the kerosene actuthey operate. ally consumed. The distances used in the calcu• Types of service: all scheduled and charter lations are great-circle distances. flights. Methodology of calculations Kerosene in absolute terms The calculation of kerosene consumption is based on actual flight operations (i.e. using actual load factors and flight routings), according to the so-called “gate-to-gate” principle. This includes all phases of a flight – from taxiing on the ground to flying detours and in holding patterns in the air. 1 Unless a different scope of consolidation is expressly named. a Balance 2012 5 Evaluation and validation of data and Additional information on the Internet information In addition to this report, Lufthansa also informs readers via the Internet about the activities in the Environmental management system area of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group. The data used in this report were collected by www.lufthansa.com/responsibility means of Lufthansa’s environmental management system. This system also determines the Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking methods for data verification and its transmission statements to the division Group Environmental Issues. The The data included in this report has been colbasis for data collection is Lufthansa’s own Envilected and processed with the utmost care. ronmental Database. Nevertheless, errors in transmission cannot be ruled out entirely. Information published in this Accuracy report with regard to the future development of The figures shown in tables and illustrations are the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries conrounded. However, values indicating changes sists purely of forecasts and assessments and from the previous year always refer to precise fignot of definitive historical facts. Its purpose is ures. For this reason, it is possible that a specific exclusively informational, identified by the use value may remain the same from one year to the of such cautionary terms as “believe,” “expect,” next, while a relative change is indicated. “forecast,” “intend,” “project,” “plan,” “estimate,” “count on,” or “endeavor.” These forward-looking Comparability statements are based on all discernible informaDue to changes in the portfolio over the past tion, facts and expectations available at the time. years, the figures pertaining to personnel and They can, therefore, only claim validity up to the environment in this report are only to a limited date of their publication. extent comparable with those reported for the previous years. For example, Lufthansa sold Since forward-looking statements are by their British Midland (bmi), which was fully consolinature subject to uncertainties and imponderadated in 2010, under a contract signed on 22 ble risk factors – such as changes in underlying December 2011 (see page 13), for which reason economic conditions – and rest on assumptions the Annual Report 2011 shows that company as that may not or divergently occur, it is possible a discontinued operation. For the same reason, that the Group’s actual results and development the 2011 environmental and personnel indicamay differ materially from those implied by the tors no longer include bmi. By contrast, Germanforecasts. Lufthansa makes a point of checking wings and Edelweiss Air, which is part of SWISS, and updating the information it publishes. It canwere included in the calculation of the 2011 indinot, however, assume any obligation to adapt forcators for the first time. Furthermore, the perforward-looking statements to accommodate events mance and consumption data of Lufthansa Itaor developments that may occur at some later lia are included in those of Lufthansa German date. Accordingly, it neither expressly nor concluAirlines. The reason for this is that the Lufthansa sively accepts liability, nor does it give any guarItalia brand, which was introduced in 2008, was antee for the actuality, accuracy and completeonly continued until the end of the summer timeness of this data and information. table (29 October 2011). There are also certain differences in approach compared to the Annual Report 2011 when calculating passenger numbers and the related indicators (see explanations relating to the table “At a glance” on page 2). Publication dates of this report Balance, the Sustainability Report of the Lufthansa Group, is published once a year in a German and an English edition. The German edition of the previous year’s report was published on 19 May 2011; the English edition followed shortly thereafter. 6 Balance 2012 a The Lufthansa Group Facts and figures Business segments Corporate responsibility The Lufthansa Group fleet Stakeholder dialogue Prizes and awards a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 7 The Lufthansa Group – Facts and figures At aeinen Auf glance Blick Corporate Cologne Unternehmenssitz headquarters Köln Employees 116,365 Mitarbeiter 116.365 Nationalities 141 Europe Nationalitäten 141 9,819 weekly frequencies to Group fleet 636 North Atlantic 171 destinations in 43 countries Konzernflotte 636 3,442Nordatlantik weekly frequencies to 126 destinations in two countries Euro Passengers > 100.6 million 3.442 wöchentliche Frequenzen 9.819 w Fluggäste 100,6 Millionen zu 126 Zielen in 2 Ländern 171 Ziel Freight/mail > 2.1 million t Fracht/Post > 2,1 Millionen t Frequencies and number of destinations Lufthansa and Group airlines Lufthansa including codeshares Frequenzen und Anzahl Zielorte Lufthansa und Verbund-Airlines Africa Lufthansa inkl. Codeshare 253 weekly frequencies to 51 destinations in 37 countries Af 25 zu Südamerika 359 wöchentliche Frequenzen Southzu 32Atlantic Zielen in 10 Ländern 359 weekly frequencies to 32 destinations in 10 countries Ein An „ganz normal” “entirely normaler” dayTag im Lufthansa at the Lufthansa Group Konzern WeWir betreuen look täglich after more than mehr starten Wir off We take und 2,879 landen and land als 1. 1,000 000 Flugzeuge. aircraft. times.2.879 Mal täglich. Südamerika We take about 32,000 Wir We carry Wir about 275,000 222beantworten wöchentliche inquiries täglich rund Frequenzen within the Service befördern täglich mehr als passengers and more than 32.000 Anfragen zu 21network. Zielen im Service in zehn Ländern 275.000 Fluggäste und mehr Center 5,800 tonnes of freight. Center Verbund. als 5.800 Tonnen Fracht. We provide more than Wir versorgen 1.3 million meals forunsere our Kunden mit mehr als 1,3 Millionen customers. Flugmahlzeiten täglich. 8 Deutsche Lufthansa AG is an aviation group with worldwide operations that is structured into 400 subsidiaries and associated companies. It comprises five business segments in the areas of passenger transport, air freight and services for airlines: Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO (maintenance, repair, overhaul), IT Services and Catering. www.lufthansa.com/group ArbeitsplätzeJobs around the world in aller Welt Europe 90,667 Europa 90.667 North and Central America 12,956 Nordund Mittelamerika 12.956 South America 3,093 Südamerika 3.093 Asia/Pacific 7,564 Asien/Pazifik 7.564 Africa/Middle East 2,085 Afrika/Nahost 2.085 pa öchentliche Frequenzen zu en in 43 Ländern Asia/Pacific Middle East 786 weekly frequencies to 165 weekly frequencies to 58 destinations in 19 countries 16 destinations in 11 countries Asien/Pazifik 786 wöchentliche Frequenzen Nahost zu 56 Zielen in 19 Ländern 165 wöchentliche Frequenzen zu 16 Zielen in 11 Ländern rika 3 wöchentliche Frequenzen 51 Zielen in 37 Ländern The Lufthansa Group and its five business segments Der Lufthansa Konzern und seine fünf Geschäftsfelder * * * * * * Passenger Airline Group The Group’s airlines are among the leading carriers worldwide. Passage Airline Gruppe * * Die Fluggesellschaften des Konzerns gehören zu den führenden Airlines der Welt. * Logistics Lufthansa Cargo – ranks among the market leaders in international air freight transport. Shareholder structure by nationalities Aktionärsstruktur nach Nationalitäten Logistik Lufthansa Cargo – MRO Lufthansa zählt zu den Technik – Marktführern im internationalen is the world’s leading provider of technical aircraft Luftfrachtverkehr Others services. Canada 9.0 % Übrige 2.0 % Kanada 9,0 % Technik Lufthansa Technik – United2,0 Kingdom IT Services Lufthansaführender ist weltweit Systems –Anbieter flugzeugtechnischer % has a worldwide leadership role in the aviation 3.6 % Großbritannien Dienstleistungen industry. Luxembourg 3,6 % 7.6 % Luxemburg Germany IT Services Catering Lufthansa Chefs – – LSG SkySystems 7,6 % USA weltweit führende the largest Position provider in derofAviation-Industrie worldwide services in airline 68.6 % 9.2 % Deutschland catering and in-flight management. USA 68,6 % 9,2 % * equity investments see pages 13 and 14 Sky Chefs – Catering LSG weltweit größter Anbieter von Dienstleistungen im Bereich Airline-Catering und Inflight-Management * Beteiligungen siehe Seite 13 und 14 Stand As 31.12.2011 per 31.12.2011 9 Business segment Passenger Airline Group In the current airline and service system, the their responsibility for the conservation of natural Passenger Airline Group represents the straresources by applying the principles of sustaintegic business segment and the central point able development. The advancing harmonization of the Group’s portfolio. It comprises Lufthansa of products and processes allows passengers German Airlines (including Germanwings and seamless travel across the Group’s network and the regional airlines), SWISS, Austrian Airlines, thus provides significant added value. as well as the equity shares in Brussels Airlines, SunExpress and jetBlue Airways. The compaA total of more than 100.6 million passengers nies of the Passenger Airline Group have a top chose to fly with the Group’s airlines in 2011. In position in their respective segments and positerms of the number of passengers carried, this is tion themselves as quality carriers. a new company record. In the summer timetable 2012, the airlines Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian All companies in the Passenger Airline Group Airlines and Brussels Airlines offer together flights pursue the goal of profitable growth. This creates to 283 destinations in 105 countries on four the conditions needed for investments in modern continents from their hubs in Frankfurt, Munich, fleets, financial stability in a volatile industry and Düsseldorf, Zurich, Vienna and Brussels, and secure jobs with attractive perspectives for develmutually complement their own flight offers with opment. At the same time, the companies meet numerous codeshare flights. The airlines of the Passenger Airline Group and their hubs Lufthansa German Airlines Hubs: Frankfurt, Munich, Düsseldorf Germanwings 5 locations in Germany SWISS Hub: Zurich Austrian Airlines Hub: Vienna Equity investments 15.85 % 45 % 50 % jetBlue Brussels Airlines SunExpress Hub: Hub: Hubs: New York JFK Brussels Antalya, Istanbul, Izmir 10 Lufthansa German Airlines In 2011, a total of 65.5 million passengers traveled with Lufthansa German Airlines. Thanks to a modern and high-quality product, a unique lounge concept and innovative services concerning all aspects of flying – such as the frequent flyer program Miles & More, the Lufthansa Star Chef Program and mobile services – Lufthansa German Airlines and its full range of products enjoy the highest recognition and renown worldwide. The key hubs of Lufthansa German Airlines are in Frankfurt and Munich. These are compleIn 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines significantly increases its connections to and from Berlin. mented by a local hub in Düsseldorf and Europewide direct connections. In March 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines presented a new brand campaign. The fresh image – in conjunction with the new claim “Nonstop you” – is designed to strengthen Lufthansa’s leading role in the business travel segment while addressing leisure travelers more directly than before. Marketing communications will give perceptible emphasis to the latter area in particular to present the numerous product innovations and improved offers in new and effective ways. In 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines will also begin a new chapter in serving the German capital BerGermanwings lin. The local fleet will grow from nine to 15 aircraft Germanwings is a fully-owned subsidiary of and the route network will be expanded from curDeutsche Lufthansa AG and one of the most sucrently eight to 39 destinations. cessful airlines in the low-cost segment. Founded www.lufthansa.com in 2002, the company has its headquarters in Cologne and its home base at Cologne/Bonn Airport. Germanwings flies with modern Airbus A319s from its five locations in Cologne/Bonn, Stuttgart, Berlin, Hanover and Dortmund to more than 90 destinations on the European continent, in Israel and in North Africa. Germanwings and Lufthansa Regional comprises: Group parent Lufthansa are set to work together even more closely in distribution as well: Since 20 January 2011, so-called interlining has been possible between the two airlines. In this manner, for example, an outbound flight on Lufthansa can be combined with a return flight on Germanwings in a reservation made by a travel agency or a Lufthansa sales office. www.germanwings.com a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 11 weiss Air, which is consolidated within the SWISS Group, complements the portfolio of offers. As differentiation by means of an airline’s brand is gaining importance in the mass market of flight services, SWISS has been applying a strengthening of its brand portfolio since October 2011. The aircraft tail with the Swiss cross as the new logo, the claim “Our sign is a promise” and a new advertising campaign embody the alignment with Swiss quality and customer orientation. www.swiss.com SWISS uses a new advertising image to raise its brand profile and to strengthen its positioning as Switzerland’s national airline. SWISS Austrian Airlines Swiss International Air Lines is part of SwitzerAustrian Airlines is a dynamic, quality-oriented land’s tradition in civil aviation and the coungroup that comprises the brands Austrian Airlines, try’s national airline. SWISS is a wholly-owned Lauda Air and Austrian arrows. It has been part of Lufthansa Group company. The stock corporathe Lufthansa Group since 3 September 2009. In tion’s headquarters is in Basel. SWISS connects Austria, its home market, Austrian Airlines repreSwitzerland with the world from its hub in Zurich sents a significant part of the national air transport and airports in Basel, Geneva and Lugano. The market. This network carrier, which takes the role airline has been a member of the Star Alliance of market leader as the airline with the highest revsince April 2006. Customers flying with SWISS enue, has made the growth area of central and enjoy personal care and the highest levels of eastern Europe one of its areas of specialization. product and service quality. Its manageable size With 44 destinations served, Austrian Airlines is allows SWISS to be close to its passengers and the market leader there as well. The second area to give them individual care. With its modern of emphasis is the Middle East. Austrian Airlines products, SWISS positions itself in Economy as offers one of the densest networks in both regions. well as in Business and First Class as a qualThe central hub for all connections between east ity airline and premium brand. The entire longand west is Vienna, the airline’s home airport. haul fleet has been equipped with an advanced With more than 100 destinations, Austrian Airlines type of Business Class since summer 2011. In the operates the largest route network in Europe leisure travel segment, the leisure airline Edeloffered from a single hub. The passengers of this renowned airline benefit from excellent service and the proverbial Austrian hospitality. www.austrian.com Star Alliance Lufthansa is a founding member of the Star Alliance – the world’s leading airline network. Founded in 1997, the alliance currently consists of 25 airlines. Together, they offer more than 20,500 daily flights to 1,293 destinations in 190 countries. www.star-alliance.com 12 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Brussels Airlines (equity share of 45 percent) Brussels Airlines is Belgium’s largest airline. Since June 2009, Lufthansa has held an equity share of 45 percent in the company’s parent, the holding company SN Airholding with headquarters in Brussels. Since 2011, Lufthansa has also held a purchase option for the remaining 55 percent of equity. Brussels Airlines joined the Star Alliance in December 2009. The company evolved from SN Brussels Airlines, which was founded in 2002 to succeed the Belgian national airline Sabena. From its hub in Brussels, the airline serves the most Brussels Airlines: With flights to 49 destinations in Europe and 21 cities in Africa, important European capitals and regions. Another the airline offers an outstanding network for journeys from, to and via Brussels. area of emphasis in the route network of Brussels Airlines is flights to Africa. www.brusselsairlines.com jetBlue Airways (equity share of 15.85 percent) jetBlue Airways is a U.S. passenger airline with headquarters in New York. It was founded in 1998 and started operations in 2000. Lufthansa SunExpress (equity share of 50 percent) holds a 15.85 percent equity share in jetBlue and A joint venture of Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines, is thus the first European airline to have made a SunExpress has developed with pronounced significant investment in a U.S. airline. jetBlue’s dynamism since its foundation in 1989. The airhome base is at New York’s John F. Kennedy line has its headquarters in Antalya on Turkey’s Airport (JFK). From there, as well as from Bossouthern coast and currently offers more than ton, Fort Lauderdale, Los Angeles/Long Beach 1,000 flights per week and is thus one of the marand Orlando, jetBlue operates the majority of its ket leaders in air traffic between Germany and services to destinations in the United States, the Turkey. It operates a fleet of 28 Boeing 737-800s Caribbean and Latin America. and employs more than 1,800 people. Besides www.jetblue.com connections to its three hubs Antalya, Izmir and Istanbul, SunExpress operates numerous nonstop flights from Germany to about a dozen Turkish cities and additionally offers numerous direct connections within Turkey. In 2011, the airline founded SunExpress Deutschland GmbH with headquarters in the Rhine-Main area. This subsidiary operates flights to destinations on the Red Sea and the Nile, in a move aimed to establish SunExpress as a specialist for Egypt in addition to Turkey. In 2011, the company set a new bmi record by carrying 7.7 million passengers. In Deutsche Lufthansa AG has completed the sale of British Midland Ltd. (bmi) 2012, it announced a new commitment in the to International Airlines Group (IAG). The completion of the sale took place wet lease business. This new business segment after close of business on 19 April 2012. On 4 November 2011, Lufthansa is designed primarily to counterbalance the low and IAG agreed in principle to the sale of bmi to IAG, prior to a legally bind­ season on European routes with the use of airing purchase agreement being signed by both parties on 22 December craft in the southern hemisphere. 2011. The validity of this contract was subject to regulatory approval by the www.sunexpress.com European Commission, which was received on 30 March 2012. This transaction gives bmi a perspective for the future while strengthening the Lufthansa Group’s future profitability. www.flybmi.com a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 13 Business segment Logistics / Lufthansa Cargo AG Lufthansa Cargo AG is the provider of logistics serwork with more than 300 destinations in about 100 vices within the Lufthansa Group. It ranks among countries, which is complemented by cooperathe market leaders in the international air freight tions with other cargo airlines and air-freight-related partner companies, including SWISS WorldCargo and Air China Cargo. Customers benefit from the highest quality standards, short transport times and tailor-made logistics solutions. Lufthansa Cargo’s product portfolio includes standard and express freight, along with special freight as a significant cornerstone. The latter includes the transport of live animals, valuable cargo, mail, hazardous goods and temperature-sensitive goods. The main transfer point is Frankfurt Airport; other important hubs are Munich and Vienna. There are also close ties business and offers a worldwide network, the to the Group companies SWISS and Brussels Airshortest transport times and high quality standards lines. With its strategy “Lufthansa Cargo 2020” the in many product areas, some of which are highly freight airline has defined the cornerstones for profspecialized. The emphasis of Lufthansa Cargo lies itable growth over the years ahead. The goals are in the airport-to-airport freight business. The logisto continue to take part in the growing market of tics specialist operates its own fleet of 18 Boeing air cargo, to simplify and optimize processes, and MD-11F freighter aircraft and holds international to realize unit cost reductions. To implement the equity shares, such as those in the cargo airlines planned growth, Lufthansa Cargo ordered five new AeroLogic (equity share of 50 percent) and Jade Boeing 777 freighters in 2011, for delivery between Cargo International (equity share of 25 percent). 2013 and 2015. Lufthansa Cargo has its headquarLufthansa Cargo offers a comprehensive route netters in Frankfurt. www.lufthansa-cargo.com Business segment MRO / Lufthansa Technik AG Lufthansa Technik AG is the world’s leading proaircraft overhauls, engines, components, landvider of technical aircraft services. The emphaing gear and VIP aircraft services. Its MRO netsis is on the manufacturer-independent maintework unites 32 technical maintenance operations worldwide. The company has direct and indirect participations in 56 corporations. Hamburg is the most important location for Lufthansa Technik’s maintenance operations, bundling aircraft overhaul services, cabin completion for VIP aircraft, engine and component maintenance, the logistics center, and the design and production facility. The largest maintenance stations are in Frankfurt and Munich; additional stations are located at all larger German airports and about 50 other locations worldwide. The MRO service provider is nance and overhaul of civil aircraft and the repair currently expanding its market presence in Gerof engines, electrical equipment and compomany by building an aircraft maintenance hangar nents (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul, MRO). at the new Berlin Brandenburg International AirWorldwide, Lufthansa Technik attends to about port. In Asia, Lufthansa Technik has maintenance 770 customers, which include mostly airlines and operations in four countries; among these are operators of VIP jets but also aircraft leasing comLufthansa Technik Philippines, Lufthansa Technik panies. Within the Lufthansa Group, Lufthansa Shenzhen, Lufthansa Technik Services India and Technik is responsible for the safety, reliability Ameco Beijing. The headquarters of Lufthansa and value retention of the fleet. Lufthansa TechTechnik AG is in Hamburg. nik comprises six product divisions: maintenance, www.lufthansa-technik.com 14 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Business segment IT Services / Lufthansa Systems AG Lufthansa Systems offers consulting and IT sernies in such industries as transport and logisvices for selected industries and has a worldtics, manufacturing, media and publishing, wide leadership role in the aviation industry. With energy and health care – rely on the experits comprehensive portfolio, Lufthansa Systems covers the entire spectrum of IT services, ranging from consulting to the development and implementation of tailor-made industry solutions and the operation of these innovative systems in its own data centers. In their work, the experts of Lufthansa Systems combine many years of project experience with comprehensive technological know-how, profound industry knowledge and proven expertise in analyzing complex business processes. Given the high level of complexity of IT projects, project management has a key tise of Lufthansa Systems. The company has role in keeping implementations on schedule its headquarters in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt. and within budget. As a certified SAP partner, In addition, Lufthansa Systems also maintains Lufthansa Systems also covers the entire serbranch offices in Germany as well as at locations vice range for SAP systems, from design and in 16 countries. adaptation to implementation, consolidation and www.LHsystems.com maintenance. The products and services provided by Lufthansa Systems allow companies to increase their efficiency, reduce their costs and raise their revenues over the long term. Worldwide, more than 200 airlines – as well as compaBusiness segment Catering / LSG Sky Chefs LSG Sky Chefs is the world’s largest provider of ucts and services at the highest level of quality airline catering and the management of all proand reliability. Additionally, the Group has begun cesses related to in-flight service. The Group to open up associated markets such as railway comprises 148 companies at 200 locations in 52 countries. In 2011, this wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary produced 490 million in-flight meals for more than 300 airlines worldwide – including nearly all international as well as numerous national and regional carriers, network carriers, charter companies and low-cost airlines. The Group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, has its headquarters in Neu-Isenburg near Frankfurt. In the area of airline catering, LSG Sky Chefs offers a complete range from premium meals produced to order all the way to and school catering as well as catering in the cost-efficient snacks. Based on its far-reaching health care and retail sectors. experience, the Group has developed tried-andwww.lsgskychefs.com tested methods which ensure that customers always receive first-rate quality. Further performance parameters are culinary excellence and innovation, authentic regional cuisines from the airline’s international network, and an innovative and appealing menu design. Beyond that, the company offers a broad range of in-flight proda Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 15 Corporate responsibility Sustainability and responsibility Corporate responsibility, that is to say sustainable and responsible entrepreneurial practice, has been firmly anchored in the Group’s corporate culture and in its corporate strategy for many years. It is an important element in securing the Group’s viability in the future. The Lufthansa Group not only pays attention to applying sustainable business practices and growing by creating added value, but also places great emphasis on continuously improving climate and environmental care, treating employees responsibly and fairly, and carrying out its commitment to the good of society. Five dimensions of corporate responsibility and controlling the processes related to susTo grasp corporate responsibility in all its dimentainability at the Lufthansa Group. Apart from sions and to make it tangible, Lufthansa develthe Senior Vice President Group Strategy, the oped a model that comprises the following topic CRC’s members include the heads of the Group areas: economic sustainability, social responsidepartments in charge of political issues, envibility, climate and environmental responsibility, ronmental issues, human resources, legal corporate governance and compliance, and corissues, communications, investor relations and porate citizenship (see illustration at right). In this controlling. In addition, the CRC consults with context, sustainable business practices represent the Group department Corporate Sourcing to a fundamental prerequisite for responsible action. ensure that the topic of sustainability is suffiThis does not mean, however, that the other four ciently taken into account throughout the supdimensions of entrepreneurial responsibility can ply chains as well. The activities and projects be regarded as secondary, a point emphasized decided by the CRC are subsequently impleby Sadiq Gillani, Senior Vice President Group mented by the specialized departments. Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG (see interview on page 19). These areas of activity also have Communication with internal and external audisignificant influence on economic sustainability ences has an important function in this conand thus on the Lufthansa Group’s future viability. text. Since 1994, Balance has informed all of the Group’s stakeholder groups in an open and Corporate Responsibility Council constructive manner about issues concerning sets the framework corporate responsibility. Launched 18 years ago In his role as Senior Vice President Group as a pure environmental report, Balance has Strategy, Sadiq Gillani also manages the interlong since covered all important aspects of susdisciplinary and interdepartmental Corporate tainability with regard to the Group’s companies Responsibility Council (CRC). Situated at the and airlines. upper management level, this committee provides the fundamental framework for steering Highlights 2012 For an overview of the successful activities in the area of corporate responsibility within the Lufthansa Group during the reporting year, “Attractive products and offers are, of please see pages 20 and 21. The scope encomcourse, the fundamental condition for passes such topics as the starting signal for the success in the market. But responsible new climate research project IAGOS, the longbusiness practices within the overall term testing of biofuel, the commitment to noise societal context and a dialogue about reduction and aid flights by Lufthansa Cargo. this with different stakeholder groups are just as indispensable. The Corporate Responsibility Council gives the Group a clear orientation in this area.” Astrid Messmer Rodriguez Director Segment Strategy and coordinator of the Corporate Responsibility Council, Deutsche Lufthansa AG 16 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a The five dimensions of corporate responsibility at the Lufthansa Group Climate and environmental responsibility Social responsibility The Lufthansa Group is fully aware of its responsiThe Lufthansa Group respects human rights and bility for the climate and the environment. We reduce applies strict moral standards to its own actions. Our specific CO2 emissions, implement environmental mancorporate culture is characterized by the fair treatment agement systems and expand these measures further. of and diversity among staff. The health and safety of Moreover, we continuously increase resource and energy our employees enjoy the highest priority. Broad offers for efficiency and actively participate in noise and climate continuing education and the possibility to combine proresearch projects. Our environmental and climate protecfessional and private lives are integral elements of our tion goals are guided by the four-pillar strategy for air social responsibility. transport. Economic sustainability The Lufthansa Group aims at the longterm increase of the company’s value by means of sustainable business practices. The focus of our attention is on our customers and their mobility needs. In our endeavors to improve and evolve continuously, we count on long-term value creation, a circumspect management of opportunities and risks, a consistent management of our supply chains and a constructive dialogue with our stakeholder groups. Corporate governance and compliance Corporate citizenship The Lufthansa Group regards effective, responsible corThe Lufthansa Group assumes its corporate citizenship porate governance and control, and careful adherence to in many ways and supports numerous projects in areas laws and regulations as self-evident – and it expects the of social concerns, culture, education, environmensame of its suppliers. Openness and clarity in commutal sponsorship and sports. In addition, the Group’s nications create the conditions for maintaining and employees are committed to social concerns expanding the trust of investors, employees and through volunteer work during their free time – the public at large. among other things for the HelpAlliance or Cargo Human Care. a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 17 Award for responsible corporate management Independently of these corporate activities, a number of external experts and agencies evaluated the practices of the Lufthansa Group again in 2011 under the aspect of responsible conduct. As a result, the aviation company once more achieved representation in several sustainability indexes, such as FTSE4Good, ASPI (Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices) and ESI (Ethibel Sustainability Index). In the corporate rating by the agency “oekom” in 2011, Lufthansa achieved “Prime Status,” which is awarded to companies with particularly sustainable and responsible practices. The Group also managed to achieve a significantly better rating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) compared with its result the year before. In contrast, Lufthansa was not able to reestablish membership in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) under the ever-stricter conditions. The analysts identified further optimization potentials in the area of operational eco-efficiency, which Principles of the UN Global Compact focuses primarily on emissions and the consumpThe UN Global Compact is a worldwide initiative that was set up by the former tion of fuel, energy and water. However, the results UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000. The compact between companies in the areas of economic efficiency, risk manageand the United Nations has the goal of making globalization socially and enviment and crisis management were significantly ronmentally compatible, and it obliges the participating companies to adhere to improved. Lufthansa’s management treats the social and ecological minimum standards, to respect human rights and to fight results of such surveys and ratings conscientiously against corruption. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. and deducts from them the need for appropriate action within the company. Beyond this, Lufthansa Human rights is committed to the Principles of the UN Global • Businesses should support and respect the protection of international Compact and supports its activities. human rights within their sphere of influence and • make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human rights abuses. Labor • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • effectively abolish child labor; and • eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption • Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. www.unglobalcompact.org 18 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Interview with Sadiq Gillani Senior Vice President Group Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG Mr. Gillani, what is the importance of corporate In which areas does the company need to catch up? responsibility at the Lufthansa Group? We need to react even more quickly and flexibly to the For us, corporate responsibility is an important criterion challenges of a constantly changing competitive environfor securing the Lufthansa Group’s future viability in an ment and to do everything we can to secure the Lufthansa extremely competitive market environment. We are comGroup’s economic sustainability in the future as well. The mitted to sustainable development and assume our ecocorporate program SCORE supports us in this quest by logical, civic and social responsibilities. We also document increasing our competitiveness. Because only with finanthis claim in our Mission Statement. cial strength can the Lufthansa Group invest and grow in a sustainable manner. Could you give some concrete examples? Our future-oriented approach to value-oriented corporate Is SCORE limited to increasing economic sustainamanagement lets us keep a firm eye on economic sustainbility? Are the other pillars of corporate responsibility ability. This puts us in a position to assume climate and secondary? environmental responsibility in a proactive manner. For Economic sustainability is an integral part of our stratexample, we continued our investments in a modern, more egy and a basic requirement for responsible corporate efficient and quieter fleet in 2011 as well. Here, economy management, which also includes social and ecologiand ecology go hand in hand. But new, eco-efficient aircal responsibility. So in the final analysis, SCORE helps craft cost money. We can afford them only thanks to our to finance corporate responsibility as a whole. SCORE financial foundations, which are stable over the long term. doesn’t compete with that. I’m convinced that our highly In addition, our strong commitment to biokerosene illusqualified and motivated employees will master this chaltrates impressively that we do our utmost to accelerate the lenge too. The employees’ importance in reaching our development of sustainably produced alternative fuel for goal itself illustrates that we cannot treat the other dimenaviation. sions of corporate responsibility as secondary, as in the end they all also have an influence on the economic sustainability and thus on the future viability of the Lufthansa Group. a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 19 Corporate responsibility – Highlights 1 March 2011 24 February 2011 Cargo Climate Care Conference Commitment to less noise Lufthansa Cargo organizes the second Cargo CliLufthansa starts modifying the engines mate Care Conference in Frankfurt and presents the of the Boeing 737 fleet stationed in eponymous environmental award. Frankfurt with new acoustic panels. 3 January 2011 See page 86 23 March 2011 Personnel reinforcement in the Lufthansa Cargo aid flight to Japan air and on the ground After the devastating earthquake in Japan, Lufthansa announces it will hire 4,000 Lufthansa Cargo transports 70 tonnes of aid new employees in the operational areas supplies to Tokyo free of charge. See page 92 in Germany. 19 April 2011 Austrian Airlines concludes refitting its Boeing 767 fleet with winglets The new winglets help the airline save fuel and thus avoid emissions. 15 July 2011 13 May 2011 Start of the long-term trial of 27th Lufthansa Festival of biofuel Baroque Music in London For the first time, Lufthansa uses biofuel The festival steeped in tradition delighted on daily flights between Hamburg and the public and media alike with 12 concerts. Frankfurt. See page 67 19 May 2011 See page 100 11 July 2011 Balance 2011 is published New lightweight containers Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Lufthansa and Lufthansa Cargo will introBoard and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, duce loading containers made from lightpresents the Sustainability Report of the weight composite materials by 2015, Lufthansa Group at a press conference. which saves fuel and avoids emissions. See page 73 7 July 2011 Starting signal given for new climate research project IAGOS 19 May 2011 Lufthansa launches another research 6 October 2011 New service trolleys reduce fuel project to observe the Earth’s atmosphere First expert round for humanitarian consumption long-term in cooperation with Research logistics in Frankfurt Lufthansa announces the replacement of Center Jülich. See page 89 Lufthansa Cargo organizes expert round to its onboard trolleys with lighter model improve understanding of the needs of inter“Quantum Light Weight Trolley” by 2014. national aid organizations. See page 92 17 October 2011 More women in management positions The Lufthansa Group sets itself the goal of increasing the share of women in management positions by 30 percent by 2020. See page 46 21 November 2011 SWISS WorldCargo counts on lightweight containers The freight division of SWISS will replace its aluminum containers with a more lightweight version by 2015. 21 to 23 November 2011 22 November 2011 Finale of university competition Presentation of the UNEP/CMS Thesis “Lufthansa Case Challenge” Award endowed by Lufthansa Lufthansa and EBS Business School organize an For the third time, this thesis award, which international competition on the subject of sustain­ offers prize money of 10,000 euros, was given ability. See page 25 to a young scientist. See page 99 20 1 September 2011 “Small change – It’s a big help”: Brussels Airlines 29 August 2011 now also collects donations for the HelpAlliance Start of the pilot project for inductive On its long-haul flights, Brussels Airlines now also particirecharging of an electric car at Frankfurt pates in collecting remaining amounts of foreign currency Airport for the employees’ aid organization HelpAlliance. Lufthansa Technik operates an electric car at Frankfurt Airport to test e-mobility and the contactfree recharging technology. See page 82 1 September 2011 17 August 2011 Lufthansa Group receives award for its Lufthansa Cargo aid flight to commitment to sustainability East Africa Lufthansa receives the Condé Nast Traveler World Lufthansa Cargo carries 90 tonnes of Savers Award 2011 in the category “Doing it all.” aid supplies to Nairobi, Kenya. See page 92 16 September 2011 Lufthansa receives award for its 12 January 2012 commitment to biofuel First scheduled transatlantic flight In the framework of the Clean Tech Media with biofuel to the United States Award 2011, Lufthansa receives a special For the first time, a Lufthansa Boeing 747-400 prize for its biofuel project burnFAIR. with about 40 tonnes of a biofuel mix in its See page 68 tanks flies from Frankfurt to Washington D.C. 25 September 2011 Jubilee sightseeing flights for December 2011 a good cause LZ Catering receives Ökoprofit To celebrate Hamburg Airport’s 100th annivercertificate sary, Lufthansa offers two sightseeing flights LZ Catering has taken part in the Ökoprofit with an Airbus A380 and donates the proproject in Hamburg. See page 81 ceeds of 50,000 euros to two charitable organizations. See page 95 December 2011 Lufthansa Cargo receives recertification for its environmental management system 2 February 2012 The environmental management system of Lufthansa Lufthansa extends partnership Cargo is recertified according to ISO 14001 at all with Deutsche Sporthilfe German stations. See page 80 (German Sports Aid) Lufthansa remains a National Sponsor December 2011 of Deutsche Sporthilfe for the next four Test run with electric taxiing power for years. See page 103 aircraft on the ground (eTaxi) For the first time, Lufthansa Technik installs elec6 February 2012 tric motors on the main landing gear of a civil airPresentation of the project craft to test the suitability of this environmentally “Management Landscape 2020” friendly propulsion system. See page 82 (“FK 2020”) FK 2020 is the foundation on which the Lufthansa Group intends to increase diversity at its higher management levels. See page 46 21 Stakeholder dialogue Open exchange creates trust Entrepreneurial activities are subject to social acceptance. This is also true for the Lufthansa Group, whose business activities touch upon the interests of many stakeholder groups – such as customers and employees, investors, analysts, lawmakers, neighbors and municipalities as well as researchers and educators. The company seeks an active exchange with its Lufthansa Systems’ Airline Forum stakeholders and incorporates their experiences, “Think easy” was the motto for the Airline Forum wishes and expectations in its strategic actions. attended by 350 representatives of about 90 A selection of examples from 2011: airlines from 13 to 15 September 2011 at the Lufthansa Training & Conference Center in Seeheim. The global network and innovation • Customers • Capital market • LOHAS (Lifestyle • Investors platform of Lufthansa Systems offered an overof Health and • Shareholders view of current trends and novelties in the area Sustainability) • Analysts • Rating agencies of information technology for airlines. The focus • Governments of the numerous lectures, product presentations • Legislators and workshops was on modern IT solutions that • Employees • Politicians • Employee representatives • Authorities allow companies to simplify their processes and LH Group reduce their costs. • Suppliers • Neighbors • Contractual partners • Local communities • Publicity Lufthansa Technik: 14th Customer Commu• Social networks nity Conference and Customer Satisfaction • Science • Non-governmental Survey • Research organizations (NGOs) All topics focused on “Innovations and Customer • Education • Organizations • Consortia Care” at Lufthansa Technik’s 14th Customer Community Conference in Hamburg. The event was attended in 2011 by about 80 customer representatives from around the world. Eight speakers presented innovations within the company – Passengers / customers such as the successful long-term testing of biofuel at Lufthansa or the challenges and solutions International passenger surveys regarding technical support for the latest-generaLufthansa has been measuring passenger satistion aircraft. faction continuously since 2001. These surveys show which performance elements generate the Furthermore, Lufthansa Technik surveyed 300 highest degree of satisfaction among passenrepresentatives of 160 airlines concerning their gers. They also allow insights into how passensatisfaction with the company’s services. The ger needs could be met even better in the future. customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2011 The satisfaction values recorded are also used to awarded the maintenance specialist top marks calculate the so-called Customer Profile Index. It for its broad product portfolio, its worldwide netdocuments how the passengers, or specific paswork and the professional competence of its senger segments, perceive quality. employees. As areas for improvement, the participating customers identified among others the In addition, Lufthansa cooperates with renowned flexibility of business processes. market research institutes to conduct regular studies at the international level concerning the International innovation competition company’s brand positioning. In 2011, the comat Lufthansa Cargo pany also conducted an online survey among Lufthansa Cargo is convinced that investments Lufthansa Miles & More customers concerning in environmental innovations pay off. For this reathe airline’s long-term testing of biofuel (see “On son, the logistics service provider included the track for the air transport of the future” on page category “Green Solutions” in its first-ever inter67). national innovation competition “Open Innovation 22 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Challenge” and asked its stakeholders to submit well as in its e-mail address. Visitors’ services appropriate ideas (see “Environmental manageare also offered by the Group airlines SWISS and ment” on page 80). In addition, Lufthansa Cargo Austrian Airlines at their respective hubs in Zurich organized its second “Cargo Climate Care Conand Vienna. ference” on 1 March 2011 in Frankfurt to discuss innovative solutions for the long-term improvement of the logistics industry’s climate balance Investors / analysts sheet. More than 200 representatives from the logistics and aviation industries participated in Members of Lufthansa’s Executive Board the fully-booked event (see Balance 2011 on answer investors’ questions page 25). In 2011, the members of Lufthansa’s Executive Board again responded directly to questions Logistics specialist opens new visitor center from investors and analysts. The platform for this in Frankfurt direct form of exchange with management is the The logistics service provider also opened a annual “Investor Day,” which most recently took new visitor center at Gateway 25 of Frankfurt place on 21 September 2011 in Zurich. The event Airport. The Lufthansa Cargo Visitor Center feaoffers comprehensive background information on tures a high-quality, modern atmosphere and topics such as the Group’s strategic orientation provides space for up to 50 people. Information and the development of individual business seggraphs and display cases offer insights into the ments. In addition, investors gained insights into world of air freight as well as into the company’s the passenger business, the interplay of hubs as history and current activities. On 18 May 2011, well as the positioning and development of the Karl Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman of the Executive cargo business. Board and CEO of Lufthansa Cargo, officially inaugurated the building, which will also be With the goal of informing institutional investors in used for internal events. a quick, detailed and factual manner beyond the quarterly conferences, the Executive Board and Lufthansa Visitors’ Service organizes guided Investor Relations team held 39 road shows and theme tours 11 investor conferences in 2011. These events At the locations in Frankfurt and Hamburg, the were complemented by more than 300 one-onLufthansa Visitors’ Service offers the opportunity one and group meetings. In addition to its Annual to obtain detailed information about the Lufthansa Report and three Interim Reports, the Group Group and to engage in an in-depth dialogue. publishes “Investor Info,” which provides details The offer specifically addresses national and about the monthly traffic figures of the flying cominternational top customers from different induspanies and other news from the Lufthansa Group. tries as well as university graduates, people livForums for private investors and the publication ing near airports and representatives of asso“Shareholder information” complete the dialogue ciations and research institutions. In 2011, about offers for the capital markets. 7,800 interested visitors took advantage of this dialogue offer in Frankfurt by taking part in tours on a range of subjects. One of the main attractions – apart from sustainability topics – was the Airbus A380. The aircraft naming ceremonies in Vienna and Zurich drew lively demand from visitors for the chance to get acquainted with the new Lufthansa flagship under the guidance of an expert team. While 650 guided tours took place in Frankfurt, there were 633 tours with some 13,000 visitors in Hamburg. Moreover, Lufthansa organized a competition among its top customers in early 2012 to help find the Visitors’ Service a new name that would be more fitting for the activities it offers. The final winner was “Discover Lufthansa.” It will The online portal www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations offers access to numerous be used in all of the institution’s publications as presentations, performance indicators and financial publications of the Lufthansa Group. a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 23 Employees also the magazine “Lufthansa Passage” for ground, cabin and cockpit personnel as well as Dialogue events and decentralized Town the company intranet with its platform eTeaming. Meetings The Lufthansa Group regularly organizes diaEmployee surveys produce important logue events to find out more about the expectadescriptions of moods tions, wishes and needs of its employees, espeFor many years, Lufthansa has used employee cially those with customer contact. Decentralized surveys as an instrument to assess staff members’ Town Meetings at many locations are the platsatisfaction with their tasks, work environment, form for direct exchanges between members of continuing education offers, and communication the Executive Board and employees. For examwith supervisors and company management. In ple, Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive 2011, the Employee Feedback Management (EFM) Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, took took place for the seventh time – and was conadvantage of this framework on 28 November cluded with record participation. Beyond that, the 2011 to present the Lufthansa Group’s new stratinitiative “Great Place to Work®” gave employees egy to employees of SWISS and Austrian Airlines. of Lufthansa Technik, Lufthansa Technik Logistik, Lufthansa Technik Maintenance International and “Product & Marketing Village 2011” for Lufthansa LEOS an opportunity to give upper-level employees of Lufthansa German Airlines managers feedback concerning their leadership In their role as active product designers and qualities (see info box on page 56). brand ambassadors, Lufthansa employees have a significant influence on the way in which passengers experience their journeys with Lufthansa Government, lawmakers, German Airlines. As part of the endeavors to turn passengers into fans, the two-day “Prodpolitics, public uct & Marketing Village 2011” took place during the reporting year. This event gave about administrations 450 employees from the product and marketLufthansa maintains an intensive and continuous ing areas an opportunity to capture the varied dialogue with representatives of Germany’s fedworld of Lufthansa products and services with all eral and state governments. On the international their senses. Numerous interactive topic stands level as well, the Group takes a stand on legal made it possible to experience products such as and regulatory guidelines, and makes its practhe world of Lufthansa Lounges or the new First tice-based knowledge available. Class seats aboard the Boeing 747-400. Moreover, the company management uses variNeighbors / municipalities ous internal print and online media to communicate with the Group’s employees. These include Promoting trust and creating understanding – that is not only the staff newspaper “Lufthanseat” but the focal point for the dialogue between Lufthansa and mayors and administrations of municipalities surrounding airports. Key topics in this context are the economic perspectives offered by the aviation company, for example at the Frankfurt location, as well as related concerns about noise protection and the quality of life. Pursuing the goal of achieving a long-term balance of interests, the Group maintains a continuous dialogue with mayors and representatives of neighboring municipalities at other large company locations as well. Numerous SWISS employees took part in the Town Meeting held on 28 November 2011 in Zurich. 24 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Rally “Ja zu FRA!” on Römerberg in Frankfurt It is important for Lufthansa to help make the debate about the expansion of Frankfurt Airport (FRA) as balanced as possible. To promote a factual and differentiated debate about the pros and cons of the expansion of Lufthansa’s home hub, the company, together with Fraport and Condor, created the initiative “Ja zu FRA!” (“Yes to FRA!”) On 1 March 2012, Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of at the beginning of 2012 and invited supporters to Deutsche Lufthansa AG (2nd from left), and the chairmen of the executive boards of Condor, join a rally on Frankfurt’s Römerberg on 1 March. Lufthansa Cargo and Fraport explained in depth the importance of Frankfurt Airport for the As one of the world’s leading passenger and Rhine-Main region and beyond that for the entire German economy. cargo hubs, Frankfurt Airport currently offers jobs for about 71,000 people at about 500 companies (see page 43). Research / education As a contribution to social progress, Lufthansa has taken on an active role in numerous research projects. The airline cooperates closely with renowned scientific institutions and research institutes; their joint activities focus on issues related to climate protection, the reduction of noise and pollutant emissions, and the testing of alternative fuels. Additionally, the company maintains an ongoing dialogue with other airlines. Moreover, International competition the starting signal for the new climate research “Lufthansa Case Challenge” 3 November 21-2 2 0 11 project IAGOS was given in July 2011. The goal of The cooperation with universi2 Lufthansa nd Ca se Challenge the long-term observation campaign by Lufthansa ties is an important element in Su st ai na bi lit y and Research Center Jülich is to examine the Earth’s the stakeholder dialogue of the atmosphere for atmospheric trace substances, Lufthansa Group. In 2011, for • Win free flights and s other tremendou aerosols and cloud particles with instruments carexample, the Group – in cooperaaviation-related prices* • Get in touch with ried aboard a Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 on tion with the Aviation Management Lufthansa experts • Gain practical its worldwide flights (see “Under development: Institute at the EBS European experience and in teams work to Worldwide measuring infrastructure for climate Business School – organized the • Present your ideas Lufthansa‘s top management research” on page 89). In 2011, Lufthansa also second edition of the “Lufthansa Ap plic Ma Dead ation y 3 line successfully concluded nearly six months of testCase Challenge.” A total of 189 1 st : ,2 01 1 ing the use of biofuel in regular flight operations teams from more than 25 coun* Terms and condition s: www.LHcasechalle nge.com (“Long-term trial of biofuel – On track for the air tries participated in this academic lle ng e.c om ww w.L Hc as ec ha transport of the future” on page 67). Furthermore, competition for undergraduate and the Group and its partners launched the new graduate students. The contest, noise project MODAL. It will make a significant which focused this time on the topic of sustainability, aims at contribution to the standardization process for the gaining impulses from university students for issues encountered in planned German standard DIN 45689 “Determidaily practice. The six teams presenting the most innovative connation of aircraft noise exposure at airports” (see cepts made it to the finals and had the opportunity to present their “Great commitment to less noise” on page 85). solutions to a jury of Lufthansa top managers and EBS experts. a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 25 The Lufthansa Group fleet Planning for sustainability: 168 new aircraft by 2018 The Lufthansa Group counts on a modern and efficient fleet. This requires continuous investments both in optimizing the existing fleet and in purchasing new aircraft. When acquiring new aircraft, the Group applies stringent criteria: Aside from passenger comfort, low consumption and noise values are especially important factors. On 31 December 2011, the Lufthansa Group fleet comprised a total of 636 aircraft. This includes Lufthansa German Airlines the aircraft of Lufthansa German Airlines, SWISS, Commissioning the Boeing 747-8 Austrian Airlines, the regional partners Lufthansa Lufthansa German Airlines is set to achieve furCityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings as well as ther successes in the area of fuel efficiency by Germanwings and Lufthansa Cargo. By 2018, operating the new Boeing 747-8 Intercontinenthe Group will take delivery of 168 new aircraft tal. At the same time, this is a highly economic with an order value of about 17 billion euros aircraft in terms of capacity, range and operating (at list prices). “These new aircraft represent an costs. Lufthansa has placed orders for 20 Boeing investment in the future for us. Not only do we 747-8s, which will be delivered between spring modernize and expand our Group fleet, but we 2012 and mid-2015 and will complement the Group also align the fleet optimally with future demand fleet perfectly between the Airbus A340-600 and levels,” explains Nico Buchholz, Executive Vice the Airbus A380. In Lufthansa’s configuration, it President Group Fleet Management at Deutsche will offer seats for 362 passengers. Moreover, as Lufthansa AG. a member of the 747 family, it can be easily integrated into the existing infrastructure at more than The noise emissions of the aircraft on order are 200 airports around the world. significantly below those of comparable predecessor models. In this manner, the Airbus A380, The Boeing 747-8 reaches new dimensions parthe Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental, the CSeries ticularly with regard to sustainability aspects and by Bombardier and the Airbus A320neo reduce environmental efficiency. Among other features, noise levels or noise footprints by double-digit the newly designed wings with an advanced percentage values. With this addition of the most profile and curved wingtips, the so-called raked advanced aircraft, the Lufthansa Group can grow wingtips, create aerodynamic advantages. Likefurther and at the same time fly in a more ecowise newly developed, the General Electric GEnxnomical and environmentally friendly manner. 2B67 engines consume less fuel, emit lower Significant investment volumes based on the latlevels of pollutants and allow for reduced noise est technological advances allow the Group a emissions. The Boeing 747-8 is about 15 persustainable, targeted planning. The fleet moderncent more fuel-efficient than the 747-400 and ization at a glance: produces correspondingly lower levels of emissions. In addition, its noise footprint is 30 percent smaller than that of its predecessor. The 747-8 lies 15.6 decibels below the strict Chapter-4 noise limits of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which have applied to new aircraft “These new aircraft represent an insince 2006. vestment in the future for us. Not only do we modernize and expand With a total length of 76.3 meters, the Boeing our Group fleet, but we also align the 747-8 is not only the world’s longest passenger fleet optimally with future demand aircraft but also one of the most modern. In conlevels.” structing the aircraft, the manufacturer has used new aluminum alloys and compound materials Nico Buchholz Executive Vice President Group Fleet Management that are more lightweight and durable than preDeutsche Lufthansa AG viously used materials. Furthermore, there are numerous innovations aboard the aircraft, some of which come from the cabin of the 787 Dream26 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Lufthansa Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental: Larger, quieter, more environmentally friendly Newly developed wings offer aerodynamic advantages. Lufthansa is the “launch customer” of the Boeing 747-8 and has 20 aircraft on order. Raked wingtips instead of winglets 15% more fuel efficient than the New aluminum alloys Boeing 747-400 Noise footprint is 30% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400 Length Fuel capacity 76.3 m 242,000 liters Wingspan Cruising speed 68.7 m Mach 0.85 Newly developed engines (GEnx-2B67): Height Maximum takeoff weight lower fuel burn, lower emissions and lower 19.4 m 442 tonnes noise profile than any previous engine Wing area 554 m2 liner. With its upward curve, the cabin’s architecalready on order, which will be integrated into the ture gives passengers a more pleasant feeling fleet over the years ahead, we now have even of roominess, more comfort and more space for more options for reacting in a targeted and flexcarry-on luggage. Lufthansa is also setting high ible manner to swings in demand or changes standards again with its new Business Class, in the markets.” In the course of 2011, Lufthansa which will make its debut aboard the Boeing 747-8. German Airlines received three further Airbus www.lufthansa.com/747 A380s and now operates eight aircraft of this type. Two more deliveries are planned for 2012. 37 aircraft ordered in 2011 In 2011, the Group ordered a total of 37 airAirbus A320neo and A321neo in operation craft for Lufthansa German Airlines: 25 Airbus from 2015 A320neos and five Airbus A321neos in March; The Airbus A320neo and A321neo will join the and two Airbus A380s, one Airbus A330-300 and fleet starting in 2015 and will operate on contifour Airbus A320s in September. “Until new airnental routes. These aircraft distinguish themcraft technologies become more reliably availselves mainly through improved aerodynamics able, this moderate expansion of the Lufthansa and new engines, and consume up to 15 percent fleet serves above all to secure the short-term less fuel than current comparable models, such requirements for modernizing and consolidatas the A320. In addition, the noise measurements ing the European fleet. It is our objective always in the context of the certification of these aircraft to operate a modern fleet when it comes to fuel are expected to show significantly lower values efficiency, operating costs, noise and emissions,” than for predecessor models. This again repreexplains Nico Buchholz. “At the same time, our sents important progress with regard to noise supplementary order for the Airbus A380 and reduction efforts. A330 secures our mid-term development on long-haul routes. In connection with the aircraft a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 27 The Airbus A320neo that Lufthansa has on order consume up to 15 percent less fuel than the previous A320 model, thanks to improved aerodynamics and new engines. The A320neo will feature so-called sharklets, or airflow-optimized wingtips, as standard equipLufthansa Regional ment. A little over 2.5 meters high, these new Five more Embraer 195s for regional traffic wingtips replace advantageously those used thus In March, Lufthansa ordered five additional far. Airbus promises fuel savings of up to five perEmbraer 195s for Lufthansa Regional. These cent through the use of these sharklets. Moreadvanced, economic and fuel-efficient aircraft over, aircraft equipped with this new type of wingproduced by the Brazilian manufacturer Embraer tip can perform steeper climbs and thus reduce will be delivered to the Group starting in 2012. noise on the ground. “The order for the A320neo Their fuel consumption – extremely low for a reflects our demand for technically and economiregional aircraft at a maximum of 3.9 liters of cally sustainable solutions. In the context of our kerosene per 100 passenger kilometers dependfleet modernization, these aircraft will consume ing on distance and payload – demonstrates just 12 to 15 percent less fuel than our current A320s, how environmentally compatible the Embraer and they will be good neighbors thanks to a sig195 is. The emissions values for this type of airnificantly reduced noise footprint. As a result of craft are also correspondingly low. Furthermore, shared efforts to convince the manufacturers, we the Embraer 195 is characterized by low noise will be one of the first airlines to receive these airemissions. This type of aircraft is operated by craft from 2015,” summarizes Nico Buchholz. Lufthansa CityLine as well as by the regional partners Augsburg Airways and Air Dolomiti. Firm orders placed by the Lufthansa Group, delivery period 2012-2018 SWISS As per 31.12.2011 Tenth Airbus A330-300 starts flight operations Fleet orders delivery period SWISS began operations with its tenth Airbus Long-haul fleet A330-300 in January 2011 and thus completed 9 Airbus A380s 2012 to 2015 its first round of integrating this advanced type of 20 Boeing 747-8s 2012 to 2015 aircraft into its fleet. In addition, its affiliate Edel5 Boeing 777Fs 2013 to 2015 (LH Cargo) weiss Air received a further A330-300 in Febru4 Airbus A330s 2012 to 2014 ary 2011. Since April 2009, these new aircraft 5 Airbus A330s 2012 to 2013 (SWISS) have systematically replaced the existing fleet Medium-haul fleet of older Airbus A330-200s. Starting in 2012, 69 Airbus A320 Family (including neo) 2012 to 2018 SWISS will incorporate another five A330-300s 8 Airbus A320 Family 2012 to 2014 (Germanwings) into its long-haul fleet and thus operate 15 air5 Airbus A320 Family 2012 to 2014 (SWISS) craft of this type in the future. Their highly effiShort-haul fleet cient Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines reduce 30 Bombardier CSeries 2014 to 2016 (SWISS) fuel consumption per passenger by about 13 13 Embraer EMB190 Family 2012 to 2013 percent compared with the predecessor model. 28 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Moreover, starting in 2014, SWISS will take delivery of a total of 30 Bombardier CSeries aircraft, which will replace the Avro RJ100 regional aircraft currently in operation. This move will allow the airline to reduce fuel consumption by significantly more than 25 percent compared with the Avro fleet. At the same time, CO2 emissions will be reduced by about 90,000 tonnes per year. Another plus is that the CSeries aircraft are 10 to 15 decibels quieter than the Avro RJ100s. Lufthansa Cargo Five Boeing 777Fs to strengthen the fleet The cargo airline AeroLogic, in which Lufthansa Cargo holds an equity share of 50 percent, In 2011, Lufthansa Cargo ordered five new Boeing operates modern Boeing 777F freighter aircraft. Lufthansa Cargo will also operate 777 freight aircraft, which will be delivered between this type of aircraft from 2013. 2013 and 2015. The Boeing 777F is considered the most modern cargo aircraft of its size, and according to the manufacturer it offers a higher degree of efficiency and more capacity in long-haul markets than any other twin-engined freighter. The Boeing 777F takes advantage of the advanced characteristics of the Boeing family, including a wing design featuring raked wingtips. It also adheres to QC2 noise standards and therefore allows maximum access to airports with strict noise limits. Group fleet As per 31.12.2011 (changes compared with 2010) in possession 1 age 1 in operation 2 age2 Lufthansa German Airlines 355 ( + 13 ) 11.4 ( – 0.1 ) 275 (+ 1) 13.2 ( – 0.2 ) ­Lufthansa­ CityLine 41 ( – 15 ) 9.6 ( – 0.3 ) 57 (± 0) 6.3 ( + 0.6 ) Air Dolomiti 6 (– 2) 10.2 ( + 0.4 ) 16 (– 1) 8.0 ( + 0.7 ) Augsburg Airways 0 (± 0) 0.0 (± 0) 14 (– 1) 6.6 ( + 0.7 ) Contact Air 0 (± 0) 0.0 (± 0) 8 (± 0) 17.9 ( + 1.0 ) Eurowings 5 (– 8) 9.5 ( – 0.1 ) 23 (– 5) 1.7 ( – 3.0 ) Germanwings 30 (± 0) 6.4 ( + 1.0 ) 30 (± 0) 6.4 ( + 1.0 ) SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) 93 (+ 3) 11.4 ( + 0.5 ) 86 (± 0) 11.4 ( + 0.5 ) Austrian Airlines 88 (– 6) 12.5 ( + 0.9 ) 81 (+ 1) 12.6 ( + 1.0 ) Business segment Passenger Airline Group3 618 ( – 15 ) 590 (– 5 ) ­Lufthansa­ Cargo 18 (± 0) 13.7 ( + 1.0 ) 18 (± 0) 13.7 ( + 1.0 ) Business segment Logistics 18 18 Group 636 ( – 15 ) 11.3 ( + 0.4 ) 608 (– 5) 11.2 ( + 0.4 ) 1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession 2 Aircraft operated by the Group 3 without bmi a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 29 The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group ­Lufthansa German Airlines including Lufthansa Regional LH: 30 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range and Germanwings Boeing 737-300 LH: 22 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 25 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 42 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 53 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900/4,350 km range Airbus A321-100/200 LH: 15 aircraft, 221 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 26 aircraft, 2661 seats, 11,100 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,200 km range Airbus A340-600 Legend 4U = Germanwings C3 = Contact Air LH: 30 aircraft, 3521 seats, 12,500 km range CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti Boeing 747-400 EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways LH = Lufthansa German Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines LH: 8 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range WK = Edelweiss Air Airbus A380-800 Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively. Number of aircraft in operation on 31.12.2011 1 maximum number of seats, different versions in operation 30 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Lufthansa Regional EN: 11 aircraft, 68 seats, 900 km range ATR72-200 CL: 5 aircraft, 93 seats, 2,280 km range Avro RJ85 CL: 20 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range CRJ700 CL: 12 aircraft, 86 seats, 2,440 km range EW: 23 aircraft, 86 seats, 2,440 km range CRJ900 IQ: 9 aircraft, 70 seats, 1,200 km range DHC 8-400 C3: 8 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Fokker 100 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range Embraer 190 CL: 11 aircraft, 116 seats, 2,590 km range EN: 5 aircraft, 116 seats, 2,590 km range IQ: 5 aircraft, 116 seats, 2,590 km range Embraer 195 Germanwings 4U: 30 aircraft, 1501 seats, 3,500 km range Airbus A319-100 a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 31 SWISS LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range including Edelweiss Air Avro RJ100 LX: 7 aircraft, 1381 seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 22 aircraft, 1681 seats, 3,650 km range Airbus A320-200 LX: 7 aircraft, 2001 seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A321-100/200 LX: 10 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range Airbus A330-300 LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 10,500 km range Airbus A340-300 Edelweiss Air HB-IHX WK: 3 aircraft, 1681 seats, 4,950 km range Airbus A320-200 HB-IQZ WK: 1 aircraft, 285 seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A330-200 WK: 1 aircraft, 332 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A330-300 32 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Austrian Airlines OS: 14 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,630 km range DHC 8-400 OS: 9 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range Fokker 70 OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Fokker 100 OS: 2 aircraft, 121 seats, 2,220 km range Boeing 737-600 OS: 2 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,440 km range Boeing 737-700 OS: 7 aircraft, 184 seats, 4,680 km range Boeing 737-800 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,500 km range Airbus A319-100 OS: 9 aircraft, 1741 seats, 4,300 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 3 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,360 km range Airbus A321-100 OS: 3 aircraft, 200 seats, 3,500 km range Airbus A321-200 OS: 6 aircraft, 2401 seats, 9,800 km range Boeing 767-300 OS: 4 aircraft, 3091 seats, 11,500 km range Boeing 777-200 ­Lufthansa­ Cargo LH: 18 aircraft, 516 m3/89.4 t, 7,000 km range Boeing MD-11F a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 33 Prizes and awards In 2011, Lufthansa again received numerous prizes and awards that honor the diverse commitments of the Group and its companies. Below is a selection: Lufthansa Group companies and Group airlines • “Best Transatlantic Airline” at the World Airlines • Award for SWISS as “Europe’s Leading Airline Awards Skytrax 2011 Business Class” at the World Travel Awards • “Europe’s Leading Airline” at the World Travel 2011 Awards 2011 • SWISS again named “Best airline on shortand • Award for “Best Business Class on German medium-haul routes” at the Travel Star Awards and European routes” and “Best Airline Website of Swiss trade publication Travel Inside, followed for Business Travellers” from the readers of the by Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines. magazine Business Traveller Deutschland • SWISS honored as “Best Airline in Western • Best airline in the category “Long-haul GateEurope” at the World Airlines Awards Skytrax 2011, way” at the Travel Star Awards of the Swiss followed by Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines trade publication Travel Inside • Edelweiss Air again received Golden Star Travel • “Fast Travel Award” 2011 of the air transport Award as “Best airline on shortand mediumassociation IATA haul routes” in the category “Regional and • Condé Nast Traveler World Savers Award 2011 Leisure Airlines” 2011 in the category “Doing it All” for the Group’s • Austrian Airlines won first place in the categocommitment in the areas sustainability and ries “Best Business Class Catering” and “Staff environmental responsibility Service Excellence Europe” at the World Airline • Award in the category “Sustainability: EnviAwards Skytrax 2011 ronmental Innovation” at the Travel + Leisure • Austrian Airlines received the “Crystal Cabin Global Vision Award 2011 Award 2011” for the European passenger seat • Special award for the Lufthansa biofuel project • Award for Lufthansa Cargo as “Carrier of the burnFAIR at the Clean Tech Media Award 2011 Year” and “Best Carrier to Europe” of the Cana• “Service Champion” in the category Airlines in dian International Freight Forwarders AssociaGermany’s largest service ranking tion (CIFFA) • Multiple top rankings for Lufthansa Miles & More • Lufthansa Cargo selected as “Best International at Frequent Traveller Awards 2011 Freight Carrier” by the Airforwarders Associa• Manager Magazin attested once again Lufthansa’s tion (AfA) first-rate image and selected the company as • Award for Lufthansa Cargo in the category Industry Winner 2011 in the category “Transport “Easy to deal with” at the Hellmann Worldwide & Logistics” Logistics Global Carrier Award 2011 • Double award for the Lufthansa School of Busi• Award for Lufthansa Cargo as “Best Cargo ness from the European Foundation for ManAirline Worldwide” and “Best European Cargo agement (EFMD) in 2011 for “Partnership in Airline” at the Cargo Airline of the Year Awards Design, Development & Delivery” and for its • Lufthansa Technik received the “Crystal Cabin contribution to organizational development Award 2011” in the category “Materials and within the scope of its partnership with the Technical Components” for its evacuation path Lancaster University Management School marking system Guideline ColourFit and McGill University • Lufthansa Systems honored as “Company With • Award for the onboard Internet access Lufthansa A Future” 2011 in the category “Large CompaFlyNet® as “Product of the Year 2011” from nies” and in the category “Social Responsibility” Germany’s leading computer magazine CHIP by the Polish business associations with regard • Lifestyle magazine Mate honored Lufthansa with to its development location in Gdansk the Travel Award 2012 for target group-oriented • LSG Sky Chefs awarded the renowned design product offers and appropriate communications prize “Observeur du design 2012” for its Business Class meal box “Metropolitan” 34 Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 a Economic Sustainability Group strategy Management and corporate structures Corporate governance and compliance Corporate sourcing Infrastructure a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 35 Group strategy The Lufthansa Group – “Europe’s Airline Powerhouse” in the future as well Over the past decade, the Lufthansa Group has risen to become the world’s leading aviation group. Apart from actively participating in the consolidation process of the European aviation industry, the company strengthened its international market position by continuously expanding Star Alliance, the most successful airline network worldwide. In 2011, the Lufthansa Group further refined its ments have to adapt to new market conditions corporate strategy and its Mission Statement. continuously. In the future, the Lufthansa Group Given the swiftly changing market and competiwill continue to act within a volatile market and tive conditions, this is a necessary step on the the fields of tension generated by numerous interpath toward expanding and strengthening the national developments. position of the Lufthansa Group as an airline powerhouse and Europe’s number one. New strategy secures the Group’s future The Lufthansa Group pursues the explicit goal of Extraordinary challenges are almost daily fare for generating growth by creating value and continuthe Lufthansa Group and the entire airline indusing to secure the Group’s future by means of a try – natural catastrophes, political crises, military sound financial profile over the long term. It is a conflicts, financial and economic crises, and episolid financial framework that creates the freedom demics are all developments that quickly lead to to shape the Group’s development according to fluctuations in demand for air transport. In addistrategic criteria rather than being obligated to tion, there are regulatory changes, such as Gerbow to short-term practical constraints. many’s aviation tax. The Group’s business segAgainst this background, Lufthansa has developed a new strategic action framework that allows the Group not only to adapt to constantly Mission Statement changing external conditions, but also to take In 2011, the Lufthansa Group further developed its corporate guidelines. an active role in shaping the industry’s sphere The new Mission Statement represents the essence of the Group’s strategy. – independently of the current market position. It serves to set goals and in addition provides orientation both internally and “Just as our industry is changing and evolving, externally. Lufthansa has to adapt its strategy. The Lufthansa Group must take part in shaping our industry and • We are Europe’s Airline Powerhouse, connecting Europe with the world and remain the driving force in European civil aviathe world via Europe. tion,” emphasizes Sadiq Gillani, Senior Vice President Group Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. • We provide reliable passenger and air-cargo services for our customers, in seamless cooperation with our partners in a volatile environment. One of the new strategy’s most important goals is to further strengthen the Lufthansa Group’s position as • As the world’s leading aviation group, we are the global leader in selected “Europe’s Airline Powerhouse” and achieve a higher aviation services. operating margin over the long term. To reach these objectives, the focus is on five core measures: • Our highly motivated and dedicated team strives to deliver high quality. We value entrepreneurship and collaboration, supported by transparency, trust 1. Reorienting the portfolio and diversity. To focus its portfolio, the Lufthansa Group withdraws from persistently loss-making businesses, • Our target is to grow profitably and maintain a healthy financial structure, to as has already been done in the cases of Lufthansa enable investment in the development of our businesses, fleet and people. Italia and bmi. Furthermore, the company is considering the possible disposal of non-strategic • We are committed to making a sustainable contribution through environequity investments, while simultaneously examinmentally and socially responsible and compliant business practices. ing selected airline acquisitions. 36 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 a 2. Improving efficiency within the organization The efficiency across the organization is to be emissions trading mobility increased further on a continuous basis by demographic change population growth improving coordination within the Group and realizing synergy potentials – while maintaining spheres of political power the business segments’ entrepreneurial responsibility. In this context, the flexibility and mobility of financial and economic crisis safety employees and the topic of diversity play impormegacities environmental protection tant roles. By launching the project “Management Landscape 2020” (“FK 2020”), the Group climate change service-oriented society has already begun to introduce more diversity in globalization to secure one’s living its management at all levels (see “A key factor for the Group’s success: Diversity in management” shortage of resources capital markets on page 46). 3. Expanding and stabilizing leading market Megatrends pose challenges for civil aviation positions The civil aviation industry is facing significant challenges over the years The Lufthansa Group is market leader in many ahead from highly diverse external influences. The room for maneuver is segments and aims at stabilizing and selectively determined by worldwide megatrends that include the increasing globalizaexpanding this position by means of growth. In tion and international division of labor, population growth, increasing needs the other areas, the Group plans to achieve a for mobility, and the development of mega-urban regions. position of market leadership. To this end, management counts on organic growth to develop According to the United Nations, there will already be 9.2 billion people on strategic markets such as Asia, South America Earth in 2050. Population growth is only taking place in developing nations. and Africa, as well as on growth in the different This is accompanied by a trend toward more and ever larger megacities. business segments. Today, 39 metropolises already represent more than 90 percent of air traffic (takeoffs, landings, stopovers). Their number is expected to grow to 87 4. Improving earnings by 2030. By then, 12 of 20 airports for very large aircraft will be in Asia. Furthermore, the Group intensifies those measures that increase earnings. The earnings-securing proIn line with a growing world population and an increasing number of socigram “Climb 2011” of Lufthansa German Airlines eties participating in the division of labor, demand for mobility will continue (2009-2011) is followed in 2012 by the corporate to grow – and along with it the need for resources. On the other hand, this program SCORE (see page 38). This program means greater scarcity of resources and thus an increasing oil price over consists of three key elements: projects in the the long term. Lufthansa has to prepare itself for rising costs not only due Group companies and Group functions; shared to continuously rising fuel prices, but also because of new taxes, such as projects involving the airlines; and projects coverGermany’s aviation tax, as well as oligopolistic supplier structures, for examing the entire Group. In addition to implementing ple among handling companies at many German airports. measures to improve earnings, SCORE aims at a significant deepening of cooperation between the Simultaneously, the expansion of the Gulf airlines and the low-cost carriers airlines and service companies, and at tightening leads to continuously increasing competitive pressures on established serthe company’s structures. vice providers. Independently, situations of political upheaval and also natural catastrophes – as occurred most recently in March 2011 in Japan – again 5. Making selective investments and again influence the situation in aviation and demand a high level of flexSelective investments in the Group fleet, in the ibility on the part of the airlines. onboard product and in the infrastructure at the hubs also serve to strengthen the Lufthansa Furthermore, supplementary financial burdens for aviation and the Lufthansa Group’s competitiveness. Investments in projects Group are on the rise due to the EU’s Emissions Trading System, which dissuch as “Pure Sky,” which bundles the compatorts competition (see “Emissions trading system – Shared global solution ny’s biofuel activities, illustrate Lufthansa’s longwanted” on page 76). The weak economic situation in conjunction with these term commitment to corporate responsibility. increasing burdens will result in a cumulative loss of 600 million US dollars The investment volume is guided by the Group’s for Europe’s airlines in 2012, according to IATA estimates. financing strength in order to secure investment grade rating, the positive rating of the company’s financial standing, over the long term. a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 37 Further optimizing the control of the invest in new markets and services, but has also flying companies aligned activities in Germany even more explicWith a 75-percent share in the Group’s 2011 revitly to local market conditions since 1 July 2011. enue, the flying companies are the engine drivAmong other measures, this includes an expaning the Lufthansa Group. The Group is planning sion of the entrepreneurial room for maneuver at to optimize their coordination and control further. the individual locations. Growth is increasingly shifting to the emerging nations and thus opening up new markets from Europe. The focus of the Lufthansa Group is on the further development of its long-haul network, the strengthening of partnerships within Star Alliance, the expansion of joint-venture cooperations in the North Atlantic region, and the development of new airline joint ventures in Asia, such Corporate program SCORE as Japan+, founded in 2011 with Japanese Star The fundamental conditions for a future-oriented Alliance partner ANA. development of the Lufthansa Group are sustainable business practices and profitable growth. Lufthansa German Airlines adapted its structures These two factors create the foundations for to the changed competitive environment on investments in a modern fleet, innovative prod1 April 2011 in order to meet the market challenges ucts for customers, qualifications for employees, with a new organization that is even closer to its the commitment to social concerns and the activcustomers and markets. Simultaneously, internal ities in environmental care. To be able to finance decision-making and management processes the investments planned, the Group needs signifiare to be simplified. In this context, Lufthansa cantly higher profits, which the company intends German Airlines reinforced the successful coopto achieve by means of the corporate program eration with Group subsidiary Germanwings. The “SCORE – Change for Success,” which was pregoal is to increase customer value by means of sented in February 2012 to about 1,000 managincreased flexibility and to strengthen the ecoers. Its goal is to increase the operating result by nomic efficiency of decentralized connections at least 1.5 billion euros by the end of 2014, comwithin Europe. This includes the company’s pared with 2011. The program’s savings will have Berlin strategy. By stationing a modern Airbus a full effect on annual results from 2015. fleet in Berlin, significantly expanding flight options, creating several hundred new jobs SCORE is the acronym derived from the action and making investments of more than 60 million areas on which the corporate program conceneuros, the Lufthansa Group significantly broadens trates: synergies, costs, organization, revenue and its presence in the Berlin region in 2012. execution. At the same time, the term also refers to “achieving something” and “making a score.” Logistics, MRO, IT Services, Catering As one of the most important service providers The new program includes all business segin the logistics industry, Lufthansa Cargo AG will ments and airlines, and consists of three signififocus even more prominently on more efficient cant building blocks: projects within the Group processes, quality leadership and IT standardcompanies; joint projects involving the airization. Meanwhile, Lufthansa Technik AG conlines; and projects involving the entire Group. centrates on generating organic growth within “SCORE’s focus is on measures that increase the existing portfolio. The focus here is on the profitability by means of synergistic effects, cost precise identification and meeting of customer reductions, structural changes and long-lasting expectations, but also on internal topics such as revenue increases,” explains Josef Bogdanski, lean processes or “Great Place to Work®.” A furwho heads SCORE. ther point in the strategic orientation is a stronger presence in growth markets. Beyond that, the concept aims at significantly intensifying the cooperation between the airLufthansa Systems is implementing the restruclines and the service companies and tightenturing program “Jetzt!” (“Now!”). At LSG Sky ing the structures. For example, tasks are to be Chefs, the world’s largest provider of airline caterbundled to realize synergies that have so far ing, the focus is on future strategy to grow profnot been taken advantage of for the good of the itably. To this end, the company will not only entire Group. “To start with, the focus is on opti38 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 a The goal of SCORE presented by the Executive Board to about 1,000 managers on 6 February 2012, is to increase the Group’s operating result sustainably by at least 1.5 billion euros by 2014. mizing ‘neighborly exchanges,’ to realize synergies from joint purchasing and to reduce costs in the administrative areas,” says Bogdanski. Further projects at the level of the business segments and the Group level are currently being set up. Group strategy is the guideline All the same, while the new Group strategy has priority, it is not set in stone and is rather a guiding principle that is to be adapted, developed further and filled with life by management and employees. For this reason, Lufthansa has chosen a number of approaches to impart the new strategy and the necessity of SCORE to the employees. This includes reports in the Group’s internal media, comprehensive information on the intranet, and numerous internal events such as Operating profit achieved in a town meetings with the top management. difficult market environment In the 2011 financial year, the Lufthansa In the future, the Lufthansa Group will continue Group increased revenues by 8.6 perto benefit from the diversity of its business segcent and reported an operating profit ments, which have a stabilizing effect on the of 820 million euros in an extremely development of revenues within the system the difficult and turbulent market environcompany represents. This structure built on busiment. However, the high cost of fuel, ness segments will continue to serve as the basis regulatory interventions such as the on which the company can develop through profGerman aviation tax, and charges resulitable growth over the long term. ting from the sale of British Midland Ltd. (bmi) led to a negative Group result. As an exception to the company’s dividend policy, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board decided nevertheless to have shareholders participate in the operating success and have paid out a dividend of 25 cents a share. “The trust in the Lufthansa share and in the positive development of our company pays off,” said Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. For further information on the Lufthansa share, see page 22 onwards in the Lufthansa Annual Report 2011 or its online version at www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 39 Management and corporate structures Lufthansa is a German stock company with headquarters in Cologne. The company employs the dual management structure ordinarily followed in Germany. The Executive Board is solely responsible for steering the company, aligning it strategically and increasing its value long-term. The Supervisory Board appoints, advises and supervises the Executive Board. Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills two functions: It is are held by about 352,000 shareholders. Accordthe ultimate parent company and the largest opering to the standards of Deutsche Börse, the freeating company within the Group. float quota was at 100 percent for Lufthansa shares at the end of 2011. 38.5 percent of the equity capital Shareholder structure was held by private investors, and 61.5 percent by The Lufthansa share has been traded on German institutional investors. The share of German sharestock exchanges since 1966. It is represented in holders was 68.6 percent (see chart on page 9). To the German Share Index DAX and is part of the maintain its international traffic rights and air transPrime Standard of Deutsche Börse (German Stock port operating permit, Lufthansa must be able to Exchange). Lufthansa fulfills the highest level of prove at any time that the majority of its shares are international transparency requirements related in German possession. to this standing. The company’s share capital is divided into 457.9 million registered shares, which Corporate governance and compliance Responsible company management in line with the rules of effective corporate governance is a substantial part of Lufthansa’s identity. The efficient, transparent structures and processes implemented by the company reflect this approach splendidly. Furthermore, the Group places the greatest was introduced in September 2004. It is to guaranimportance on open and clear corporate comtee employees from breaking the law, train them in munications in order to respond to steadily risapplying and interpreting legal norms, and support ing demands for information from shareholdthem with advice in their daily work. ers, employees, customers and the public – thus maintaining and strengthening their trust in the Given the topic’s importance, Lufthansa set up a Group. Lufthansa fulfills the recommendations of Compliance Office on 1 October 2007, as part of its the German Corporate Governance Code with central legal department, which reports to the Chairfew exceptions. For the declaration of conformity man of the Executive Board. It is responsible for the pursuant to the German Corporate Governance implementation, further development and communiCode, see the Group Management report in the cation of the Lufthansa Compliance Program and is Annual Report 2011 on page 28. A comprehenavailable as a central contact for questions regardsive compliance program, as described below, ing compliance. In addition, Compliance Comensures lawful conduct with regard to legal missioners, who are named at the various Group requirements and prohibitions. companies, ensure the Group-wide adherence to and the effective implementation of the ComThe Lufthansa Compliance Program pliance Program. The Compliance Office coordiAs adhering to legal and social regulations and nates the investigation of circumstances relevant to standards is everyday practice at Lufthansa, the compliance and in this context serves as a contact Group has not formulated a separate Code of point for cartel and investigative authorities. In such Conduct. Special attention is placed on ensurcases, Lufthansa fully cooperates with the authoriing a corporate culture that demands conformity ties. The core components of the Lufthansa Compliwith rules and creates a framework of conditions ance Program are its compliance guidelines. These that promotes such conformity. This is the purare binding internal regulations that give employees pose of the Lufthansa Compliance Program, which not only strategies but also a binding framework for 40 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 a action which guarantee a standardized and lawrespect the ICC guidelines to combat corruption abiding external conduct for Lufthansa. The comin business dealings. pany is not willing to tolerate possible violations of law on the part of its employees. Culpable breaches The Integrity Compliance guideline provides supof law lead to consequences under labor law and port in handling invitations, gifts and other attenmay also entail personal liability. tions and indicates room for maneuver. Furthermore, it raises awareness for potential conflicts of The Lufthansa Compliance Program currently cominterest. The obligatory Web-based trainings speprises four building blocks: Competition, Capital cifically teach employees behavior conforming Market, Integrity and Corporate Compliance. to compliance. The trainings provide a comprehensive overview of the legal framework, causes Competition Compliance and facts of economic crimes. Employees are The module Competition Compliance introduces instructed by means of realistic practical examemployees to the relevant regulations of cartel ples relating to specific business segments about legislation, so as to minimize or exclude risks for possible compliance risks. Control questions at Lufthansa in this area. The Competition Complithe end of each learning unit allow employees to ance guideline provides a strategy for conduct in check the material learned. the context of business contacts with third parties as well as a binding framework of action to Corporate Compliance ensure a standardized and lawful external presThe module Corporate Compliance bundles ence of Deutsche Lufthansa. All employees hanthose internal regulations that are considered dling issues relevant to a cartel are trained in essential for Lufthansa from a legal perspective the fundamental regulations of European and and makes these transparent for employees. national antitrust legislation by means of a Webbased training (eLearning). Special emphasis is Compliance training given to those areas of antitrust law that have parAutomated IT processes ensure that all employticular importance for everyday business practice. ees and executive bodies at Lufthansa participate in the eLearning courses relevant for them once a Capital Market Compliance year. The employees of the subsidiary companies The module Capital Market Compliance familcan also access these eLearning courses. As a iarizes employees with current capital market complement to eLearning courses, the Complilaw, such as regulations relating to insider tradance Office regularly offers trainings involving ing or ad hoc publicity. The goal is to keep both the participants’ physical presence. Compliance the Lufthansa Group and its employees from trainings are also an integral part of leadership breaking the law. In the context of Capital Market seminars, management courses and other interCompliance the employees and executive bodnal continuing education and training events at ies concerned are also instructed by means of Lufthansa. Web-based training, which gives them in-depth insights into the regulations of the securities Ombudsman system trading law. The law’s individual provisions are The ombudsman system, which has been impleexplained in the context of daily practice and the mented worldwide, has been an integral and explanations are illustrated with many examples. tried-and-tested part of Lufthansa’s Compliance Program. It was introduced on 1 December 2007 Integrity Compliance and serves both as an additional preventive meaWith the module Integrity Compliance, Lufthansa sure against economic crimes and at protecting documents its fundamental approach of lawLufthansa and its employees. abiding conduct in business relationships. The obligation on the part of Lufthansa and its Relevant information can be given by employemployees to adhere to non-corrupt and ethiees or by third parties to an ombudsman outside cally correct conduct flows naturally from curthe company, either by telephone, in writing or in rent law, the internal compliance guidelines and person. This function is fulfilled by a lawyer. In the Lufthansa’s memberships in relevant national context of his contractual relation with Lufthansa, and international organizations. Examples of the ombudsman establishes with the informant these are Lufthansa’s commitment to the princia particular relationship of trust, which consists ples of the UN Global Compact, its membership of the transmission of the information entrusted in Transparency International and its obligation to to him to Lufthansa under absolute secrecy with a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 41 regard to the name and identity of the informant. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is In this relationship, the ombudsman is fully bound informed twice a year by means of the Compliby the legal obligation of professional secrecy ance Report about current developments as they and also has the right to refuse evidence vis-àrelate to compliance issues and the current state vis any public investigative authorities that might of the implementation of the Compliance Probecome active. In addition, Lufthansa and the gram within the Group, including training rates. ombudsman have expressly agreed that the identity of an informant will not be revealed and any documents the ombudsman might have received will not be handed over, unless the informant has expressly stated his or her desire that these items be made public. The revealing of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or third parties without his or her consent is therefore ruled out. Monitoring and reporting All Compliance Commissioners of the Lufthansa Group get together once a quarter. Their goal is to inform about current new developments in the area of compliance and initiate the implementation of relevant measures. In addition, the relevant implementation of an effective compliance program is evaluated with reference to the current requirements in the context of the accounting modernization law by means of self-audits and external audits. Corporate sourcing At the end of 2011, Lufthansa successfully concluded the project “Procurement Leadership,” which it had launched in early 2009. The focus was on two topics: the professionalization and standardization of the Group-wide procurement processes and the creation of a strategic goods category management. The latter was to enable the procurement areas to contribute sustainably about 300 million euros to the operating result by 2011. To secure the results in a lasting way and to and internal guidelines. In the future, however, the deepen them, the Group procurement function assessment and audit of suppliers from a comprewas set up as a new organizational unit reporthensive perspective of corporate responsibility will ing to the Executive Board member in charge of move more to the foreground. Lufthansa continues finances and aviation services. This department to orient itself by internationally accepted convencontinues work on the fundamental issues and tions on environmental protection and employee also plans the conclusion of setting up the largsafety, legal requirements concerning the fight est part of a Group-wide procurement IT infraagainst corruption, and security regulations in structure by 2015. One of the goals in this area is information processing. Suppliers that do not to support supplier management by standardized accept these contractual clauses are not admitted processes on the application side. An integral part to Lufthansa’s circle of suppliers. is the topic of corporate responsibility (CR) along the chain of suppliers. Lufthansa already demands that its suppliers adhere to binding CR criteria and has anchored these Group-wide in its contracts 42 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 a Infrastructure Investments secure tomorrow’s mobility Mobility is one of the indispensable fundamentals of our current way of life. It brings people together, is the engine driving economic and social developments, and creates individual affluence. The growth of the world’s population, the rising number of mega-urban regions and intensifying globalization create an ever-increasing demand for mobility. Against this background, aircraft manufacturer export-oriented German economy and the counAirbus predicts that the number of passentry’s entire logistics industry benefit from the cenger aircraft will double by 2030 (from 15,000 to tral location of one of the world’s leading passen31,000) as will the number of passengers, which ger and cargo hubs. At the same time, Frankfurt is is to grow by 4.8 percent per year on average. the home base of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, which Over the same period, the volume of air cargo employs 37,000 people locally and is thus conis even expected to grow by 5.1 percent a year. sidered Hessen’s largest employer. The basis for To secure such increasing mobility needs, a further economic growth and numerous addidemand-oriented and appropriate infrastructure tional jobs are in particular the Runway Northis needed. For many years, the Lufthansa Group west, which was opened on 21 October 2011, has endeavored to make the transport of people and new terminals. For example, the new runway and goods as sustainable as possible, for examincreases the airport’s capacity by 50 percent. ple by operating more fuel-efficient and quieter Furthermore, the inauguration of the new A-Plus aircraft. On the ground as well, the aviation group pier is slated for summer 2012. It will be used makes its contribution to orienting the infrastrucexclusively by Lufthansa and increase the airline’s ture to future challenges in a circumspect and capacity by 6 million passengers per year. realistic manner. Airport infrastructures adapted to demand are an important element in the triedBy contrast, the rigid night-flight ban between and-tested four-pillar strategy for climate pro11 p.m. and 5 a.m. at Frankfurt Airport, which was tection formulated by the aviation industry (see confirmed by the Federal Administrative Court in graphic on page 71). Leipzig at the beginning of April 2012, will have a palpable negative effect on the economic develFrankfurt Airport opment of this important German export and Over the past five years, Lufthansa alone invested logistics location. As worldwide competition is about 1 billion euros at its Frankfurt location. With continuously increasing, Lufthansa – and in parabout 71,000 employees at around 500 comticular its subsidiary Lufthansa Cargo – depend panies, Frankfurt Airport is not only the largest on competitive operating hours at its hubs. “On single place of work in Germany, but it is also an North Atlantic routes in particular, the nighttime important lifeline for the Federal Republic. The departures are indispensable for our customers. Frankfurt Airport’s new Runway Northwest. a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 43 On 23 April 2012, the cornerstone was laid for the new satellite facility at Munich Airport. This new building will provide Lufthansa and its partner airlines with additional handling capacities and thus allow them to accommodate the rising number of passengers. The migration of urgent express products to other Berlin Brandenburg Airport hubs in Europe will continue”, explains Karl Ulrich In context with the opening of the new Berlin Garnadt, Chairman of the Executive Board and Brandenburg “Willy Brandt” Airport (the opening CEO of Lufthansa Cargo AG. “Switching to other was postponed from June 2012 to March 2013) airports is impossible for Lufthansa Cargo, howthe Lufthansa Group is expanding its presence ever, as more than half the cargo on board pasin the capital region significantly by stationing a senger aircraft is transported via Frankfurt.” fleet of modern Airbus aircraft, boosting its timetable extensively, creating several hundred addiMunich Airport tional jobs and investing more than 60 million At Munich Airport, Flughafen München GmbH euros. For example, Lufthansa Technik is invest(FMG) and Lufthansa will construct a new sateling 16 million euros in new office and hangar lite building at Terminal 2 by 2015. Terminal 2 sursurfaces for the maintenance of shortand passed its capacity of 25 million passengers for medium-haul aircraft. The maintenance hanger the first time in 2011, when it handled 26.5 million will provide space for up to five standard fuselage passengers. The new building will provide addiaircraft or one wide-body aircraft up to the size tional handling capacities for 11 million passenof an Airbus A340 (see “Lufthansa Technik builds gers for Lufthansa and its partner airlines, thus maintenance hangar at the new capital city airmeeting the requirements of continuing growth in port in Berlin” on page 83). passenger volumes. At the same time, the satellite building will set new standards in the areas of sustainability and energy efficiency, as its ratio of CO2 emissions will be 40 percent lower than those of the two existing terminals. To achieve this, its walkable climate facade with refrigeration storage media stores cold during the summer months from the natural cooling during the night, which it releases during the day. Furthermore, air conditioning will take advantage of modern displacement flow diffuser technology. Inside the building, a glass wall closes off the area where passengers change from one level to another from the actual terminal levels. The space thus isolated serves as a climatic buffer for the entire building. 44 Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 a Social Responsibility Diversity Employment policy based on partnership Corporate training and continuing education Employee health and safety protection Facts and outlook a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 45 Diversity A key factor for the Group’s success: Diversity in management Companies with international operations increasingly operate in the field of tension created by world­ wide megatrends. Globalization, intensifying cost and competitive pressures as well as ever-more varied customer profiles and demands require significantly more flexibility, performance and efficiency. Additional pressure on companies comes from demographic change and – particularly in Germany – the looming lack of qualified personnel and managers. This increasing complexity will also have an FK 2020 is an integral part of the Lufthansa effect on the Lufthansa Group. To ensure that Group’s strategy and will make a significant conthe Lufthansa Group can master these chaltribution to improving the company’s performance lenges successfully, it is of central importance to and competitiveness. The focal point of this projincrease the level of diversity in the company’s ect, which includes all business segments, is on management landscape. A more broadly set-up the diversity dimensions of all ages, gender balmanagement team that disposes of varied comance, mixed cultures and different skills. This petencies and experiences makes it easier for the selection takes into account the predominantly company to meet heterogeneous market requiremonocultural character of current management, ments and customer demands. In addition, a which is to become gradually more heterogediversified management level not only secures neous by means of FK 2020. For Lufthansa, a broad range of competencies and experiences in management is a central resource for reaching its goals in the future as “Our goal is to dismantle barriers of well. In this context, varied international, profesany kind long-term and to create an sional and cultural backgrounds play an increasattractive work environment in which ingly important role. By means of the project women and men equally shape and Management Landscape 2020, the company is develop the company’s future across able to access this potential over the long term all hierarchy levels.” in a structured manner and to mirror the diverStefan Lauer sity among its customers and employees with an Chief Officer Group Airlines & equally diverse management. Corporate Human Resources Deutsche Lufthansa AG Broader scope in age distribution secures management resources To counteract the looming lack of qualified the long-term competitiveness and future viability personnel and managers, the Lufthansa Group of the aviation group, but it also allows the comaims at a broader scope in age distribution pany to act flexibly in a complex environment at among managers. The reason is that 60 percent any time, and to recognize customer needs more of Lufthansa managers are currently above the quickly, better understand them and translate age of 46, while the average age of managers them into the best possible products and seris 48. Thus, management responsibility is mostly vices – the most important consideration for a in the hands of a single age group. Over the service company. medium term, such homogeneous age structures lead to a lack of qualified young managers as To realize the potential of a systematic diversity a significant part of today’s managers will leave management and prepare the Lufthansa Group the Group simultaneously in 2019. Therefore, for current and future developments, the Executive the transfer of knowledge to subsequent manBoard initiated the project “Management Landagement generations has to be prepared early scape 2020” (“FK 2020”) in 2011. The goal is to and anchored structurally. FK 2020 will make a realize more flexibility and diversity at all managesignificant contribution in this area and expand ment levels and to expand these qualities among the scope of age in Lufthansa management. “A junior executives across the Lufthansa Group. greater degree of age variance secures our new 46 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a generation of management, provides more perspectives due to different backgrounds of experience and allows us an effective steering of the knowledge and experience transfers at the higher management levels,” explains Michael Böttcher, Director Project Executive Management Land­ scape 2020. Better incorporate the potentials of female managers The share of women in management positions stood at 13.6 percent in 2011 at the Lufthansa Group, while the share of women with staff responsibility reached 35.5 percent. This shows that a decisive pool for the Group’s management Presentation of the project “Management Landscape 2020” recruitment has not been sufficiently addressed at the managers conference on 6 February 2012 in Frankfurt. thus far, as having more women in management positions enriches and strengthens Lufthansa’s flexible career models and alternative careers management landscape. Therefore, FK 2020 is to are gaining increasing importance. Apart from increase the share of women in higher manageprofessional leave – in the shape of sabbatical ment by about 30 percent by 2020. “Our goal is years, for example – this also includes the option to dismantle barriers of any kind long-term and of transferring the responsibility of a management to create an attractive work environment in which position to two managers. As Stefan Lauer points women and men equally shape and develop out: “Leadership is divisible as well.” To increase the company’s future across all hierarchy levels,” the number of leadership tandems, Lufthansa is emphasizes Stefan Lauer, Chief Officer Group Airplanning to make their creation easier by implelines & Corporate Human Resources at Lufthansa menting appropriate measures across the Group. Group. Part-time work in management allows both male and female managers to reconcile career goals Promote managers’ international experience with family obligations and personal interests. An outward-looking perspective and a respectful way of treating each other and customers are From the company’s perspective, there are also a matter of course for an aviation company with good reasons for more flexible work-time models international operations such as the Lufthansa in higher management – such as increased work Group. Considering the continued development of motivation and productivity as well as improved globalization and interlinking of markets, Lufthansa identification with the employer and its goals. needs a management team that knows the difMaking careers more flexible also means more ferent demands of markets and is able to handle room for maneuver for the Group. One of the them with ease. To do so requires an ever-greater advantages of going beyond pure line organizadegree of internationalization – not only among tion or complementing line organization with projemployees, but also among managers. However, at the moment only 14 percent of the Group’s managers do not have German nationality. Every fifth management position is located outside of “A greater degree of age variance Germany and 61 percent of these are filled by secures our new generation of German nationals. To increase the level of intermanagement, provides more per­ nationalization among managers and upcoming spectives due to different backmanagers, FK 2020 will help identify and progrounds of experience and allows us mote highly qualified candidates with experience an effective steering of the knowledge abroad and prepare them for working with nonand experience transfers at the higher German management colleagues. management levels.” Michael Böttcher More flexibility and scope for shaping manDirector Project Executive Management agement careers Landscape 2020, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Against the background of the challenges posed by Lufthansa’s dynamic business environment, a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 47 Management diversity Structure of the project FK 2020 with the four diversity dimensions of all ages, mixed cultures, different skills and gender balance All ages Mixed cultures Different skills Gender balance Alignment and processes Structures Change and communication Development and staffing FK 2020 Cu ltu ls ua re vid di In Flexibility ect and expert careers is that it gives more scope The switches have been reset for organizing an effective team quickly Whether services gain acceptance in the market and independently of location. Additionally, mandepends decisively on the suitability, motivation, agers who have passed through different profesqualification and flexibility of the people who prosional stages have acquired a greater wealth of vide these services. To ensure that the altered and experience. optimized processes and instruments of FK 2020 really lead to increased diversity in the Lufthansa Shaping structural changes together Group’s management, an accompanying change The core team responsible for the project Manmanagement concept is an integral part of the agement Landscape 2020 comprises four project. Its task is to prepare managers for the employees, who work in close cooperation with upcoming modifications, take away their fears the human resource departments at the Group and make them committed supporters of the companies. Additionally, FK 2020 is advised by a changes ahead – for the good of the entire comconsulting committee. Its members are managpany and its employees. With FK 2020 Lufthansa ers from all companies and management levels, has reset the switches for the future viability of who simultaneously act as multiplicators. “In the the Group with its worldwide operations. current project phase we’re above all working on assessing factors such as efficiency and costs of selected measures and instruments,” explains project manager Michael Böttcher. “As soon as this diversity check will be concluded in the second quarter 2012, we will decide which measures we will implement in practice.” 48 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Diversity activities 2011: Added value through varieties At the Lufthansa Group, people from 141 nations contribute to the company’s success every day. They come from the most different cultures and ethnic backgrounds, belong to different age groups and provide an enormous scope of views and competencies. This diversity among its personnel is decisive for the company in its quest to secure its favorable competitive position over the long term. Just as other companies with international “appreciation creates value” operations, Lufthansa is subject to international Whether a company produces innovative ideas mega­trends such as globalization, demographic and products depends decisively on whether change, lack of qualified personnel and managits employees are able to apply the diversity of ers, and highly dynamic markets, to name but a their competencies, their attitudes and ways of few factors. For many years, the Lufthansa Group thinking. The switches are set by the Lufthansa has counted on systematic diversity management Group’s company-wide diversity strategy, which to find suitable solutions for the complex chalis based on the principle “appreciation creates lenges of the 21st century. This includes a point of value.” The focus is on efforts to create an approview characterized by openness, which acknowlpriate balance between the Group’s economic edges diversity among employees, appreciates interests and the employees’ individual and social it and incorporates it as a strategic resource into concerns. Special attention is given to the diverthe service of the company and its employees. sity dimensions of equal opportunities and support for women, work-life balance, cooperation between different generations, disabilities and At a glance: cultural diversity, although the emphasis can Of 116,365 employees, of which ... vary from one business segment or company to ... 44.6 % are women another. ... 35.5 % are women with staff responsibility ... 13.6 % are women in management positions Women in management positions ... 5.2 % are pilots, At the Group, the share of women in management positions increased from 13.1 percent in ... 57.8 % work in Germany. 2010 to 13.6 percent in the reporting year. The decline in the share of women with staff responsi orldwide, 141 nationalities are represented in the W bility, that is to say with functions below the manLufthansa Group. The average age is 40.8 years. agement levels, is due to consolidation effects. This value declined from 36.8 percent in 2010 As per 31.12.2011 to 35.5 percent in the reporting year (see page 52). Absolutely, the numbers of women with staff responsibility increased from 4,518 in 2010 to This perspective has been part of Lufthansa’s 4,843 in 2011. entrepreneurial identity for many years and led to setting up the organizational unit “Change ManEqual opportunity agement and Diversity” in the area Group PerLufthansa has had a new Manager for Equal sonnel Policies as long ago as 2001. Opportunity since 1 May 2011 (see interview on page 51). It is her task to develop concepts and Nevertheless, the Lufthansa Group always aims suggest measures that improve the professional at adapting its diversity management to changing opportunities for women and that allow men and external conditions and developing it further. This women to reconcile job and family more readily. includes transferring the traditionally high level of To this end, she is in constant dialogue with manstructural diversity among employees to the area agers, personnel departments, employees and of management (see “A key factor for the Group’s employee representatives. success: Diversity in management” on page 46). a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 49 fessional networks. The intercompany program allows the creation of tandems for limited periods of time, consisting of a female employee with staff responsibility from one company and a male or female mentor from a higher hierarchical level from another company. In addition to Lufthansa, which is currently represented with seven tandems, participating companies include Deutsche Bank, Bosch and Merck. The initiative is paying off: 42 percent of the Lufthansa employees having finished the mentoring process now have a management position at the Group. Another tool for increasing the share of women among supervisors with staff responsibility is the focused idenIngeborg Kelderman is Lufthansa Cargo’s first female captain on the MD-11F. tification of talented female employees among team managers, executives and in the operaMore and more women in the cockpit tional areas. Female pilots have been an everyday sight at Lufthansa for 25 years – in the beginning as first Compatibility of job and family officers and since 1 January 2000 also as capThe compatibility of job and family is no longer a tains. In 2011, Ingeborg Kelderman became the private matter. Lufthansa has supported mothers first woman at Lufthansa Cargo to take the capand fathers for many years with offers for child tain’s seat aboard a MD-11F. “I hope that the care. In 2011, the company decided to increase number of female captains will increase signifithe number of day-care places and by 2012 their cantly over the years ahead,” says Fokko Doyen, number was doubled. Another positive developFleet Chief MD-11F at Lufthansa Cargo AG. On ment is that the number of men who take paren31 December 2011, the company employed 436 tal leave to look after their children for a certain pilots, including 19 women. At Lufthansa German time is establishing itself across the Group. Airlines and the other Lufthansa companies with flight operations, it was a total of 8,807 pilots, Lufthansa employees are also not alone when it including 458 women. comes to looking after senior family members. In the framework of “Elder Care,” they receive Cross-company Mentoring support from the external service provider “pme On 28 September 2011, the starting signal was Familienservice.” Numerous work-time models, given in Frankfurt for the 13th Cross-company which include self-planned working hours on the Mentoring. The goal of this program, which was honor principle, also contribute to making proinitiated in 1998 by Lufthansa, is to support fessional and private lives more compatible with women in strengthening their leadership qualities, each other. planning their next career steps and creating proFathers taking parental leave – An experience to be recommended “I have two children and took parental leave both times – an experience I highly recommend to other fathers. The months at home were not always easy, but they fostered the connections between my children and me enormously. In addition, it allowed my wife to go back to work full-time after a parental leave of 12 months, even though we were still waiting for a day-care place at that time. It was also positive that both my supervisor and my colleagues supported my decision. This was not a given because the workload was high and every employee was needed urgently.“ Marcus Hellmann NDT-Personnel for Wheels and Brakes at Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt 50 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a At the location in Hamburg, employees of Lufthansa Technik have benefited from a child Three questions for the new Manager care offer close to their jobs since early 2012. Equal Opportunity The day-care center “Kinderpropeller” offers care for up to 90 children with and without disJuliane Grauer has been the new Manager ability up to the age of six years. The center was Equal Opportunity at Deutsche Lufthansa AG founded in part thanks to the commitment of since 1 May 2011. Previously, this qualified psythe charity TechnoKids, which was initialized by chologist worked at different companies and in Lufthansa Technik employees, and a donation various areas of the Lufthansa Group – includfrom company management. ing as a consultant at Lufthansa Consulting, as a trainer at the Lufthansa School of Business, Cultural diversity in personnel management and as a manager At regular intervals “Kultu Raum” invites pursers in the subject area “JobChange” in the departand flight attendants to brush up their interculment Group Personnel Policies. tural competencies. The focus of these continuing education events spanning several days is What are the tasks of the Manager Equal Opportunity? on the cultures of the Lufthansa core markets As Manager Equal Opportunity I develop concepts and measures that help India, Japan, China and Korea. These trainings improve equal professional opportunities for women and men within the increase the understanding of national particucompany. One of the central elements of my work is to increase the awarelarities and also impart knowledge about religion ness of this topic and reduce prejudices. At the moment, I assume this and concerning conflict avoidance. responsibility exclusively in Germany because management of companies outside of Germany know the local regulatory and cultural conditions much Cooperation between different generations better and in part have their own contact partners for this topic. NevertheLufthansa has looked into the phenomenon of less, we’re in close contact. demographic change, which affects the individual business segments and Group companies What makes your new job interesting and where are your current with different levels of intensity. In this context, areas of emphasis? age and the ability to perform need to be evaluMy task is indeed a real challenge. On the one hand, because there is the ated separately. For example, the employees of expectation in the political debate to have more women in management Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa Technik have a positions, and on the other because of the self-chosen obligation of the high average age. In addition, a relatively high Lufthansa Group to increase the share of women among managers by number of these employees have physical tasks, 30 percent by 2020. Above all, we’ll only be able to increase the number which means higher levels of stress than their of women in management positions if we’re able to improve the care offers colleagues working in offices, for example. It is for young children among other things, so that highly qualified women no certain that the average age and length of worklonger have to choose between career and family. We’re working on this, ing life will continue to increase. In 2011, a strucfor example by making counseling and child care offers available through tural age analysis was carried out at Lufthansa the companies pme Familienservice GmbH and Medical Airport Services Cargo, which also allows a prognosis for the GmbH. In addition, we contract day-care places from external service proyears ahead. “We need to think today about how viders within acceptable financial limits. There’s no doubt that we’ll work we can ensure a balanced age structure tomorintensively on this topic for some years to come. row, and how the know-how of retiring employees can be maintained for the company,” emphasizes In which areas has Lufthansa already realized equal opportunity Claus Wachenheim, Head of Human Resources and where do you see need for action? at Lufthansa Cargo. With a share of 44.6 percent the Lufthansa Group has a high share of women for the entire company. Women even dominate in service-oriented Strategic personnel planning will ensure that jobs, while there could be more of them in technical fields. When it comes there will be no shortage of suitable candidates to flexible working hours, we’re also doing very well. However, we often see for key positions in the future. Moreover, broadthat this option is far from being used by everybody. There, we still need to based company health management, lifelong work on persuading people. Last but not least, we aim at diminishing tradilearning, support for diversity and increasingly tional role concepts, so that the growing number of men who’d like to take a flexible working hours all contribute to mastering greater role in their families independently of their professional position have the challenges of demographic change and to the opportunity to do so and receive the necessary support. securing the employability of staff. At the Group level, the topic of demographic management also has the highest priority. In 2011, the focus topics of the internal expert round, which meets regularly, a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 51 Share of women with staff responsibility at the Average age at the Lufthansa Group2,3 Lufthansa Group1,2 in years in percent 39 40 38 35 37 30 36 25 36.4 37.0 37.7 38.3 38.8 38.9 39.0 39.1 39.0 39.5 39.6 29.2 30.8 28.0 32.0 32.5 34.7 35.8 38.0 41.5 36.8 35.5 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 41 40 Share of women in management positions at the Lufthansa Group1,2 39 in percent 39.8 39.9 40.2 40.6 41.1 41.3 41.4 41.5 41.5 41.8 41.9 15 10 40 12.7 13.5 12.3 13.3 12.7 12.9 15.0 14.6 14.7 13.1 13.6 39 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 38 38.3 38.7 39.1 39.6 40.1 40.2 40.3 40.4 40.3 40.7 40.8 Part-time employment at the Lufthansa Group2 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 in percent 40 female male all employees employees employees 35 30 Age structure at the Lufthansa Group 3 25 2011, in percent 25.2 29.7 35.5 40.3 41.1 42.6 43.8 42.7 42.7 43.9 44.2 60 and over 2.9 55 – 59 6.8 50 – 54 11.3 15 45 – 49 18.0 40 – 44 17.3 10 35 – 39 13.7 5 30 – 34 13.7 25 – 29 10.3 8.4 9.6 15.1 13.9 13.0 13.7 14.3 14.0 14.0 13.6 13.3 20 – 24 5.1 18 – 19 0.7 25 under 18 0.2 20 15 1 Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, SWISS Aviation Training, Edelweiss Air AG, SWISS European Airlines, LH Italia S.p.A., SWISS Aviation Software, Traviaustria, Lauda Air Luft15.6 18.0 23.5 24.6 24.6 25.7 26.8 26.5 26.9 26.9 27.1 fahrt GmbH, LH Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH Technik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Switzerland GmbH, LH Technik 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, LH Technik North America Holding female male all Corp., LH Systems Americas Inc., AirPlus Air Travel Card Vertriebsges. mbH, LH Flight Training employees employees employees Berlin GmbH, AirPlus International Ltd., AirPlus International S.r.I., AirPlus Payment Management Co. Ltd., AirPlus International AG, AirPlus International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd., British Midland Airways Ltd. Part-time work by Group companies2 2 2011 do not include bmi; comparative 2010 value adjusted for bmi 2011, in percent 3 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, LH Italia S.p.A., LH Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., LH Technik Philippines Inc., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH TechGroup 27.1 nik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ltd., LH Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Ae26.9 rospace Inc. (US), BizJet International Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, LH Technik Deutsche ­Lufthansa­ AG 43.5 North America Holding Corp., LH Malta Finance Ltd., British Midland Airways Ltd., LH Technik Lan44.1 ding Gear Services UK Ltd. (previously Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd., UK) Group abroad 16.4 15.8 ­Lufthansa­ Technik 10.2 10.9 ­Lufthansa­ Cargo 18.0 18.8 Systems LSY Group 21.0 20.5 LSG Group 15.5 15.1 2011 2010 As per 31.12.2011 52 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a were the integration of the Group airlines and the deployability of employees with changed levels of performance. People with disabilities In Germany, the Lufthansa Group employs about 2,200 people with disabilities. They make an important contribution to the company’s success. Their integration is a central goal of personnel policy, which is anchored in the diversity strategy. In the reporting year, the share of employees with disabilities in Germany stood at 3.4 percent (preceding year: 3.5 percent) Group-wide. In the individual companies, their share varies between zero and 22.5 percent (LSG Stuttgart). The airAndreas F. Schneider of brandstage tv, satirist Rainer Schmidt, Dr. Martin Schmitt, Senior Vice lines, in particular, are faced with a more signifiPresident Executive Personnel at Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Dr. Jürgen Graf, Head of Lufthansa cant challenge in reaching the 5-percent quota. Medical Care (from left) in dialogue during the Inclusion Day. For flying personnel, there are only rare cases where a disability allows the status “fit to fly.” The Group concentrates on optimally supporting existing strengths and competencies, and provides adapted places of work. In 2011, Lufthansa organized numerous dialogue events to increase awareness of the specific challenges faced by colleagues with disabilities. In addition, the first Inclusion Day took place under the motto “Top in Job – Despite Disability” in March 2012 at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt. Numerous organizations that are concerned by the topic of disabilities – such as the Federal Employment Agency, the Center for Self-determined Life of People with Disabilities, and the Diabetes Association – were present with information stands and available for dialogue Disabled people at the Lufthansa Group in Germany1 or to answer specific questions. Stefan Lauer, 2011, in percent Chief Officer Group Airlines & Corporate Human ­Lufthansa­Technik Logistik GmbH 8.1 Resources at Deutsche Lufthansa AG, specifically ­Lufthansa­ Cargo AG 7.5 supported the event. LSG (subgroup) 7.3 ­­Lufthansa­ Systems (subgroup) 5.4 ­Lufthansa­ Technik AG 4.5 Diversity as a subject in continuing education ­Lufthansa­Process Management GmbH 4.4 Group employees find a broad range of continu­Lufthansa­Flight Training GmbH 4.0 ing education options at the Lufthansa School ­Lufthansa­AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH 2.8 ­Lufthansa Technik Maintenance Intern. GmbH 2.5 of Business concerning the topic of diversity; ­Lufthansa World Shop GmbH 2.4 enrollment is voluntary. This includes one-day Deutsche ­Lufthansa­ AG 2.3 courses involving personal participation and fea­Lufthansa­ CityLine GmbH 1.5 turing expert lectures, learning dialogues as well Lufthansa Technik AERO Alzey GmbH 0.9 Eurowings AG 0.5 as individual and group exercises to deepen the Germanwings GmbH 0.5 knowledge acquired. Further areas of emphasis Lufthansa Training & Conference Center GmbH 0.5 include the six core dimensions of diversity, the conscious unlearning of prejudices and the perOverall, the employment ratio for the consolidated companies reached 3.4 percent. ception of potentials. There were no employees with significant disabilities at the following companies: Lufthansa Cargo Charter Agency, Jettainer, Miles & More, LSG Lufthansa Service Cateringund Dienstleistungsgesellschaft mbH and Lufthansa Flight Training Berlin. 1 Share of people with significant disabilities at the consolidated companies in Germany: estimated values, based on analyses as per 31.12.2011. a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 53 Employment policy based on partnership Information, consultation and participation in corporate decisions It is a tried-and-tested company policy to clarify conflicts of interest between company management and the employee representation in an open and transparent manner. A fair approach to coexistence in all areas creates the necessary balance to advance the Lufthansa Group’s position in the market. The increasing plurality of opinions and opinion Employers’ Association (Arbeitgeberverband Luftleaderships – analogous to social developments verkehr, AGVL) and the union ver.di agreed on 26 as a whole – is an increasing challenge for all January 2012 on a new collective pay agreement. parties concerned. Therefore, the guidelines for It calls for retroactively increasing the benchmark joint efforts are flexibility and the ability to react figures in the pay tables by 3.5 percent effecwithin the market. tive 1 January 2012. The agreement’s term is 13 months. The supplement to holiday pay was Partnership in collective agreements increased to 1,075 euros, the pay for apprenin Germany tices was increased by a flat rate of 60 euros, Lufthansa employs its staff under conditions that and other allowances and supplements were provide them with social and material security increased moderately. not only during their professional lives but also afterwards. These are established on the basis of The union Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisacollective agreements which the company negotion (UFO), which had formed a collective pay tiates with its union partners Vereinte Dienstleisassociation with ver.di only a few weeks before tungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit the negotiations, refused the offers made by the (VC) and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisaemployer’s side on behalf of cabin staff. As a tion e.V. (UFO). The goal is to treat all employee result, negotiations were restarted in the first half groups across the Group fairly and justly – a of 2012 with the goal of maintaining standard pay standard that is faced with an increasingly chalscales. lenging framework of conditions owing to the plurality of unions within the company. For LSG Sky Chefs and the business segment MRO, the unions and management agreed speLufthansa agreed with the company-wide and cific rules. At LSG Sky Chefs, the key issue is to local employee representations in July 2011 on secure the competitiveness of the LSG Sky Chefs a viable future concept for the ground staff at companies in Germany over the long term. In the the stations in Bremen, Hanover, Cologne and business segment Catering, the increase from Nuremberg. In addition to immediately implethis pay round is to be used for an employment mented measures aimed at increasing efficiency, guarantee and for a one-time payment of 250 the agreement calls for phasing out certain staeuros per full-time employee. The Lufthansa subtion services step-by-step. Lufthansa guarantees sidiary will refrain from operations-related layoffs its staff at these stations continued employment for the duration of the agreement negotiated durand thus keeps attractive professional perspecing the 2012 pay round. tives within the company open for them. For the business segment MRO, the partners The 2011 pay round for cockpit personnel was agreed on the key points concerning the introopened by Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), which duction and financing of a success-related pay gave proper notice concerning the collective pay scale, and starting the withdrawal from a transiagreement as per 31 March 2011. An agreement tion supplement, which has been in effect since was reached as early as June. After two years the introduction of a new pay scale in 2007. On without pay increases, the pilots received a pay the one hand, this collective wage agreement settlement with an increase of 3.5 percent under reflects Lufthansa’s results in 2010 and 2011. But an agreement valid until 30 April 2012. above all, it is an acknowledgment of the employees’ contribution to strengthening the Lufthansa On behalf of the ground personnel working at Group’s competitiveness by having agreed to a Deutsche Lufthansa AG in Germany, the Aviation wage freeze for the period of 22 months. 54 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a After the conclusion of the arbitration process in January 2011, cabin staff were obligated to keep Distribution of employees within the Lufthansa Group1 industrial peace until the end of the year. The 2011, changes in percent interim period was used for a dialogue with the 2011 2010 change union Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisation Group employees 116,365 113,406 + 2.6 (UFO) concerning urgently needed adaptations in of which Passenger Airline Group 55,361 53,544 + 3.4 pay structures and measures to increase comof which Logistics 4,624 4,517 + 2.4 petitiveness in continental traffic. While Lufthansa of which MRO 19,975 20,159 – 0.9 and UFO were able to agree on key points, a of which IT Services 2,820 2,935 – 3.9 conclusive agreement could not yet be reached of which Catering 29,586 28,499 + 3.8 in 2011. The dialogue on necessary changes was of which Others 3,999 3,752 + 6.6 restarted in the first half of 2012 in the context of the collective pay negotiations. Active pay and social policies also abroad Employees by group and gender 2011, in percent Internationalization and globalization offer comWomen 44.6 prehensive opportunities for the business and 51,873 personnel processes across the Group. As a Men 55.4 64,492 company with international operations, Lufthansa’s Apprentices 24.4 pay and social policies are guided by the respec1,616 75.6 tive general conditions in individual countries. Ground2 37.6 80,263 62.4 The focus is on the long-term definition of the Flight3 61.9 conditions of employment, which depend on 34,486 38.1 Cockpit 5.2 employee needs, operational requirements and 8,807 94.8 the local labor market. In all countries where Cabin 81.3 Lufthansa acts unilaterally, the company uses 25,679 18.7 benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as female employees male employees inflation to assess salaries once a year for their viability in the context of the market and competitiveness. Thus, Lufthansa offers a continuous Lufthansa Group: Jobs around the world evaluation and adaptation of working conditions 2011 for its locally employed staff. In countries with Frankfurt / Main 36,949 high rates of inflation this assessment, which ordiHamburg 9,982 narily leads to pay increases, is carried out every Munich 10,308 Cologne 2,507 six months. Lufthansa also enters into pay negotiBerlin 1,427 ations with employee representatives in countries Rest of Germany 6,090 such as Ghana and Ethiopia, were the company Total in Germany 67,263 has no more than 15 to 20 employees. Rest of Europe 23,404 thereof Vienna 5,649 Zurich 6,910 As a member of the UN Global Compact, Lufthansa Africa / Middle East 2,085 has documented its support of the freedom of North / Central America 12,956 association and the right to collective bargaining South America 3,093 Asia / Pacific 7,564 for all employees worldwide. Employees in any Group total 116,365 country where Lufthansa companies are active are free to organize themselves according to 1 2011 do not include bmi; comparative 2010 value adjusted for bmi legal conditions and thus participate in shaping 2 without apprentices 3 consists of cockpit and cabin their working conditions. As per 31.12.2011 a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 55 Employee representation at the European level Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group has established itself as an employer with about 23,000 employees in Europe, but outside of Germany. At home, it is the task of the works councils, the personnel representatives, the employee representatives on the supervisory boards and the unions to strike a balance between the different interests of employers and employees. However, such a multipart system does not exist in all European countries. Since 1996 Lufthansa has met these legal requirements in the framework of the Group’s industrial relations agreement “EURO-Info” with a specific extension of the Group Economic CommitSeventh employee survey with record participation tee for cross-national issues. In accordance with Lufthansa has counted for many years on regular employee surveys to the codetermination committees, the company establish the level of identification with the employer, weak areas or work sathas taken advantage of the option to agree on a isfaction. In 2011, the seventh edition of “Employee Feedback Management” setup that is better adapted to Lufthansa’s spe(EFM) took place. Worldwide, 23,464 employees at Lufthansa German Airlines cific conditions. This regulation (art. 13 “Agreeand in Group functions seized the opportunity to participate in capturing this ment”), which protects existing rights, makes the “mood snapshot.” Participation reached 63.9 percent, its highest value so far election of a European works council unneces(2008: 52.8 percent), which corresponds to an increase of 20 percent. “This sary. It provides, among other measures, that is a considerable level of advance trust,” says Matthias Borchers, Vice Presirepresentatives of company management teams, dent Personnel Development Lufthansa German Airlines. works councils, cabin crews and foreign companies work together and participate in at least In comparison with the previous employee survey in 2008, the employees one meeting per year of the Group Economic of Lufthansa German Airlines were more satisfied with their salaries and Committee. communications than their colleagues in Group functions. There were also differences concerning the subject area “Learning & Innovation,” which the JobChange – Paths toward new professional employees of the operations-related areas rated more favorably than those perspectives in administration. “The feedback from employees must be taken seriously by The Lufthansa Group pursues a long-term permanagers,” Borchers emphasizes. For this reason, it is every department’s sonnel policy that gives high priority not only to task to enter into a dialogue and join forces to launch improvements. operations-related requirements but also to the interests and concerns of its employees. It has Leadership feedback from employees always been an important consideration for the Specific feedback concerning their leadership performance was given in aviation group to create secure jobs that pro2011 to managers at Lufthansa Technik, Lufthansa Technik Logistik, Lufthansa vide a long-term professional perspective. NevTechnik Maintenance International and Lufthansa LEOS as part of the iniertheless, business-related restructurings cannot tiative “Great Place to Work®.” The survey’s goal was to improve the way of always be avoided, and so it was in 2011. In such working together within the company, to launch dialogues about the work cases, Lufthansa has successfully counted on the situations within teams and to optimize them with appropriate measures if job placement system JobChange to adapt staff needed. The leadership feedback was given on the intranet by means of capacities as socially compatibly as possible and questionnaires, which the employees could complete anonymously. The surto assume its responsibility for these employees vey was accompanied by information events for the 1,640 managers at the during the process of change. participating companies. Once the survey results were available, evaluation discussions took place between supervisors and employees to form the basis for determining concrete action areas and measures. 56 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Corporate training and continuing education Knowledge secures the future The more qualified the Lufthansa Group’s employees are, the more successful the Group can be in competition. For this reason, the aviation company has offered a broad range of professional and interdisciplinary training and continuing education options – even in times that were economically difficult. As an employer who acts responsibly concernSelected students also have the opportunity of ing social and civic issues, Lufthansa hired 808 getting to know the aviation group firsthand duryoung people in 53 training professions in 2011 ing the annual “Experience Lufthansa” days. in Germany. Furthermore, in 2011 Lufthansa and the AviaThe Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) tion Management Institute at the EBS BusiGermany’s first corporate university has been ness School organized the second edition of responsible for the need-oriented qualification the “Lufthansa Case Challenge.” A total of 189 of employees and managers across the entire teams from more than 25 countries participated Group since 1998 – across all age brackets. In in the academic competition for bachelor’s doing so, it interlinks the individual qualification of and master’s students. The competition, which employees with the company’s development and focused on the topic of sustainability, aims at thus contributes to tackling necessary processes gaining impulses from the academic environof change at the Group successfully. “Last year ment for practice-related issues. The six groups showed again that the investments in the develwith the most innovative concepts reached opment and continuing education of our employthe final and thus had the opportunity to presees and managers are paying off,” says Ulrike ent their ideas to a jury comprising Lufthansa Schlosser, Head of Lufthansa School of Business. top managers and EBS experts. The patron of “Therefore, we will continue this strategy in 2012 the “Lufthansa Case Challenge” is Sadiq Gillani, as well.” Senior Vice President Corporate Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. In 2012, the competiProfessional perspective with a future tion’s topic is innovation in the aviation industry. The LHSB’s spectrum comprises tailor-made trainings, management programs as well as network and dialogue platforms. Together they form the basis for the professional development of managers, the cooperation within teams and the implementation of the Group’s strategy. Moreover, the institution cooperates with se­lected international business schools and academic organizations. For its partnership with the Lancaster University Management School and McGill University in the framework of the “International Master’s Program in Practicing Management” (lMPM), Lufthansa was awarded a prize by the European Foundation for Management in 2011. “Last year showed again that the investments in the development and Talent management’s focus: continuing education of our employThe best in their field Lufthansa searches continuously for highly-qualees and managers are paying off.” ified young employees. The close cooperation with universities and technical universities plays Ulrike Schlosser an important role in this context. For example, as Head of Lufthansa School of Business part of its university marketing, the company is Deutsche Lufthansa AG regularly present at internship fairs, participates in workshops, and provides speakers. a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 57 In the same way, the annual students’ information days “Fascination Lufthansa” serve the purpose of giving firsthand knowledge about the numerous training and study options at the Group to young men and women who are at the start of their professional lives. On 12 dates throughout the year at the Lufthansa Training & Conference Center in Seeheim, the information days provide insights into the multifaceted range of jobs in the aviation industry – including specialist for air transport services, flight attendant, pilot, technical and business-oriented professions as well as those in the area of hospitality. The finalists of the “Lufthansa Case Challenge” 2011 together with the jury International focus on recruiting young employees Unfailing: Lufthansa’s attractiveness Lufthansa offers university graduates an attracas an employer tive professional start with the “ProTeam GenFor many years, Lufthansa has been ranking eral Management Trainee” program. In the first among the most popular employers in Germany. month of this international initiative, the particiRegular top spots in the key employer rankings pants learn in presentations and hands-on activiprove that the investments in development and ties in different company areas about the Group’s continuing education of employees and managgreat variety. This is followed by project stints in ers are paying off. In 2011, Lufthansa was again Germany and abroad; in a parallel move, trainhonored as one of the most preferred employings and workshops take place to accompany ers: For the fifth time in a row, the company was the personal development of the young employranked in the top group of German companies ees. In 2011, Lufthansa hired 12 ProTeam trainin the business section of the Universum Student ees, of whom 30 percent have an international Survey 2011. The aviation group’s high level of background. attractiveness is also reflected in the number of job applicants. In 2011, about 155,000 job seekAnother initiative that generates more internationers applied for 6,000 vacancies that the comality at the Lufthansa Group is the company-wide pany had posted. There was also great interest program “explorers.” Its eighth edition, which was in www.Be-Lufthansa.com. In the reporting year launched in November 2011, counts 147 particialone, on average more than 210,000 viewers per pating young managers from all Group compamonth visited the Group’s job and career portal, nies. The “explorers” platform serves the indiwhich has had its own presence on Facebook vidual development of professional and persince April 2010. With about 25,000 fans – that is sonal competencies, the creation of one’s own twice as many as in 2010 – it has developed into networks within the Group and the promotion one of the most popular career portals of German of international cooperation between the Group companies in this social network. companies. Playful way into the working world Since the beginning of 2012, Lufthansa has presented for the first time a captivating and innovative tool for young people on www.Be-Lufthansa.com, designed to help them find a suitable professional start at the company. The “Professional Orientation Game” is aimed at pupils from 14 years of age and high-school graduates who are interested in a professional training or a course of study. The goal is to explore one’s own strengths in a playful manner, to find appropriate training options at Lufthansa and to gain an impression of the working environment in this way before making a decision. The use of the game is free of charge and anonymous. 58 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Employee health and safety protection Enterprise “health” Healthy, committed and performance-oriented employees are a fundamental condition for the Lufthansa Group to maintain its position in international competition successfully in the future as well. Accordingly, the protection of employee health and safety enjoys a high priority within the company. In 2011, the steering committee “Strategic Health Firmly established: Health week Care Management,” led by Monika Rühl, Director at the Lufthansa Aviation Center Change Management and Diversity, took a close Regularly organized health days and weeks are look at the question of what is more sensible: To very popular with Lufthansa employees. For this aim prevention primarily at individual employreason, numerous campaigns again took place in ees – as has been the case so far – or to shape 2011 at the Group locations in Germany with the health care management to address the organiaim of promoting employee health. This included zation’s issues more directly in future as well. The the health week at the Lufthansa Aviation Center result will be a guideline based on the WHO’s in Frankfurt from 15 to 18 August 2011. Emphadefinition describing health as “physical, psysis was placed on the topic “Burned out? – Fill chic and social well-being.” This approach also up!” to give Lufthansa employees the opportunity indicates which measures will have to be impleto learn in detail about causes and symptoms of mented in the areas of work organization, leaderstress and burnout, and about appropriate ways ship, work-life balance and corporate culture. of handling stress. The program also included presentations and campaigns on the topics of Medical Service diagnosis and ergonomics, nutrition and exercise One key position in the health and prevention as well as stress management and work-life balconcept of Deutsche Lufthansa AG is the Mediance. These activities were organized in coopcal Service, headed by Professor Uwe Stüben. Its eration with the Medical Service, the Lufthansa physicians in occupational, aviation and tropical Sports Association, Employee Safety and Social medicine are available to employees with health Counseling as well as external partners. problems – in close cooperation with Group Employee Safety, the internal social counseling service and the health experts at the Group companies. To promote interdepartmental exchanges about health-related topics, the Working Group Health meets four times a year. Its members are representatives of the Medical Service, Employee Safety, Social Counseling as well as Personnel and Health Management. In 2011, the Group again supported its employees with varied offers concerning health prevention and promotion. This included back training courses, programs to quit smoking, screenings to prevent chronic illnesses, inoculations, advice on reducing stress and preventing addictions. Numerous individual campaigns for cabin crews in Frankfurt and Munich on focus topics such as feet, sleep or nutrition complemented the offers. Regular articles on the intranet and in the staff newspaper “Lufthanseat” provide information about the broad range of these options. Health week 2011: Information stand of the Medical Service at the Lufthansa Aviation Center. a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 59 paign theater in Frankfurt. Patron of the event was Stefan Lauer, Chief Officer Group Airlines & Corporate Human Resources at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Fit on the job – Health day at headquarters in Cologne Balanced nutrition and sufficient exercise are indispensable for maintaining health. Accordingly, the health day on 12 April 2011 at headquarters in Cologne focused on asking how lifestylerelated risks can be identified and avoided, and which options are available to effectively counteract specific burdens caused by modern work environments. Employees were keenly interested In May 2011, the Cargo-fit health truck rolled its way across Germany. in information offered by Weight Watchers, back massages, health checks offered by the Medical “Keep up” health days for station employees Service, a “drunkenness goggles course” as well The “Keep up” health days opened their doors for as information stands and campaigns on the topthe third time on 28 and 29 September 2011 in ics of exercise, sports, nutrition, stress manageFrankfurt, this time under the motto “Healthy in all ment and relaxation. senses.” The highlight of this event, designed for employees at the station, was the “Age Explorer,” “Cargo-fit on tour” a large-scale protective work suit. This simulaFor two weeks in May 2011 the Cargo-fit health tor makes it possible to experience age physitruck made its way through Germany as part cally and emotionally, and thus increases the of the “Cargo-fit on tour” campaign. During its understanding for older customer groups and “pit stops” at the stations in Munich, Nuremtheir needs through personal experience. Senberg, Stuttgart, Düsseldorf, Cologne, Frankfurt, sory perception such as seeing, hearing, tasting Hanover, Bremen, Hamburg, Norderstedt and and smelling were not neglected either and were Berlin, Lufthansa Cargo employees received the subject of numerous information stands and valuable health tips and individual fitness plans. campaigns, including eye and hearing tests. Very popular were the back check and the force plate in particular. Apart from visiting a broad Campaign week to promote responsible conrange of information and test stands provided by sumption of alcohol numerous internal and external health-care proTo inform without demonizing – that was the viders, employees also had the opportunity to goal of the Campaign Week Alcohol, realized do something good for their health by cycling on by the Group’s Social Counseling from 23 to 27 a stationary bike. Under the motto “We bike to May 2011 at the locations in Frankfurt, Cologne, Africa” Cargo employees covered a total distance Munich and Hamburg. The occasion was the of 6,360 flight kilometers (cycled kilometers multiGermany-wide campaign “Alcohol? Less is betplied by 10) – more than is covered by the entire ter!” by the German Central Office for AddicTour de France. Lufthansa Cargo’s management tion Issues, which Lufthansa actively accompaturned the kilometers pedaled into a donation of nied with information and campaign stands. “It 3,180 euros for the Kenyan orphanage Mothers’ is our concern to make employees and managMercy Home, which has been supported by the ers aware of the effects of alcohol – as set out in humanitarian help organization Cargo Human the ‘Addiction Guidelines of the Lufthansa Group’ Care for many years (see “Cargo Human Care – – and to increase awareness of risky consumpMedical help for people in East Africa” on page 96). tion patterns and to inform about the development of addiction,” explains Birgitt Erb, employee at Lufthansa Social Counseling. Opportunities to experience the effects of alcohol were provided by “drunkenness goggles,” which simulate how alcohol changes perceptions and affects the ability to react and perform. The offers were complemented by an information course and a driving simulator as well as performances by a cam60 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Metabolic syndrome: Long-term study of Corporate reinsertion management Lufthansa Technik with Hamburg University Cancer, depression, severe disability: There are One in six Europeans is affected by metabolic synmany reasons why employees are unable to work drome, in some EU countries it is even one in three. for longer periods of time. In such cases, the The syndrome’s characteristics are a combination corporate reinsertion management smooths the of excess weight, diabetes mellitus (type 2), high path toward a return to work for employees who blood pressure, increased blood lipid concenare ill for more than six weeks during a 12-month trations and increased risk of cardiovascular disperiod. At the end of 2011, Lufthansa physicians eases. This is reason enough for Lufthansa Technik discussed options for the professional reinsertion and the Medical Service of the Lufthansa Group in work processes with 30 medical doctors of difto join forces with the University Clinic Eppenferent specialties, representatives of health insurdorf and Asklepios Clinics Hamburg to conduct ance companies, pension funds and social couna long-term study to investigate the conditions in seling services at hospitals. This expert exchange the development of diabetes, which affects about between physicians and social services provid8 million people in Germany alone. “A key goal ers, which was offered as a continuing educaof this study is to identify very early indications of tion event in Frankfurt, was hosted by Dr. Roland a disturbed blood sugar metabolism by means Nowak of Lufthansa’s Medical Service. of regular medical examinations, and to prevent the development of diabetes mellitus by means Employee safety: Organization and tasks of resolute changes in nutrition and lifestyle as To prevent work-related accidents and illnesses well as with medications, if needed,” says Anja uncompromisingly – that is the focus of employee Knotte, HR Manager Personnel & Social Policies safety at Lufthansa. The Group department at Lufthansa Technik. The starting signal for the Employee Safety is responsible for coordinating ten-year “Lufthansa Prevention Study” (LUPS) for activities and continuously developing measures the early identification of metabolic illnesses was related to work safety. It fulfills this task in close given at the end of 2008 with the participation of coordination with physicians, social counselors the Medical Service. The first round of examinaand experts at the Group companies. The goal tions drew 1,962 employees between the ages of is to identify possible hazards at an early stage, 25 and 60 years at Lufthansa Technik, Lufthansa to assess them and to implement measures to Revenue Services and Lufthansa ground perreduce the number of accidents continuously. A sonnel at the Hamburg location as well as their further goal is to reduce the risk of work-related relatives. The first follow-up check took place in illnesses and other hazards associated with work November 2011. to a minimum or to eliminate them. Social counseling Nobody is safe from crisis and conflict situations. To ensure that such situations do not impact either the working climate or work performance, the Lufthansa Social Counseling Service at the locations in Frankfurt, Hamburg, Cologne and Munich has given support to affected employees in tackling private and professional challenges since the mid-1980s. In addition, the service’s representatives were again actively involved in the company’s health management in 2011. They took part in the steering committee “Strategic Health Management,” which among other things developed the Guidelines for the Corporate Health Management of the Lufthansa Group, and thus in numerous health campaigns initiated by the company. a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 61 Facts 2011 and outlook 2012 (selection) Area Facts 2011 Outlook 2012 Training • At the end of 2011, more than 2,500 people participated in training and • For the Lufthansa Group, intensive, needs-oriented training will contiqualification measures. Concurrently, Lufthansa hired 808 new trainees nue to play a central role in securing qualified junior staff. and students in dual courses of training during the reporting year. • In this process, Lufthansa increasingly takes into account changes • In 2011, the Group trained and hired more than 4,900 service profesmade by many universities and colleges (e.g. the standard of sionals, who work predominantly as flight attendants and in passenger bachelor’s degrees). handling. • The training portfolio is thus subject to permanent change. • In 2011, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH in Bremen signed contracts with 268 new trainee pilots. Thus, the total number of future pilots increased by 12 percent compared with the preceding year. Continuing education / • Despite economically demanding times, Lufthansa offered comprehen• For Lufthansa, comprehensive training and continuing education employability sive educational measures in 2011 as well. activities remain essential to secure the company’s competitiveness • The Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) emphasized the optimization in the future as well. At the same time, the Group makes an important of interdisciplinary training across the entire Group. In this context, the contribution in this way to meeting its obligations as a socially responproduct offer was expanded to include the employees of the Group sible employer. airlines as well. • Given the importance of lifelong learning, Lufthansa will continue to • O verall, the internal budget for education increased by 21 percent to support its employees in gaining qualifications while working, based 123 million euros. The number of participant days increased by 10 on a wide-ranging continuing education offer. percent to 681,000. The LHSB’s topic of the year – “Modern Working • The LHSB’s topic of the year 2012 is “Overcoming Boundaries.” This World” – gave participants the opportunity to investigate the related voluntary continuing education offer reflects the company’s need to challenges and, based on concrete examples, formulate measures than come to terms with demographic developments in Germany. At the can be directly implemented. same time, it aims at the employees’ individual flexibility and willing• As a future-oriented company, Lufthansa advanced the design of digital ness to change. learning environments in 2011 as well, including in the areas of corpo• Furthermore, the Lufthansa School of Business is planning to intensify rate compliance and corporate responsibility. its cooperation with the Lufthansa Training & Conference Center Seeheim, which is also headquarters of the LHSB. Job safety and health •T he company’s health protection activities play a decisive role in guarding • Comprehensive expansion of the focus topic “Health Management” for protection against the specific stresses from the modern working world in a consistent all employee groups – Group-wide and differentiated by company. manner. Against this background, the Group companies organized again in • Intensification of exchanges between Group airlines concerning the 2011 a broad range of health measures, such as information and campaign topic of job safety. stands, presentations and trainings for the flying personnel and the staff on • E xpansion of the Web-based training offers concerning job safety and the ground. health protection. •F urthermore, the Group further developed job safety on a continuous basis and introduced Web-based trainings on job safety and health protection. •R edesign of the job safety trainings for future pursers and follow-up trainings for the job safety commissioners. •F ollowing the reactor accident at Fukushima, immediate measures were implemented by Group Job Safety to protect the flying personnel and the local employees as well as the employees of Group companies sent abroad. •F or concerned passengers and flight crews, Lufthansa provided the possibility at Frankfurt Airport – at the recommendation of the Ministry for the Environment of the state of Hessen – to have a voluntary exam for possible exposure to radiation. Demographic change • Expansion of the steering committee and inclusion of the Group airlines • Modernization of the corporate pension systems • Focus on changed performance Diversity • With the focus topic “Women” the LHSB addressed the further develop• S tart of the Group-wide project “Management Landscape 2020.” Its ment of equal opportunity in 2011 within the Group. goal is to realize more flexibility and diversity at all management levels • Special seminar offer on the subject of diversity and among junior staff members across the entire Lufthansa Group • The Lufthansa Group has set itself the goal of increasing the share of (see on page 46). women in upper management by 30 percent by 2020 (growth rate “Plus • Continuation of the seminar offer on the subject of diversity 30 percent”) • E xpansion of child day-care places to improve compatibility of work • Information stands on the topic of intercultural competency for flight and family attendants • Specific support for intercultural competencies , including a “Day of • For further facts see on page 49. Cultures,” among other measures. • 1st Lufthansa Day of Inclusion for employees with and without disabilities in March 2012. • The topic of the year 2012 of the LHSB is “Overcoming Boundaries” (also see Continuing education / employability) Dialogue with employees • The Lufthansa Group organizes regular dialogue events to learn more • Continuation of the employee dialogues company-wide about the expectations, wishes and needs of employees • The employee survey “Employee Feedback Management” will take working in the cabin and on the ground in particular. Examples are place annually from 2012. decentralized Town Meetings and employee events on specific topics. In addition, the recurring employee survey “Employee Feedback Management” (“EFM”) serves as an important barometer of moods Dialogue with social • The Lufthansa Group has been able to solve and successfully balance • Lufthansa intends to continue to defuse competition-induced distribupartners competition-induced distribution conflicts by means of constructive tion conflicts by means of intensive dialogue and constructive solution arbitration dialogues. options in the future as well. • Lufthansa accompanied the elections of employee representatives for • Continuation of the social dialogue based on partnership with regard the flying personnel and ensured a smooth process; in addition, the to the need to make operational changes at the company. company supported the employability and qualifications of the new employee representatives. • S tart of the dialogue on the need for changes at the company with regard to expected deep-rooted structural changes within the industry. 62 Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Climate and Environmental Responsibility Kerosene and emissions Biofuel Fuel efficiency Air traffic management Emissions trading system Environmental management Noise emissions Research projects a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 63 Kerosene and emissions Specific kerosene consumption: Lufthansa Group sets new efficiency record The specific kerosene consumption of the Lufthansa Group fleet continues to decline: After having already reached the lowest level in the company’s history in 2010 at 4.20 liters per 100 passenger kilometers, it sank even further in 2011 – by 0.4 percent to 4.18 liters per 100 passenger kilometers. Concurrently, the specific CO2 emissions fell by 0.4 percent to 10.53 kilos per 100 passenger kilometers. The reasons for the recent reductions of specific kerosene consumption and emissions levels are Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 2011 the continuous and intensive efforts to improve Average specific fuel consumption Group fleet fuel efficiency across the entire Group (see “Fuel in l/100 pkm (center of circle) and shares of different traffic areas efficiency at the Lufthansa Group – Cutting costs Long-haul (58%) (segments) in total fuel consumption for passenger transportation. 3.64 l/100 pkm and protecting the environment” on page 70). active fleet 2011 This positive effect is all the more remarkable, as Definitions of traffic areas: the Group-wide seat load factor decreased by 2.0 Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km percentage points in 2011 to 77.6 percent. Among Short-haul less than 800 km the Group companies, SWISS and Austrian Airlines 4.18 Medium-haul (26%) 4.52 l/100 pkm were again able to lower their specific kerosene consumption slightly to 3.72 liters and 4.18 liters l/100 pkm per 100 passenger kilometers respectively. In absolute terms, the kerosene consumption of Short-haul (16%) 7.30 l/100 pkm all regular flights operated by the Group (which means all scheduled and charter flights) increased in 2011 by 6.7 percent to 9.024 million tonnes. At the same time, the number of passenger kilomeLufthansa German Airlines Germanwings ters increased by 8.3 percent, illustrating once again the improvement in fuel efficiency that has Long-haul (64%) 3.80 l/100 pkm been achieved. This development also meant that the Group’s transport performance and its fuel Medium-haul (19%) 4.55 l/100 pkm 4.27 Medium-haul (100%) 4.42 l/100 pkm 4.42 consumption in passenger transport were sucl/100 pkm l/100 pkm cessfully decoupled further. The transport perforShort-haul (17%) 7.21 l/100 pkm mance of the Lufthansa Group has grown by 328 percent since 1991, while kerosene consumption SWISS Austrian Airlines and CO2 emissions have increased by 188 percent (see graph on page 65). Long-haul (59%) Long-haul (33%) 3.15 l/100 pkm 3.02 l/100 pkm Fuel dumps: Safety comes first Medium-haul (25%) 4.21 l/100 pkm 3.72 Medium-haul (54%) 4.78 l/100 pkm 4.18 To ensure the safety of passengers and crews, l/100 pkm l/100 pkm fuel dumps under exceptional circumstances canShort-haul (16%) 7.56 l/100 pkm Short-haul (13%) 7.69 l/100 pkm not be avoided. Given the high levels of technical aircraft maintenance, they occur exceedingly rarely at the Lufthansa Group. Yet no airline in Specific CO2 emissions, passenger transportation the world is entirely free of them. When pilots are active fleet in 2011; in kg/100 pkm forced to make an unscheduled landing for techGroup fleet Lufthansa German Airlines Germanwings SWISS Austrian Airlines nical or medical reasons, they first need to empty Long-haul 9.17 9.58 – 7.93 7.60 the fuel tanks until the aircraft’s maximum permisMedium-haul 11.39 11.46 11.14 10.60 12.04 Short-haul 18.39 18.18 – 19.05 19.38 sible landing weight is reached. Fuel dumps affect Total only long-haul flights. In 2011, there were 15 cases averages 10.53 10.77 9.39 10.54 of fuel dumps (see graph on page 65). 64 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a The Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental will help Lufthansa achieve further successes in the area of fuel efficiency. This wide-body aircraft is 15 percent more fuel-efficient than its predecessor model, the Boeing 747-400. Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 320 % +328 % 300 % 280 % 260 % 240 % Transport performance 220 % 200 % 180 % +188 % 160 % Efficiency gain 140 % 120 % 100 % 80 % Fuel consumption 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Fuel dumps changes Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 2011 compared to 2010 in liters/100 passenger kilometers Events, total 15 –7 2011 2010 change in % thereof medical reasons 5 –1 Group fleet 4.18 4.20 – 0.4 technical reasons 9 –7 Lufthansa German Airlines 4.27 4.25 + 0.5 other reasons 1 +1 Germanwings 4.42 --Quantity, total 527 tonnes – 12.9 % SWISS 3.72 3.73 – 0.1 Austrian Airlines 4.18 4.21 – 0.6 a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 65 Fuel consumption1 Specific emissions, passenger transportation 2011 (in tonnes) in kilograms, grams/100 passenger kilometers passengers freight total share CO2, kg/100 pkm 11.5 Scheduled flights 2, 3 11.0 ­Lufthansa­ 4,951,029 1,797,786 6,748,815 (73.3 %) Germanwings 237,486 865 238,351 (2.6 %) 10.5 SWISS 990,674 350,565 1,341,239 (14.6 %) 11.73 11.39 10.88 11.00 11.08 11.05 10.88 10.93 10.84 10.58 10.53 Austrian Airlines 598,287 96,979 695,266 (7.5 %) 9,023,671 (98.0 %) Third parties4 157,067 18,211 175,278 (1.9 %) NOX, g/100 pkm 54.0 Other flights 5 11,681 (0.1 %) 53.0 All flights 9,210,630 (100.0 %) 52.0 51.0 Emissions3,6 2011 (in tonnes) 50.0 passengers ±2010 freight ± 2010 total ± 2010 49.0 CO2 21,349,054 (+ 7.8 %) 7,075,514 (+ 3.4 %) 28,424,568 (+ 6.7 %) 48.0 NOX 100,103 (+ 9.7 %) 33,800 (+ 2.8 %) 133,903 (+ 7.9 %) 54.8 53.3 51.0 50.6 50.8 50.5 49.8 50.6 50.0 48.8 9 49.4 CO 16,660 (+ 6.1 %) 3,492 (+ 3.7 %) 20,152 (+ 5.7 %) CO, g/100 pkm 10.0 UHC 1,766 (+ 8.4 %) 487 (+ 3.2 %) 2,253 (+ 7.3 %) 9.5 9.0 Share of third parties4 2011 8.5 Flights 3.7 % 8.0 Passengers 3.0 % 10.1 9.7 8.8 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.6 8.5 8.5 8.4 9 8.2 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT7 1.3 % Fuel consumption 1.9 % UHC, g/100 pkm 1.5 Carbon dioxide emissions 1.9 % 1.0 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0,9 9 0.9 Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 in liters/100 passenger kilometers 4.5 Specific emissions, freight transportation8 4.0 in kilograms, grams/tonne kilometer 4.65 4.51 4.31 4.36 4.39 4.38 4.32 4.34 4.30 4.20 4.18 CO2, kg/tkm 0.8 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 0.7 0.6 Specific fuel consumption, freight transportation8 0.5 in liters/tonne kilometer 0.60 0.58 0.58 0.59 0.58 0.58 0.72 0.74 0.77 0.73 0.73 0.3 0.2 NOX, g/tkm 4.0 0.24 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.29 0.30 0.30 0.29 0.29 3.5 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 3.0 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events, 2.5 Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.6 3.4 3.6 3.7 3.5 9 3.5 and holding patterns and detours in the air. 2 Scheduled flights, charter flights. 3 For the reporting year 2011, the following companies have been included in Balance: CO, g/tkm 0.50 Lufthansa German Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa Regional: Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways), Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS 0.25 (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Germanwings, Excepted are third-party services, as Lufthansa has no influence either on their performance or on the aircraft they 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.49 0.4 operate (see table “Share of third parties”). 4 Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out services on Lufthansa’s behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks. UHC, g/tkm 0.25 5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. 6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter flights). 0.00 Recorded are emission values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground and holding 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.19 0.1 patterns and detours in the air (see “About this report Methodology of calculations” on page 5). 7 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 fuel consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. 8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. 9 Value corrected, due to a calculation error. 66 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Long-term trial of biofuel – On track for the air transport of the future Lufthansa successfully concluded the trial use of biofuel in regular flight operations for just under six months. In all, a total of 1,187 biofuel flights were operated between Hamburg and Frankfurt from 15 July to 27 December 2011. This long-term practical trial is now being followed up with a two-year research phase to analyze the generated data and derive new insights. What may look unspectacular at first sight is important research, because thus far little meanin reality a huge step towards the future of ingful data could be generated regarding the air transport. Advancing globalization and a use of alternative fuels in aviation. growing world population create ever-greater demand for mobility. Demand that cannot be Eight flights a day between Hamburg satisfied long-term in environmentally compatand Frankfurt ible ways if the finite resources of fossil fuels With this long-term trial, Lufthansa performed piocontinue to be the only available option. This neer work. From 15 July to 27 December 2011, makes the search for environmentally compatan Airbus A321 completed eight flights a day ible alternatives one of the greatest challenges between Hamburg and Frankfurt. One of the airof our times. Experts believe that biofuels have craft’s two engines was operated with fuel cona significant potential, especially in air transport. taining up to 50 percent of biosynthetic kerosene Although the combustion of biofuel or conven– the maximum mix permitted – produced by the tional kerosene releases an identical amount of Finnish petroleum company Neste Oil. The other CO2, biofuel’s significant advantage is linked to engine was run on conventional kerosene, so that the CO2 cycle. Plants absorb CO2 from the atmoa direct comparison was possible. The basis for sphere by means of photosynthesis, which is the alternative fuel was formed by the “energy released back into the atmosphere during the plants” Camelina (80 percent) and Jatropha (15 combustion process. Biofuel emits about 50 percent) along with animal fats (5 percent). The percent less CO2 than conventional fossil fuels. aircraft was refueled exclusively in Hamburg, as Its use is, therefore, an element of air transport’s that location fulfilled the logistical requirements, established four-pillar strategy, aimed at reducwhich included a suitable aboveground tank at ing net CO2 emissions by 50 percent by 2050, the port and two autonomous tanks at the airport. compared with the year 2005. On these 1,187 flights, the A321 consumed a total of 1,557 tonnes of the biokerosene mix and, The Lufthansa Group has tackled this task according to initial calculations, emitted about squarely by testing biofuel in regular flight oper1,500 fewer tonnes of CO2. The scientific analyses ations for just under six months in the framework that are to follow up the long-term test will deterof a project called “burnFAIR.” This is extremely mine the precise savings realized. The Lufthansa Airbus A321 (registration D-AIDG) being refueled with a biokerosene mix. a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 67 The biofuel trial was followed up on 12 January 2012 with the first transatlantic scheduled flight to the United States. A Lufthansa Boeing 747-400 carrying about 40 tonnes of biokerosene mix in its fuel tanks flew from Frankfurt to Washington D.C. This flight alone avoided estimated emissions of about 38 tonnes of CO2, equivalent to the CO2 emissions normally generated by six scheduled flights between Frankfurt and Berlin. In September 2011, Lufthansa received a special award for its burnFAIR project in the context of the Clean Tech Media Awards ceremonies. The main goals of the long-term trial were to gain Clean Tech Media Award: Sir Bob Geldof presents the special prize to Lufthansa (from left: experience in the use of biokerosene and to collect Joachim Buse, Vice President Aviation Biofuel at Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Dr. Joachim Szodruch, long-term measuring data. At the same time, these former Chairman of DLR, Sir Bob Geldof, August Wilhelm Henningsen, Chairman of the Executive test flights enable experts to examine the effects of Board at Lufthansa Technik AG). biofuel on the environment and on the maintenance and life span of aircraft engines. “Our burnFAIR project went off smoothly and to our fullest satisfaction. As expected, biofuel proved its worth in daily operations,” says Joachim Buse, Vice President Aviation Biofuel at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Positive analysis results During the entire test phase of the project, both flight crews and Lufthansa Technik carefully observed the performance of engines and air“For us pilots, the use of biofuel had no craft – and detected no abnormalities. In addiinfluence on safe flight operations. On tion, scientists at the German Aerospace Centhe contrary, we conserved fuel during ter’s Institute for Combustion Technology (DLR) this flight. Participating in this pioneer analyzed the emissions in the engines’ exhaust. project has really been a great experiTo do so, they positioned a probe behind each ence, and I hope that we’ll be able to engine of the Lufthansa Airbus A321 (registrafly regularly with biofuel very soon.” tion D-AIDG) and fed the exhaust gases through Daniel Riefer a pipe to the analysis instruments. The result: The First Officer Boeing 747 and Project Manager DLR experts measured similar nitrogen oxide and Aviation Biofuel, Deutsche Lufthansa AG carbon monoxide values in the exhausts of the two engines. Once the test flights were concluded, an ini“burnFAIR has shown that we can fly tial analysis of the aircraft components was caras reliably with biokerosene as with ried out. Detailed checks of both fuel tanks for conventional kerosene – and signifideposits and changes in the seals yielded posicantly reduce our emissions while dotive results. The experts examined tank strucing so. Now the remaining challenge ture, fuel lines, connections and other elements is obtaining the necessary biomass in of each tank for damage and corrosion, and the sufficient quantities and in accordance seals for wear. In the examined areas, the experts with our strict sustainability criteria, in found no deposits. The entire tank was in very order to achieve the IATA’s ambitious good condition, with no negative findings. The goals for CO2 reduction.” same was true for the fuel lines between tank and engine. The equipment demonstrated normal Jan-Erik Kruse First Officer Airbus A320 and Project Manager reactions with regard to function and tightness. Aviation Biofuel, Deutsche Lufthansa AG 68 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a The engine run on the alternative fuel also showed no particularities compared with its conventionally powered counterpart. Its fuel flow rate, Facts on the biofuel test at a glance however, was about 1 percent below that of the • Test period: 15 July to 27 December 2011 engine fueled by “normal” kerosene. Hence the •Type of aircraft: Airbus A321 engine burning biokerosene consumed less fuel • Eight flights daily between Frankfurt overall, which is attributable to the fact that the and Hamburg energy density of the biosynthetic fuel was about • Share of biofuel: 50 percent fed to one engine 1 percent higher on average than that of the con• 1,187 scheduled flights with biokerosene ventional kerosene. On the whole, the energy effi• Biofuel blend consumed: 1,557 tonnes ciency of the engines thus remained unchanged. Another important aspect to be investigated was the fuel quality during storage in the above­ground tank in Hamburg. This analysis confirmed that the fuel’s characteristics did not change over quantities and at acceptable prices. Over the this time period. In particular, no separation of years ahead, therefore, the focus will be on suitthe pure biosynthetic kerosene from the convenability, availability, sustainability and certification tional kerosene in the blend was observed, nor of raw materials. However, this market must first was there a significant presence of microbes. be opened up. “The product was ‘storage stable’ and there was no loss of quality,” emphasizes Dr. Alexander Further commitments of the Lufthansa Group Zschocke, Senior Manager Aviation Biofuel at Lufthansa joined forces with leading German Deutsche Lufthansa AG. research institutions, other aviation companies and bioenergy producers to found the initiaComprehensive communications tive “Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Lufthansa has informed its stakeholders and the Germany” (aireg) on 8 June 2011 in Berlin. Its public extensively about the goals and progress goal is to support the development and introducof this long-term test, through measures includtion of renewable fuels for aviation in Germany ing a flyer for customers, videos, expert presenand to provide information about the demand, tations to visitor groups, stands at numerous origin, availability and use of these fuels. Through trade fairs, and dialogue events. More detailed their commitment, the initiative’s members aim information on the topic and the practical trial is at creating a sound basis for political decisions provided by the Internet page dedicated to biorelated to the introduction of climate-friendly aviafuel www.puresky.de. The Group has also set up tion fuels. a specific area on its internal eTeaming platform to inform its employees about the project. Besides aireg, the Lufthansa Group is active in the following initiatives: In addition, an online survey was carried out • Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) among Lufthansa Miles & More customers follow• Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB) ing the conclusion of the test phase. It focused • European Algae Biomass Association (EABA) on questions concerning knowledge of, attitudes toward and evaluation of the topic of biokeroIn addition, Deutsche Lufthansa AG cooperates sene. While the majority of the 532 interview parwith Leuphana University Lüneburg and INOCAS ticipants rated Lufthansa’s activities in the area GmbH. These joint efforts aim at using the uniof alternative fuels as positive, only every third versity’s research results to develop practice-orirespondent saw this as a measure with positive ented concepts for the sustainable and competieffects on climate protection. Individual comtive production of raw materials for the production ments also indicated that participants reject the of biokerosene. potential use of food stuffs to produce such fuels. This is precisely one of the basic conditions that Lufthansa too has always placed on biokerosene: For further information visit no competition with food production. Beyond that, www.puresky.de biofuels must be produced and certified according to sustainability criteria, generate a definite environmental utility and be available in sufficient a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 69 Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group – Cutting costs and protecting the environment Using fuel as efficiently as possible in flight operations is one of the central objectives of the Lufthansa Group. The activities in this area interlink ecological and economic necessities: The more the airline reduces its kerosene consumption, the greater the positive environmental effects and the cost savings. The aviation industry has taken on a big job in Project “Fuel Efficiency” – Progress and terms of climate protection and set itself ambiactivities 2011 tious goals. It plans to improve average fuel In October 2009, Lufthansa German Airlines efficiency by 1.5 percent per year up to 2020 launched the project “Fuel Efficiency” in an effort and thus to slow down the increase in CO2 to reduce kerosene consumption in flight operaemissions accordingly. From 2020, CO2-neutral tions and thus to lower costs sustainably in times growth should then be achieved. In the long of continuously increasing fuel prices. “Fuel effiterm, aviation’s net CO2 emissions are to be ciency is a very important part of our strategy,” reduced by half by 2050, compared with 2005. emphasizes Jürgen Starck, Project Manager Fuel The basis for realizing climate-neutral growth Efficiency at Deutsche Lufthansa AG until the end by 2020 is the industry’s established four-pilof March 2012. The ratio “specific fuel consumplar strategy, which interlinks an array of diverse tion” was the first non-monetary variable to be environmental measures (see illustration on included in the process of operating Group planpage 71). Its scope comprises technical progning, a fact that underlines the importance of fuel ress, improved infrastructure, operational meaefficiency as an issue. sures and economic measures. Lufthansa German Airlines In 2011, Lufthansa German Airlines chiefly concentrated on reducing the weight of its aircraft further, advancing measures related to air traffic control in cooperation with DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung and Eurocontrol, and optimizing proReducing emissions in sync cedures in flight operations. In addition, certain The UN aviation organization ICAO and the world technical measures and adaptations in the area airline association IATA are committed to ambitious network / ground yielded further fuel savings. goals for reducing CO2 emissions. Reducing aircraft weight For example, following comprehensive test runs, Lufthansa German Airlines in cooperation with Lufthansa Cargo will use a lightweight container that saves 14 kilos per unit when compared with previous models (see sections on Lufthansa Cargo in this article). Another 230 kilos can be saved on Airbus A340-300s by removing extra Target 2050 tanks that are not needed for the route distances -50 percent CO2 flown by Lufthansa. In addition, the removal of an unused towing fitting on the nose gear of the A340-300 reduces the aircraft’s weight further. One kilo less on all aircraft of Lufthansa German Airlines saves 30 tonnes of kerosene per year, according to the latest calculations. 70 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Four pillars for climate protection 1. Technological progress 2. Improved infrastructure 3. Operational measures 4. Economic measures • Innovation in aircraft • Improved use of airspace • More efficient aircraft sizes • A global, sensibly designed, and engine technologies • Airport infrastructures • Optimal flight routes and market-based system for re• Alternative fuels adapted to needs speeds ducing emissions to comple• Optimized processes on ment the other three pillars the ground Network / Ground “Fuel Reporter” provides an overview On the ground, Lufthansa always aims at avoidFurthermore, Lufthansa has developed “Fuel ing long taxiing times during phases with high Reporter,” a software that analyzes the influtraffic volumes. For example, in coordination with ences of different parameters on fuel consumpnetwork management, the company brought fortion and automatically generates relevant ratios ward its flight from Philadelphia to Frankfurt by and reports. In this way, a long-term standard is 45 minutes to shorten the taxiing time. The payapplied for data, formulas and reports. The prooff: the engine running time on the ground was gram uses data from flight operations that previshortened by 18 minutes. ously had to be collated manually. It saves time and allows more detailed, more frequent analyFlight operations / Air traffic management ses. This application makes it possible to obtain In the Gulf region, on the routes Riyadh to Doha important data at a glance. and Riyadh to Muscat, Lufthansa pilots can now request new and up to 15 minutes shorter Another advantage of Fuel Reporter is that trends routings and thus save up to 2 tonnes of fuel in fuel consumption and the parameters that influper flight. Between Hamburg and Munich, the ence it can be detected early on – enabling the removal of certain altitude restrictions by DFS experts to react more quickly. In addition, they Deutsche Flugsicherung means that flights can track the effects of newly introduced concan now be operated higher and fuel can thus servation measures more readily. Currently, be conserved. In close cooperation with DFS, Lufthansa German Airlines and the regional airLufthansa CityLine has also optimized its flight lines are already working with Fuel Reporter. routings and now includes “partly restricted Other Group airlines are planning to introduce areas” in its flight planning. the software. Technical optimizations At the technical level, for example, small but effective changes on the Boeing 737’s landing flaps lead to improved aerodynamics. As a result, fuel can be conserved during a flight’s climbing and cruising phases. Lufthansa has fully refitted two aircraft as part of a trial to obtain reference data. The optimization of flight routings is one of many measures in the area of Fuel Efficiency. a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 71 SWISS Lufthansa Systems SWISS already operates one of the most fuelMore entertainment, less weight efficient fleets in the industry. Independently of Lufthansa Systems sets a new standard with that fact, the experts at this Lufthansa Group its wireless in-flight entertainment solution (IFE) company continue to identify and realize further BoardConnect. Designed as intranet aboard the kerosene conservation potentials. For example, aircraft, the new solution uses a radio network in SWISS pilots are encouraged to exit the runway accordance with the established WiFi standard to after landing with only one engine running whenreplace the costly, weighty wiring of each individever the situation allows. This “single engine taxiual seat. Its key elements are a server and seving” helps avoid an estimated 1,500 tonnes of eral access points throughout the cabin. PassenCO2 per year. Beyond that, all of the airline’s pilots gers access the server’s contents via their own received the brochure “Best Practice in Fuel laptops, smartphones and tablet PCs. Alternatives Management.” In the framework of the Single are WiFi-based fitted screens or mobile devices European Sky ATM Research Program (SESAR), that the airlines provide for their passengers. SWISS developed a new approach procedure Avoiding many kilometers of cabling and other in cooperation with the air traffic control authortypes of equipment implies a significant weight ity Skyguide and Flughafen Zürich AG at Zurich reduction. In the case of an Airbus A340-600 Airport. Called “Greener Wave,” it helps manwith 380 seats, this amounts to about 900 kilos, age more effectively the first flight bank in the which corresponds to a fuel savings of 47 tonnes early morning hours. The assigning of defined per aircraft and year. The savings becomes even time slots has replaced the previously used prinbigger when no screens are installed in the seat ciple of “first to arrive, first to land.” The flights backs of certain subfleets. Airlines also avoid sigoptimized and the holding patterns averted in nificant installation and maintenance costs, and this manner mean that emissions of up to 1,800 they benefit from the added revenue potential tonnes of CO2 per year can be avoided. A video of electronic sales onboard. This makes Boardabout the new approach procedure “Greener Connect a classic example of how ecological Wave” is available at and economic interests can be meaningfully www.swiss.com interlinked. SWISS WorldCargo, the freight division of SWISS, Electronic Flight Bags ease environmental will also replace its aluminum containers with burdens a lighter version by 2015. The weight reduction More and more airlines worldwide are introducing realized in this manner lowers not only costs but Electronic Flight Bags (EFB). These “electronic also fuel consumption and emissions. pilot’s cases” largely replace printed route maps, briefing documents and technical manuals in the cockpit. With “Lido/FlightBag” Lufthansa Systems Austrian Airlines offers one of the leading EFB solutions in the market. EFBs offer a number of important advanIn 2011, Austrian Airlines also implemented tages: By avoiding heavy manuals, they save airnumerous measures to reduce the weight aboard lines weight and thus fuel in everyday operations. its aircraft. This included the installation of new, They are up-to-date at all times because they lighter seats on the aircraft of its Airbus A320 and are always fed with the latest data before takeBoeing 737 fleets. As a result, the weight per seat off. Most importantly, they do away with the need declined by 1.5 to 5 kilos and the annual fuel for the regular printing and distributing of paper consumption by 1,650 tonnes of kerosene. The documents to each aircraft in the fleet. In this way, airline has achieved a further weight reduction paper consumption is also significantly reduced. by reducing the fuel reserves for each flight to an appropriate level. And on long-haul routes, optimum loading of aircraft helps conserve kerosene. Furthermore, Austrian Airlines had winglets installed at the wingtips of its Boeing 767s. This step alone helps avoid 8,800 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. 72 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Lufthansa Cargo Lufthansa Cargo has introduced its own internal Fuel Efficiency program, comprising 52 points to reduce the Cargo fleet’s kerosene consumption. Even before an aircraft takes off, the most diverse measures take place on the ground to help save fuel. This includes regular engine washes and aircraft loading that takes into account the optimum center of gravity. The latest weather data and maps also facilitate fuel management as well as the planning of optimized flight procedures, variable speeds and altitudes. In addition, Lufthansa Cargo has tightened the The new lightweight container of Jettainer GmbH, control of aircraft weight in the framework of a a subsidiary of Lufthansa Cargo “Weight Watchers” program. For example, the airline operates four MD-11Fs that were converted 19 percent. Comprehensive tests between 2008 from passenger to freight aircraft some time ago. and 2011 also showed that the use of these The company recently removed the telephone alternative materials entails fewer repairs. Calcuequipment that is no longer needed on these lated to the movements of all Lufthansa aircraft, freighters. Merely taking a telephone receiver replacing the container fleet will result in a total weighing 350 grams off the aircraft yields a total savings of about 2,180 tonnes of kerosene and savings of 3.5 tonnes of kerosene per year. “This thus about 6,800 tonnes of CO2 per year. Once example shows how quickly grams can turn into this switch is accomplished, Lufthansa and the tonnes, given about 15,000 to 16,000 flights per other Group companies will together operate year,” says Wolfgang Raebiger, Director of Flight one of the world’s largest lightweight container Operations at Lufthansa Cargo AG. fleets. Water reserves reduced More efficient engines and Furthermore, Lufthansa Cargo reduced the preaerodynamic wings viously ample water reserves of the onboard In the air, developments such as more efficient toilet by 80 percent, which means that the engines, aerodynamic wings, nanotechnology in engines of the cargo fleet now burn about aircraft paint and new composite materials help 1,300 fewer tonnes of kerosene per year. Simiensure that the aircraft of Lufthansa Cargo conlarly, the extra fuel reserves ordered by the sume as little kerosene as possible. At the same pilots were significantly reduced compared with time, the pilots of the air freight service provider 2005, from previously 2.7 tonnes per flight on learn kerosene-conserving flying as early as duraverage to currently 1.4 tonnes. An analysis of ing their initial training. These techniques include consumption data from 2009 to 2010 showed the Continuous Descent Approach (CDA), which that 97.2 percent of all cargo flights reached means continuously decreasing altitude flown their destinations without using a drop of extra at reduced engine thrust. The pilots can also fuel. “In the final analysis, pilots need to use reduce fuel consumption by the optimized use of their own judgment concerning the quantities flap settings during approach and the intelligent of extra fuel for a specific flight. Safety has the deployment of thrust reversal. unequivocal priority here,” emphasizes Wolfgang Raebiger. In addition, by 2015 Lufthansa Cargo will replace 5,000 of the currently used standard aluminum containers, weighing 80 kilos a piece, with lighter containers featuring side walls that are partly made of honeycombed polypropylene. The weight savings of these lower-deck containers, which are used to transport passenger baggage and freight shipments, comes to almost a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 73 Environmental measures: Efficient at all levels The companies of the Lufthansa Group strive continuously to reduce the environmental effects of their business activities. Through the example of Lufthansa Cargo, the following infographic shows the highly complex and diverse activities and the many savings achieved to steadily improve the environmental balance sheet in the air and on the ground. On the ground Lightweight containers Optimized fuel consumption CO2/p.a. 6,800 t Kerosene Engine wash 0.75 % During the flight Fuel management Due to various restrictions it is often impossible to plan the shortest possible paths as flight routes. En route, however, the pilots can negotiate shortcuts with air traffic controllers and thus save kerosene. Flight altitude / Aerodynamic drag Lufthansa Cargo pilots constantly optimize the “vertical flight profile” in collaboration with air traffic control in order to utilize favorable winds and reduce aerodynamic drag. Weight and balance Lufthansa Cargo experts on the ground ensure that the freighters are loaded in exactly such a way that they have an optimal center of gravity and thus save kerosene in flight. CDA Instrument Landing Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) System (ILS) This glide slope approach enables reduced engine power, Kerosene thus lowering kerosene consumption and CO2 emissions. 50–150 kg Flap position and thrust reversal per approach Through optimized flap positioning the pilots can save kerosene during approach, and the meaningful use of thrust reversal additionally reduces fuel consumption. “Less paper cockpit,” a Lufthansa Cargo project for weight optimization Winglets lower kerosene consumption during flight, Efficient, quiet engines Source: Lufthansa Cargo AG 74 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Air traffic management – The Single European Sky is taking shape The largest climate protection project in European civil aviation is the creation of a single airspace above Europe. This initiative makes growing air traffic not only more environmentally friendly, but also safer and more cost effective. To make the Single European Sky (SES) a reality by 2020, the EU Commission and the European air traffic control authority Eurocontrol launched the Single European Sky ATM Research Program (SESAR). SESAR’s framework serves to standardize In 2011, for example, “controlled times of arrival” Europe’s air traffic management (ATM) by means (CTA) were tested. For flights to Stockholm, of new technologies, procedures and standards Swedish air traffic controllers gave Lufthansa (for additional information see Balance 2011, “Air crews a target time by which a certain point in traffic management – Towards a unified Eurothe approach phase had to be reached. Then the pean airspace,” page 74). The most important Airbus aircraft automatically calculated the most authority during the development phase is the efficient route and flew accordingly. The insights SESAR Joint Undertaking (SJU). gained in this project are being fed into further simulations and tests planned for 2012 and 2013. SESAR is organized into three phases: definition, development and implementation. DurSESAR demonstrations and AIRE ing the definition phase, which was concluded Beyond the SESAR research program, the SJU in 2008, the participants drew up a European also supports test projects that allow immediATM master plan. Lufthansa has participated ate ecological improvements. This includes the actively in its update, which is to be published program AIRE (“Atlantic Interoperability Initiative in 2012. The second phase, which will conto Reduce Emissions”) and new demonstrations tinue until 2016 under the SJU’s responsibility, that incorporate optimization proposals develincludes all research and development activities oped in the framework of SESAR into current to prepare the implementation of the introducoperations. From 2010 to 2011 the Group contory package previously defined in the master cluded four projects (“AIRE 2”) successfully. For plan. Altogether, 21 task packages with currently a detailed project description see Balance 2011, more than 300 individual projects must be com“Air traffic management – Towards a unified Europleted. In 2012, the project partners also began pean airspace,” on page 74 as well as the final to pave the way for SESAR’s deployment phase. reports at www.sesarju.eu/environment/aire Lufthansa is represented in both the steering and the expert groups, which identify and implement In 2012, Lufthansa applied with three initiatives the initial measures. At the same time, the experts for renewed participation in test projects running are working to develop a long-term deployment until 2014 (“AIRE 3” and “SESAR Solution Demmanagement. onstrations”), two of which were approved on 29 March 2012. Active contribution by the Lufthansa Group companies The first initiative is “Free Route,” a project of Currently, Lufthansa takes an active part in more DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung and Eurocontrol in than 50 SESAR projects. In coordination with the cooperation with Lufthansa. It strives to shorten SJU, the aviation company concentrates primarily routings above Germany and the Benelux counon those tasks where its experience and expertries as much as possible – and this right across tise can provide the greatest utility for the SESAR national boundaries in the spirit of the Single program. The experts of Lufthansa, SWISS, AusEuropean Sky. trian Airlines, Brussels Airlines, Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa Systems apply The second initiative concerns the trial use of tartheir know-how from a broad range of specialget times for entering specific airspace or initiatized areas – such as route planning, operations ing the approach phase to an airport, instead of control centers for air and ground, cockpit crews, the exactly defined departure times that are curtraining departments, information technology and rently standard practice. The advantage: traffic finances. can be planned better and unnecessary holding patterns can be avoided. Joining this project are not only the two Group companies SWISS and a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 75 age was awarded to the IT service provider in a consortium with Airbus, Honeywell, Sabre and “In the context of the SESAR program, Cassidian. we will be taking over a significant part of the development of an IT solution Together with Sabre, Lufthansa Systems is develfor the optimization of flight routings. oping the system requirements to optimize the Our goal is to define future systems four-dimensional flight path that allows the caland technologies and to have a protoculation of the optimal position in a unified airtype developed and validated by proj­ space at any given time. Airbus is responsible for ect end.” the project’s overall coordination, while Cassidian compiles the requirements concerning the miliUrban Weißhaar Team Leader Product Development Lido/Flight tary use of airspace and Honeywell coordinates Lufthansa Systems the issues related to business aviation. “In the context of the SESAR program, we will be taking over a significant part of the development of an Lufthansa German Airlines, but also Air FranceIT solution for the optimization of flight routings,” KLM, the French air traffic control authority DSNA, reports Urban Weißhaar, Team Leader Product DFS and the Swiss air traffic control authority Development Lido/Flight at Lufthansa Systems. Skyguide. Beyond that, Airbus is planning to give “Our goal is to define future systems and techthe project its technical support. nologies and to have developed and validated a prototype by project end.” Although it will take Lufthansa Systems supports the SES another five years to get there, this will be a mileSince June 2011, Lufthansa Systems has colstone on the path toward a more efficient, punclaborated on the necessary route planning for tual and environmentally friendly form of air transa future Flight and Wing Operations Center in port in Europe. the context of SESAR task package 11 “Flight and Wing Operations Center / Meteorological Services.” In this way, the Lufthansa subsidiary takes a leading role as an innovation driver in the research and development for a unified European airspace. Work for the task packEmissions trading system – Shared global solution wanted Air transport has been included in the EU’s emissions trading scheme since 1 January 2012. Since then, more than 4,000 aircraft operators from over 150 countries have been obliged to provide an emissions permit for each tonne of carbon dioxide emitted. There are a few exceptions that dispense some air transport companies from participating in the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). In principle, all aircraft operators who land or take ing this allotment have to be covered by the puroff in Europe are subject to the emissions tradchase of additional certificates. ing system. Exempted are certain types of flights – such as customs, military, rescue or training The basis for these allowances is air transport’s flights – and small airlines with a low number of average emissions per year for the period from flights (up to two flights a day on average) or with 2004 to 2006. In 2012, airlines receive certificates annual emissions under 10,000 tonnes of CO2. covering 97 percent of this base value, in the Every airline obligated to participate in the emisyears up to 2020 only 95 percent. Of these allotsions trading system has a limited quantity of ments, 85 percent of the certificates are free of emissions allowances at its disposal, as was precharge, the remaining 15 percent are auctioned viously defined by the EU. Emissions surpassby the EU member states. Each air transport 76 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a operator’s specific share in the total emissions in overflight rights, additional charges or even certificates allotted free of charge is calculated by the withdrawal of landing rights. Shortly after the comparing the respective Europe-wide transport signing of this declaration, China suspended an performance of the individual air transport operaorder of Airbus aircraft for the time being. Furthertors in 2010 (the “benchmark” year). more, non-European airlines are to be forbidden from participating in the emissions trading system As the Lufthansa Group has expanded signifithrough legal regulations. In the United States, a cantly in recent years, the company expects that bill to this end passed the House of Represenit will have to acquire certificates for about 30 tatives in October 2011. The Chinese and Indian percent of its CO2 emissions in 2012. aviation authorities have already prohibited their countries’ airlines from participating. The EU hopes that the emissions trading scheme will give airlines an added incentive to operate In a letter sent in March 2012 to the heads of fuel-efficient aircraft and technologies in order to government of Germany, France, Spain and Great keep CO2 emissions as low as possible. From the Britain, aircraft manufacturer Airbus, Lufthansa perspective of Lufthansa and the airline indusand other large European airlines again urgently try, an incentive to conserve kerosene is already pointed out that European aviation compaprovided by the high fuel prices alone. Fuel connies have been threatened with possible retaliasumption constituted more than 20 percent of the tory measures as a result of the EU ETS, that the Lufthansa Group’s operating costs in 2011. Addiannounced threats are now being carried out tional effective climate protection that works withand that they are already manifesting themselves out distorting competition can only be reached in concrete punitive measures. To avoid a major by means of a global agreement that includes all trade conflict at the expense of the European important air transport nations. Lufthansa will coneconomy in general and the European air transtinue to cooperate in constructive ways to find a port industry in particular, the heads of European solution that is acceptable worldwide. “Until then, governments were urgently requested to work for however, the EU Emissions Trading System must a swift and balanced solution of this conflict. be suspended if we are to achieve the goal of the world aviation organization ICAO in the near The ICAO might be able to open a way out of this future,” explains Thomas Kropp, Senior Vice Presiconflict. This United Nations special organization dent, Head of Corporate International Relations and is working on developing an appropriate proGovernment Affairs at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. posal by the end of 2012. “The ICAO, in cooperation with the EU, must find a global solution that Vehement international resistance is in the interest of both the environment and fair The European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled on competition. However, the EU has indicated no 21 December 2011 that the EU Emissions Tradwillingness thus far to tackle the looming competing System is lawful and thus dismissed a lawsuit itive distortions. Therefore, we fear massive disadbrought by U.S. airlines and the American airvantages for the European airlines,” says Thomas line association A4A (formerly ATA). Despite this, Kropp. vehement resistance against the European solo effort has developed in the meantime. At the end of 2011, the council of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) demanded with 26 of 36 votes that the EU respect the principles applied “The ICAO, in cooperation with the in civil aviation and refrain from applying EU law EU, must find a global solution that outside of its territory and to non-European airis in the interest of both the environlines respectively. This demand was supported ment and fair competition. However, by all important trading partners of the EU, includthe EU has indicated no willingness ing Russia, India, China and the United States. thus far to tackle the looming competitive distortions. Therefore, we fear At a conference in Moscow, the representatives massive disadvantages for the Euroof 23 non-EU nations adopted a declaration on pean airlines.” 22 February 2012 to protest against the EU emisThomas Kropp sions trading scheme. At the same time, they Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate International threatened severe retaliatory measures. EuroRelations and Government Affairs, Deutsche Lufthansa AG pean airlines would have to expect restrictions a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 77 The Lufthansa Group is prepared for that the German government will fulfill the pledge emissions trading expressed in its coalition contract. There, the govIndependently of the dispute at the political level, ernment states: “In the context of introducing the the Lufthansa Group fulfills the obligations arising emissions trading system for aviation, we want to from the emissions trading system and acquires ensure competitive neutrality.” the required certificates. At the same time, the company draws attention to the problems and Lufthansa is already working to concretize a genpoints out the effects on the company and the erally acceptable solution in a number of Euroentire European airline industry. To meet the offipean and international working groups, such as cial requirements, the Group set up a dedicated those of the industry associations IATA (Internaproject team and spent months preparing for tional Air Transport Association) and AEA (Assoemissions trading. ciation of European Airlines). Such a solution must fulfill five core principles in the view of the Ten companies with flight operations in the aviation group: A global system must be costLufthansa Group participate in the EU ETS. They effective. And it must guarantee a reduction of have to report to five different national authorities CO2 emissions – without discriminating. Further(Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Austria and Spain). more, the organizers must ensure the system’s The related company-internal processes are inteintegrity by means of continuous monitoring and grated into the central fuel purchasing or keroreliable reporting. In addition, emissions must sene hedging function. In addition, each comnot be counted more than once. Finally, the oblipany has a department or person in charge of gations of each air transport operator must be the associated reporting and monitoring. In 2012 determined on the basis of its current emissions. alone, the Group expects additional costs from the emissions trading scheme of about 100 milIf integrated into the aviation industry’s establion euros. At the moment, this expenditure is not lished four-pillar strategy for climate protection yet very high as certificate prices are still low. But (see graph on page 71), a sensibly designed, it is foreseeable that costs will increase in the market-based system for emissions reduction future, as traffic growth and thus certificate prices can do its part in realizing two of the industry’s are set to rise. When buying tickets, Lufthansa key goals: a climate-neutral growth from 2020 customers already pay related charges, aimed at and a 50-percent reduction of air transport’s net compensating for the additional costs caused by CO2 emissions by 2050 compared with 2005. the EU ETS. Other airlines have not yet included these costs, which further distorts competition. The demand: An effective, competitionneutral global system At the moment, the European airlines are doubly disadvantaged: They have to bear the costs from the emissions trading system and fear sanctions from third countries. In Germany and other EU countries such as Great Britain and France, there are further significant costs from national ticket taxes. The airlines are increasingly becoming the plaything of politics as retaliatory measures by third countries are aimed at the European airlines and not against the EU countries themselves. In the opinion of the Lufthansa Group, a solution can only be found by means of negotiations, an area where the ICAO is very active already. With a global problem such as climate change, regional solo efforts are not helpful; a sensibly designed system for the reduction of emissions applies economic measures worldwide. By including all countries and airlines, it ensures neutral and fair competition. The aviation company also hopes 78 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Environmental management Concepts and strategies for environmental care With the strategic environmental program introduced in 2008, Lufthansa defined its Group-wide goals and perspectives for environmental and climate protection until 2020. One of these goals is to further expand and strengthen environmental management at the Group level and at the Group companies. This is the responsibility of the department Group Environmental Issues, which coordinates the framework, strategy and activities related to the environment for the entire Lufthansa Group. The concept of environmental care has been are to develop guidelines that will give all busifirmly established at the company for many years. ness segments and company areas a means of At the aviation group, all companies with enviorientation. ronmental relevance have their own environmental department, an environmental commissioner or at least a contact partner for these issues. All “The Environmental Forum is the environmental experts meet twice a year at the ideal platform for dealing with all Environmental Forum to exchange experiences environment-related questions of and to coordinate new strategies, measures and all companies and corporate areas. processes. The participants discuss in detail This expert round established itself planned legal regulations, such as the planned long since as an important coordinaexpansion of the EU chemicals regulations tion and steering instrument for enviREACH or the challenges of implementing the directive on the EU Emissions Trading System. ronment-related questions.” “The Environmental Forum is the ideal platform Jan-Ole Jacobs Manager Group Environ­mental Issues for dealing with all environment-related questions Deutsche Lufthansa AG at the content level while simultaneously involving all companies and corporate areas in the discussion. This expert round established itself long since as an important coordination and steering instrument,” says Jan-Ole Jacobs, Manager Group The following examples provide representaEnviron­mental Issues at Deutsche Lufthansa AG tive information about activities at selected and organizer of the Environmental Forum. Group companies in the area of environmental management. In the framework of this expert round, two working groups have been discussing subjects that are highly relevant for the entire company since Lufthansa German Airlines 2010. One team, for example, has been developing standardized ratios that make the environ• During the reporting year, Lufthansa German Airmental activities across the Group measurable lines chiefly concentrated on developing further and comparable. In 2011, the focus was primarmeasures in the context of its “Fuel Efficiency” ily on defining and differentiating these important project (see “Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa ratios and clearing up organizational questions Group – Cutting costs and protecting the enviin the run-up to the system’s introduction. At the ronment” on page 70). same time, the experts developed clear guide• At the same time, this Group company successlines and responsibilities for the generation, valifully concluded a long-term trial of biofuel in dation and storage of these data. scheduled flight operations (see “Long-term trial of biofuel – On track for the air transport of the The second group has been working on the necfuture” on page 67). essary conditions for the implementation of a • The airline continues to work actively on the introGroup-wide environmental management sysduction of the Single European Sky (see “Air traffic tem. In 2011, the team compiled further experimanagement – The Single European Sky is taking ences made by the individual Lufthansa compashape” on page 75). nies while establishing their own environmental management systems. As a next step, the experts a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 79 Lufthansa CityLine new lighting systems and forklifts, which ensure resource efficiency on the ground. The experts • In 2012, the environmental management sysdid not record any deviations from the standards. tem of Lufthansa CityLine was again recertified “We’re pleased that the certification of our enviaccording to the internationally accepted environmental management system was confirmed ronmental standard ISO 14001 and the Eurofor all German stations. This was only possible pean eco-audit regulation EMAS. with the support and the enormous commitment • This Lufthansa subsidiary is currently preparof all employees and managers. This gives us a ing the latest issue of its Environmental Report, top position in the air freight industry,” says Betwhich will be published in 2012. tina Jansen, Head of Security and Environmental • One of the main activities in 2011 was the reducManagement at Lufthansa Cargo AG. The comtion of energy consumption at the aircraft hanpany plans to expand its environmental managegar. Among other measures, the company ment system to international stations in 2012. installed a photovoltaic system on the building’s • “Green Solutions” was one category in the first roof (see “Photovoltaic system on CityLine haninternational innovation competition organized gar” on page 83). by Lufthansa Cargo, the “Open Innovation Challenge.” Investments in innovation are decisive for the air freight service provider in the environSWISS and Austrian Airlines mental area as well. At the end of 2011, customers, employees and other interested persons • In 2011, both SWISS and Austrian Airlines took were able to submit their ideas via an Internet an active part in the project “Fuel Efficiency at platform. Many of these are now being pursued the Lufthansa Group” and implemented numerinternally at Lufthansa Cargo. ous measures to improve fuel efficiency in their • Since 2010, Lufthansa Cargo has actively parflight operations further (see “Fuel efficiency at ticipated – together with the Fraunhofer Institute the Lufthansa Group – Cutting costs and protectand other logistics companies – in the research ing the environment” on page 70). project “Green Logistics,” which is supported by the German federal government. The project’s goal is to identify the environmental effects Lufthansa Cargo of logistical processes and systems on a “user pays” basis, as well as to develop methods and • In December 2011, Lufthansa Cargo passed the instruments for a comprehensive ecological recertification of its environmental management assessment. The Lufthansa subsidiary provides system in accordance with ISO 14001 at all its know-how in the area of air freight logistics German stations. In particular, the external and has also assumed the lead in the design experts noted positively the many “Fuel Efficiency” of a resource-efficient air freight center. The measures aimed at reducing kerosene conresults of the case study “ecoHub” will be taken sumption (see “Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa into account in planning the infrastructure of the Group – Cutting costs and protecting the enviCargo hub at the Frankfurt location. More inforronment” on page 70). The same applied to the mation is available at www.green-logistics-network.info • An environmental cockpit chart helps ensure that management is informed regularly about goals, activities and environmentally relevant performance ratios. • Lufthansa Cargo published its first sustainability “We’re pleased that the certification report in 2012. of our environmental management system was confirmed for all German stations. This gives us a top position Lufthansa Technik in the air freight industry.” • Lufthansa Technik has set itself the goal of havBettina Jansen Head of Security and Environmental Management ing all its subsidiary companies certified by Lufthansa Cargo AG 2013 according to the environmental management standard ISO 14001 and job safety specification OHSAS 18001. 80 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a • In the reporting year, the companies Lufthansa pany’s “Bartesse Coffeeshops” since April 2012. Technik Turbine Shannon and Lufthansa TechFor the purchase of fish, the company applies nik Airmotive Ireland successfully concluded the criteria of the World Wide Fund for Nature their certification projects in accordance with (WWF) and favors fish certified by the Marine OHSAS 18001. Both companies have been cerStewardship Council (MSC). The MSC quota tified according to ISO 14001 for many years. has been increased from 6 to more than 43 Certification projects are planned or have been percent of the total value of fish purchased by started at seven further companies in 2012. the company. • Furthermore, the company aims at reduc• The staff restaurant at the Lufthansa Aviation ing CO2 emissions at its Hamburg location by Center in Frankfurt received organic certifica30 percent by the end of 2012 compared with tion in November 2011. Twice a week, dishes 2006. By the end of 2011, the company had prepared entirely with organic ingredients are achieved about 23 percent of this target value. offered to diners. By putting into service its own cogeneration • In 2011, the employees also received trainings plant in April 2012, the company reduces its concerning environmentally compatible pracCO2 emissions by a further 7,200 tonnes a year tices. Furthermore, the company formulated and will significantly surpass its goal. environmental guidelines and joined the initiative “Umweltpartnerschaft Hamburg” (“Environmental Partnership Hamburg”). LSG Sky Chefs • JOB&FIT certification: The company plans to have its health-promoting concept “Food Bal• LSG Sky Chefs introduced a global environance” certified in 2012 at all company restaumental management system that is modeled on rants in accordance with the JOB&FIT criteria ISO 14001 and monitored by internal audits. In of the German Nutrition Society (DGE). Furaddition, the company has switched its system thermore, the company restaurants in Cologne over to SAP and is recording the relevant enviand Norderstedt are to have their certification ronmental data with this software in 2012 for the renewed. first time. • In 2011, LSG Sky Chefs carried out a review in each of its six regions to identify the enviLufthansa Global Tele Sales ronmental aspects that are significant for its business. The process of these controls forms • Lufthansa Global Tele Sales (GTS) concluded the basis for future environmental audits to be its internal environmental audits in 2011. applied worldwide. Through these audits, the • The wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary has company plans to monitor new environmental been supplied with 100 percent eco-electricity aspects, program implementations and risks. since 1 January 2012. • An environmental calendar informs all levels and regions within the company about all important dates in this area. AirPlus • Lufthansa AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH, an LZ Catering international provider of solutions for business travel management, has developed products • In 2011, this wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary that allow companies to organize their business successfully participated with two staff restrips in sustainable ways. With the AirPlus Green taurants and its headquarters in the eco-profit Reports, the company provides its customers project in Hamburg – a support program for with transparent, detailed analyses of the CO2 environmental protection in companies – and emissions caused by business travel, so that received the corresponding certificate at the they can integrate this data into their own emisend of the year. LZ Catering is continuing the sions balance sheets. Additionally, the solueco-profit project in 2012 with four staff restaution AirPlus Carbon Offset gives companies the rants and its headquarters. option to compensate the emissions caused by • Sustainable purchasing: The goal is to increase business flights automatically and to have them the share of organically grown and regionally billed to their AirPlus customer account. produced ingredients continuously. This way, UTZ certified coffee has been used at the coma Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 81 Energy and resource management Towards sustainable practices on the ground Lufthansa applies sustainable practices not only in the air but also on the ground. For quite some time, the Group has been involved in projects that specifically focus on the advancement of alternative propulsion techniques for use during the taxiing phase of aircraft and for ground vehicles. In addition, the aviation company’s energy flight operations, the expert team tested in particexperts continuously search for ways to conular pushing the aircraft back at the gate as well serve even more electricity in existing buildings as taxiing to and from the runway. The data thus by means of ecological construction principles generated are being analyzed in a next step. The and intelligent energy management. Successresults will determine if the development of a profully so, as the following examples from 2011 totype is useful. demonstrate. Fuel cell-powered electric nose wheel eTaxi: Test of electric-powered taxiing for airfor the Airbus A320 craft on the apron Environmental thinking also inspired the developIdentifying potentials to conserve kerosene is one ment of a fuel cell-powered electric wheel on the of the Lufthansa Group’s most important tasks in nose gear of an Airbus A320. Lufthansa Techthe area of climate protection and environmennik developed the system in the context of the tal responsibility. In December 2011, Lufthansa aviation research program LuFo IV, together with German Airlines and Lufthansa Technik therefore the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and Airran initial tests, under the banner of “eTaxi,” of an bus, and tested it for the first time on 1 July 2011 electric drive mounted on a main landing gear to at Hamburg Finkenwerder. The innovative nose be used by aircraft in the continental fleet for all wheel allows aircraft to taxi to the runway without taxiing on the apron. The tests were jointly carried using the engines and thus almost emissionsout with Fraport and New York-based technology free. At Frankfurt Airport alone, according to the company L-3 Communications, with support from experts, this system would save 17 to 19 percent Airbus. The goal of the comprehensive feasibilof exhaust emissions and eliminate almost 100 ity study is to determine whether electric motors percent of noise during taxiing. An added advanfitted to the main landing gear of an Airbus A320 tage is that the fuel cell-powered nose wheel are suitable for environmentally friendly ground would lessen the workload on the engines and in operations. With good reason, because studies turn extend the maintenance intervals. show that shortand medium-haul aircraft consume more than 3 percent of their overall fuel First electric car with inductive charging burn during taxiing. In the framework of a five-day technology practical trial under the real conditions of daily On 29 August 2011, Germany’s first electric car with inductive charging technology was put into service at Frankfurt Airport by Frankfurt Mayor Petra Roth, the Chairman of the Board of energy provider Mainova, Dr. Constantin H. Alsheimer, and the CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Christoph Franz. The innovative vehicle not only helps make aircraft handling and maintenance as resource-efficient as possible but also delivers insights in the context of a pilot project on how e-vehicles can be recharged conveniently. In addition, the future-oriented car helps to generate and analyze detailed measuring data. Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt currently operates 275 passenger vehicles in aircraft maintenance. “Apart from its range, the battery-powered vehicle eTaxi – the pioneering idea for more environmentally friendly ground operations. is superior in every respect to vehicles with inter82 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a nal combustion engines. And in combination with electricity from renewable sources, it is also CO2neutral,” adds Harald Weinand, who is responsible for environmental protection at Lufthansa Technik’s aircraft maintenance wing. Specifically refitted for the use of inductive technology, the e-car has also been licensed for road traffic. Its battery is recharged cable-free at Frankfurt Airport’s first induction charging station, also recently recently inaugurated. Photovoltaic system on CityLine hangar As an expression of the responsible use of finite resources, Lufthansa continuously endeavors to reduce the energy consumption of its buildOfficial inauguration of the inductive recharging station on 29 August 2011 at the ings further. Guided by this principle, a photovolmaintenance base of Lufthansa Technik AG in Frankfurt. taic system with a surface of 5,400 square meters was installed in 2011 on the flat roof of Lufthansa needs, by using a special support structure. The CityLine’s Hangar 2. The system makes a signifi16 million euro project expands the Lufthansa cant contribution to lowering the CO2 emissions subsidiary’s location Berlin Schönefeld and is at Cologne/Bonn Airport. The airport operator part of the preparations for the inauguration of the installed the solar modules with support from the new international airport “BER.” Lufthansa subsidiary. “Environmental principles are firmly anchored in our company. That’s why we were immediately in favor of this project,” says Klaus Krichbaum, Head of Facility Management at Lufthansa CityLine. Thanks to the new solar system, 48,000 tonnes of CO2 can be avoided, and more than 133,000 kilowatt hours of electricity can be produced and fed into the airport’s supply network. This quantity of electricity is enough to supply 33 three-person households with energy for a whole year in a climate-neutral way. A further positive effect: As the white, highlyreflective foil of the photovoltaic modules reduces  the solar radiation on the building’s roof, the temLufthansa supported Rhine-Main region as a peratures inside the hangar are always pleasant. “Showcase for Electromobility” In early 2012, the Lufthansa Group was one of the consortium partners supLufthansa Technik builds maintenance hangar porting the bid of the mobility region Frankfurt Rhine-Main, which includes at the new capital city airport in Berlin the Mainz and Aschaffenburg areas, to become a “Showcase for ElectromoOn 21 June 2011, ground was broken for the bility” under the German federal government’s National Development Plan future maintenance hangar of Lufthansa Techfor Electromobility. This federal program aims to help develop Germany into nik at the new capital city airport in Berlin. The both a leading market for and a leading provider of electromobil­ity. It also hangar is being built on a lot of 18,200 square promotes the registration of at least one million electric vehicles in Germany meters and will offer a hall surface of 6,700 by 2020 – of which 75,000 should be on roads in Hessen. This move is square meters. Another 1,700 square meters will closely linked to the efforts to lower emissions to fulfill national climate proprovide space for offices, a mechanical worktection goals. Had the model region Frankfurt Rhine-Main been awarded the shop and logistics areas. About 110 highly-qualiproject, Lufthansa planned to invest over the next three years in 11 proj­ects fied mechanics and engineers will simultaneously promoting electromobility. Besides Lufthansa, more than 100 partners from carry out maintenance – ranging in scope up to business, research and public administration supported the bid. While the an A-check – on up to five shortand mediumRhine-Main region unfortunately was not awarded the contract, the Lufthansa haul aircraft or on one long-haul aircraft up to Group will keep a close eye on the subject of e-mobility and in particular on the size of an Airbus A340. Energy efficiency and the developments in the area of aviation, even without the Federal Govern­ ecology played a key role in planning the hangar. ment’s project. Among other things, the company was intent on limiting the building’s volume, and thus its energy a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 83 Lufthansa Technik counts on cogeneration plant in Hamburg Economic and ecological criteria provided in equal measure the reasons for the construction of the new combined heat and power plant at Lufthansa’s Hamburg base, which was put into service by Lufthansa Technik in March 2012. The 3.4 million euro power station, which significantly supports Hamburg’s climate protection concept, has a capacity of 2 megawatts of electrical or thermal output respectively. It supplies a quarter of Lufthansa Technik’s total thermal needs and a third of its electricity requirements in Hamburg. The company buys the remaining energy from The new cogeneration plant of Lufthansa Technik AG in Hamburg. regional utility companies. “The advantage of a combined heat and power plant lies in its particularly efficient mode of operation, especially when Lufthansa Systems: there is a concurrent need for electricity and heat, Cooling mainframes without a lot of hot air as is the case with us,” explains Jörg Wettlin, By operating latest-technology mainframe computresponsible project manager at Lufthansa Techers, cooling units and other equipment, Lufthansa nik. He considers the new cogeneration plant as Systems has significantly reduced the energy cona future-oriented decision. “Thanks to this plant, sumption at its data centers in the recent past. In we cut CO2 emissions by 7,200 tonnes a year. this manner, the company was able to lower its This corresponds to a CO2 avoidance of 10 perimportant Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) value cent,” according to Wettlin. To ensure that the from over 2 to a very favorable 1.6. The PUE indiinvestment pays off not only ecologically but also cates the ratio of the total energy used by a data economically, an economic efficiency analysis center’s facility to the energy used purely by its preceded the plant’s construction. computers. The IT specialists take matters one step further by using both the data center’s cooling system and its waste heat to cool and heat the offices. Lufthansa Systems: The latest technology helps reduce the energy consumption of data centers. 84 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Noise emissions Great commitment to less noise The Lufthansa Group always advocates clear reductions of the noise emissions associated with flying – a complex task that demands the cooperation of many different players. Therefore, the Group works permanently with partners in industry, public administration, academia and research on developing perceptible noise reduction measures. The related activities comprise the following Starting in 2015, the Lufthansa continental fleet areas: continuous fleet modernization, ongoing will be integrating Airbus A320neo and A321neo optimization of the existing fleet, noise-reducing aircraft, which are also equipped with the new procedures in flight operations, commitment PW1000 engines manufactured by Pratt & Whitto noise research and participation in expert ney. Therefore, the noise measurements in the committees. context of the certification of these aircraft are expected to show significantly lower values than Continuous fleet modernization for predecessor models. This again represents Today, all but three aircraft types operated by the important progress with regard to noise reducLufthansa Group already fall below the important tion efforts. “minus 10 EPNdB” criteria (Effective Perceived Noise dB) of the strict Chapter 4 noise standard Ongoing optimization of the existing fleet of the International Civil Aviation Organization Independently of its investments in new aircraft, (ICAO), which has been applied to new aircraft the Lufthansa Group works intensively on reducsince 2006. Even so, Lufthansa is not resting on ing the noise emissions of the existing fleet. this success, but will acquire 168 new aircraft in Together with the German Aerospace Center the framework of its current fleet modernization (DLR), the aviation company has been workprogram, which runs until 2018 (see “Planning for ing for many years to identify noise sources on sustainability: 168 new aircraft by 2018” on page aircraft fuselages in a systematic manner. The 26). These comprehensive investments in aircraft insights generated in this area form the basis for with efficient and low-noise engines are the basis numerous noise-reducing activities, such as the for quieter air transport, as the following examples latest investments in further perceptible noise demonstrate: protection measures at the Frankfurt hub (see “New package of measures: Alliance for noise In this way, the noise footprint of Lufthansa’s Airprotection 2012” on page 87). bus A380 is about 30 percent smaller than that of comparable predecessor models. The same applies to the Boeing 747-8, of which the aviation company has 20 aircraft on firm order for delivery starting in May 2012. Furthermore, SWISS will replace its Avro RJ100s with Bombardier CSeries aircraft from 2014. Thanks to the most advanced engines and hightech materials, the CSeries aircraft reach new dimensions of economic efficiency and environmental compatibility. The cumulative certification margin of the CSeries is 10 to 15 dB below that of the Avro RJ100, because the PW1000 engines of these Bombardier aircraft feature for the first time geared turbofans as standard equipment. This innovative technology establishes new benchmarks not only in noise reduction but also in fuel conservation. The newly developed GEnx-2B67 engines of the Boeing 747-8 are exceedingly fuel efficient and quiet. a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 85 In this context, the engines of the entire Lufthansa ple, Lufthansa Cargo started in early 2011 using Boeing 737 fleet stationed in Frankfurt were fitted the “segmented approach” procedure during with new acoustic panels by the end of 2011. In the night hours in the Rhine-Main region. The this way, noise during departure and approach is segmented approach allows pilots to fly around reduced by up to 2.4 decibels at the certification densely populated areas. Likewise part of the measuring points, according to the manufacturer’s “First Package of Measures for Active Noise Prodata. This voluntary effort is part of the “First tection,” this important building block for noise Package of Measures for Active Noise Proreduction at Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa tection” at Frankfurt Airport presented in June German Airlines is being tested in Germany for 2010 by Forum Airport and Region (FFR). the first time. The goals of this trial run, organized in cooperation with the German Aerospace CenNoise-reducing procedures in flight ter, are to gain operational experience with the operations procedure and to determine its potential for lessIn addition to progress from technical improveening the noise burden across the region. ments, the noise emissions from air traffic can be reduced by certain flight procedures. For examFurthermore, Lufthansa uses the quieter Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) at Frankfurt Airport whenever possible. Under the CDA procedure, Fleet modernization results in audible achievements pilots can reduce an aircraft’s noise emissions The noise footprint of a Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental taking off will be about by reducing engine thrust. The “First Package of 30 percent s­ maller than that of a Boeing 747-400, despite a maximum takeMeasures for Active Noise Protection” calls for an off weight that is about 10 percent higher. Shown below are the 85-dB maxiincrease of CDAs by means of a modified flight mum level contours for a departure following L­ ufthansa’s standard departure guidance by the German Aerospace Center. procedure (modATA) and with the indicated takeoff weight. Commitment to noise research and participa14,000 m 14,000 m tion in expert committees Fact-based solutions for noise reduction can only be developed when the mechanisms of noise 12,000 m 12,000 m development and the characteristics of individual sources of noise are known exactly. To gain new knowledge and develop solutions, Lufthansa 10,000 m 10,000 m has therefore worked continuously for over ten years in the research network “Quiet Traffic” with numerous partners, such as the German Aero8,000 m 8,000 m space Center. New research project MODAL 6,000 m 6,000 m At many airports, operators, airlines, residents, municipalities and ministries are discussing ever more intensely further options for active noise 4,000 m 4,000 m protection. Against this background, there is an increasing need to calculate and assess potential measures more precisely – and thus be able to 2,000 m 2,000 m plan them more exactly. For example, Lufthansa endeavors to identify additional noise reducing steps, analogous to the new acoustic panels 0m 0m installed in the engines of the Boeing 737 fleet stationed in Frankfurt. To be sure, the “Directive for the calculation of noise protection areas” (“AzB”), which has been in effect since 2007, – 2,000 m – 2,000 m is not designed to calculate the effects of such 2,000 m 0m 2,000 m 2,000 m 0m 2,000 m measures. Given the lack of alternatives, however, Point of brake-release Boeing 747-400 Point of brake-release Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental it has served well in the past to help determine max. takeoff weight 395 t max. takeoff weight 442 t such effects approximately. Source: Boeing 86 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a By contrast, the planned DIN 45689 (“Determination of aircraft noise exposure at airports”) is to enable more exact noise calculations, as it also takes into account individual types of aircraft and flight performance calculations. The new research project MODAL (“Models and data for the development of active noise protection measures in air transport”) contributes decisively to the standardization process by helping set up  the standardized aircraft noise database urgently needed for the new DIN norm. Led by Lufthansa, the project group, which also includes the DLR, airport operators and noise monitoring specialists, has successfully applied for research funds at Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economics and Technology for MODAL. The total budget of the New package of measures: Alliance for noise protection 2012 project is 1.6 million euros, of which 1.1 million On 29 February 2012, representatives of Lufthansa, Fraport, the airline assoeuros are covered by public funds. ciation BARIG, DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung and Forum Airport and Region signed the agreement “Together for the region – Alliance for more noise proThe aviation company coordinates MODAL, tection 2012” together with Hessen prime minister Volker Bouffier. Its goal is which started in January 2012 and is set to end to reduce perceptibly the burdens produced by aircraft noise in the area surin March 2015. Work will focus on analyzing rounding Frankfurt Airport. Its measures were developed by various working data generated in previous years on measuring groups from the aviation industry, the state government and Forum Airport flights with a Boeing 747 and on identifying noise and Region, a platform set up by the state of Hessen to facilitate the dialogue sources. Should the need arise, the project will between the aviation industry and people living around the airport. also concentrate on developing further noisereducing measures. A parallel task is to add One measure decided by Lufthansa is a modification on its entire fleet of data for the Boeing 747-400 to the database for A320s stationed in Frankfurt. By making modifications to the wing’s underthe DLR’s computer-based aircraft noise simulaside in an area in front of the fuel tank cap, the company aims not only at tion program SIMUL. Beyond that, the new stanrealizing a noise reduction of 1 to 2 decibels during the approach phase, dardized aircraft noise database will be linked but also at completely eliminating two unpleasant sounds. This measure to an initial version of a DLR simulation program is linked to previous joint research with the German Aerospace Center. In in accordance with DIN 45689. This move will 2011, Lufthansa concluded its refit of all Boeing 737s stationed in Frankfurt, allow the experts to analyze and assess selected as part of the “First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection” agreed noise-reduction measures at different locations in 2010. The new acoustic panels installed in the aircraft engines lead to by means of the new DIN calculation method noise reductions during the departure and approach phases. for the first time. “MODAL will take us a giant step forward in noise research. In earlier projAlongside aircraft modifications, improved departure and approach proceects, such as FREQUENZ, we worked together dures form another area of emphasis in the active noise protection at Frankwith our partners to collect important measuring furt Airport. Lufthansa has contributed its aeronautical know-how and pardata, the effect of which we can now analyze in ticipated intensively in developing these improvements. Beyond the noisegreater detail. Thanks to the work in the context reducing flight procedures already implemented, further measures are of MODAL, the new DIN standard will be applied planned for step-by-step introduction over the medium and long term. for the first time. As a result, we will be able to analyze and assess noise sources and active At the same time, it is crucial that municipal administrations consistently intronoise protection measures with much greater duce construction restrictions in the vicinity of airports to prevent residential accuracy,” explains Dr. Gerd Saueressig, Manareas from encroaching on airports – as has happened frequently in the past. ager Group Environmental Issues at Deutsche In the interest of a comprehensive course of action, the “balanced approach” Lufthansa AG. of the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) demands regula­ tions on new construction to complement the measures on aircraft and in flight procedures. This is the only way toward comprehensive action packages that can develop into optimal and sustainable effects. a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 87 ­ ufthansa Group fleet (active fleet on 31.12.2011) L Margins below the noise limit of in EPNdB ICAO Chapter 3 A330-200 LX – 13.9 / – 14.5 The bar chart indicates the sum of the differences A330-300 LH – 18.8 between the measured value and the threshold A330-300 LX – 18.4 value at the three measuring points by type of airA340-300 LH – 22.6 / – 22.9 A340-300 LX – 22.1 craft (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the A340-600 LH – 23.0 / – 23.4 values based on the reduced maximum takeA380-800 LH – 26.7 off weight prevailing in flight operations are indiB 747-400 LH – 12.7 / – 13.3 cated. To allow a more transparent depiction, an B 767-300 OS – 16.6 / – 16.8 B 777-200 OS – 21.4 improved method of analysis was developed for MD-11F LH – 13.4 / – 13.5 the previous issue of Balance, which includes the A319-100 LH – 15.2 / – 19.3 individual noise certificate data of all Group airA319-100 LX – 18.2 craft for the first time. Different versions of an airA319-100 4U – 17.4 / – 19.4 craft model and its engines by year of construcA319-100 OS – 18.3 / – 19.3 tion are thus better taken into account. While the A320-200 LH – 13.2 / – 14.3 A320-200 LX – 13.7 / – 15.9 conservative approach used until reporting year A320-200 OS – 14.1 / – 15.0 2008 meant that only the values of the sub-fleet A321-100 LH – 15.5 with the lowest cumulated margin were reported A321-100 LX – 10.8 to describe an aircraft fleet, the new analytical A321-100 OS – 11.5 A321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 14.7 method used since reporting year 2009 means A321-200 LX – 14.4 that the value ranges from the lowest to the A321-200 OS – 9.0 / – 9.2 highest cumulated margin are now indicated for B 737-300 LH – 10.3 / – 15.6 many fleets. In addition, many aircraft were recerB 737-500 LH – 10.8 / – 15.3 B 737-600 OS – 16.7 tified in reporting year 2010 according to the B 737-700 OS – 16.1 new, more stringent ICAO Chapter 4 standard. B 737-800 OS – 12.9 / – 13.6 The analysis also takes into account any modiATR72-200 EN – 26.5 fications to aircraft or engines that have been Avro RJ-85 CL – 17.1 made in the meantime, thereby leading to modiAvro RJ-100 LX – 16.4 CRJ-200 EW – 28.0 fied noise data and cumulated margins in certain CRJ-700 CL – 16.3 cases. In addition, numerous additions and withCRJ-900 CL – 16.6 drawals in individual fleets lead to changes in the CRJ-900 EW – 16.6 value ranges reported. Fokker 70 OS – 24.3 / – 25.2 Fokker 100 OS – 16.2 Fokker 100 C3 – 16.2 ERJ-190 IQ – 15.1 ERJ-190 CL – 15.1 ERJ-195 EN – 14.9 ERJ-195 IQ – 14.9 ERJ 195 CL – 14.9 DHC8-400 IQ – 25.3 / – 25.6 DHC8-400 OS – 24.5 / – 25.9 – 10.01 Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW: under 50 t 50 to 150 t above 150 t This division ordinarily corresponds to a grouping of regional, continental and intercontinental aircraft. 4U = Germanwings C3 = Contact Air CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways LH = Lufthansa German Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines 1 New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006: – 10.0 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. 88 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Research projects Under development: Worldwide measuring infrastructure for climate research No research, no progress. To minimize the effects of air transport on the environment, targeted research is needed in many cases. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group is active in numerous scientific projects, whose spectrum reaches far beyond climate research. This includes initiatives to limit aircraft noise (see digitally read out, processed and analyzed by “Great commitment to less noise” on page 85), to experts. The project’s goal is to create a worldpromote the use of biofuels (see “Long-term trial wide measuring infrastructure to be able to of biofuel – On track for the air transport of the observe the Earth’s atmosphere globally with future” on page 67) and to test alternative propulsupport from civil aviation. The data generated sion technologies such as eTaxi for aircraft’s taxiin this way are of central importance for climate ing phases (see “Towards sustainable practices research and numerical weather forecasts. on the ground” on page 82). In February 2012, the IAGOS partners tested the Global climate changes are among mankind’s existing set of instruments aboard the Lufthansa most momentous challenges. In this context, Airbus in conjunction with a “Real Time TransmisLufthansa has been especially active since as sion Unit” for the first time. The test aims to creearly as 1993 through various projects designed ate the prerequisites for the future transmission of to monitor the state of the Earth’s atmosphere. To the collected data in real time from the aircraft to this end, 15 European project partners under the the ground. There, the data would be fed into the direction of the Research Center Jülich and with existing meteorological data networks. This would the participation of Lufthansa prepared during a not only serve to improve weather forecasting furmultiyear development phase for the research ther. It would also help to refine current weather project IAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global information for the next hour, which experts refer Observing System). The long-term observation of to as “now-casting.” the Earth’s atmosphere by means of scheduled flights – a novelty in climate research – began in July 2011: Since then, specially designed measur­ing instruments aboard the Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 “Viersen” have routinely captured trace substances in the atmosphere during flights – worldwide and on a broad basis. In the future, aerosols and cloud particles will also be recorded. After each landing, these data are The sonde on the forward left fuselage of the Lufthansa A340-300 “Viersen” takes samples for the climate research project IAGOS. a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 89 All the climate research projects supported by Lufthansa are clearly described in the new flyer “Climate research on scheduled flights.” IAGOS workshop on the subject of cesses due to the influence of dust), meteorology volcanic ash (improvements of spreading models), vulcanology The volcanic eruption in Iceland in spring 2010 and air traffic control. and its resulting consequences for aviation demonstrated that the expert knowledge on the influFurther information on the climate research projence of ash particles and the gases released ects supported by Lufthansa are available at during such eruptions on aircraft engines is www.lufthansa.com/responsibility limited. Against this background, the IAGOS research partners examined at Lufthansa’s initiaLufthansa Technik is testing an tive – in March 2011 at the World Meteorological innovative paint system Organization (WMO) in Geneva – the question of On 1 July 2011, Lufthansa Technik, in cooperation whether it would make sense to measure aerowith the Fraunhofer Institute Bremen and Airbus, sols routinely from aircraft in the future. Among began testing an innovative paint system in the participants of the three-day workshop were Frankfurt. A new technology makes it possible airline representatives, aircraft and engine manuto apply microstructures that mimic the propfacturers as well as vulcanologists and aerosol erties of sharkskin onto an aircraft’s coating, researchers. The workshop’s goal was to identify thereby reducing flow resistance. As a result, fuel synergies and to initiate further research projects. consumption and operating costs also decline. In the end, the most diverse disciplines can draw Developed by the Fraunhofer Institute, this soluutility from routine aerosol measurements aboard tion makes it possible for the first time to apply aircraft. These include climate research (aerothe long-identified advantages of technically sols have a significant influence on cloud generasimulated sharkskin in an aviation context. The tion), materials research (aging and wearing proprimary goal of this test phase is to assess the durability and wear of the finely stencilled structure. For this purpose, selected surface areas on two Lufthansa Airbus A340-300s have been equipped with paint patches, which will be “Lufthansa has assumed responsibilchecked and analyzed regularly by experts until ity once again and put the first mid-2013. IAGOS climate research aircraft into operations. Other airlines will follow this example to help set up an instrument to observe the Earth’s atmosphere by means of civil aviation.” Dr. Andreas Waibel Manager Group Environmental Issues Deutsche Lufthansa AG 90 Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 a Corporate Citizenship Social commitment Environmental sponsorship Cultural commitment Education Sports sponsorship a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 91 Social commitment Immediate humanitarian aid – fast, uncomplicated, direct Earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or droughts – whenever natural disasters threaten people’s lives, the Lufthansa Group provides immediate humanitarian aid. In 2011, the aviation group again applied its logistics competence to support emergency relief efforts for those in areas affected by disaster. 26,000 blankets for earthquake victims to get donated aid supplies quickly and directly in Japan to places where they are urgently needed. So it On 23 March 2011, a special Lufthansa Cargo is natural for us to support this aid transport as flight operating free of charge took off in Frankwell,” says Karl Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman of the furt bound for Tokyo to provide emergency relief Executive Board and CEO of Lufthansa Cargo. in the wake of the devastating earthquake and tsunami. Aboard the MD-11 freighter were 70 Lufthansa Cargo organizes its first Expert tonnes of aid supplies for the Japanese people Round for Humanitarian Logistics affected by the catastrophe, including 26,000 Humanitarian logistics plays a key role in helping blankets, hundreds of sleeping bags and spevictims of natural disasters. But what criteria must cial mattresses to help victims survive the cold air transport fulfill as a part of the humanitarian and damp. Lufthansa Cargo organized the aid logistics chain so that aid supplies reach their desflight in cooperation with the DG Humanitartination without delay? Against this background, ian Aid & Civil Protection of the European Comthe first Expert Round for Humanitarian Logistics mission and maintained close contact with the took place at the invitation of Lufthansa Cargo on International Red Cross in Geneva and other aid 6 October 2011 in Frankfurt. The objectives were organizations. to understand better the needs of international aid organizations and to develop further the com“Flight against Hunger” reaches people pany’s own commitment. Participants included in East Africa logistics experts of the International Red Cross, Fast and unbureaucratic were also the watchTechnisches Hilfswerk (THW), Germany’s Fedwords for Lufthansa Cargo’s efforts to bring relief in eral Foreign Office and Lufthansa Cargo managthe face of famine in the Horn of Africa. To lessen ers. The workshop gave the starting signal for the the effects of drought for the people in Somalia, development of ideas and concepts to further the Kenya, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti, Lufthansa professionalization of aid transport. Since NovemCargo sent an MD-11F to Nairobi on 17 August ber 2011, the initiative has received creative sup2011 with 90 tonnes of aid supplies, consisting port from the Group-wide platform “explorers”: mainly of food stuffs, medications and tents. The This development program unites young managcargo airline made this flight possible by joining ers from across the Lufthansa Group to work on forces with the aid organization “Luftfahrt ohne the subject of humanitarian logistics. The project is Grenzen/Wings of Help” and other partners. In a expected to conclude in November 2012. parallel move, the Lufthansa organizations Cargo Human Care (see “Cargo Human Care – Medical aid for people in East Africa” on page 96) and HelpAlliance (see “HelpAlliance – Helping those in need help themselves” on page 93) appealed to the company’s employees for donations and set up dedicated accounts for that purpose. As the situation remained critical, Lufthansa Cargo made a second flight with aid supplies to Nairobi just a month later, on 21 September 2011, in cooperation with “Luftfahrt ohne Grenzen/Wings of Help” as well as Payback and other partners. “The situation in East Africa is still dramatic. As an airline, we have the means 92 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a HelpAlliance – Helping those in need help themselves The HelpAlliance is a registered charity founded in 1999 by employees from across the Lufthansa Group. Its members volunteer their services, are politically and denominationally independent, and collect donations to be allocated in a meaningful manner to social aid projects. The focus of these humanitarian activities is on Drought in East Africa nutritional and health care programs, schools, In 2011, the HelpAlliance made the Horn of Africa vocational training facilities, orphanages and an area of emphasis in its activities, as the people street-children projects in Africa, Asia and Latin there suffer from the effects of dramatic drought America. The goal is to promote self-help iniconditions. Tens of thousands have already died tiatives so that those in need are later able to and more than 12 million are suffering from famimprove their living conditions by their own ine. To mark its solidarity with the local populameans. The initiatives backed by the HelpAlliance tion, the HelpAlliance called upon the Group’s divide into long-term projects and shorter-term, employees to make donations and set up a dediresults-oriented project support. The organizacated account. The enormous willingness to help tion also provides emergency aid, as it did followshown by Lufthansa employees made it possible ing the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in early among other things to support a water project 2011. To help meet the needs of victims there, at the refugee camp Kakuma in the border area the HelpAlliance set up a dedicated donation between Kenya and Somalia. Thanks to these account and organized a benefit concert with the donations, 20,000 people could be provided with Lufthansa Orchestra. water for six months. Lufthansa Systems employees in Frankfurt and Hamburg also demonThe Group has firmly supported the HelpAlliance strated marked commitment. In cooperation with since its inception. This support comprises the the HelpAlliance, they collected donations in the release of employees from work on a fullor amount of 20,000 euros for this project. part-time basis, the use of offices including technical infrastructure at Frankfurt Airport free of Getting active for others despite one’s own difficult charge, and assistance with logistics and comliving conditions: That was the maxim applied by munications. To distribute the association’s the teachers of the Watoto project supported by growing tasks onto a greater number of shoulthe HelpAlliance near the coastal city of Mombasa. ders, the HelpAlliance’s board was expanded Instead of watching idly as their countrymen starve from three to five members in November 2011. to death, they gave up part of their salaries and The association now counts 15 full members together with their pupils’ parents collected money and nearly 1,600 supporting members. In 2011, in order to organize three aid convoys to the north the HelpAlliance supported 45 projects with a of Kenya. The HelpAlliance provided additional total amount of 1.5 million euros. financial support for this campaign as well. Teachers of the Watoto project near the coastal city of Mombasa selflessly organized several aid convoys to the north of Kenya with support from the HelpAlliance. a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 93 New minivan for school meals project Another success story in 2011 was a call for donations by the HelpAlliance to benefit the Supported Project “Rays of Hope” – a school meals project at the Riversands Primary School on the outskirts of the Diepsloot township near Johannesburg. There, an aged minivan had to be replaced as quickly as possible. It was used to get warm meals to 650 primary school pupils three times a week. The money to buy a new multipurpose vehicle (MPV) was collected in record time. This was due not only to the contributions of many socially active Lufthansa employees but also to the generosity of an HON Circle Haiti: Reconstruction project of the primary and secondary school in Gressier. In February 2011, member who learned about the school’s pre350 pupils were able to move from tents into the new school building, and 80 pupils found a new dicament and spontaneously donated more than home at the attached boarding school. 20,000 euros. “We were very touched by this gesture. It illustrates impressively how positively the HelpAlliance and its commitment are perceived by Lufthansa customers,” says Rita Diop, First Chairwoman of the HelpAlliance. Long-term support for Haiti On-board collection program “Small Change – It’s a Big Help” Two years after the devastating earthquake in Jan“Small gesture, big result” is the concept for a campaign that allows passengers uary 2010 in Haiti, about half a million Haiti­ans are to donate coins and bills in any currency – “leftover money” they carry on longstill living in provisional accommodations. Employhaul flights home – to a good cause. This is made possible by the onboard colees across the Lufthansa Group collected about lection program “Small Change – It’s a Big Help.” Since 2001, small sealable 220,000 euros to lessen the effects of this natural donation envelopes have been available in the seat pockets on long-haul airdisaster; the Group’s Executive Board doubled craft; cabin crews then collect and forward all donations to the HelpAlliance. In this amount to 440,000 euros. Part of these funds addition, donation pillars in staff areas, in the Lufthansa lounges at all German were used to reconstruct and to equip six smallairports and in the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs invite those scale schools run by the Salesians of Don Bosco. who pass by to support the association’s social projects with their donations. Both projects were successfully concluded in August 2011. The donations also made it possible The HelpAlliance and the humanitarian organization “b.foundation for Africa” to reconstruct a primary and secondary school at Brussels Airlines have joined forces in the area of onboard collections since for 350 children and adolescents that had been September 2011. This allows the passengers of Belgium’s largest airline to destroyed in Gressier, near the earthquake’s donate coins and bills in any currency to the HelpAlliance as well; previously, this epicenter. had been possible only on Lufthansa and Condor long-haul flights. Pakistan: Medical care for 10,000 families On-board collection program Following the exceptional flooding in August Development of donation revenues1 2010 in Pakistan, the HelpAlliance again reacted 2001 € 207,175 promptly to help the people in the stricken areas 2002 € 232,692 with a total of about 140,000 euros. Just one year 2003 € 216,539 2004 € 238,023 after the most severe inundations in the coun2005 € 294,870 try’s history, large parts of Pakistan were again 2006 € 279,575 flooded after intense monsoon rainfall. “Once 2007 € 260,939 again, we helped right away and among other 2008 € 230,433 2009 € 224,053 projects equipped a mobile clinic with medical 2010 € 286,184 instruments and medications to look after 10,000 2011 € 205,362 families in 150 villages,” explains Rita Diop. “In October 2003: beginning of Condor’s participation addition, we were able to finance the salaries of September 2011: beginning of Brussels Airlines’ participation the medical staff for a full year.” 1 As the final figures were not yet available at the close of copy, all figures mentioned for 2011 in this article are preliminary. 94 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a Indispensable: Continuous collection of donations It is the willingness of the Lufthansa Group’s employees and Executive Board that makes the HelpAlliance’s work possible in the first place. At the same time, the number and intensity of natural disasters are on the rise. This increases the need to help and, in turn, the charity’s financial needs. To ensure that it will be able to cover these needs in the future, the HelpAlliance significantly increased its online activities in 2011, among other measures. For example, it is now possible to make donations in a quick and easy way by using the online payment system PayPal. Setting up this new donation channel was Helping hands also in Vietnam: The HelpAlliance project “Saigon Children’s Charity” supports and preceded by a potentials analysis carried out by looks after children with disabilities, and guides them on their paths toward self-determined lives. the participants of “explorers,” Lufthansa’s platform for young managers. Additionally, Lufthansa The HelpAlliance’s Annual Report accounts for Marketing gave communications support to the the organization’s activities. Lufthansa also sponHelpAlliance’s activities in the social media, such sors the production of this report. as Facebook. www.help-alliance.com The festivities celebrating the 100-year anniversary of Hamburg Airport on 25 September 2011 were an opportunity to combine business with pleasure: Sightseeing flights over Hamburg with a Lufthansa Airbus A380 generated revenues of 50,000 euros, which were split evenly between the HelpAlliance and a local help organization. In addition, Lufthansa took advantage of the current employee survey to generate donations. The HelpAlliance received one euro for each completed and returned questionnaire. Furthermore, a bilingual newsletter targeting the Lufthansa Group’s managers and providing information about the charity’s activities was launched in August 2011. It is published twice a year, and in its first issue Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, called upon readers to support the HelpAlliance. Marathon in Cape Town: Lufthansa employees collect donations for HelpAlliance project On 23 April 2011, Lufthansa employees proved once again that they spare no effort to support the HelpAlliance. This time it was nine members of the runners group of the Lufthansa Sports Association in Hamburg who participated in the “Two Oceans Marathon” in Cape Town. Prior to the event, they collected 1,535 euros for the benefit of the iThemba preschool near Cape Town, a joint project of the HelpAlliance and Lufthansa Global Tele Sales (GTS) that opened in March 2010. Located in a township, this preschool offers 75 children between the ages of three and six a safe place to learn and play in a carefree manner. a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 95 Cargo Human Care – Medical help for people in East Africa Something that is taken for granted in Germany and other industrialized countries often remains inaccessible to people in other parts of the world: basic health care. To help sick and injured people in a direct and unbureaucratic manner despite this situation, employees of Lufthansa Cargo joined forces with German physicians in 2007 to found the registered charity Cargo Human Care (CHC). This aid project was initiated by Fokko Doyen, ties aboard its MD-11F freighter aircraft but also MD-11F Captain and Fleet Chief at Lufthansa covers the cost of air tickets for German medical Cargo. During a layover in 2004, he discovered specialists. Three times a month pediatricians, the Mothers’ Mercy Home (MMH) and decided ENT specialists, dentists, gynecologists, general to actively support the small orphanage on the practitioners, ophthalmologists, urologists, anesoutskirts of Nairobi. On 6 December 2011, the thesiologists and HIV specialists fly for three-day CHC’s first Chairman was awarded the Order stints to Africa to practice on a volunteer basis. of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany for his work. “Fokko Doyen has worked tenaciously Launch of child sponsorships for humanitarian aid in Kenya and gained many A further area of emphasis for CHC during the supporters in this way. His selfless commitment reporting year was the launch of medical sponhas also made him a worthy ambassador of sorships. In the area surrounding Mothers’ our country,” emphasized Michael Boddenberg, Mercy Home live many sick, handicapped and Hesse’s Minister of Federal Affairs and State Repneglected children who urgently need medicaresentative to the German Federal Government, tion and clothing. Whenever the physicians and in his eulogy. staff of the Medical Centre learn about especially precarious cases, Cargo Human Care does all it Currently, Cargo Human Care has 400 members. can to lessen the immediate needs of these boys The focus of its charitable work is on two instituand girls. The aid project also aims at enabling tions that are entirely dedicated to the well-being the children to attend a day school or boarding of children and disadvantaged people in the surschool and at finding an educational sponsor in rounding area: the Mothers’ Mercy Home and the Germany to cover the associated costs. The plan Cargo Human Care Medical Centre in the immeis to place at least 30 medical and about 45 edudiate vicinity of the orphanage. In addition, CHC cational sponsorships by the end of 2012. The supports the Medical Centre of the SOS Chilcost per child ranges from 25 to 75 euros per dren’s Village Buru Buru. month; should a sponsor drop out, Cargo Human Care steps in. As soon as a sponsored child sucLufthansa Cargo has firmly supported the assocessfully completes school or vocational trainciation since its foundation. The logistics sering and becomes independent, the sponsorship vice company not only provides cargo capaciends automatically. Reading competition and summer camp at Mothers’ Mercy Home Aiming to improve the reading competency and to promote the reading pleasure of the children at the Mothers’ Mercy Home long-term, the institution organized a public reading competition in June 2011 for 30 pupils in grades 7 and 8. The CHC also made it possible to buy books that are recommended for teaching at Kenyan schools, thus increasing the holdings of the library of the Mothers’ Mercy Home. Following last year’s marked success, Cargo Human Care organized a second summer camp at the MMH in August 2011. Eight workshops In front of the Cargo Human Care Medical Centre on the outskirts of Nairobi, offered the children opportunities to be creative patients are waiting to be treated. and to test and improve their handicraft skills. 96 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a A special offer was designed for the orphanage’s adolescents. Under the skilled guidance of a local carpenter, they built shelves and a work surface for the MMH’s planned woodworking workshop. In the pipeline: The MMH’s modernization A number of buildings at the Mothers’ Mercy Home are beginning to show their age – not least due to the tropical climate, which gnaws away relentlessly at the structures. To secure the project’s future, Cargo Human Care is planning to rebuild or replace old buildings on the orphanage’s site step by step. This process is to begin with the kitchen; other buildings are slated to follow by around mid-2014. Lufthansa Cargo: 30 years of cooperation with “Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main” Food supplies for 224 families in the The cooperation between Lufthansa Cargo and the registered charity Werkstätten north of Kenya für Behinderte Rhein-Main (Sheltered Workshops) has already spanned three Given the drought and famine in East Africa, decades. About 100 employees with disabilities produce more than 250,000 Cargo Human Care has worked closely with the yellow lashing straps a year in Mörfelden-Walldorf. Used for loading purposes, Anglican Diocese of Marsabit since August 2011 these straps are indispensable for securing air freight expertly on Lufthansa and to supply corn, beans and oil once a month to Lufthansa Cargo flights. To mark the anniversary, the transport service company 224 families living in two villages in northern organized a big party on 7 June 2011 in Mörfelden with more than 500 guests. Kenya. For this purpose, employees at Lufthansa “For us, the Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main are much more than a supplier Cargo and friends of CHC have tirelessly coloffering the highest level of product quality,” said Peter Gerber, board member lected donations. The diocese coordinates the responsible for Finance and Human Resources at Lufthansa Cargo. “Over the past purchase, transport and distribution of the aid three decades, a genuine partnership and friendship has developed between the supplies to local families. Currently, the CHC and employees at the workshop and those at Lufthansa Cargo.” This tried-and-tested its partners in the drought-stricken areas are partnership will remain an important part of the company’s social commitment. looking for ways to ensure the food supply over the long term, such as by constructing wells so Currently, the Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main give about 400 people with that families can water their fields themselves. physical or mental disabilities an opportunity to gain a professional qualification www.cargohumancare.de and to work in a secure job. SWISS: “Werkstätte Drahtzug” in Zurich produces recycled bags for a good cause SWISS cooperates with the association “Werkstätte Drahtzug” in Zurich. There, employees with severe psychological disabilities manufacture colorful and trendy recycled bags by hand on behalf of the Lufthansa Group airline. Once taken out of service, large SWISS advertising banners made from weatherproof fabric serve as raw material for these bags. Unsurprisingly, the first 500 bags, each a unique specimen, sold out quickly. Part of the revenue generated by each bag goes to the SOS Children’s Villages. SWISS has supported this international children’s aid organization for many years. For example, the airline has made do­­ nation envelopes available aboard its aircraft, collected leftover amounts in any currency and forwarded these donations to the SOS Children’s Villages. In addition, the airline commits itself to the independent SWISS Children’s Foundation by providing financial, infrastructure and logistics support. The foundation allows SWISS employees to work for SOS Children’s Villages on a volunteer basis. a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 97 Environmental sponsorship Responsibility for biodiversity, today and tomorrow The diversity of animal and plant species, ecosystems and genetic resources has an inestimable value for the long-term existence of all living beings on Planet Earth. Pursuing the goal of protecting and preserving biodiversity sustainably, the Lufthansa Environmental Sponsorship Program has supported German and international environmental and nature conservation organizations for more than 30 years. One area of emphasis are the activities aimed at protecting migrating animal species, such as the crane, and their habitats. A matter of the heart: Crane protection Crane Protection Germany Working Group. Ever Saving the crane has been a matter of the heart since, the Lufthansa Environmental Sponsorfor Lufthansa for over 30 years. At least 11 of ship Program has been particularly committed to the world’s 15 crane species are threatened in the Crane Information Center in Groß Mohrdorf, their existence. To make an effective contribuwhich is run by the Working Group. tion to the survival of these majestic large birds, the company joined forces with Naturschutzbund In 2011 alone, the facility drew more than 14,000 Deutschland (NABU) and the environmental founvisitors into its spell. And for good reason, as the dation WWF Deutschland in 1991 to found the center offers the chance to observe the “birds of good luck” in the Rügen-Bock region of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, without disturbing them. Moreover, information and education take an increasingly important place in the center’s daily work. From 25 September to 2 October 2011, the “13th Week of the Crane” offered a wideranging program consisting of crane observation, slide shows and information events. A special highlight was the premiere of the film “Crane Journey Through Europe,” whose production was sponsored by Lufthansa. Now available on In addition to the Crane Protection Germany Working Group, DVD, this new documentary produced by Crane Lufthansa supports the crane protection projects of the Protection Germany uses impressive images to following environmental and nature conservation organizations: describe the yearly cycle in the life of the Eurasian crane. EuroNatur Foundation Project countries: Spain and Israel About 100 crane experts from all over Germany www.euronatur.org met from 21 to 23 November 2011 at the 21st Annual Conference of the Crane Protection Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel (SPNI) Germany Working Group. The key topic was Project country: Israel “Cranes and Agriculture.” In addition, the delewww.birds.org.il gates adopted a number of resolutions concerning the protection of this large nomadic bird. The NatureLife-International conference also provided the framework to celProject country: South Africa ebrate “20 Years of Crane Protection in Germany” www.naturelife-international.org and to honor the numerous volunteer helpers of the organization in an appropriate way. International Crane Foundation Project country: USA, worldwide Lufthansa also supported the design and producwww.savingcranes.org tion of “Crane Duet” in 2011. This new memory and learning game contains 48 cards and presSouth African Crane Working Group ents images of all 15 crane species. It was develProject country: South Africa oped by Crane Protection Germany in cooperawww.ewt.org.za tion with children at the day care center in Groß Mohrdorf. “Crane Duet” is available from Crane 98 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a Protection Germany and costs 12.80 euros; each set contains a bilingual (German/English) information leaflet. Nearly half the sets produced were flown to the U.S. aboard a Lufthansa plane for delivery to the partner organization International Crane Foundation. www.kraniche.de UNEP/CMS Thesis Award: Protecting the animal world’s nomads The UNEP/CMS Thesis Award was given for the third time in November 2011. Since 2004, Lufthansa has endowed this international doctoral thesis award, which is given every three years and offers prize money of 10,000 euros. The goal is to gain deeper insights into the biology, reproduction and In 2011, the Crane Information Center in Groß Mohrdorf cast its spell feeding behaviors of the world’s 8,000 to 10,000 on more than 14,000 visitors. migratory animal species, whose habitats are ever more threatened. Increasing academic knowledge China in an area bordering with Laos and Myanis indispensable to developing and implementmar. This method makes it possible to fix eroded ing effective measures to protect such species as soil long-term and to absorb CO2 already present migratory birds, marine mammals and bats. Via in the atmosphere, thereby boosting climate prothis research award, Lufthansa makes an important tection. Furthermore, this form of sustainable culticontribution to supporting the Convention on the vation creates jobs that secure a livelihood for the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals rural population over the long term. (CMS), whose signatory nations have committed themselves to the protection of migratory species Ever-widening circles: Traveling exhibition since 1979. “World Champions of Nature” NatureLife International is firmly committed to The 2011 UNEP/CMS Thesis Award was given to consistent environmental education. Its goal is British biologist Dr. Lucy King. She developed a to sensitize people to the topics of sustainabilmodel allowing the limitation of the areas affected ity, environmental care and nature conservation by crop damage caused by elephants. It is based and to increase their knowledge in these areas. on these “thick-skinned” animals’ natural fear of To this end, the foundation built on the German honey bees. Intelligently positioned, these selfpeople’s passion for sports and with support from defending insects act as a living barrier, spoiling Lufthansa designed and produced the travelthe elephants’ appetite for lush green areas. Coning exhibition “World Champions of Nature.” The flicts between humans and animals can thus be show has been fascinating visitors since August defused even before they arise. 2010 with its insights into the extraordinary physiwww.cms.int cal abilities of animals. This linking of high performance in sports with like phenomena in nature NatureLife International: has been so well received by the public that the Secondary forests for more biodiversity exhibition was again shown in 2011 in numerTurning remaining patches of primary forest into ous locations. These included the Federal Press species-rich secondary forests: That is the goal Agency in Berlin, the Nature Protection Center of Rainforestation Farming, a pilot project of the Eriskirch in Aachen and the Esterházy Museum environmental foundation NatureLife International at Schloss Lackenbach in Austria. Plans call for supported by the Lufthansa Environmental Sponan even more pronounced international use of sorship Program for more than ten years. This the show and the further development of individmethod was developed by the foundation’s enviual exhibition modules for this purpose. ronmental experts, in cooperation with Hohenwww.naturelife-international.org heim University and Visayas State University, on the island of Leyte in the Philippines. Rainforestation Farming, which calls for the reforesting of cleared areas of rainforest, has also been successfully applied since 2007 in western a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 99 Cultural commitment and education Lufthansa builds bridges between cultures and generations Giving support to culture and education is a significant part of Lufthansa’s commitment to society. As an aviation group with international activities, the company creates innumerable connections every day – not only between cities, countries and continents but also between people of the most diverse origins and backgrounds, as the following examples illustrate. Two “brands” in harmony: Lufthansa and alongside their regional roots, both stand for Cologne’s Gürzenich Orchestra internationality and a pronounced willingness Since October 2010, Lufthansa has been the to innovate,” said Stephan Gemkow, Chief Gürzenich Orchestra’s First Global Partner, rep­ Financial Officer of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, in resenting its first long-term commitment to a his pre-concert welcome speech to concertGerman symphony orchestra. In 2011, the comgoers at Museum Ludwig. pany continued its support for “Cologne’s most www.guerzenich-orchester.de desirable concert brand” and thus played a significant part in promoting the musical life and Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music rich traditions in the city that is home to its corThe 27th edition of the Lufthansa Festival of porate headquarters. The year’s brilliant highlight Baroque Music took place from 13 to 21 May was the festive concert on 24 September 2011 to 2011 in London, taking listeners on “A Voymark the 25-year anniversary of the Kölner Philage through Europe’s Heart.” Twelve concerts harmonie. About 120 HON Circle and Senator illustrated the entire breadth of European customers, Cologne Mayor Jürgen Roters and baroque music, from the Baltic to the Adrirepresentatives from local and state politics in atic. It was performed in important churches North-Rhine Westphalia listened spellbound to such as St. John’s Smith Square and the vena performance of Gustav Mahler’s 8th Symphony, erable Westminster Abbey and was followed the “Symphony of a Thousand.” Inaugurated by hundreds of thousands of listeners worldin 1986 with the same rarely performed work, wide thanks to the BBC’s radio broadcasts. the Kölner Philharmonie has been home to the “Lufthansa is a global company with a truly Gürzenich Orchestra ever since. European character, so the festival’s motto fits perfectly with the airlines in our group,” says “Lufthansa and the Gürzenich Orchestra are partChristoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive ners with a shared basic concept: Both are preBoard and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. mium brands with a high level of public visibility Together with its system partner Rolls-Royce, and a high demand for quality. At the same time, the company has supported the festival, Gürzenich Orchestra: A festive concert on 24 September 2011 marked the 25-year anniversary of the Kölner Philharmonie. 100 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a The Collegium Vocale Gent under the direction of Philippe Herreweghe opened the Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music 2011 with a sold-out performance. which is renowned far beyond the British capital, Lufthansa again participates in “Kunst privat!” since its inception. Lufthansa again took an active role in shaping the seventh edition of “Kunst privat!” (“PriIn 2011, numerous renowned artists enthralled vate Art!”), which took place on 28 and 29 May London’s knowledgeable audiences, which 2011. Interested visitors thus had an opportunity included many customers, business partners and for the fourth time already to view the art colfriends of Lufthansa. The festival was opened by lection housed in the Lufthansa Aviation Center the noted Bach specialist Philipp Herreweghe (LAC) in Frankfurt, which is ordinarily not open to with his choir and orchestra Collegium Vocale the public. The initiative, in which about 35 interGent. Gustav Leonhardt, one of the outstandnational corporations and regional companies in ing pioneers of historical performance pracFrankfurt, Wiesbaden and Darmstadt participate, tice, gave one of his last concerts at the festival. is organized by Hesse’s Ministry of Economics, Another highlight was the concert entitled “Music Transport and Development. The particularity of from Salzburg,” which united the world-famous the Lufthansa exhibition concept: Unlike movchoir of Westminster Abbey and musicians of St. able objects, such as paintings or sculptures, the James’s Baroque in a performance of works by exhibits at the LAC represent “art in architecture,” Bertali, Biber and Schütz. The 28th Lufthansa Fesor works of art that are so well integrated into the tival of Baroque Music took place from 18 to 26 building that they often only become visible to May 2012. In the year of the Olympic Games in viewers at a second glance. “Every year, the camLondon, it featured music reflecting the themes of paign ‘Kunst privat!’ is a highlight for Lufthansa competition as well as the peaceful coexistence and an extraordinary platform to present ourof nations. www.lufthansafestival.org.uk selves to the public from an unusual perspective,” says Hildegard Lamberty at the Lufthansa Visitors’ Lufthansa New Year’s Concert Service. “We’ll be joining the event again in 2012.” For connoisseurs of classical music, the annual Lufthansa New Year’s Concert has become a Numerous prizes for the finalists of the Fedregular institution. The 15th edition of this highly eral Public Reading Competition regarded event was marked by Russian music, In 2011, Lufthansa supported the Federal Public such as Dimitri Shostakovich’s “A Spin Through Reading Competition for the first time. This highly Moscow” and Peter Tchaikovsky’s well-known regarded competition is an initiative of the German Concerto for piano and orchestra No. 1 in b Publishers and Booksellers Association in co­­ minor, op. 23. On 17 January 2012, about 1,200 operation with schools, libraries, book stores invited guests – including many Lufthansa status and other cultural institutions. Last year, about customers as well as representatives from poli640,000 students from 7,500 elementary, secondtics, business and culture – found their way to ary and high schools participated in the countryBerlin’s Konzerthaus am Gendarmenmarkt. wide competition. The finals of the event’s 52nd edition took place on 22 June 2011 at the German National Library in Frankfurt. As a partner of the national finals, Lufthansa provided a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 101 Lufthansa Systems bestows three “Scholarships Germany” In the context of the program “Scholarship Germany,” Lufthansa Systems supports three topflight students majoring in information technology or physics at Darmstadt’s Technical University for one year each. The program, an initiative of Germany’s Federal Ministry of Education and Research, provides scholarship holders half of their support from Germany’s Federal Government and half from a privatesector company. Linked to the scholarship is the opportunity to gain firsthand information about IT specialist Lufthansa Systems and its “Door-opener Day” at Lufthansa Technik in Hamburg for “Mouse TV.” technical innovations. Learning from students: SWISS supports simnumerous prizes. For example, the company ulation of UN climate negotiations donated air tickets for the two winners for a trip Students at the universities in St. Gallen (HSG) within Europe accompanied by their parents and and Cologne, ESADE Barcelona and the Warsiblings. saw School of Economics managed in just two www.vorlesewettbewerb.de days what thousands of delegates at the UN climate conferences have not been able to accom“Door-opener Day” at Lufthansa Technik in plish for years: the successful conclusion of a Hamburg global treaty to reduce CO2 emissions. The simuOn 10 July 2011, to help mark the 40th annilated negotiations are part of the CEMS Master versary of the widely popular children’s eduProgram for International Management, which is cational series “Mouse TV,” Lufthansa Technik offered as a cooperation between leading busiparticipated in the first-ever “Door-opener Day.” ness schools, multinational companies and nonLaunched by series producer Westdeutscher government organizations. In 2011, SWISS supRundfunk, this cross-industry initiative attracted ported the negotiation team of St. Gallen Uniabout 250 host companies and institutions, versity as a part of its social commitment. The including factories, laboratories, city halls and university course entitled “Model UNFCCC” aims bakeries nationwide. At Lufthansa Technik, the at sensitizing students to the problems of climate “Door-opener Day” took place under the motto change and enabling them, as our hope for the “Look, Touch, Try” and drew 25,000 visitors to its future, to help shape the contents of an internaHamburg location. There, mouse fans of all ages tional climate protection treaty. were offered such rare learning opportunities as www.cems.org visiting an aircraft cockpit. They also found out www.unisg.ch how engines function or how a hole in the aircraft fuselage would be repaired. “At Lufthansa Technik, we too always have many questions and ideas, and so ‘Mouse TV’ fits us very well. I’m proud that so many people came to visit us,” said Dr. Thomas Stüger, member of the Executive Board responsible for Products and Services at Lufthansa Technik. 102 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a Sports sponsorship Partner of top-level sports Sports sponsorship has a long tradition at Lufthansa. The company has been committed to top-level sports ever since the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich. It continues to assume its social responsibility in this area and is today a partner of many leading national institutions, associations and societies. German Sports Aid Foundation National Paralympic Committee Germany At the beginning of 2012, Lufthansa extended its Lufthansa is a cosponsor of the National Parapartnership with the German Sports Aid Foundalympic Committee Germany, which celebrated tion by another four years – as the first National its 60th anniversary during the reporting year. Sponsor ever to do so. The foundation supports Lufthansa supported the official celebrations on more than 4,800 athletes. A specific goal is to 9 September 2011 in Berlin as well as the elecaccompany young talents, with and without distion of the “Handicapped Athlete of The Year” on abilities, all along their path toward top athletic 26 November 2011 in Cologne. Furthermore, the performances. Therefore, the company is again Group supports the project “GOLD – You can do planning to take on the sponsorships for ten more than you think,” a documentary film about potential Olympic medal winners from the German the life of three world-class athletes with disabiliSports Aid Foundation’s elite program for talented ties. It aims at increasing public acknowledgment young athletes in the coming years. The German of athletes with handicaps, reducing prejudices Sports Aid Foundation gives a perfect framework and contact anxiety, and advancing the incluof conditions for supporting top athletes across sion of athletes with disabilities. Shooting for this the entire spectrum of sports in Germany, susfilm, which will premiere at the 2013 Berlinale, tainably and efficiently. has already begun. Lufthansa supports this project mainly with communications measures, such A further area of emphasis in this context is to as regular reports in its internal media, including assist the campaign “Your Name for Germany” the employee newspaper Lufthanseat and the inuntil 2015 with even more intensive communicaflight magazine. In addition, information stands at tions measures and to promote it in diverse ways. the Frankfurt Half-Marathon and at the Lufthansa For example, the company targets employees, Inclusion Day draw attention to the project. passengers and customers with the message that they can “sponsor” one of Germany’s top athletes for only three euros a month. For many years Lufthansa has also supported numerous events of the German Sports Aid Foundation, such as its “Sports Ball,” which most recently took place on 4 February 2012 in Frankfurt and serves to collect donations for the sports foundation. Information stand on the documentary film “GOLD – You can do more than you think” in the context of the Lufthansa Inclusion Day 2012. a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 103 One of the film’s protagonists will strengthen the Lufthansa team participating in the company run JP Morgan Corporate Challenge 2012. German Olympic Sport Confederation The aviation group also assumes its social responsibility with regard to top Olympic performances. For this reason, the company has been an official copartner of the German Olympic Sport Confederation and of the National Paralympic Committee since 2006. Moreover, Lufthansa has been an offiCompany and mass sports cial copartner of the National Olympic Committee People who engage in sufficient sporting activities are physically fitter and for many years. And in its role as “Official Carrier,” suffer less often from back problems. This is proven by studies. Furthermore, the “Airline of Sports” traditionally flies the German the number of people missing work because of illness is lower, while work national teams to Olympic and Paralympic Games, motivation increases and the work climate improves. For these reasons, which will also include the 2012 Summer Olympic Lufthansa has traditionally offered a broad range of sports disciplines to Games in London. Finally, as a National Sponsor, promote and secure the ability to perform and fitness for work of its employ­ Lufthansa supports the applications of German ees over the long term. The Group employees’ enthusiasm for sports is also cities as venues for Olympic Games. This was the illustrated by the fact that 6,500 of them are active members of the 13 comcase in 2011 when Munich applied for the 2018 pany sports associations with varying numbers of disciplines in Germany. For Winter Olympic Games. example, at the location in Frankfurt there was a choice of 49 types of sports in 2011 to help improve one’s fitness. German Soccer Association To continue the partnership with the German There is also undiminished popularity for the campaign “Lufthanseaten lau­ Soccer Association that has been in effect since fen” (“Lufthansa employees run”), which was set up in 2009. Furthermore, the 2005, Lufthansa extended its contract with the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in Frankfurt, Europe’s largest inter-company association on 27 May 2011. The Group will thus run, was a fixed date in the calendar of many Lufthansa running enthusiasts remain the German Soccer Association’s “Official in 2011 as well. In addition, some employees participated for the fourth time Partner” until the Soccer World Championship in already in the “Komen Race for the Cure” in Frankfurt, whose proceeds ben2014 in Brazil. In practice, this means that the efit breast cancer education and research. German national soccer teams and the association’s members will fly exclusively with Lufthansa to In addition Lufthansa is firmly committed to the long-term promotion of mass all games at home and abroad. For the first time, sports in the Rhine-Main region. For this reason, the company has been the the cooperation with the German Soccer Associatitle sponsor of the Frankfurt Half-Marathon since 2009. In 2012, the year of tion now also includes the women’s national socits 10th anniversary, this event drew a record 4,350 participants, including 250 cer team. The company also seized the opporLufthansa employees. tunity to fly the Japanese national women’s soccer team back home after they won their world champion title in 2011. FC Bayern München and Eintracht Frankfurt Soccer moves people – so does Lufthansa. Therefore, it is only logical that the company has been the “Official Carrier” for the professional players of FC Bayern München since 2004, flying them to all First Division and cup finals in Germany and to all international games of the UEFA Champions League in Europe. Beyond that, Lufthansa has been the official partner of Eintracht Frankfurt since 2008. For further information visit www.lufthansa.com/sport 104 Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 a Glossary AEA – Association of European Airlines ATM – Air Traffic Management Carbon dioxide (CO2) www.aea.be Air Traffic Management ensures both the Gas resulting in nature from the burning safe and efficient movement of aircraft in or decomposition of organic masses (e.g. Aerosols all phases of operations. plant material) and from the breathing Aerosols are solid and/or liquid partiprocess of humans and animals. The cles that are suspended in the air. They Atmosphere greenhouse gas CO2 remains for about reach the atmosphere by means of The whole mass of air surrounding 100 years in the atmosphere. Scientists natural processes (wind, desert storms, the Earth. It is divided into various layattribute the increase of atmospheric volcanic eruptions) or human activities ers, distinguished from one another by CO2 over the last 100 years to the burn­ (combustion of biomass and fossil fuels). distinct differences in vertical bands ing of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural The most important aerosols are mineral of temperature. Important for air trafgas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 dust, sea salt, cellular (biological) parfic are the two lower layers: the tropo­ tonnes of CO2 result from the combus­ ticles, soot, organic compounds and sulsphere and, above it, the stratosphere. tion process. Currently, about 2 percent fate. From a climatic perspective, aeroThe troposphere’s upper boundaries of man-made CO2 emissions are due to sols are the opponents of greenhouse vary depending on season and latitude. worldwide air traffic. gases, as they can reflect incident light They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilomeSource: IPCC/WRI 2007 and thus have a cooling effect. ters above sea level at the equator, and at 8 to 12 kilometers above sea level at Carbon monoxide (CO) AIRE – Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to the poles. The temperature in the troChemical compound consisting of one Reduce Emissions popause, the transition layer between carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in Transatlantic program in the framework troposphere and stratosphere, drops to the incomplete combustion process of of SESAR to reduce emissions from air only about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It substances containing carbon. For airtransport. rises again in the stratosphere. The socraft engines, the level of CO emissions called ozone layer is also located in the depends greatly on the thrust level: The aireg e.V. – Aviation Initiative for stratosphere at altitudes of about 25 to emissions per kilogram of fuel burned Renewable Energy in Germany 30 kilometers. Today’s commercial airare higher at idle settings, while taxiing aireg is a registered association of leading craft fly at cruising altitudes of between 8 and on approach than during the climb­ German research institutions, Lufthansa and 13 kilometers. According to the lating and cruising phases. and other companies in the aviation indusest research, air traffic emissions do not try, and bioenergy producers. The goal of contribute to the reduction of the ozone CDA – Continuous Descent Approach this initiative, which was founded in 2011, layer. Procedure for a flight’s approach phase is to advance the development and introthat requires less engine thrust and is duction of regenerative aviation fuels in B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeits­ therefore quieter and more fuel effiGermany and to inform the public at large kreis für Umweltbewusstes Manage­ cient. However, this type of approach is about this topic. www.aireg.de ment e.V. – Federal Working Group for only possible if there are no constraints Environ­mentally-Aware Management due to high air traffic in the airspace ASPI – Advanced Sustainable PerforB.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the concerned. mance Indices first independent environmental initiative Lufthansa features in the ASPI Index, of German business. At currently 450 Chapter 4 aircraft which was set up in 2001. This index members, it is the largest of its kind in Aircraft that meet the regulations of the depicts the financial performance of the Europe. Lufthansa has been a member strictest noise protection standard cur120 best companies of the Dow Jones of the Working Group since 1997. rently in force – the Chapter 4 noise EURO STOXX according to the criteria of www.baumev.de standard. The Environmental Committee sustainability. The prerequisite for being (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this stanlisted in the ASPI Index is the systematic BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen dard in September 2001. As a result, all integration of the long-term interests of Luftverkehrswirtschaft – Federal Associaircraft newly certified from 2006 must stakeholders in the context of corporate ation of the German Aviation Industry remain cumulatively below the Chapter policy, strategy and activities. The index www.bdl.aero 3 noise levels by 10 decibels or more. is run by the agency Vigeo in cooperaThe maximum noise emission values tion with Stoxx Ltd. for aircraft were introduced by the ICAO www.vigeo.com under Annex 16 to the convention on international civil aviation. Noise levels depend on the aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and number of engines. a Balance 2012 105 CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project CPI – Customer Profile Index Diversity The CDP is an independent organization Lufthansa German Airlines, in cooperaIn a corporate context, diversity refers working for the public welfare, whose tion with renowned institutes, continuto all characteristics that distinguish members are more than 550 large-scale ously conducts worldwide surveys and employees from one another. Diversity investors worldwide. The goal of this inithus assesses the level of customer satmanagement offers approaches for hantiative, which was founded in 2002, is isfaction. These data are compiled in the dling human differences for the benefit to motivate the world’s largest publicly Customer Profile Index, which informs of company and employees alike. quoted companies to make their greenthe entire company in the form of a sinhouse gas emissions transparent and to gle figure about the current status of DLR – German Aerospace Center reduce them lastingly. For this purpose, customer satisfaction. The DLR serves scientific, economic CDP and its partners developed two and social purposes. It maintains 30 indexes: “Carbon Disclosure Leadership Decibel (dB) institutes, testing facilities and operaIndex,” which lists companies that have Measuring unit for the intensity and tional sites. Its goal is to help – using made their emissions transparent in a pressure of sound. The difference in the means of aviation and space flight particular way, and the “Carbon Perforintensity between the softest sound the – to secure and shape the future. In its mance Leadership Index,” which takes human ear can perceive and the pain work, the DLR also seeks cooperation into account concrete climate protection threshold is 1:10 trillion. To depict this and allocation of research tasks among performance. enormous range objectively, acoustics European partners. www.dlr.de uses the logarithmic decibel scale. On CO see “Carbon monoxide” this scale, the value “0” is assigned to Dow Jones Sustainability World Index CO2 see “Carbon dioxide” the perception threshold (for a sound of The leading sustainability index world1,000 Hz) and the pain threshold at the wide lists the top 10 percent of compaCodeshare value “130.” An increase of 10 dB cornies in each industry, whose sustainable A codeshare is a flight segment that is responds to a tenfold increase in the approach to corporate management is sold under the flight number of one airsound’s intensity. For the perceived exemplary. line, while being operated either partly or volume, a difference of 10 dB correentirely by another airline. Both compasponds to half or double the volume. econsense – Forum for Sustainable nies maintain their independent profiles However, the human ear is not equally Development of German Businesses in the market. sensitive across the entire range of freAn association of globally active corquencies. Low and high sounds are not porations and organizations in German Compliance perceived as being equally loud even at industry that have integrated the guidCompliance describes the entirety of all the same intensity. For measurements, ing principle of sustainable development measures that ensure the lawful conduct this difference is equalized and noted into their corporate strategies. Lufthansa of companies, their management bodies accordingly. The best known such notais a founding member of this crossand their employees with regard to legal tion is the “A value,” marked by the index industry network, which was set up in directives and interdictions. dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the 2000. www.econsense.de EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise DeciCorporate responsibility (CR) bel) unit is used internationally. EMAS – Environmental Management Corporate responsibility expresses to and Audit Scheme which degree a company assumes Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik Colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit accountability for the effects its business (DNWE) – German Network for Busiregulations. European regulations activities have on employees, customers, ness Ethics concerning environmental management society and the environment. DNWE is a nonprofit organization, in and certification. which Lufthansa has been a member Corporate university since January 1998. DNWE has about Equivalent continuous noise Corporate education institution for pro600 current members, including many level (Leq) fessionals and managers. See also from German business, politics, religion The Leq is a measure for the energetic Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB). and science. At the same time, DNWE is average of all sound pressure levels a national association of the European over a defined period of time. All sound Business Ethics Network (EBEN). events that differ in intensity and duration www.dnwe.de are summarized according to mathemat­ ical rules. The resulting average value is an accepted and proven measurement of the “noise quantity” occurring over an observed time interval. 106 Balance 2012 a Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index FTSE4Good Greenhouse gases The independent Belgian agency Ethibel Index introduced by the Financial Times Gaseous substances that contribute to has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investand the London Stock Exchange in the greenhouse effect and have both ment Register and the Ethibel Sustain2001. The FTSE4Good lists only companatural and human (anthropogenic) ability Index (ESI). The ESI offers institu­ nies with above-average performance in causes. The most important natutional investors, asset managers, banks the areas of human rights, social stanral greenhouse gases are water vapor and investors a comprehensive overview dards and environmental protection. (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2) and methof the financial results of companies that Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. ane (CH4); the most important anthropodistinguish themselves by pursuing suswww.ftse4good.com genic greenhouse gas is carbon dioxtainable business practices. Since the ide from the combustion of fossil fuels. merger with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in Fuel Dump It accounts for about 77 percent of the 2005, this index has been part of Vigeo. Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency greenhouse effect attributable to human However, Forum Ethibel continues to be situations. A procedure used on long-haul activities. Methane, primarily generated responsible for the ethical criteria and aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g. by agriculture and large-scale animal the composition of the ESI. Updates of in the event of technical problems or husbandry, contributes about 14 perand calculations for the index are perserious passenger illness) to decrease cent to the anthropogenic greenhouse formed by the internationally renowned the aircraft’s weight to the maximum pereffect. Other artificial greenhouse gases index provider Standard & Poor’s. missible landing weight. In the event of a are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons www.ethibel.org fuel dump, special air­space is assigned (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) to the aircraft, if possible above uninhaband chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Source: FAB – Functional Airspace Block ited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usuWorld Resources Institute (WRI), 2005. Instrument of the Single European Sky to ally dumped at altitudes of 4-8 kilometers. evolve the fragmented ATM over Europe, A minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a HON Circle Member oriented by national airspace bound­ minimum speed of 500 km/h are required. HON Circle Member is the highest staar­ies, into a cross-border coordinated The aircraft may not fly a fully closed tus level that the frequent flyer program ATM. Currently, there are nine different circle. The dumped kerosene forms a Miles & More awards to Lufthansa cusFAB projects in the EU that have reached fine mist in the turbulence behind the tomers. www.miles-and-more.com different levels of development. Accord­ aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive ing to SES regulations, the EU member methods of analysis, no contamination Hub states must take the measures neceshas been determined so far in plant or soil In air transport, a hub refers to a central sary to implement the FABs by Decemsamples after fuel dumps. traffic point or an airline’s transfer airber 4, 2012. port. Passengers as well as freight are Global Compact see transported from their original starting FABEC – Functional Airspace Block “UN Global Compact” point to one of the airline’s “home airEurope Central ports” (hub). From there, they are carShared airspace that Germany, France, Great Circle Distance ried to their destination by a second Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands Shortest distance between two points on flight alongside passengers and freight and Switzerland intend to set up by the Earth’s surface, measured in kilomefrom other departure points, but with the December 2012. ters (great circle kilometers) or nautical same destination. miles. The center of a great circle is the Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT) center of the Earth. IATA – International Air Transport Airlines distinguish between freight perAssociation formance offered (FTKO, freight tonne The umbrella organization of interna­ kilometers offered) and its sold freight tional commercial aviation. performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilowww.iata.org meters transported). See also tonne kilometers. ICAO – International Civil Aviation Organization A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding norms for civil aviation. www.icao.int a Balance 2012 107 ICC – International Chamber of Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Commerce Germany’s first corporate university. It Chemical compounds consisting of one The ICC was founded in 1919 as the has received multiple awards for the nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX World Business Organization. More than worldwide standards it establishes for is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 1,500 business organizations and over the development and training of profescompounds. Natural sources include 5,000 corporations are organized in the sionals and managers. The LHSB suplightning and microbes in the soil. Nitroworldwide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa ports processes of change within the gen oxides are also generated in comhas been a member since 1955. Group and promotes a shared managebustion processes under high pressures www.icc-deutschland.de ment culture. and temperatures. Both of these parameters have been increased in modern ILO standards Low-cost segment aircraft engines to significantly reduce Work standards of the International Airlines offering predominantly low fares, fuel consumption as well as emissions Labor Organization, which include but featuring reduced or separately of carbon monoxide and unburned among others the bans on child labor, charged services on the ground and in hydrocarbons. However, future combus­ forced labor and discrimination as well the air. Flights are most often operated to/ tion chambers of an advanced design as the fundamental right of freedom of from airports outside of major population could help reduce NOX emissions by association for employees. centers. 85 percent. Depending on the type of aircraft and operational conditions, this IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on Mentoring value varies between 6 and 20 kilos per Climate Change Instrument for targeted support of junior tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic has a An international UN panel of experts employees. Focuses on regular personal share of 2-3 percent in man-made NOX on climate change, founded in 1988 by contacts between mentor and mentee. emissions. Climate models show that the World Meteorological Organization nitrogen oxides have increased the con(WMO) and the United Nations EnviMRO – Acronym standing for maintecentration of ozone at cruising altitudes ronmental Program (UNEP). The latnance, repair and overhaul of aircraft by a few percentage points. est worldwide scientific, technical and socio-economic information relevant for MSC standard – Marine Stewardship NOX see “Nitrogen oxides” climate change is analyzed and proCouncil cessed to advance the understanding of Leading worldwide certification program OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health climate change. for fish and seafood from sustainable and Safety Assessment Series www.ipcc.ch fishing. Job safety management system developed by the British Standards Institution ISO 14001 – International environmental MTOW in cooperation with international certifimanagement system Acronym standing for maximum takeoff cation organizations. Companies hereby receive an effective weight of an aircraft instrument that allows them to take enviOzone ronmental aspects into consideration in Molecule consisting of three oxygen decisions relating to corporate policies atoms formed in the stratosphere. The and to continuously improve the situaozone layer located in the stratosphere tion of environmental care in relation to has an important protective function, all daily tasks. www.iso.org as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While ozone at higher altitudes is broken Kerosene down massively by chlorofluorocarbons Fuel for jet and propeller engines that (CFCs), it develops close to the ground is chemically similar to petroleum. Like under the influence of sunlight from diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is numerous precursor substances (“sumproduced by distilling crude oil; unlike mer smog”) and irritates the mucous these fuels, kerosene does not contain membranes. At current levels, nitrogen halogenated additives. oxide emissions from air traffic at cruising altitudes cause an increase in atmospheric ozone, analogous to the generation of summer smog, estimated by scientists at 3-4 percent on the heav­i­lyflown North Atlantic routes. 108 Balance 2012 a Pro Recycling Paper Initiative Seat kilometer Sustainable development Founded in 2000, the initiative unites Measure for the transport capacity availAccording to the guiding principle of various industries and aims at promoting able (SKO, seat kilometers offered). sustainable development formulated an intensive usage and the acceptance in 1987 by the World Commission for of recycling paper. Lufthansa is one of Seat load factor (SLF) Development and the Environment the initiative’s founding members. Passenger-related measure of utiliza(Brundtland Commission), “sustainable www.papiernetz.de tion of aircraft: The ratio of transport perdevelopment is a form of development formance (PKT, passenger kilometers that meets the needs of today’s gener­ Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT) transported) to capacity (PKO, passenation without jeopardizing the abilities Measure for transport performance in ger kilometers offered). of future generations to satisfy their passenger carriage (number of passenown.” For businesses, this means acting gers multiplied by distance flown). Here SES – Single European Sky responsibly not only in economic matone distinguishes between available Describes the efforts of the European ters but also in environmental and social transport performance (PKO, passenCommission undertaken since the late issues. All three aspects – economic, ger kilometers offered or synonymously 1990s with the goal of restructuring the ecological and social – must be kept in SKO, seat kilometers offered) and actual European airspace in terms of optimizbalance. transport performance (PKT, passenger ing traffic flows and dissolving the airkilometers transported). space’s fragmented structure, defined by Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT) national borders and interests, by creatMeasure of transport performance (payQC – Quota Count system ing a limited number of Functional Airload multiplied by distance). One disThe Quota Count system is used to space Blocks (FABs). tinguishes between available transport steer and reduce nighttime noise emisperformance (TKO, tonne kilometers sions from aircraft at London’s airports. SESAR – SES Air Traffic Management offered) and the actual transport perforSince 1993, the system has been based Research mance (TKT, tonne kilometers transon the certified noise record data of indiThis project is carried out by Eurocontrol ported). In calculating payloads, passenvidual aircraft types. The quieter an airwithin the EU project SES with the proj­ gers are taken into account by means of craft, the lower is its QC value. ect partners and in close coordination a statistical average weight. with the ICAO. Raked wingtips Town meeting Raked wingtips are specially backSJU – SESAR Joint Undertaking Information event for employees at differswept, elongated wingtips, which A publicly and privately funded EU proj­ ent locations of a company. improve an aircraft’s lift and its air resisect involving Eurocontrol and industrial tance in flight – and thus fuel consumppartners (e.g. Airbus). Trace gases tion as well. Gases of which there are only very small Slot amounts present in the atmosphere RSB – Roundtable for Sustainable Designated point in time at which an (e.g. ozone, methane, nitrous oxide, etc.) Biofuels airline may use an airport’s runway for but which are of great significance for International initiative to develop a global takeoff or landing. the Earth’s climate and the chemical standardization and certification system processes in the atmosphere. for agrofuels. Stakeholder Groups or individuals who formulate Transparency International SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel their demands on a company (e.g. Anti-corruption organization, of which Users Group attainment of corporate goals) and purLufthansa has been a member since Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufactur­ sue these either personally or through 1999. www.transparency.de ers and providers of refinery technology representatives. This includes share­ whose goal is to accelerate the developholders, employees, customers, UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons ment and commercialization of sustain­ suppliers and others. Organic mixture of carbon and hydroable fuels for the air transport industry. gen that results from the incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or from the evaporation of fuel. a Balance 2012 109 UNEP – The United Nations EnvironWater vapor Work-life balance mental Program www.unep.org The most important greenhouse gas, Refers to a healthy equilibrium between even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without work and private life. UN Global Compact water vapor from natural sources, the Global network in whose context the Earth’s surface would be around 22 WRI – World Resources Institute United Nations cooperates with privatedegrees Celsius cooler. This makes Founded in 1982 as a nonprofit organisector corporations and civil action water vapor responsible for two-thirds zation. This independent environmental organizations to advance human rights, of the natural greenhouse effect (33 think tank has its headquarters in Washlabor standards, environmental prodegrees Celsius). For each kilo of keroington D.C., and is concerned with subtection and anti-corruption measures. sene burned, 1.24 kilos of water vapor jects related to global warming, diverse Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a are released. Concerns that air trafecosystems, government systems and member since 2002. fic might increase the concentration of structures, renewable energies and the www.unglobalcompact.org water vapor in the stratosphere and thus use of resources. The WRI’s work goes change the climate have been refuted beyond scientific research and aims at VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds by scientific research. The German finding pragmatic solutions to protect Volatile organic substances that are Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that the environment, advance sustainable characterized by high steam pressure even a one hundred-fold increase in the development and improve people’s genand thus evaporate easily into the atmoquantity of water vapor emitted by air eral life situation. sphere at room temperature. VOCs are traffic would not result in a detectable www.wri.org present in solvents, cleaning agents, climatic signal. fuels and other substances. In the pres­ ence of nitrogen oxides and intense Wet lease sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of Leasing of aircraft including complete ozone. crew, maintenance and insurance. Contact partners You can find contact partners in the area of Corporate responsibility under the heading “Service” at www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Please note that www.lufthansa.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service. Under the header “Help & Contact” you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa. 110 Balance 2012 a Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © May 2012 www.lufthansa.com/responsibility
