Corporate Responsibility COP Report 2012 Statement of continued support As a member of the Global Compact Sopharma AD supports the ten Principles in its day to day activities, its relationships with partners and the society. We will continue to integrate the ideas behind the ten Principles in our business and we will try to reach further and help increase the overall awareness about the Global Compact through proper communication with third parties. We believe that the production of medicines is a humane mission rather than a technological process and acting as a socially responsible company is in the core of our strategy. Ognian Donev, CEO RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT INTELLIGENT BUILDING In the context of world trends towards reducing energy consumption there are number of technologies used for energy savings in the project: • Decentralized v e n t i l a t i o n & a i rconditioning with fresh air from the facade • Developed sun protection system which minimizes the solar factor during the summer and uses it during the winter • The green roof acts as a filter. It lowers the temperature during the summer and increase the isolation during the winter. Thus the energy consumption of the building is being lowered and carbon dioxide emissions are decreased SOPHARMA TOWERS THE NEW SYMBOL OF SOFIA The purpose of the trade and administrative complex is to provide a space that is energy efficient & secures as good working conditions. The buildings cover all of the contemporary parameters in terms of ecology, architecture and energy effectiveness. The glass fronts are of last generation “double skin“ front keeping the periods when artificial light is used at a minimum. The buildings have at their disposal a unique filtering grass covered roof, which decreases the temperature in the summer and increases the warm insulation properties in the winter, thus decreasing the energy expenses of the building and emissions of carbon dioxide. The entire energy saving of a building of “Class A”. In comparison with high class European buildings, we expect a fall in energy expenses from 37-45%. The project has been defined as unique, not only for the territory of Bulgaria, but also as emblematic for Southeastern Europe. According to architect Helmut Koster, it is unlikely to find such a building anywhere in the world. The next similar projects of that scale will be implemented in Sao Paulo, Kuwait, Beijing and Germany. “Sopharma Business Towers” applied for certification from DGNB Bulgaria, a German system that is adapted to the Bulgarian regulation, construction standards and climate conditions. RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT Green energy Sopharma's existing production complies fully with the respective legislative ecological impact limits, but our wish was to go one step further and exploit all available innovative technology to reduce to a maximum our ecological footprint. As a result the new project envisages the building to be loaded with 8000 m2 of photovoltaic equipment. The initial simple simulation for the Sofia region with the tools of the European Commission available for public use indicate that the likely annual output will exceed 450 thousand kWh. The effect is double: not only will the production cycle be almost entirely independent from public energy sources, but there will also there will be a significant CO2 reduction. ! The CO2 reduction according to Ordinance RD-16-1058 will most likely reach up to 900 tons per year. Insulation The building walls are insulated with special industrial panels which are highly efficient in saving energy for creating the required micro-climate. In the winter the panels insulate from the cold and in the summer they keep the heat out. The special micro-climate requirements according to GMP usually would mean higher energy costs, which will be eliminated more than half by introducing the most efficient insulation available. Environment The building will be surrounded by a park area providing an attractive and environmentally friendly working environment. The 40 thousand square meters of garden and green roofs will extend the industrial arm into the ! natural green colors adding a soothing touch to the gray and glass facade. Materials One of the most significant environmental impacts will come from the replacement of volatile organic compounds in the process of covering the filmed tablets and the reduction of VOC in the granulating process. The replacement of VOC with water will lead to the total annual reduction of the used VOC with 20,000 kg of isopropanol and 9,200 kg of acetone. Experience Sopharma has already built a number of ecological production sites including the GMP certified injectables facility, suppositories facility, lyophilic facility, phytochemistry etc. The latest project, which was partially financed by a EU funding program for competitiveness, was completed this year in one of our daughter companies in the rose valley – Bulgarian Rose – Sevtopolis. The facility is the facility for extraction of active ingredients from herbs. The facility is GMP certified and situated at the company’s premises in mid country. ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY BEST PUBLIC COMPANY Sopharma was awarded the best public company in Bulgaria for 2010. The prize was awarded to Sopharma by the Minister of Economics Mr. Traycho Traychev who said that priority sectors of the economy in the future would be the health and pharmacy sector and conditions would be created for direct investment in them. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTOR The Executive Director of Sopharma received the award of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange (BSE) as the issuer with the highest contribution to the development of the capital market in 2010. This prize has been awarded for the first time ever. The pharmaceutical company was distinguished in a ceremony awarding investment mediators who have achieved the highest results during the last year. THE FIRST BULGARIAN COMPAY TO LIST ON THE OFFICIAL MARKET OF THE WARSAW STOCK EXCHANGE In November 2011 the shares of Sopharma AD were traded on the Warsaw Stock Exchange for the first time. The company is the first Bulgarian Public Company to be listed on the Official Market of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The decision for listing was taken back in 2007 by technical issues between depository institutions postponed the project. RESPONSIBILITY TO THE COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNICATION SUMMIT 2011 At the 2011 European Communication Summit in Brussels, organized annually by the European Association of Communication Directors, Sopharma was admitted as a f ul l m em ber of the Association. Soc ia l m e d i a , communication management in the age of hypertransparency, added value creation by corporate social responsibility, newspapers – from the end of the telex to WikiLeaks, those were only a few of the interesting topics within the Conference. SUPPORT FOR THE HUMANITIES From July 1st to 15th, 2011 Sopharma sponsored the Modern Gallery of Art in their presentation of unique works of Michail Zaimov, which combine photography zeal and natural beauty. Underwater photos of the incredible marine life, magnificent landscapes with a volcano at Maui island, Hawaii, are only part of the collection that can satisfy any admirer of photography art. The exhibition was opened by Denitsa Atanasova, President of the gallery, the author of the photos Mihail Zaimov and his co-mate in underwater investigations, Mr. Luben Dilov. With the message for support of free spirit, Sopharma sponsored a number of concerts of the Burgas band Sunrise and All Access Project. They will tour together with the legendary Ken Hensley of Uriah Heep under the motto “Rock on The Rocks”. Rock music fans were pleasantly surprised by the last album of Sunrise containing only author's pieces. Rock will always be a symbol of the freedom-loving spirit, and Sopharma's support is part of the corporate social responsibility of the Company. RESPONSIBILITY TO THE COMMUNITY OASIS FROM THE HEAT Due to high summer temperatures, a special cool place was established in the center of Sofia, organized by Sopharma and the Metropolitan Municipality, Triaditza District. An “Oasis” was created for Sofia inhabitants and guests. In the cool space, those who wished to check their blood pressure were given professional attention. Free mineral water was provided together with a place for short rest from high temperatures, which are a large risk both for hypertensive, cardiac patients, people with low blood pressure, as well as small children, pregnant women and the elderly. This campaign was initiated on behalf of the people who do not suspect that they have problems with their blood pressure, which is affected by high temperatures. MEDICATION SHORTAGE Sopharma produced 50 thousand packages of Deavit because of increased demand due to withdrawal of from the Bulgarian market of imported products of a similar nature. Sopharma has implemented appropriate changes to its production plan in order to meet demand for this important health problem. Sopharma has always reacted to the needs of Bulgarian patients and performed social functions at times when the other companies find it not economical to produce and import the necessary medication. Sopharma produces and will never discontinue production of the essential medications of young children, which have grown many generations of Bulgarians. So in 2010 Sopharma produced twice as much “Deavit” (110,611 packages) as in 2009. RESPONSIBILITY TO THE COMMUNITY DONORSHIP – AN ESSENTIAL PART OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Donations are a humane act recognized in religious writings and in esoteric & philosophical literature. Sopharma is a pharmaceutical company that has established traditions and has exceptional persistence in its charitable initiatives. Sopharma's Management follows the rule: “You have to give – and you will receive.” The experience gained in the field of charity taught us not to make a donation to one subject in need, who would declare us to be the “sponsor of the year”. Donating medicines has its own specific features. It requires precision in determining the type and quantity of the donation, and who will be responsible for the proper use, in order that help to be of maximum effectiveness. In 2010 we succeeded in donations directly to orphanages, schools, homes for the elderly, hospitals and medical centers and through the mediation of non-governmental organizations, foundations and charitable organizations. We made donations to two city councils /through general practitioners, and to St. Ivan Rilski Ecclesiastical Seminary in Sofia. The total amount of donations was 342,217 BGN, and only donations of medicines and medical equipment amounted to over 170,000 BGN. Sopharma contributed to the treatment and protection of the health and life of many Bulgarians who could not afford it for financial reasons. Our Company, too, is operating under global conditions of crisis. We are successful and developing and we invest in the creation of new job opportunities, but we will not forget that “you have to give – and you will receive.” The satisfaction to have helped is a motivation for us to be more efficient and makes us all a greater success. SMOKE FREE SOCIETY On the “Day of Health” in May, over 480 people aged between 10 and 73 years made a free medical examination in the Boris Garden in Sofia as part of the social campaign of Sopharma We the Public . Doctors tested respiratory function and carbon monoxide levels in the lungs, along with blood pressure and weight. The aim of the social campaign is to help people affected by the crisis to gain free access to screening and inspection of health. Teenagers from 14-16 years were tested and showed evidence of actively smoking with high levels of carbon monoxide in the lungs. Official figures show that every fifth Bulgarian child tries their first cigarette before age 10. RESPONSIBILITY TO THE COMMUNITY HEALTHY EATING Sopharma supported the National Campaign Food Culture” where residents and guests of Varna witnessed the collision of healthy food and junk food. A special art installation illustrated the conflict between poor and proper nutrition. Attendees received red apples and information regarding the most important rules for eating in a balanced and healthy life. The campaign continued in Plovdiv and other cities with plans in the future to add consultations with gastroenterologists and other specialists. RESPONSIBILE EMPLOYER Sopharma attracts employees based on rela%ve professional and personal qualities share suitable for the particular working 31.12.2011 % environment. The process of hiring and testing is fair and transparent and Number of employees 31.12.2011 1,841 100% provides ideal processes for selection of Higher educa>on 784 42,5% Special educa>on 61 3,3% the best candidates. This process does High school educa>on 979 53,2% not allow for discrimination of any kind Others 17 1% and is designed to comply with all local Up to 30 years of age 260 14% Between 31 -­‐ 40 years of age 473 26% labor regulation. The latter ensures that Between 41 -­‐ 50 years of age 545 30% no child labor, bad working conditions Between 51 -­‐ 60 years of age 496 27% etc. are allowed. Over 60 years of age 67 3% Women 1,151 63% Sopharma is a preferred employer Men 690 37% providing work for over 1,800 people in different locations. “For me this is not only a job, but rather an activity that will save thousands of human lives.” Malinka Georgieva, Documentation of technology, Solid forms factory
