2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT Turkcell 2011 Sustainability Report is our second Principles of the Report report issued. We present our key stakeholders The following global standards and frameworks the social, environmental and economic were considered in the preparation of the report performances regarding our impacts created content. We have determined the performance throughout 2009-2011 periods. content according to the requirements of these standards and frameworks. Scope of the Report The information included in the report covers We included the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting the overall corporate responsibility performance Principles and United Nations Global Compact of Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. during the Principles (UNGC) indexes in detail at the end of January 1, 2009 – December 31, 2011 period our report. unless stated otherwise. www.globalreporting.org Although Turkcell subsidiaries and international www.unglobalcompact.org operations are not included within the scope of this report, information about the group companies is Our Next Report was included as much as possible. The financial data We intend to share our 2012 sustainability given are Turkcell’s consolidated data. performance in our next report and publish it in 2013. 02 Table of Contents PAGE MESSAGE FROM GENERAL MANAGER 4 OUR CORPORATE PROFILE 6 TURKCELL IN NUMBERS 9 OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 10 OUR QUALITY APPROACH 11 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14 BUSINESS ETHICS 16 INVESTOR RELATIONS 16 OUR CORPORATE PRIORITIES 18 OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 19 OUR DIALOG WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 19 DETERMINING MATERIAL ISSUES 19 MESSAGE FROM CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER 20 OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 22 OUR EMPLOYEES 24 HEALTH AND SAFETY 27 DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES 28 03 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 30 HUMAN RIGHTS 30 COMMUNICATION WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 31 OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 32 OUR EMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS 32 OUR SOCIAL INCLUSION APPLICATIONS 34 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 40 SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 42 OUR CUSTOMERS 43 OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS 45 OUR SOLUTION PARTNERS 46 OUR SUPPLIERS 47 OUR TECHNOLOGICAL INVESTMENTS AND SOLUTIONS 47 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 50 ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE 52 INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION OF BASE STATIONS 54 WASTE MANAGEMENT 55 ANNEXES 56 OUR AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS 56 OUR MEMBERSHIPS 57 GRI & UNGC INDEXES 58 GRI STATEMENT 62 CONTACT INFORMATION 63 TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MESSAGE FROM GENERAL MANAGER When we look at Turkcell’s story of establishment and its success today, we always see “novelty” and “innovation”. We work in full effort to sustain this quality that runs through our genes and present the best and newest technologies to the service of Turkey in the most appropriate 04 manner possible. From the scratch, we saw “innovation ability” as the prerequisite of permanent success not only in information and communication technologies but every field and included this concept in our social responsibility area Dear Stakeholders, I am happy to share our 2011 Sustainability Report, ability to innovate, inspire and be an exemplary which is the second stage of the sustainability company for Turkish people and institutions. vision we established according to our responsibilities and your expectations. Since our establishment We are proud of our past achievements and innowe have been such a company, which is aware of vations, of course, but it’s the future that excites us its responsibilities as well as the necessity of mainthe most, because Turkcell will continue to introdutaining sustainability in pursuit of financial success. ce the newest advanced technologies to Turkey and We carefully consider our ecological environment to support our institutions so that our companies as well as our social stakeholders when conducting may be successful in the global arena. That’s why our activities. we say, “In Turkcell, our past is innovation; and our future is more innovation.” Corporate responsibility is among the top priorities for companies in the new century. As an industry leWe tried to present our progress to improve our ader, we see the positive impacts we can create on economic, social and environmental impacts with issues such as climate change, social development, solid examples and goals in our 2011 Sustainability 05 human rights, employee satisfaction and loyalty and Report. Our 7 million TL investments in renewable more transparent communication with internal and and alternative energy, our coverage of 99.13% of external stakeholders. We are aware of the necesthe Turkish population, our success in shifting to 3G sity of taking effective steps on these issues. Our technology, millions of satisfied Turkcell customers customers and shareholders are also aware that and our Turkcell family of employees, who are the our performance concerning sustainability-related architects of this success, are the fundamental issues will have a positive impact on our company’s proof of our rapid progress and leadership in Turkey value in the long run. Consequently we believe that regarding these issues. our performance will carry our company to the top as perceived by our key stakeholders. As Turkcell Corporate responsibility leadership at global we act according to this approach and vision. standards is not a dream for Turkcell but it is a goal When we look at Turkcell’s story of establishment that we are striving to achieve in the short term. As a Leader in Responsibility, performance of Turkcell Corporate and its success today, we always see “novelty” and brand will continue to be one of the major milestoresponsibility “innovation.” We work in full effort to sustain this nes of Turkey’s corporate responsibility journey in quality that runs through our genes and present the upcoming years. leadership at global the best and newest technologies to the service of Turkey in the most appropriate manner possible. Sincerely yours, standards is not a From the scratch, we saw “innovation ability” as the prerequisite of permanent success not only in SÜREYYA CİLİV dream for Turkcell but information and communication technologies but every field and included this concept in our social General Manager it is a goal that we are responsibility area. We are proud to prove that Turkey can have a “World Company” in the field of striving to achieve in communications and technology thanks to our the short term OUR CORPORATE PROFILE TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR CORPORATE PROFILE As the third largest GSM operator in Europe on a subscriber basis, Turkcell serves a total of 64.8 million customers in a region stretching from Germany to Kazakhstan. As well as our international subsidiaries providing high-end telecommunication services to customers in Germany, Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and TRNC, we provide value-added services locally in Turkey with our domestic companies, Superonline, Inteltek, Turkcell Technology, Global Bilgi and Global Tower. 08 Turkcell is also the first and the only Turkish company publicly traded on the ISE (Istanbul Stock Exchange) and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) concurrently. Our Customers Our Employees %66 %37 %63 %34 Pre-paid Post-paid Female Male TURKCELL IN NUMBERS Total number of full time employees in Turkey 3,149 (about 40% of the total number of employees of mobile operators) Total number of subscribers in Turkey 34.5 million (53% of the market) Coverage area in Turkey All settlements in Turkey with population of over 1,000 09 3G Service Contracts with 204 operators in 108 countries GPRS Roaming Contracts with 466 operators in 165 countries Sales 8 Billion TL TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Important Changes During the Reporting Period provide quality service to our customers at a value Our Shareholder Structure Turkcell focused on balanced growth during the much lower than traffic rate intensity accepted by reporting period and invested in 7 power houses, 4 international GSM standards as well as the Turkish 0.01% 1.18% offices, 1 warehouse and 1 plaza, mostly located in average, which is 2% GoS (Grade of Service). 13.07% 0.05% Anatolia and also 1 Operation Management Center in Manisa, engaging a total service area of 20,603 Our Pre-Paid Product square meters. Turkcell’s pre-paid product, preferred by those who want to keep their calls under control and make Our company’s 100% subsidiary, Superonline calls within their budget, as well as those who need 51% %34.69 İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. and our other four group to be called rather than willing to calling others is companies signed a share purchase contract on HazırKart. August 12, 2011 in order to acquire all shares of Global İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., one of the leading Our Post-Paid Lines companies in its field under Yıldız Holding A.Ş. Our communication services product, in which payments can be made in return for an invoice after Our Operational Structure obtaining the service from our GSM network, is the Turkcell Holding A.Ş. Updated and detailed information on the partnersPost-paid Line. Publicly Traded hips and subsidiaries of Turkcell are present in our Sonera Holding A.Ş. periodical financial tables and our website. Other Services Besides mobile communication Turkcell provides MV Holding A.Ş. Müflis Bilka Bilgi Kaynak ve OUR PRODUCTS AND value added services to its subscribers. The lists 10 İletişim San. ve Tic. A.Ş. SERVICES of these services and tariffs are present at www. Çukurova Holding A.Ş. turkcell.com.tr. All of these products and services In each country and region we serve, we endeavor to are available for our customers via Turkcell stores, make the information technologies and related serTurkcell Communication Centers, Corporate Solutivices accessible and usable to meet our customers’ on Centers, Turkcell Distribution Centers, Turkcell and users’ current and future needs. We are proud to Sales Points, the Call Center, the Online Operations provide our 34.5 million customers with the privilege Center and Corporate Sales Managers. of Turkcell in signal reception and voice quality through our total investment of 7.9 Billion USD. Our Coverage Area Turkcell delivers services to all settlements with We use the latest techniques in our infrastructure, a population of over 1,000 by covering 88.30% of which work with various phone models, so our Turkey’s geography and 99.13% of the total popucustomers could speak with superior sound quality. lation as of the end of 2011. We are a telecommuThe number of continuous connections is one nications company with the most widespread, best of the most important indicators of a successful quality service network with nearly 28,000 base infrastructure. In Turkcell, it is of great importance stations throughout Turkey. We are also a leader to provide continuous connection to our customers in EDGE technology, which all of the 2G network through our ever-growing infrastructure and the uses. Turkcell has also made important investments engineering work, which we constantly update. in rural areas and included many settlements with a population of below 1,000 in 2011. Turkcell is also Providing continuous service despite intense netamong the operators servicing dual carrier 13.DCwork traffic is another criterion for evaluating the HSPA+, up to 42 Mbps speeds, in the world with its quality in mobile communication. As Turkcell, we 3G network. GSM Sector in Turkey The telecommunications sector today plays an important role in the advancement of the information-based economy. 2009-2011 were lively years for the Turkish telecommunication sector. Positive steps taken for the sector include publication of the reports and Council decisions that make Information Technologies and Communication Council (BTK) a more transparent regulatory authority, including BTK market data, reduction in Internet service taxes, the provisions of the Electronic Communication Law introduced in 2008 in relation to authorization coming into effect on May 10, 2009, which therefore facilitated the easier servicing of operators and the legal start of fixed number portability on September 9, 2009. Turkcell coverage rates, service quality value and Quality Policy and Strategic Business Priorities that According to the 2011 Market Data, 3rd Quarter base station numbers are reported to the Informaform a framework for the achievement of the vision Report of BTK, the total amount of traffic increased tion Technologies and Communication Association and quality goals set out by upper management are by 12.9% in 2010, reaching 149.4 billion minutes. App(BTK) Spectrum Monitoring and Inspection Direcexamples of this approach. roximately 84% of this traffic is mobile traffic. The torate. Coverage values are calculated according to number of fixed subscribers, which was 16.2 million in December 2010, decreased to 15.5 million by the end BTK coverage criteria. ISO 1002 and ICT 20000 systems are applied at of September 2011. As of September 2011, the number 11 Turkcell. Our company, which began the application of mobile subscribers is was 64.8 million. According OUR QUALITY APPROACH process for the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management to data from the same period, approximately 66% of In parallel with the Quality Policy, Turkcell Systems in 1999, is now in the process to receive mobile subscribers use pre-paid lines and 34% use measures the satisfaction of its customers and the ISO 10002 Customer Complaints Management post-paid lines. all its stakeholders at specific time intervals Certificate as well. Also distinguishing itself within according to accepted methods. The results are the sector with certified ISO 27001:2005 InformatiThe number of 3G subscribers, which was 16.6 million then evaluated and the necessary actions are on Security and ISO 20000:2005 ITIL Management in the third quarter of 2010, reached 28.6 million in taken for improvement. Systems, Turkcell continues to advance and develop the third quarter of 2011. While an average of 30% of through a Lean Management approach. the mobile subscribers in Europe are 3G subscribers, Our Quality Policy Turkey, which only started providing the service in July 2009, exceeded the European average with the The basis of our quality policy is to manage our Product and Service Information rate of 44% 3G subscribers. system with a continuous improvement approach All general information related to Turkcell products according to our strategic business priorities, and services is established through a variety of appThe number of SMS messages sent was 38.5 billion ensuring the satisfaction of all our stakeholders, lications at all contact points with our customers, in the third quarter of 2011 in Turkey and the number including our employees and their families. primarily in our website. of MMS messages was 36 million. Turkey exceeds Ireland, Norway, the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Our Quality Management Systems Our customers can share their ideas and suggesPortugal and Germany with average monthly mobile The upper management of Turkcell takes a tions with Turkcell via our call center, dealers and communication of 261 minutes. customer-oriented management approach in the website. Also, the expectations and ideas of all the application, development and continuous our customers are reviewed within the 7th Sense The Turkish telecommunications sector, which has a improvement of the Quality Management System in Customer Estimation Center. The related teams market volume of over 20 billion USD, is predicted to reach a volume of 30 billion USD in the next 5 years. accordance with laws and regulations. The Turkcell review customer suggestions. OUR VISION To ease and enrich the lives of our customers with communication and technology solutions OUR VALUES • We believe that customers come first • We are an agile team • We promote open communication • We are passionate about making a difference • We value people STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES As a leading communication and technology company, our strategic priorities are: • To grow in our core mobile communication business through increased use of voice and data, • To grow our existing international subsidiaries with a focus on profitability, • To grow in the fixed broadband business by creating synergy among Turkcell Group companies through our fiber optic infrastructure, • To grow in the area of mobility, Internet and convergence through new business opportunities, • To grow in domestic and international markets through communications, technology and new business opportunities, and • To develop new service platforms that will enrich our relationship with our customers through our technical capabilities. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Turkcell supports its CORPORATE GOVERNANCE meetings are convened at appropriate intervals in order for the Board of Directors to fulfill its goal of development Being aware that the foundation of operational responsibilities. excellence lies in a transparent management appand constant growth roach and good corporate governance, Turkcell The business relations of Turkcell are managed supports its goal of development and constant under the instructions of the Board of Directors, through its corporate growth through its corporate governance who are responsible to and represent the shareholders. The Board’s responsibilities and governance system system. authorities include but are not limited to those Our company’s accountability approach consists stated on the Turkcell’s web site in detail. of direct/regular information and reporting and constant accessibility of information on Turkcell, Compensation of Board of Directors and not only in financial fields but also concerning Evaluation of Management our impacts related to our social and ecologic The shareholders in the General Assembly environment and the expectations of our stakedetermine compensation of the Members of holders. the Board of Directors. Performance goals, including the sustainability framework, are deBoard of Directors termined each year for the Board of Directors, 14 The highest governing body at Turkcell is the company and, therefore, the General Manager Board of Directors. Members of the Turkcell and Assistant General Manager Responsible Board of Directors are not involved in any for Finance within the framework of Turkcell executive functions. The necessity of not having corporate governance principles. The Board of any executive function for members of the BoDirectors evaluates the performance of these ard of Directors is a stipulation of Turkish Trade managers at the end of each year with the supLaw. Therefore, all our Board Members consist port of the Corporate Governance Committee of non-executive members. Turkcell Chairman in parallel with financial and other goals and of the Board Colin J. Williams is confirmed as determines their compensation accordingly. independent according to the requirements of Goal cards of the Assistant General Managers US legislation and CMB (Capital Markets Board) are reviewed on a quarterly basis by evaluating Corporate Governance Principles revised in company goals, functional goals and human February 2005. resources goals. Performance assessments are conducted through face-to-face meetings with The Turkcell Board of Directors consists of 7 the CEO. members elected for a maximum of 3 years in the annual ordinary general meeting of shareChanges in Management holders. Each board member is encouraged to In order to identify international commercial limit the number of their board memberships in and financial investment opportunities and to other publicly traded companies. This is intended support the work to realize these opportunities, to prevent the impact of other memberships and the International Expansion Functional Group related obligations on the service provided as was re-structured during the reporting period. an effective and active member of the Turkcell The Legal Affairs Functional Group has also Board of Directors. At least 11 ordinary general been structured in order to achieve the goal to Corporate Risk Management Department At our company, Risk Management, Internal Audit Management, Information Security Management and Internal Fraud Management processes are regulated in order to increase the focus on corporate risk management work, establish risk management methodology and promote the culture of corporate risk management work, as well as to centralize the activities that have an impact on the success of corporate risk management. All these functions within the company are carried out by the Corporate Risk Management Department, which was re-structured as of January 2009. The Turkcell Corporate Risk Management Department reports directly to the Audit Commit15 tee, which consists of Independent Members of the Board of Directors, the General Manager increase business effectiveness as part of our security of the customers and the company. The and Assistant General Manager Responsible management excellence principles. guide also defines upper management conflict of for Finance according to the independence interest situations and explains the mechanisms principal and the related communiqué of the The Turkcell Board of Directors appointed to prevent these. Capital Markets Board. Colin J. Williams as the Chairman of the Board effective as of the meeting dated February 25, Corporate Risk Management All departments identify the risks they enco2010. Working as an Independent Member of the Turkcell has been subject to ever-changing unter regularly and classify them according to Board of Directors since May 22, 2006, Williams financial structures in the operational growth their priorities. Also, detailed action plans are is also the Chairman of the Audit Committee process since its establishment. It has conducprepared and applied for critical risks. These since July 21, 2006. ted affairs with alternative capital markets processes coordinated by Risk Management in order to fund and support this structure. are reported regularly. The Corporate Risk Preventing Conflicts of Interest Since the companies’ obligations depend on Management Department, which analyzes the processes and detects existing and potential Conflicts of interest occur when the private intethe requests and obligations of the markets risks in order to ensure the reliability and rests of the employee conflict with the interests that fund them as well as the financial regimes accuracy of the financial tables of Turkcell and of Turkcell. Rules that Turkcell employees are obthey operate in, Turkcell has applied different Group companies, the conducting of activities liged to follow in relation to conflicts of interest regulations, laws and rules since 1994. Turkcell in accordance with SoX legislation and to are stated in the Turkcell Common Values and is subject to SEC rules since it is listed on the increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Business Ethics guide. The principles on ethics NYSE (New York Stock Exchange) in the USA. operations within the framework of this meccontain the working principles with Turkcell Internal control mechanisms exist at Turkcell hanism, also contributes to finding solutions to and other related entities, principles concerning and the Group companies that are within the minimize these risks. accepting/giving gifts, as well as the information scope of audit under Article 404 of the SarbaTURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The core of our nes Oxley act, which publicly traded companies must comply with; and since the company Committee quarterly. Regulations and responsibilities approved by the Audit Committee take approach to business is also listed on the ISE (Istanbul Stock Exchange), audits and evaluation processes for effect following this approval. ethics is to conduct preventing breaches are carried out regularly Training and information via various channels are under these mechanisms. conducted throughout the year in order to promote all of our activities awareness and understanding of the Common VaBusIness EthIcs lues and Business Ethics rules among employees. A in accordance with The core of our business ethics approach is conMobile learning training, in which 1,326 employees ducting all of our activities in accordance with have participated, was provided in 2010 on values international business international business ethics standards as well and ethics in order to keep the employees informed. standards and to act as acting in full compliance with the laws and regulations and managing our business processes The same training was provided to 3,428 employees through e learning in 2011. in full compliance with with an honest, transparent and accountable approach. All affairs with our employees are also Turkcell Ethics Rules are published in summary laws and regulations carried out in accordance to this approach. on our website in the Investor Relations section under Corporate Governance. These rules compThe Turkcell Common Values and Business Ethics lement the other policies, codes of conduct and 16 Rules published on our intranet are specified as guides published by the company. the common beliefs and values that the employees are expected to consider in their work life Ethics Line and to internalize them as natural behaviors. Each Turkcell employee is obliged to report situations that may pose a conflict with the rules and These values are communicated to each emploregulations stated in the Turkcell Common Values yee recruited at Turkcell through an orientation and Business Ethics Guide or that cause a rational program, and it is explained that these rules are suspicion or concern that such conflicts may occur an inseparable part of the labor contract. Each by filling out the Turkcell Intranet Ethics Reporting employee signs a statement of commitment. Form or by calling the Ethics Reporting Line. Revisions made after the date of signing the statement of commitment are published on the The employee does not have to disclose his or Turkcell intranet. All Turkcell employees and her identity, unless he/she desires to do so, on all management are responsible for following the three channels. Confidentiality of this subject is related revisions as well as complying with these under the Turkcell Audit Committee’s warranty. rules and regulations. No cases have been filed against our company regarding misuse or corruption. The Ethics Committee assigned by the Audit Committee established within the Turkcell Investor RelatIons Board of Directors determines the regulations The Turkcell Investor Relations Department on this subject. The Ethics Committee reviews carries out its activities in order to ensure and updates the rules, evaluates irregularities, that Turkcell shares continue to be preferred then finalizes and presents the rules to the Audit investment instruments for both domestic and foreign investors, expand the investor base of the company, reflect Turkcell’s operational sucders and investors obtain all related information and state their opinions and suggestions related Relations with cess and potential concerning its market value and present and promote our company in the to management at these assembly meetings. The Pre/Post Feedback Report survey is distributed shareholders and best way possible within the framework of the to investors and analysts at least twice a year issues related to public governance principles we have adopted. concerning their performance expectations. The expectations related to results disclosed are disclosure are under Since shares are traded in the US and Turkish analyzed following the disclosure. stock markets, we have a corporate governance the responsibility of model in direction of the obligations Turkcell Briefings are held for company upper management undertakes in accordance with capital markets and the Board of Directors and public meetings are the Investor Relations of both countries. While these rules generally come with certain regulations concerning the organized with the participation of Turkcell managers. Road shows and analyst events are organized Department transparency, accountability and responsibility for investors. Feedback is sent for analyst reports areas of the companies related to good corporate on behalf of Turkcell. The questions of domestic governance, Turkcell especially considers this and foreign investors are answered within the subject as it may create additional value to context of investor relations. The relationship with investors and other stakeholders. credit rating organizations is carried out to ensure that independent organizations consider the 17 Information Policy powerful financial structure of Turkcell. The InAll contacts with investors, financial analysts, vestor Relations and International Media Relations press members and similar stakeholders are Department work closely with various departconducted within the framework of the Turkcell ments and subsidiaries within the Turkcell Group Information Policy. The aim of the Turkcell Inin order to ensure that the company messages are formation Policy is to provide full, fair, accurate, accurately and fully communicated to the market timely, comprehensive, low-cost, equal, accessibon time, follows the needs of the market closely le, active and transparent communications with and shapes the company messages with the sugall stakeholders such as shareholders, investors, gestions it presents to the upper management. employees and customers in accordance with the regulations it is subject to. The groups that Investor and International Media Relations directly communicate information to The Turkcell Information Committee supervises are; disclosure of the developments that might have an • Investors, Analysts impact on the value of the company’s capital market • Upper Management instruments to the public at predetermined time • Members of the Board of Director intervals and in accordance with the legislation. • Rating Organizations Relations with shareholders and issues related to • Capital Markets Board (CMB) public disclosure are under the responsibility of • Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) the Investor Relations Department. The Ordinary • Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Meeting of the General Assembly is conducted at • New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and least once a year for shareholders. The sharehol• International Media. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR CORPORATE PRIORITIES • Corporate Governance • Business Ethics • Research Development • Customer Satisfaction • Raising Envrionmental Awareness of • Information Safety our Stakeholders • Responsible Supply Chain • Mitigating our Environmental Impact • Business Continuity • Energy Efficiency • Network Efficiency • Environment Friendly Technologies Sustainable Growth (Investors, Customers, Public Institutions, Suppliers) Environmental Awareness (Society, Customers, Non-Governmental 18 Organizations, Public Institutions) Social Development (Local Public, Public Institutions, Global Initiatives, Investors) Satisfied Employees and Business Environment (Employees, Shareholders, Investors) • Employment • Social Development • Health and Safety • Employee Satisfaction and Loyalty • Human Rights • Career Management and Employee • Disaster Recovery Development • Employee Health and Safety OUR CORPORATE Our DIalog WIth Our key stakeholders through a variety of ongoing RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH Stakeholders dialogue platforms, we focus on understanOur stakeholders are the people who influence ding these and plan on actions to meet these or are affected by our business. In Turkcell expectations. As a leading company for corporate social every business unit determine its key stakeholresponsibility in Turkey, fulfilling our social, Knowing that transparency is among priorities ders that they directly have interest on in able economic and environmental responsibilities is of our key stakeholders, we have continued to to form Turkcell’s key corporate stakeholder among our business priorities. We believe in the enhance our communications and listen to the groups. We approach these stakeholders also importance of sustainability for our country’s expectations of stakeholders during this reporin terms of their specific concerns as grouped future and we support this in every field we ting period through the following platforms. on page 18. Learning the expectations of our operate in. We act upon the philosophy that we should give back to society and add value Our Stakeholders Our Dialog Platforms to it both with improvements we make in our business areas and our corporate social responOur Customers Customer satisfaction surveys, Turkcell communication centers, Turkcell sibility projects. stores, Turkcell sales points, chain stores, call center, voice response system, website, My-Turkcell WAP, SIM Menu, customer services via As Turkcell, we believe in the importance of an Internet and wap (online operations), social media (Facebook, Twitter), complaint websites, SMS/USSD/Cell Info, e-mail, fax, mailing, bill, fax/ effective stakeholder communication policy letter, Corporate Solution Centers for the sustainability of our business. We build clear and transparent relations with all our Our Investors/ Face-to-face meetings, conference calls after quarterly disclosures every 3 stakeholders, find out their priorities and seek Shareholders months, Road shows appropriate solutions. We take our decisions Our Employees ERP Human Resources Module, Academy Portal Career Opportunities, 19 with the goal of creating mutual benefit by Suggest and Win, White Shadow, Turkcell Assist, internal advertisements, integrating their expectations into our business Our Suppliers Supplier evaluations, E-Firm Portal, e-mail, phone strategies. Academic Conferences and conventions, Life with Turkcell Seminars, Turkcell For Turkcell, operating according to a resInstitutions Graduate Studies Scholarship Program ponsible and sustainable approach is a social Non-governmental Memberships of the Board of Directors, Commission Work Group necessity. Corporate responsibility is a part of Organizations Memberships, report work, conference participations, face-to-face our corporate strategy as well as a management meetings tool. Society Social participation applications, call center, e-mails Turkcell determines its corporate responsibility Media Face-to-face meetings, press releases, press conferences, press visits policies within the context of priorities determiOur Dealers Dealer meetings, e-mails ned by opinions obtained from its stakeholders. Corporate social responsibility is an important part of Turkcell values together with its DetermInIng MaterIal Issues parallel to the corporate priorities listed in the policies. At Turkcell, the Corporate Citizenship The Corporate Citizenship Unit under Corpograph on page 18 of this report. Key stakeholUnit work under Corporate Relations Departrate Relations Department consolidated the der expectations that meet Turkcell’s strategic ment and is a vital part of company corporate issues mentioned by the key stakeholders priorities are grouped in the following table responsibility initiatives. during the reporting period through the diawithin the context of sustainability impacts. The logue platforms listed in the above table and actions taken regarding these issues form the We manage our corporate responsibility fields prioritized the most frequently stated issues in content of this report. on four main axes. (See Graph on Page 18) Economic Environmental Social Sustainable Growth Environmental Awareness Transparency and Accountability Collaboration Platforms Efficient Use of Resources Social Development TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MESSAGE FROM CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER We define ourselves as a “corporate citizen” and strive to meet the requirements of this label in every area. In order to share our accomplishments and create the best for all our shareholders through the feedback we receive, we have been producing our reports with the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 20 since 2009. We present to you our sustainability performance for the 2009-2011 activity period in our second report Dear Stakeholders, As an organization in Turkey that has placed the Through our applications that we continue with the concept of sustainability at the center of its business, goal of contributing to the economic development of carrying out our social, economic and environmental our community, and hence our country; and collaboresponsibilities is at the top of the commitments we rations with organizations such as IŞKUR, we are have made to you. providing thousands of people with educations and employment. We define ourselves as a “corporate citizen” and strive to meet the requirements of this label in every Supporting projects that accomplish added value area. In order to share our accomplishments and by investing in qualified human resources and good create the best for all our shareholders through the ideas in Turkey forms an important part of our social feedback we receive, we have been producing our responsibility vision. In 2011 we showed our support reports with the principles of GRI (Global Reporfor good ideas by sponsoring the Global Enterprise ting Initiative) since 2009. We present to you our Forum in which 1,500 entrepreneurs discussed many sustainability performance for the 2009-2011 activity subjects from ideas to financing, in addition to the period in our second report. “Enterprise Factory” which we launched in cooperation with Özyeğin University. As Turkcell management, we are aware of the positive effects that we can create on our community and In addition to using our advanced technology to environment with our technology, competences and provide the fastest, uninterrupted service possible to areas of expertise. Beyond only managing our social our customers we are also developing applications to and ecological footprint, we are creating sustainable make emergency communication easier at times of projects and working towards a sustainable future disaster. In 2011, immediately after the earthquake socially, environmentally and economically. that happened in our Van province, we worked 24/7 with our 230 stations, with our operation center The reason why we are one of the most popular and which is the only one in the area and our crew of most sought out companies for employment in our 200, despite power outages blackout and quadrupled sector and country is, in fact, the value we attach to traffic that had , to provide uninterrupted service our people. our country is our “People First, Leader to our customers. We provided network support 21 Turkcell” approach. Our employees and the satisfactiwith 11 mobile stations. We are also planning social on of our employees are at the focus of every decision responsibility projects in 2012 that will be directed at that we make. In addition to the career, sharing, education in Van. education and development opportunities we provide to our employees at Turkcell, you can also examine Another issue subject that we emphasize with our applications and communication platforms that sensitivity, in all of the units of Turkcell is information are based on support and recognition, in this report. security and our customer confidentiality policies. We make constant improvements in our work applicatiOn another note, The social responsibility projects ons and follow the latest technology with regard to that bring us closer to the community are also very this subject. significant to us. We especially develop and apply projects that invest in the future of young people. Our goal is to utilize the recommendations and feedback we receive from you, to continue and increase ‘Runners To The Future’, which supports our talented our contributions to the community. athletes on their path to the Olympics, ‘Bridge Of As Turkcell management, Hearts’ where 140,000 students from 81 provinces Respectfully, made trips from west to east and from east to west, we are aware of the building bonds of friendship are only two of the projects we continue to realize. positive effects that The Snowdrops Project, which we support through KORAY ÖZTÜRKLER we can create on providing scholarships for 10,000 female students Chief Corporate Affairs Officer every year throughout Turkey in collaboration with our community and CYDD (Association In Support Of Contemporary Life), added a new success to the recognition and environment with our awards it has received over the last 12 years, by being selected as the best in the world in the category technology, talents and of “contribution to the community” at 2011 World Communication Awards. areas of expertise OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE To maximize employee OUR EMPLOYEES Education Levels (2011) satisfaction, we create At Turkcell, we have an employee-centric approach, which we briefly describe as “First a flexible, sensitive People, Leader Turkcell.” To maximize employee 23.3% satisfaction, we create a flexible, sensitive and and democratic work democratic work environment that supports 0.3% environment that change and continue our investments in the 5% company in order to motivate our employees. supports change We define our business environment more as a “living area” than a “working area.” We commu71.4% nicate the career, support, sharing, recognition, enjoyment and development opportunities we provide to our employees with our slogan “I have more at Turkcell.” Post Graduate Undergarduate-Vocational High School Secondary School Our Employees in Figures The Turkcell team has grown with the economic 24 growth targets during the reporting period. The The main employment regions of Turkcell during number of male and female employees increased the reporting period have been Istanbul (80%), 11% from 2010 to 2011. Ankara (6%) and İzmir (4%). In addition to this, the regional structure of Turkcell also covers Our female employees at Turkcell comprise Diyarbakır, Antalya, Trabzon, Bursa, Kayseri, 36.54% of all employees. This figure is more Erzurum, Van, Samsun, Kocaeli, Balıkesir, Muğla than 22.6%, which is the sector average. and Eskişehir. We also have employees in North Cyprus, Ukraine and Belarus. The average age of our employees is 33. Employee Turnover 269 people in 2009, 324 people in 2010 and 288 people in 2011 resigned from our company for various reasons. Our total resignation rate in Our Employees Female Male 2009 and 2010 was 14% and 9.7% in 2011. 63% of the employees, who resigned in 2009, were 2,000 male and 37% were female. By age distribution, 2,014 36% of the resigning employees were 30 years 1,600 1,728 1,778 of age or below, 63% were between 30 to 50 1,200 and 1% were over 50. 800 981 1,135 1,011 66% of the employees, who resigned in 2010, were male and 34% were female. By age distri400 bution, 38% of the resigning employees were 30 0 years of age or below, 61% were between 30 to 2009 2010 2011 50 and 1% were over 50. The resignation rate in 2011 was 4.5%, and the Workforce total rate of exits (including resignation, termiTotal workforce Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI nation of job contract and military service) was 9.7%. 59% of the employees, who resigned in White collar employees Number 2,709 2,789 3,149 LA1 2011, were male and 41% were female. Blue collar employees Number 0 0 0 LA1 Employees of the contractors Number 929 LA1 Salaries Employees by contract Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI Our aim with the wage and benefit process is to Temporary/Part Time employees Number 69 93 125 LA1 support Turkcell vision and strategies, to reward high performance based on our employees’ competences, the responsibilities they undertake, The distribution of our employees during the reporting period according to their managerial levels their education and job experience, to be fair and and age groups are shown in the following graph. 1793 innovative and to consider the individual needs 1684 1656 of our employees. 1500 Professionals Gender is not a determinant regarding salaries. Middle Management Male and female employees are on the same Upper Management 1000 compensation scale. The proportions of average salaries are stated in the following table. 731 638 732 25 The proportion of average male employee 500 445 450 493 salary to female employee salary Full-time 1.07 0 10 0 10 13 7 13 14 1 1 5 20 1 5 16 1 4 13 Part-time 0.97 0 <30 <30 <30 30-50 30-50 30-50 50> 50> 50> Upper Managers 1.03 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Middle Managers 1.03 Staff 1.06 The distribution of our employees during the reporting period according to their managerial levels and General 1.09 gender are shown in the following graph. 1652 Employee Benefits 1500 1483 1456 Benefits provided to our employees are: Professionals • Private health insurance covering spouse and Middle Management children Upper Management 1000 • Individual Pension Plan with company contribution 937 950 • Private life insurance 854 • Company vehicle depending on the position • GSM line and mobile phone 500 • Leave on birthday 310 349 305 • Kindergarten aid for female employees with 182 155 155 children aged 2 to 5 2 2 3 12 12 13 • Employee credit 0 • Transportation aid for moving between cities 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 for employment Female Female Female Male Male Male TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At Turkcell we have The employees may design their additional benefit packages every year by choosing according to We have no employees subject to a collective labor agreement at Turkcell. There are also no reward programs to their needs from our flexible additional benefit program called Flex Menu, which provides variunions. However, Turkcell employees are free to join employee unions. We have no operations show our appreciation ous options from shopping coupons to vacation where freedom of association and collective package, from interim individual pension fund bargaining may be under risk. to our employees, who payments to healthy life package. Rewarding can make a difference Our employees and their families may produce At Turkcell we have reward programs to show fast and easy solutions to their needs in their our appreciation to our employees, who can with their work and private lives with Turkcell Assist, which both our make a difference with their work and present present exemplary employees and their families may use for free. exemplary behaviors that live up to our values. behaviors that live up We provide our employees with the opportunity to invest in their future and apply a mutual cont612 Turkcell employees have been rewarded within the context of rewarding mechanisms to our values ribution model with our Individual Pension Plan we carry out with More Recognition approach, covering all employees. If our employees stay in and the material values they have contributed the pension fund for 36 months, they earn the to Turkcell reached 236 million USD during the 26 right to obtain the contribution shares deposited reporting period. The work and behaviors that for them by our company. 56% of our employees create a difference within the company realized are included in the individual pension plan. Contvia ‘I Have a Very Good Idea’ continue to be ribution shares paid for pension payments vary rewarded. We collected 868 ideas in 2011 and according to the gross salary of the employee. shared them with business owners for evaluaWe pay contribution shares of 2% or 3% of our tion. employee’s gross salary according to seniority. We also have work promoting a culture of recognition among employees. Our companies may nominate each other according to the added value they provide to the company with our ‘This Must Be Rewarded’ application. Nominations are evaluated by the Rewarding Committee, which is comprised of employees from different departments. The Rewarding Committee decides based upon criteria such as the Target Group (Customer, Employee, Stakeholder) affected by the idea and its effects on Income, Customer Satisfaction and Corporate Image/Corporate Culture. Employees deemed eligible for reward are presented with their award by our upper management in an award ceremony held every 4 months. Also, Turkcell managers have motivation budgets for allowing them to reward their employees instantly. Our upper level managers may award special prizes to our employees who display high 27 performance. There is also a CEO Special Award in this context. Turkcell Social Activity Group The Turkcell Social Activity Group (TSAG) organizes various events for our employees with the slogan ‘entertainment of work’. Trips, tournaments, kids’ club events, competitions, Always seeking the newest and most creative show the same care regarding this issue. Articles parties, surprise daytime treats and special TSAG applications in the above mentioned examples of on taking necessary occupational health and saevents are held every week. The average annual rewarding systems, social activities and loyalty fety measures and providing training are included number of events held by TSAG during the studies, Turkcell measures the effectiveness of in the contracts we sign with our suppliers. reporting period was 500 and more than 40,000 all of its activities regularly. people participated in these events, including the The Occupational Health and Safety Committee families of our employees. HEALTH AND SAFETY defines the general procedures on maintaining We have procedures regarding employee health and improving the health and safety conditions in Our Corporate Sports Teams and safety at Turkcell. These procedures are the work environment as well as protective clot9 sports branches are represented in corporate complied with in order to protect our employees’ hing and equipment, and ensures the compliance games with corporate sports teams at Turkcell. wellbeing. An office doctor is present in all of our of all of our employees, including the employees About 150 Turkcell member athletes are supporoffices with more than 50 employees. Our shift of subcontractor companies. ted in basketball, cycling, bowling, football, caremployees are provided with a check-up every 2 ting, ping-pong, sailing and swimming branches. years as well as Private Health Insurance. Risk groups related to health and safety, are The common goal of all programs coordinated by determined by the mentioned committee accorthe Employee Participation Programs Unit is to Employee health and safety is at the top of ding to the nature of the work conducted. The represent Turkcell in the best way at the tournaTurkcell’s list of priorities. We also expect our employees in the high-risk group, whose health ments and events in which they participate. stakeholders with whom we conduct business to reports are obtained and renewed annually, are TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The social, academic and professional development of employees, as well as providing them with information on the issues regarding our existing or future expectations is among our priorities equipped with protective equipment according to Turkcell Academy 28 the nature of their work. Protective equipment As a leading technology company, Turkcell views the use and on-the-job trainings are provided to communication of the latest updated content in its the employees. The employees that have to use field with the most effective technological solutions the protective equipment due to the nature of and infrastructures in development programs as a mistheir work must participate in these trainings. sion due to changing business conditions and dynamic Trainings are repeated when needed. A certified structure of the company. We constantly monitor work safety expert is assigned to each unit. the performance and potential of all employees in our ecosystem primarily Turkcell Group and field While there were no occupational accidents at employees and we develop them in parallel with the Turkcell in 2009, an accident with injury occurred fast changing business environment and corporate in 2010. In 2011, two work accidents occurred, strategies to make them “ready” for competition. one of which resulted with fatality. Cause analyses for these accidents were conducted Realizing development solutions under “Custoand maximum measures were taken in order to mer,” “Technology” and “Leadership” categories, prevent reoccurrence of similar incidents. Turkcell Akademi reached out to 62,066 people included in the Turkcell Group ecosystem and DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING provided 1,419,745 hours of training in total and OPPORTUNITIES 23 hours of training per person on average. The social, academic and professional development of employees, as well as providing them with Trainings were provided to 573 people with the information on the issues regarding our existing or ongoing strategic collaboration between İŞKUR future expectations is among our priorities. Investand Turkcell with the vision to develop and recruit ments made by Turkcell for its employees’ training qualified human resources for the sector. 364 and development; bring a committed and highly people were employed at Turkcell Communication qualified employee portfolio to our company. Centers and our Call Center. Promoting the sharing of information within the mobile marketing, customer management, market 5,000 students through 71 university events in 2011 company and transforming personal information research and leadership. This is conducted with and shared its sector information and applications and experience into corporate information, Turkvarious universities, which are leaders in their fields with the young students. cell Akademi supports the employees to volunteer in Turkey and the world and provides for coordias trainers and with more than 700 “Academy nation with business units through the “University The “Technology Leaders Graduate Scholarship Trainers” and provides the opportunity to share – Industry Collaborations” it carries out. Program” has continued to support the developinformation. Trainings on approximately 500 ment of promising young people in technology topics were provided using internal resources and Knowing that the young generation developing and develop a qualified work force for the sector provided an annual savings of 1.5 million TL. today will shape our country and technology, we since 2007. We provide one-year scholarships to aim to provide a qualified work force to the fast graduate students under the direction of university Turkcell Academy, Leader in Training developing IT sector with the programs developed administration and select from successful students Technologies in the light of our corporate know-how. and support their studies in the program with the In parallel with Turkcell’s leading approach to valuable contribution of the Informatics Association technology, we aim to apply the most appropriate Programs realized with this vision include; of Turkey. methods for individuals with platforms we develop • Turkcell Mobile Communication and Technologies as an alternative to classical classroom trainings. As • Turkcell Technology Software Quality and Test With the aim of providing successful young talent one of the first companies that offered e-learning • Turkcell Superonline Optical Network with the opportunity to begin professional life one solutions to its employees among the corporations • Turkcell Mobile Marketing step ahead and in the right direction, we established in Turkey, we continue to provide opportunities for • Turkcell Customer Relations Management Turkcell Academy PAF Program (Stepping into Prodevelopment to approximately 25,000 employees • Turkcell Global Bilgi Call Center Services Associate fessionalism Formation). We provided internship 29 with our Turkcell Academy e-learning platform. We Degree Programs opportunity for 195 people in 2010 and 270 people realized 78% of all of our training development • Turkcell Global Bilgi Customer Relations Developin 2011 within the Turkcell Group. We employed solutions with remote learning systems in 2011. ment Programs 72 of these interns in part-time positions and 18 of Therefore, we provided savings of 18 million USD. • Turkcell Retail and Sales Development Program them in full-time positions. Turkcell Academy, the corporate university of Turkcell Academy reached more than 20,000 uniTurkcell Academy, which is the strategic developTurkcell Group, supports various academic studies versity students in more than 50 universities in 23 ment center of the Turkcell Group, was awarded and projects in various fields such as technology, cities with “Life with Turkcell” and “If You’re Young, several times in the recent years. (See Page 56, innovation, entrepreneurship, brand management, You’re the Future” event visits and contacted over Our Awards and Accomplishments) Employee Development By Numbers 2009 2010 2011 Our Training Performance Number of trainees 217,468 335,576 511,503 1,500,000 Total training hours 1,095,490 1,026,579 1,405,542 1,405,542 Proportion of internal trainers %86 %81 %81 1,000,000 Number of trainers at Turkcell Academy 500 + 542 710 1,095,490 1,026,579 511,503 Proportion of web based trainings %56 %71 %77 335,576 217,468 500,000 Number of training partners 100 + 200 398 Average Training Hours Man / Hrs Man / Hrs Man / Hrs 0 Staff 57 68 45 2009 2010 2011 Manager 70 76 46 Participants Training Hours Average 59 69 71 TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT For Turkcell, raising PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Performance and Talent Management at Turkcell HUMAN RIGHTS For Turkcell, raising awareness among its empawareness among its is realized according to our goals for measuring the performance and potential of our employees through loyees on human rights and ensuring that they act with this awareness is an important issue. A employees on human objective processes. It focuses on providing them training manual including our human rights appwith regular, clear and constructive feedback and preroach was presented to our employees with the rights and ensuring senting them with personalized development/career TODIEK (Turkcell Common Values and Ethical opportunities, distinguishing and retaining those who Principles) in 2010. that they act with create a difference. 100% of our full time employees this awareness is an are included in this process regularly. Our new employees are also informed on the ethics processes and channels in orientation important issue The Performance and Talent Management Process consisting of the following 4 steps each year trainings. 1,326 employees participated in and successfully completed these trainings during evaluate performance, behaviors and potentials the reporting period. of Turkcell employees. No incidents of discrimination have been reported 1. Identifying Goals in our company until today. However, there are 2. Interim Assessment communication channels in place where our emplo3. Behavior Model Assessment yees may report any potential violations. Our ethics 4. Performance Assessment and Talent Management processes will be applied within the framework 30 of rules and procedures in order to evaluate the 30% of our employees are determined as high subject in detail, in cases where an incident occurs. potential employees within the context of our Performance and Talent Management process. Since Employees are recruited according to the these employees have the possibility to be assigned provisions of Turkish Republic Labor Law. People as top managers in the medium and long term, under 18 years of age cannot work at Turkcell; they are enrolled in the development programs of therefore none of our operations bear significant Turkcell Academy for following up their horizontal risk of child labor. career movements and career developments. Freedom of communication is listed among the basic human rights in the European Convention on Human Rights and Constitution of Turkish Republic. Therefore, the communication activities carried out by our company are a public service carried out for fulfilling basic human rights. We place the importance of this service we provide at the top level and we continue our work for providing quality communication. We participate in the work carried out under the leadership of BTK (Information Technologies and Communication Council) for the accurate informing of the public on health issues. We conduct briefings with non-governmental organizations, local authorities and participate in conferences on this subject. We also participate in meetings in the ‘Health’ sub-commission of the GSM AssoEmployee Loyalty Survey ciation as a member and follow up on the work of As well as numerous work we carry out with our Our Communication Channels international organizations on this issue. investment in people approach, the various internal We ensure that the right unit delivers information communication tools and applications mentioned and business announcements to all Turkcell emploCOMMUNICATION WITH OUR above are also used for communicating the value we yees via the right instrument and at the right time. EMPLOYEES attach to our employees and to increase their loyalty The Employee Relations Management department, to the company. Intracell: This is an intranet portal only open to where the main functions of Human Resources are Turkcell, where all announcements and publications located, is placed under the Turkcell Business SupTurkcell employees share their feedback on the comabout work are located. Intracell is visited 250,000 port Function. Basic functions such as recruitment, pany applications and operations through Employee times monthly on average. employee operations and human resources planning Loyalty Surveys. After the survey, work groups are Habercell: This is the weekly electronic magazine are located under the roof of this department formed on the development areas and they carry out and is distributed to all group companies. All internal and which is stemmed from the CRM approach. improvement work. and external news and novelties related to the company are published in Habercell. Our online The needs of the employees are determined and weekly internal communication magazine includes solutions are provided through supporting groups Our average loyalty rate during the reporting period news about the sector, features about our business via an internal customer management team, which according to the results of the employee loyalty from inside and outside of Turkcell and news about maintains close contact with our employees in the survey is 81%. any subject independent of business. Our online field, and consults and guides the employees at magazines, where volunteer authors among our empvarious points from recruitment to resignation. loyees share their columns every week, are visited by approximately 2,000 different employees throughout Necessary information for effective internal all Turkcell Group Companies every week. 31 communications at Turkcell is specified in Tuesday Market: A new project, technology-reCorporate Internal Meetings and Organizations lated subjects are shared each month at our faceProcedures, Corporate Internal Announcement to-face communication platform, Tuesday Market. Well-known speakers from outside the company are Regulation and Intranet Content Management invited to the programs organized under the name Regulations. There are top-down, bottom-up and Tuesday Market Special. horizontal communication channels. Pikcell: Pikcell is the common video-sharing portal of all Turkcell Group Companies where all events at Two types of internal information processes are Turkcell, (Quarterly Presentations, Tuesday Market, carried out at Turkcell: Trainings, Social Activities etc.), may be viewed live • The announcements that may directly affect or as recordings by all our employees. the work the employees carry out, and LCD Boards: All announcements and launches at • Informative announcements that do not directly the company, current local and global news, and our affect the work employees carry out. new advertisements reach our employees with the LCD Boards located in all plazas. Desktop Alert (Pop up): This application, installed We use our information channels such as e-mail, on the computers of all Turkcell employees, includes Habercell, SMS, Tuesday Market, LCD and Intracell a warning bubble that pops up on the screen of the for all information to be announced at Turkcell. message receiver along with directions. The previous year is evaluated in functional Quarterly Presentations: Turkcell top managers group based Communication Meetings held each and management team convene meetings where year and the goals for the new-year are shared our quarterly results are shared with all employees. with the related group. Besides these meetings While a live broadcast is made to all our plazas held regularly for the last three years, we also in Turkey from these presentations via Turkcell have INFODAY Communication Meetings with Multimedia (Pikcell), online Q/A sessions are also the participation of all Group Companies. An inheld with our managers. house survey is run at the end of each meeting. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Turkcell, as a leading OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENTS applied trainings at Turkcell dealers and webbased in call centers continue. technology and Turkcell supports various initiatives from Within the context of our strategic collaboration education to technology, from culture & arts to telecommunications sports, which it believes to create value for our with İŞKUR since 2010, 2,173 people were provided society. Turkcell’s aim behind these supports is with trainings and 474 people were employed at company, continues its to contribute to the development of qualified Turkcell Communication Centers and the Call Center work to contribute to human resources in our country. Global Bilgi Call Center Established as a 100% Turkcell subsidiary in the economic growth Its responsibility for our key stakeholders consisting of shareholders, employees, customers, 1999, Global Bilgi Call Center has now become of our country and dealers, non-governmental organizations, universities and the media lies at the heart of the leading customer relations management center with a 45% market share. Turkcell Global to fulfill its duties in Turkcell’s social responsibility approach. We Bilgi employs a total of 9,000 people, 620 of which are abroad. Our Call Center employees are reflect the expectations of our stakeholders in all reducing poverty our business processes and also determine the employed both part time and full time. social projects we support as a result of these expectations. Full time customer representative staffs are selected among part time staff from successful people with similar metrics such as performance 32 OUR EMPLOYMENT APPLICATIONS Turkcell, as a leading technology and telecomand seniority. Type of employment may vary munications company, continues its work to between full time and part time for customer contribute to the economic growth of our country representatives. Our specialist and managers are and to fulfill its duties in reducing poverty. Parallel full time staff. to the development of retail and call center sectors in Turkey, the need for technology-educated Turkcell provided 2,000 young people with full workforce that is specialized in communication, time employment in 2009 in İzmir, Erzurum and marketing, sales and customer-oriented service Diyarbakır in addition to İstanbul and added increases every day. Anatolian cities including Ankara, Trabzon, Karaman and Artvin, cities with the highest rate We a developed collaboration with the T.R. of unemployment, in 2011. We employ a total of Ministry of Labor and Social Security and 3,274 young people in these cities. İŞKUR General Directorate under the leadership of Turkcell Academy in order to introduce a Turkcell also paid particular attention to empqualified workforce to the sectors and to provide loying disabled people. Turkcell employed 500 employment. In this context, we prepared the disabled people across the group companies. A “Turkcell Retail Sales Development Program” majority of our handicapped employees (200 peand “Customer Relations Development Program” ople), are working at Turkcell Global Information gathering the human resources power of İŞKUR Call Centers located throughout Turkey. Out of throughout Turkey and the academic information 100 employees that work in our Turkcell Global of universities with the corporate know-how Information Karaman Call Center, 50% are hanof Turkcell Group and the expertise of Turkcell dicapped citizens. Also, within the project we are Academy. First theoretical classroom trainings conducting with the Ministry of Transportation given by Aegean University, Erzurum Atatürk we employ 7 people who provide services from University and Turkcell Academy and afterwards their homes in Diyarbakır, İzmir and İstanbul. 33 Impact on Regional Economic Growth: Turkcell Global Bilgi Erzurum Call Center provided important contributions, primarily for women, to participate in the business life. In ErTurkcell, which provided Established as one of the greatest technology investments in the east of Turkey 5 years ago by zurum, where female employment is low and the “black economy” is high, it was determined that an important source Turkcell as part of an “explorer entrepreneur” the number of women working at the Turkcell of employment in approach, the Turkcell Global Bilgi Erzurum Call Global Bilgi Call Center reached 46%, and this Center has made important contributions to the job is the first job for 55% of the female emploErzurum through its 40 economic and social development of the region. yees. The results showed that 33% of the emploTurkcell’s impact on Erzurum’s economy was the yees would search for a job in another city if they million TL investment, subject of research in the “Turkcell Global Bilgi weren’t recruited. Considering these results, it Erzurum Call Center: Economic Impact Assesswas observed that the call center investment had played a great role in ment Study” conducted by the Turkish Economy Policies Research Foundation in 2011. According an important role in reversing the brain drain so common in areas such as this. creating an economy of to results Turkcell, which provided an important source of employment to the city through its 40 Increasing the Spending Potential of the City 309 million TL within million TL investment, played a great role in creIt was also observed that Turkcell’s share in the 5 years by triggering ating an economy of 309 million TL in Erzurum 17.9 million TL total income taxes accrued in within 5 years by triggering the production and Erzurum is 6% and provided important contributhe production and consumption of the city with a multiplier effect. tions to the government budget. Also increasing the spending potential of the city with the consumption of the city Leader in Female Employment employment it creates, Turkcell increased the use Creating a great difference in the economic and of credit cards and accelerated the establishment with a multiplier effect social life of the city through the employment of of a shopping mall, also acting as a pioneer for over 1,000 people, our private sector investment other call centers entering the region afterward. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 The Snowdrops OUR SOCIAL INCLUSION APPLICATIONS Turkcell conducts and supports social responsibility their families, and to turn them into individuals with professions and wide horizons. In 2000, the SnowdProject supports the projects in the areas of education, sports and employment for the development and future of rops Project started out by providing educational scholarships to 5,000 female students showing the empowerment of youth, the impacts of which are measurable and will and determination for education throughout also spread over time. Turkey. Turkcell extended the project scope in 2007 Turkish women and and raised the number of scholarships provided Education each year to 10,000. creates important Knowing that a sustainable future depends on a Including 2011, within the scope of the project, value in our country’s well-educated younger generation brought up with environmental and social awareness and high selfapproximately: economic development esteem, Turkcell’s corporate responsibility works are carried out primarily in the context of spreading • ➢27,500 students were provided with Turkcell education. The goals of empowering the local public scholarships, and women are also the focus of our educational • 11,000 Snowdrops graduated from high school, support projects. • 3,500 Snowdrops started college, ➢• 1,250 Snowdrops graduated from college. Snowdrops The “Snowdrops” Project, carried out in a collaboThe Snowdrops Project creates important value ration between Turkcell and the Association in Supin our country’s development, not only with its port of Contemporary Life (CYDD), aims to provide support for the empowerment of Turkish women, equal opportunity for girls who cannot continue but also its support to reduce poverty and increase their education due to the economic difficulties of education. 35 A sententious award from London to The Snowdrops of Turkcell At 2011 World Communication Awards, Snowdrops is nominated as the ‘Best in Social Contribution’ among telecommunications companies of the world TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 140,000 students from Bridge of Hearts Initiated in 2008 through a collaboration between to participate in the Bridge of Hearts project, 40,000 of which were during the reporting period. all around Turkey, Turkcell and the Ministry of National Education, Bridge of Hearts Project aims to create the Turkcell Graduate Scholarship Program had the chance to opportunity for financially disadvantaged children Turkcell established the Turkcell Graduate Scholarsthroughout Turkey to meet with their peers in a hip Program in 2008 with the aim of introducing a participate in the city other than the city they live in, allowing them qualified workforce to the communications/techto explore the natural and cultural beauties of our nology industry, and supporting the development Bridge of Hearts country and participate in events that will contribute of promising young people in technology with the project to their social development as well as providing them with experiences and friendships they will vision to introduce new ideas to the industry. Initiated as a pilot program in a certain number of state never forget. 140,000 students have had the chance universities, today this program includes graduate and doctoral students from all over Turkey. In the program, established in collaboration with the Turkish Informatics Association, the scholars are determined by the Turkcell Scholarship Committee’s assessment of the projects of graduate and doctoral students suggested to Turkcell by university administrations. Turkcell Group Companies develop joint projects with these young scholars within their focus areas. With scholarships granted to 70 young people enrolled in graduate and doctoral 37 programs, coordination of these young people with athletes include everything from health controls period, including the national athletes in internaTurkcell business units is provided, making available to material support, camp opportunities to pretional competitions such as Marsel İlhan, Çağla necessary opportunities for transforming academic mium support, and a performance improvement Büyükakçay, Merve Aydın, Ayşegül Çoban and studies to business at the same. center to trainer support. Ediz Yıldırımer. Sports ‘Runners To The Future’ supports the athletes Turkcell extended the scope of the Runners As Turkcell, we carry out support for both who may act as role models for young athletes To The Future project to the national team, individual athletes and national sports teams with their success and tenacity. We supported sponsoring 6 branches in collaboration with the within the framework of our social responsibimore than 150 athletes during the reporting federations in 2011. lity approach, in order to contribute to Turkish sports, support the development of young athletes and carry their success to the future via sponsorships. Runners to the Future The aim of the Runners To The Future project, carried out by Turkcell in collaboration with the Directorate General of Sports, is to support the development of young athletes who will carry Turkish sports further in Tennis, Swimming, Weight Lifting, Athletics, Skiing and for the Visually Impaired Cycling branches and successfully represent our country abroad. Supports provided to TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Turkcell supports both Basketball National Teams Main Sponsor We continue the support we provide to our National 2005. We continued to support our team during the reporting period. 38 individual athletes and Basketball Team who provide courage and inspiration to young generations with their important achieveVOLUNTEERING national sports teams ments. Our sponsorship began in 2002 as Official Established in 2003 by Turkcell employees, Communication Sponsor and as Main Sponsor in Turkcell Volunteers supported many projects to contribute to Turkish 2006. We extended our support as the Main Sponsor with only the material and moral contributions of to our national athletes until 2015 by sponsoring the Turkcell employees. Turkcell Volunteers became a sports, to enhance the FIBA 2010 World Basketball Championship held in foundation in 2008 and, since then, they continue their activities as the Forest of Life Foundation. development of young Turkey, where our Basketball National Team achieved great success, being the 2nd best in the world. We Focusing only on children in the recent two athletes and to carry sent the breaking news and footage from the games to the mobile phones of Turkcell customers instantly years, including the reporting period, Turkcell Volunteers realize projects for curious, participatheir success to the during the championship with our innovative services. We built the communication infrastructure needed by tory, environmentalist children who have strong communication skills and a sense of inquiry. future via sponsorships press members from all over the world and provided all communication via 3G in the sports centers where Within the context of the Turkcell Volunteers the games were played. program, the needs of the schools suggested by our employees or through various channels are Football National Teams Main Sponsor determined with face-to-face interviews and reseWe know the value of all successes of the National arch and they are supplied with necessary items. Team for our society and their importance for our country’s international prestige. Therefore, we Turkcell Volunteers have initiated many procontinue to support the Turkish National Team. The jects, which touched the lives of many children, National Team Sponsorship of Turkcell, which is the such as “Would You Share Your Toy?” “Let’s Main Sponsor of Football National Teams and the Warm up the Yukarı Tandır Village,” “My First Turkish Football Federation, started in 2002 as the Vacation,” “A Book for Each Kid,” “We Give Official Communication Sponsor. The three-year Life to Şırnak Fatih Elementary School,” “Urfa Official Communication Sponsorship support was Siverek Kapıkaya Elementary School Social extended to Main Sponsor of National Teams in Area Furnishing” and “Curiosity Room.” Curiosity Room The Curiosity Room project started by Turkcell Volunteers in 2009 was born from the concept of Curiosity. In the first stage of the project, initiated in order to teach children to be curious and to examine, a Curiosity Room was installed at Taksim Elementary School. Turkcell Volunteers held chat sessions once a week on subjects students are curious about. In order to provide for healthy execution and quick development of the project, the Curiosity Room was moved to the Turkcell building in 2010. Thus, children from different schools and orphanages can visit the Curiosity Room and more Turkcell Volunteers can participate in the project. Turkcell Volunteers in 2009 • Our employees asked, Would You Share Your • We established a Laboratory at Kağıthane Toy? And we shared 12,000 new or second hand Fun and interactive presentations are held in Hasdal Elementary School where they will take toys with children who had never had toys in our subjects such as Life in Space, Lego World, their first steps into science and a Conference sister schools. 39 Photography, Environment, Social Media, Hall, in which they can present their perforDiscoveries, Our Body, Bees, and Cartoon mances. Turkcell Volunteers in 2011 Production etc. in the Curiosity Room. 20 • At the Urfa Siverek Kapıkaya Elementary Scho• We continued the Curiosity Room project we students that participate in each session ol we built a playground, a basketball court, a carried to Tepebaşı Plaza and hosted approxiare selected especially from the elementary football field and presented the students with mately 1,000 students from the schools in low schools in regions of low socio-economic gifts of clothing, stationary and toys. socio-economic neighborhoods. development. • We started the Curiosity Room Project at Tak• We began granting scholarships to 25 successful sim Elementary School and Turkcell volunteers students who were unable to continue with their As well as the work carried out at our Curiorganized discussions on photographs, space education in Sister Schools. osity Rooms, we also installed 28 libraries in and discoveries. • We carried the Curiosity Library project we different regions in addition to clothing and started in 2010 to 17,000 students in 20 cities stationery supplies. Turkcell Volunteers in 2010 and 28 schools. • We presented 13,000 items of second hand • We furnished the sports hall and playground of clothing, books and various stationery Tokat Harun Yüksel Primary School. products in good condition, collected in 81 • We built a science laboratory and conference cities with the help of Turkcell Individual Sales hall at Gebze Mimar Sinan Primary School. Management and Mass Distribution Centers to • We carried the needed materials collected from students of 7 schools in 7 cities. our employees and their families three days after • We carried our Curiosity Room Project that the Van Earthquake to the region with 4 tractor we started at Taksim Elementary School to trailers, we distributed the necessary materials Tepebaşı Plaza and hosted students from areas for shelter to those in need by visiting villages. with low socio-economic development. • We provided stationery materials and shoes for • We developed the Curiosity Library projects cold weather to Akören Elementary School stuinspired by the Curiosity Room. We built codents, as well as the toys and clothes collected lorful and rich libraries in 24 schools without from the employees with the slogan, Let’s Warm libraries in 16 cities for 14,831 students. up Kars Akören Village. OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE At Turkcell, we define SUSTAINABLE GROWTH our approach to A balanced and sustainable approach to growth increases value in the new world economy. Subjects Economic Value Distributed to sustainable growth as such as quality, development of products and Our Stakeholders services according to changing expectations and deoperational excellence velopments, speed, efficiency, accurate and correct and create our vision use of resources, asset management, responsible investment, a common quality and value approach 7% for the future with this in the supply chain, customer satisfaction, employee 1% wellbeing and satisfaction rank at the top of the list approach of main elements that may ensure the sustainability of a company. 12% At Turkcell, we define our approach to sustainable 80% growth as operational excellence and create our vision for the future with this approach. We focus on these areas with an endless desire and continue 42 our work to create sources for responsible growth. The Economic Value Created and Distributed Suppliers Contribution to Entrepreneurship We are aware of the path to sustainable growth Government with the value we create for our key stakeholders Financial Institutions The M.I.T. Enterprise Forum, which has been estabduring or as a result of our activities. Distribution lished to develop enterprise under the leadership of Employees of the economic value we created for stakeholders one of the world’s most respected universities, the is illustrated in the following graph. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has been brought to life in Turkey as the second country in Europe with the collaboration of Turkcell. Turkcell, Economic Value Created & Distributed Unit 2009 2010 2011 GRI as one of the shareholders in the Global Enterprise Week celebrated every November in over 100 Economic value generated (Net sales) Million TRY 8,936.4 9,003.6 9,371.4 EC1 countries, undertook the main sponsorship of this year’s Global Enterprise Forum, where this year Economic Value Distributed to over 1,500 entrepreneurs discussed many topics Stakeholders from ideas to financing. Providing support for the Operating expenses (Cost of Goods Sold Million TRY -5,321.2 -5,301.1 -5,587.4 EC1 project, which will achieve added value by investing excluding amortization and personnel in qualified human resources and cutting edge ideas expenses, sales, marketing and general in Turkey, forms an important part of our social management expenses) responsibility vision. In line with a similar vision, we support good ideas with the “Enterprise Factory” Benefit to governments (tax etc) Million TRY -529.1 -483.6 -495.6 EC1 which we launched with the cooperation of Özyeğin Benefit to lenders/creditors (interest etc) Million TRY 223.8 264.0 40.0 EC1 University and Turkcell. With this cooperation, we are continuing our support in this field by turning Benefit to employees (salaries etc) Million TRY -636.7 -754.2 -856.8 EC1 innovative ideas into sustainable working models that add value to the community. The numbers in the table are Turkcell Group’s consolidated data. OUR CUSTOMERS for solution. The Management Process of Turkcell Zero Tolerance Approach Regarding Turkcell aims to increase customer satisfaction and Customer Complaints and the Turkcell Customer Information Security loyalty with the processes it undertakes and the Satisfaction Policy are included on our website. projects it conducts. Both organizational structure All personal information belonging to Turkcell and the activities being carried out (customer saOur customers may send their complaints to Turkcell subscribers is recorded and secured in accordantisfaction surveys, product/service and campaigns via call center, video call center, website, mail, fax and ce with the laws and regulations of the Republic etc.) provide for understanding and achievement of social media applications. Our customers may also of Turkey. The related units regularly review acthis goal by employees. send their complaints to our company via independent cess authorities to critical information within the complaint websites or legal authorities. Complaints company and authority updates are carried out We conduct customer satisfaction surveys annually sent to independent complaint websites are followed with care. The related departments do the legally in order to regularly monitor the satisfaction of our simultaneously by the customer solution center required storage of records of the operations customers with our products and services and to and solutions are suggested accordingly. Corporate carried out at Turkcell (agreements, reports etc.), improve our company. We apply the surveys carried customers may also send their complaints via Sales taking necessary physical and rational security out by specialists and competent research companies Managers. A follow-up number is assigned to the measures. through sampling for our customers and take the complaints coming from the call center and website necessary actions as a result of the related analyses. after the complaint is sent and this number is provided In our company, which has held the ISO 27001 In addition, we also follow a monthly index calculated to the customers. Our customers may monitor the certificate since 2008, we provide classroom by subtracting the rate of our customers who would progress of their complaint via the call center with training and information via electronic environnot advice Turkcell to their friends from the rate of this complaint number. 80% of the complaints are ments (e-learning, mobile learning, LCD panel 43 resolved within 24 hours. Also, our customers are inand HaberCell information etc.) in recruitment those who would, through the Net Promoter Score. formed via SMS of the status of their complaint within orientation in order to support the training and awareness level of our employees concerning Individual Sales Management in Customer at least 24 hours. When detailed review is necessary information security issues. Satisfaction according to the type and subject of complaint, subsThe Individual Sales Management teams also have cription documents and other related information and We have communicated the Zero Tolerance important responsibilities for customer satisfaction documents are reviewed by units such as commercial in Information Security approach to our empin products and services provided to our customers units, finance and legal units and the problem is solved loyees via various in-house channels within via face-to-face communication channels. Providing and then the customer is informed. the context of Information Security Training channel management and inspection for the preand Awareness studies in 2010-2011. The sentation of products and services that reach our 7th Sense Customer Estimation Center important facts about the security of personal customers at the same standards and quality at all The aim of 7th Sense Customer Estimation Center information of our customers are stated on the points is among the duties of these teams. All busiestablished in 2010 is to get our customers and empTurkcell Corporate website. ness processes managed at Turkcell Sales Functions loyees together and to determine what our customers were re-organized considering the improvement don’t tell us as well as what they do tell us. Think alosuggestions in 2010. ud and eye-tracking methods are used in the center. Eye tracking detects what our customers are looking All personal Customer Complaint Management at. The points where our customer has difficulties in product and service use, and the elements that attract information belonging As the leading communications technology company in Turkey, Turkcell undertakes to solve the customer their attention in advertisements are detected using to Turkcell subscribers complaints in a clear, transparent, quick, reliable and this method. In the think aloud method, customers are customer-oriented manner. We provide consistency given some tasks related to some products and serviis saved and secured between Turkcell solution channels and manage the complaints in accordance with our approach to ces and they are asked to articulate their experiences while fulfilling these. During the think aloud process, in accordance with the provide quality products and services. The related the device they use records customers’ behaviors and statements. We also plan to use neurological laws and regulations of units review each complaint in an objective, rigorous and careful manner and present their suggestions measurement tools in the future. the Republic of Turkey TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT implemented at TCCs, where 7,000 competent employees work according to a service and experience oriented approach. In order to provide standardization of product availability, supply facility and merchandising application at Turkcell Sales Points (TSP) throughout Turkey, the number of Turkcell Distribution Centers (TDC) increased to 48 and the number of Turkcell Sales Points increased to approximately 16,000 as of the end of 2011 and improvements were made. We serve our pre-paid customers from over 92,000 points such as digital channels, ATM, POS, kiosk, call center, Internet, WAP, retail chains, SMS, digital televisions and serve all our other customers at 25,084 points such as www.turkcell.com.tr, providing the convenience of depositing TL at any time to any line, Turkcell kiosks, 3rd party call centers, Internet 44 branches of contracted banks, ATMs and call In addition to Competence in Service The Competence in Service era started at centers. classroom trainings, Turkcell Communication Centers (TCC) during the reporting period. Investments of 125 Million Turkcell Mobile Training a total training of TL were made in the renewal of approximately 1,000 TCCs and they were transformed to With this platform that our corporate customers may use over the Internet without 302,111 man/hours expert communication technologies stores in the need for infrastructure investment, the order to make our customers’ lives easier. corporations can; is provided to TCC In 2010, it was decided to carry the Turkcell • Prepare trainings, exams or surveys consisting employees in 2011 Extra service given from 400 points within the of video, photo and sound files they gather, • Choose one of the package trainings on the using remote access context of the TCC project to 1,000 points and a training program, including classroom, on-theplatform and register their employees, systems such as job and remote learning that lasted about one month to 1,245 new employees. In addition to • Follow their training status any time. e-learning, virtual classroom trainings, a total training of 302,111 man/hours was provided to TCC employees All companies with mobile employees, which have a dealer network or an ever-changing proclassroom trainings in 2011 using remote access systems such as duct and service portfolio may benefit from this e-learning and virtual classroom trainings. service to increase their efficiency and to gain an advantage on the competition through their Innovations that create added value in service employees with updated information. More quality such as the phone book backup device efficient improvements may be provided via and fast charging machines provided only by collaboration with companies in the education Turkcell among the operators in Turkey were sector on the Mobile Training platform. OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS business with Turkcell, Turkcellpartner.com, is the first address where prospective business Turkcell Business Partnership Turkcell Partner Program partners are recorded. It is also an important proEcosystem The Turkcell Partner Program is an important motion channel for the companies accepted as instrument that will provide for focusing mobile business partners. Our customers who would like Always on the run for innovation, believing in business ideas and projects on clearly specified to explore the value added products and services change and diversity and valuing people, Turkcell of Turkcell in different business areas are able to is a company growing with its own ecosystem. goals and for reaching the wider public. The The focus of this ecosystem is new ideas, program, which is a well-established and effectireach Turkcell’s business partners via the portal. innovation, business partners and entrepreneurs. ve business ecosystem of Turkey with hundreds Our Business Partners are able to communicate Training programs, seminars and various events of business partners, integrates the companies their success stories related to their products and are organized for developing this ecosystem. The with partnership potential into the ecosystem services directly via the Turkcell Partner Blog. material benefits of these development works by establishing special business models for Our private blog for Turkcell Business Partners that have been initiated, especially with the iPhobusiness areas with development programs while contains articles on entrepreneurship and ne, have reached a notable level. The lives of our contributing to the development of our business innovation, the latest news from the sector and customers are enriched with colorful applications partners with support programs. our business partners, and the latest advances in while the competence of our software developers technology. increases through these works. Value Added Services (VAS) started to produce The Turkcell Partner Program Most Successful Software developer companies are always regaroutcomes approximately 10 years ago in the ded as potential business partners in the Turkcell individual services (B2C) main category. Today, Product and Service Awards is one of the major Business Partnership Ecosystem. Turkcell worked their business capacity is much broader, including benefits of the program for promotion and with the leading Non-Governmental Organizacorporate services (B2B) and operator services motivation of our business partners. The awards tions of the software and IT sector such as the (B2O) segments as well as vertical business fiare awarded in different categories in order to Software Industrialists’ Association (YASAD), 45 elds such as Mobile Payment, Mobile Marketing, support the developments in the sector, deterInformatics Industry Association (TUBISAD), MoMobile Health and Mobile Information. mining and awarding the best business partners bile Service Provider Businessmen’s Association every year. (MOBILSAD) and Association of the Information The Turkcell Partner Portal serves not only those and Software Work Owners (BIYESAM) at who have established or desire to establish busiOur Turkcell Partner Satisfaction Assessment Turkcell Meets Software Developers event held in nesses, but also individuals with an idea and who Survey is online at our website. The result of 2010. At these events, where intensive professiothe satisfaction survey that covers all of our nal network relations are established and new opdesire to specialize in the sector. The visitors portunities for collaboration may be nurtured, the can follow the innovations in technology thanks Business Partners in 2011 was 4.1 over 5. member software companies have shared their to often-updated rich content and also develop vision concerning the Turkcell Business Partnerssoftware using Turkcell Wiki and Turkcell InterTelemetry hip Ecosystem and Turkcell value added services. net service (API). Companies and users are able to remotely While more than 120 companies participated in access and intervene in their field information the event, the BTK (Information Technologies and New trends in all these business areas and new with a technology called telemetry. For exampCommunication Council) Chairman participated Turkcell abilities are shared with our partners le, in areas like agriculture and breeding, mobile via videoconference and showed their considerawithin the context of the Turkcell Partner communication contributes to the cultivation of tion and support on the subject. Program. Therefore, it is designed to establish healthier products and offers the opportunity applications that will quickly react to the chanfor more efficient and environmentally sensitive Software developers are provided with the applications. Necessary measures may be taken opportunity to commercialize their ideas as well ging world and market conditions and create a as training and consultancy with the software dedifference. by foreseeing the changes that occur in the velopers support events held in order to develop agriculture industry and greenhouse conditinew mobile applications and services. Turkcell Partner Portal – turkcellpartner.com ons. Thus, thousands of tons of product are The meeting point of everyone who has a busisaved and important amount of revenue loss is ness idea and project and who wants to conduct prevented. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Relations with the Software World The demand for mobile applications is increasing globally with the spread of smart phones. A rich mobile application world suitable for various needs and lifestyles has begun to take over our lives. While it gets easier to develop applications that run on various operation systems such as Java, Symbian, Windows Mobile, iPhone and Android, the number of software developers interested in this field and the diversity of these open sources increases day by day. Especially the mobile Internet speed that increased with 3G will pave the way for these applications and accelerate the development of this market. Turkcell plans its investments in accordance with the importance and potential of this area. Using the existing sources located in the Turkcell ecosystem in application development is among these plans. Similarly, we help the health sector by increasing can only be possible with effective management Applications Contest the efficiency of entities and planned use of our of our business partners and development of the 46 country’s equity in areas such as temperaturetraining sector. An Applications Contest was developed in order moisture control of vaccine storage, automation to increase the number of mobile applications deand central management of system rooms and Strategic collaborations established with domestic veloped in Turkey, introduce new players to the remote management of electricity, water and and international educational organizations, conTurkcell ecosystem and encourage entreprenegas counters with telemetry projects. Business sulting companies, universities, non-governmental urship. Colorful and creative ideas are submitted partners are primarily requested to develop shelf organizations and public institutions for this to the Applications Contest, the most compreproducts packaged for certain needs in the area purpose are very important. Turkcell is the only hensive mobile application contest in Turkey. of telemetry. GSM operator to participate in the Business Talented entrepreneurs who win the contest are Partners Program of IMD (International Institute awarded the opportunity to share their applicaDetailed information on the Turkcell services of Management Development) from Turkey. Our tions with millions via the Turkcell Applications used frequently by our Business Partners in procompany has the ability to follow the latest devePlatform as well as monetary awards. duct development can be found on the Turkcell lopments in the telecommunications sector thanks wiki page. to the Gartner system, which provides for access http://lab.turkcellpartner.com/wiki/ to market research and analyses. Turkcell aims to dashboard.action build long-term OUR SOLUTION PARTNERS Turkcell is also a corporate business partner of the Corporate University Exchange, one of collaboration with all Turkcell aims to build long-term collaboration with all its business partners in direction of the leading corporations providing consultancy services for universities in the US, and Harvard its business partners mutual gain and development principles. In Business School Publishing, with the rich content addition to this, it aims to communicate the and leading solutions it provides. in direction of mutual latest updated content in its field with the most effective technological solutions and infrastrucThe other new solutions, new technologies and gain and development tures in development programs due to changing details of the collaborative programs we have business conditions. Increasing corporate developed for this purpose are located on our principles performance and achieving customer satisfaction corporate website. OUR SUPPLIERS OUR TECHNOLOGICAL INVESTMENTS As well as always providing the best quality service AND SOLUTIONS Ethical Rules and Legal Obligations for in accordance with ever-developing and changing Turkcell aims to make the lives of its customers easier Turkcell Suppliers The supplier companies are obliged to follow and comply global conditions, Turkcell also plans and continues with the products and services it presents and to incwith all related legislation in effect while fulfilling its obits activities within the framework of social responrease the quality of the communication service with ligations and ensure that it works in accordance with the sibility and respect for customer, supplier and empeconomical and simple solutions. The most important Labor Law and the related legislation. In this context, the loyee rights. According to our mutual responsibility focus point for sustainability of the Turkcell brand following topics should be considered and implemented strategy, we expect our suppliers to act according in the sector is to increase the quality of service it in business principles by the supplier companies. to the same awareness by developing their own provides with new technologies. Also, providing our social and ecological environment and being aware customers with the opportunity to make better use Forced Labor: The employees of the supplier must not of their responsibilities. of their time and conduct their business in a shorter be forced to work in any way. This requirement also time by benefiting from the new technologies is covers forced labor in prison, labor in return for a debt Suppliers who hold quality management and among the primary missions of the company. The with a high interest or other forms. Child labor: The supplier should not employ children. information security management certificates development and presentation of new technoloUnless the local laws state a higher age restriction, and work with a responsible approach which gies, which are among the core activities directed no one under 15 years of age (in the context stated in displays environmental sensitivity are selected towards sustainability for Turkcell, shall continue in International Labor Organization (“ILO”) Nr: 138) and by accepting proposals under equal conditions the future as during the reporting period who has not completed their basic education may be and/or through a tender method considering the employed. Employees under 18 years of age shall not be technical and commercial criteria. We Connected a 3G Base Station to the Network employed in jobs that pose hazards and on night shifts in via Satellite order to fulfill their educational needs. Our suppliers are also evaluated under the folloWe connected a 3G base station to the network via Harassment: Employees of the supplier must not be wing categories according to the related business satellite using the 3G services over satellite conexposed to physical punishment or physical, sexual, 47 fields during selection: nection, which is a first in the world among 2G/3G psychological or oral harassment or abuse. • Quality and information security management operators and iDirect VSAT systems. We introduced Bribery: The supplier cannot offer a bribe to any Turkcell Group employee under any name or condition. • Environmental and ecological compliance the 3G speeds we tried in population areas with our Compensation: Wages of the supplier’s employees must • Social responsibility performance customers everywhere in the country, including areas be equal to or more than the minimum wage stated in where infrastructure companies cannot serve and the laws and regulations in effect, including salary and Turkcell constantly monitors and evaluates the microwave communication is impossible, such as rural overtime payments. performance of the suppliers it accepts as busiareas, during difficult weather conditions, natural Nondiscrimination: The supplier must act towards all ness partners. Turkcell when needed supports disasters, carnivals and festivals. employees according to their talents and qualifications development of the company. without discrimination based on race, ethnicity, languWe Reached 42 Mbps with 3G age, religion, sexual orientation, gender, and political or Responsible Business Conduct of Our Suppliers We reached 42.2 Mbps speed with 3G using Dual ideological opinions in all of its decisions on employment, It is important that Turkcell suppliers comply with Carrier Technology and we’ve been one of the including but not limited to recruitment, promotion, Turkcell Ethics Principles. The “Ethical Rules and first 10 operators to apply this technology. We compensation, benefits, training, mandatory resignation and termination of employment. Legal Obligations” are detailed in the Framework duplicated our customers’ Internet access speed Health and Safety: The supplier must provide a healthy Agreement as well as the Turkcell Ethics Principles with the new Turkcell 3G VINN and introduced an and safe work environment to its employees in order Guide. Turkcell also expects its suppliers to respect unmatched Internet speed. to prevent accidents and injuries and also healthy and the rights of their own employees. Working hours safe facilities in accordance with local laws in effect in within legal limits, prevention of discrimination We Duplicated Our Speed in 2G applicable situations. Therefore, the supplier must take among employees, and presenting a healthy and We tested the EEDGE (Evolved EDGE) technology, actions to mitigate the potential risks that may pose secure work environment to employees is among which is among the latest technological advancethreats to employee safety and establish systematic the articles of our contracts. Also, the companies ments in mobile communications, successfully on our actions that ensure employee health and safety in accorwe work with must be able to prove that they fully network, ranking among the first in the world to do dance with the related standards and laws. Environment: comply with all legal regulations on environmenso. We have enhanced our leadership in technology The supplier must be able to prove that it fully complies tal protection in all activities according to their with this step in EEDGE while providing the fastest, with all legal regulations on environmental protection in all its activities. business fields. top quality mobile communication with 3G. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WE MADE A SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE IN DISASTER RECOVERY COMMUNICATIONS We Forwarded the Location Information to 112 in Emergency Calls We have ensured that emergency services obtain the information on location where the call is made to 112 Emergency Aid Center for Ankara, Antalya and Isparta for the first time in Turkey with the improvements made to our network. As Turkcell, we are ready for other cities as well and we continue to work in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. We Opened our Network Infrastructure for the use of Earthquake Information Project We signed a collaboration agreement for the common work to be carried out with We Crossed the Seas mission. We continue to support various domestic Bosphorus University Kandilli Observatory We realized one of the longest cross-sea appliand international academic studies and realize joint and the Earthquake Research Institute under cations (85 km and 95 km) with our Radio Link projects and events with universities through our the name Earthquake Information System connection together with Superonline in order to university – industry collaboration, which we carry Project. We opened our base stations and provide alternative transmission to the TRNC-Turkey out under Turkcell Academy, the corporate training 48 network infrastructure to scientific projects in fiber line. We provided a top quality continuous institute of Turkcell. order to support the institutions in search for communication opportunity to our customers in a solution related to earthquake danger, which North Cyprus. University Certificate Programs is an important priority for our country. Turkcell believes that the young students in our We Expanded Our Operation Centers universities who represent the new century will We Provided Continuous We invested 15 Million USD in Van, Gaziantep and shape our country and the technology. The Turkcell Communication after the Van Hatay in order to spread quality mobile communicaMobile Communication and Technology DevelopEarthquake tion service throughout our country and contribute ment Program prepared for this purpose aims to We worked 24/7 for continuous communication, to the economic life and employment in Turkey, share Turkcell’s information and technology with with our 230 stations, our operation center, which introducing new generation power stations with a university students and to introduce a qualified work is the only one in the region, and with our staff of total of 5.2 million subscribers. The number of our force to the fast-developing IT sector. Both programs 200. We provided network support to 11 mobile operation centers increased to 36 with these cities. realized with the valuable support of our academistations. We provided continuous communication cians aim to provide the professional information despite electricity blackout and quadrupled traffic. University – Industry Collaboration and skills that will be fundamental in the careers of In today’s world, where the pace of change is acceuniversity students and to prepare them for business We provided 100 minutes, 100 SMS and 100 MB lerating in all fields, the educated societies that are life after graduation. Internet service to our customers in Van, Bitlis and able to produce technology and who have more inSiirt for 1 month free of charge. We reopened the formation could lay the foundation of development. Mobile Applications lines of 16,000 customers whose lines were canAs a leader in technology, Turkcell attaches special Turkcell invests in the platforms enhancing user excelled. 6,908 people could send SMS for help to importance to university – industry collaboration perience and increase notice ability of the products 112 and 3,198 could send a help SMS to 155. We in order to Develop Qualified Human Resources for and services. Turkcell T-Market provides for paid called 65 customers who faced emergency situatithe Sector, especially in innovation and entrepreand free application downloads by users via mobile ons. We reached 57 customers and found out that neurship. Turkcell is involved in increasing mutual phone with over 4,500 applications and over 1,000 44 of our customers were in good condition. interaction with universities and adds value to compatible mobile phones. Over 4 million individual its business through this strategy as a part of its users of Turkcell T-Market, from which one application is downloaded per second, downloaded 35 million monthly along with the realization of projects found applications in 2011. The number of downloads for appropriate upon assessment. Our customer is our R&D Programs There are several R&D programs carried out nationally 25 applications such as Turkcell Branded Compass, focus all through the innovation process. Continuand internationally at Turkcell Technology. The common Music, Goals in Pocket, MobilTV and Road Informatious improvement of prototypes and final products point of these programs is to create a collaborative on has surpassed 9 million. according to customer experience forms the most environment and to produce information and technoloimportant part of the innovation process. gies that will provide competitive power to nations and The Recommendation Engine, which obtains the companies. profile and service use information of subscribers to Turkcell Technology also creates value for other determine their fields of interest, the Social Media operators by providing international expansion of There are several programs established by the European Platform, which provides for direct access to desired products and services that create a difference for Union in this vein. The 7. Framework Program and EUREKA are outstanding platforms for our sector. service/content and ensures participation in mobile Turkcell and group companies. Continuing its successParticipation in these programs is very important for social sharing applications from Turkcell and exterful technology and software export activities to the companies, which aim to maintain competitive and be nally, and the POI Exchange Server that provides the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Russia, informed about future trends while shaping the future. opportunity for location notifications are some of the Middle East, Africa and Europe, Turkcell TechnoThese programs provide the opportunity to work with the applications we established during the reporting logy has set its sights on becoming a world brand. companies, universities, politicians and scientists. period while ensuring their compatibility with other With high information and technological competence, services. Intellectual Rights and Patent Applications they also provide donation support and increase R&D Turkcell Technology manages the patent application investment opportunities. Turkcell Technology process with well-specified steps. Patent application Turkcell Technology conducts joint projects with the Turkcell Technology is one of Turkey’s leading R&D rights and support are provided to each employee. leading R&D and technology companies of Europe and and innovation companies, established in order to The patent application owner, manager and consuldevelop competitive products and services in techtant gather in workshops held twice a month and fill Turkey. Inviting local business partners to join projects 49 and supporting their participation, Turkcell Technology nology, information and communication technologies out the Invention Notification Form together. is a member of NESSI (Networked European Software & fields. Developing services and products in network Services Initiative) Technology Platform. services and providers, SIM card and terminal soluThe number of patent applications is an important tions, mobile Internet, mobile marketing, multimedia performance criterion for many engineers working Applied Research Projects applications, business intelligence solutions and at Turkcell Technology and is reflected in the Carrying out medium and long term research projects with universities, establishing common laboratories or business support systems fields; Turkcell Technology year-end performance assessments. Inventors are engaging in the common use of existing laboratories is employs 360 qualified engineers. also awarded for each patent application. Turkcell important for effectiveness of R&D resource manageTechnology’s goal is to be an innovation and R&D ment. Updating and developing university curriculums Attaching great importance to the involvement company, which attracts attention in global according to private sector needs and collaborating of employees in the innovation process, Turkcell competitions, as its number of patent applications is with the private sector during determination of student Technology established an online platform within the increasing each year. theses brings important benefits to all stakeholders. company for casting and maturing ideas and launched it with the name, Think. This platform, where the With 10 patent applications in 2008 and 21 in Turkcell Technology works with well-known national ideas and the opinions of other employees on these 2009, Turkcell Technology’s number of national and and international universities, especially in Applied Research and EU projects. Scholarships are granted to ideas may be entered and rated, and collaboration international patent applications reached 74 at the post-graduate and doctoral students and these students proposals may be sent, creates a highly efficient end of 2010 and 148 at the end of 2011. The number are encouraged to build their theses at Turkcell Techenvironment for building a network and harnessing of national applications made by Turkcell Technology nology under the consultancy of instructors. Research its potential. by the end of the reporting period was 126 in total project ideas from universities are evaluated and a joint and number of international applications was 22. project development target is set for ideas in compliance The innovation process, i.e. the chain from idea to According to the latest report (2009) published by with our strategic focus areas. Turkcell Technology empeconomic value, is completed by designing the ideas the Turkish Patent Institute (TPE), 53% of all patent loyees participate in the classes and explain the existing that have been developed in this environment as applications made in the related field in Turkey applications, playing a role in the preparation of lecture content in order to contribute to university curriculums. projects and presenting them in Project Markets held belong to Turkcell Technology. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE As in technology, As Turkcell, fulfilling our environmental responsibilities is also among our business priorities. As in Turkcell also continues to develop innovations in order to reduce energy consumption using the Turkcell evaluates its technology, Turkcell evaluates its environmental impacts and responsibilities with the goal of raising latest technologies. environmental impacts environmental awareness and managing its operatiEnergy Savings at Turkcell ons according to these priorities. 158 free cooling systems were installed in our and responsibilities stations for testing as of the second half of 2007. Our Environment Policy The main function of the Free Cooling System is to with the goal of • We value the environment, because we value discharge the hot air in a container instead of coofuture generations. ling it with an air conditioner and releasing the cold raising environmental • We adopt, support and apply environmental air outside. While the cold air is taken inside the awareness and policies with social responsibility awareness. • We play a leading role in increasing environmental container with a fan, the hot air inside is discharged outside from the vent located near the container cemanaging its awareness in the society together with our employees, dealers, business partners and suppliers. iling through internal pressure. It was observed that an average of 10% in energy savings was provided operations according • We take care to use all our resources economically in this manner and installation of these systems in our internal company operations. continued during the reporting period. to these priorities • We invest in sustainable environmental applicati52 ons and alternative energy sources. New equipment supplied for Turkcell base stations has the ability to help the existing equipment to We use our technological competences to add work at an ideal temperature and provide savings value to the environment and our customers’ lives from the energy used for cooling. with innovative products and services. Fan cooling is carried out in our stations in addition Our Environmental Investments to air conditioning and Passive Cooling is carried Turkcell shapes its entire work around its environout in some of the stations. Whereas fans are used ment policy. Taking care that most of the materials in addition to air conditioning in stations with appused during operations and daily activities are ropriate weather conditions, the air conditioning is recycled, Turkcell plans its investments according to engaged when the fans are insufficient. Therefore, this framework. the energy to be consumed by the air conditioning due to unnecessary use is saved. We made investments of more than 530 million TL during the reporting period in order to manage our The number of Free Cooling installed base stations environmental impacts more efficiently, including as of 2011 is 6,230. Each of our base stations environmental infrastructure and renewable energy started to consume 3.1 kWh of energy with the 3G investments. systems joining the network. CO2 savings of 11,480 tons was achieved in 2011 with these new systems. ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE The number of stations where these systems Turkcell knows that its responsibility towards will be installed at the end of 2012 is planned to the environment starts with reducing the energy be 7,750 and approximately 14,280 tons of CO2 consumed during business processes. Continuing to savings is planned with these applications as of invest in alternative energy within this framework, 2012 end. The use of inverter air conditioning units, Turkcell will continue to build alternative Greencell which consume less energy, was also started energy systems with the goal to minimize Our project of using wind turbines in GSM towers in this reporting period with the purpose of carbon emissions. We made a total investment (Greencell), the development and field testing saving energy. Inverter air conditioning units of 1,262,844 TL during the reporting period work of which were completed in 2009 in order to were used in a total of 8,530 fields as of the for alternative energy systems for 16 fields, realize a first in the world in its own area, was append of 2011. Annual savings of 18,530,000 construction of 2 new fields and improvement lied to 181 base stations (communication units) as kWh of electricity and 12,573 tons of CO2 were work to increase the performance of existing of 2011. These stations, working by combining the provided with this application. fields in 2011. network and wind energy the first applications in the world in this area were constructed with the 17,500,000 kWh of energy savings were proknow-how of engineers working for Turkcell. vided with the BTS Power Saving application used during the reporting period, which proWind turbines were built in parallel with the netvides for power consumption of GSM cabinets Our Electricity Consumption (1,000 kWh) work, especially in locations where the wind capaat the necessary level, adjusts system power city is high, with the Greencell project. 4 to 16% of according to traffic on the cabinet and prevents 500,000 the energy needs of a station are supplied through unnecessary power consumption. wind energy according to the wind conditions of 400,000 the region within the context of the project. The efforts on energy savings continued in 300,000 2011 as well. The number of base stations with We made investments of approximately 2,421,604 53 more energy efficient power supplies, providing 200,000 247,000 453,994 TL for 181 fields in the context of the Greencell 315,000 7% more energy savings, reached 2,308 as of 100,000 Project, and we provided energy savings of 2011 end. 738,000 kWh. As a result, CO2 emissions were 0 reduced by 500 tons. We reduced our building interior fuel consump2009 2010 2011 tion, which was 355,166 liters in 2009 by 17% in 2010 with various savings applications. An increase of 19% in 2011 was due to the engaOur Performance on Use of Natural Resources gement of the Zonguldak, Kayseri, Levent-Sur 500,000 Yapı and Bayrampaşa buildings. Natural gas, water and electricity consumption increased with the addition of our new offices. We intend 400,000 to decrease our resource consumption, which 843 61 121 431, has increased due to these new investments, 300,000 166 358, 378, 198 through measurement, evaluation and impro355, 7 85 352, vement work. 200,000 294, 3 Renewable Energy at Turkcell 81,7 00 39 0 Turkcell, which is able to reach areas where it is 100,000 52,0 49,0 0 impossible to access energy sources with stations using renewable energy, has 25 stations 0 working with wind and solar energy and also 2009 2010 2011 reducing CO2 emissions throughout Turkey. Water (m3) Fuel Oil (Lt.) Naturalgas (m3) TURKCELL 2011 FAALİYET SUSTAINABILITY RAPORU 2011REPORT Alternative Energy Systems Electrical energy of 1,400,000 kWh is produced Our Fuel Consumption (1,000 Lt.) Our Fuel Consumption (1,000 Lt.) and CO2 emissions are reduced by 950 tons by the 2,500 5,000 alternative energy sources in the Turkcell ecosystem annually. 25 OFF_GRID (off the national energy 2,000 4,000 distribution network) and 181 ON _GRID (on the 2,500 1,500 3,000 national energy distribution network) fields joined 4,453 1,859 the Turkcell network during the reporting period with 1,000 2,000 1,475 3,099 the investments made in alternative energy sources. 500 1,000 Energy Savings with the New Technology 0 0 We started to use higher capacity advanced cabinets 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 and units that provide for less energy consumption Turkcell (All Group vehicles except Base Stations Maintenance and Operation in our network in 2010. Thanks to a new generation Global Bilgi) (Contractors) feature, integration of which to all our network is completed, power consumption of some network Technologies and Communication Council (BTK). as antennas or mini link additions to existing equipment’s that are idle in low-traffic hours were Electronic communication devices, also called sites, location change of stations, change of reduced and we provided energy savings in 4-5% base stations, are constructed on the locations antenna locations, and and reduced CO2 emission by 8,800 tons. deemed technically appropriate and necessary 3. Revisions related to regulation of relations with for providing this service. Our company obtains a the local public and fulfillment of expectations. We initiated remote access to 300 fields by installing construction permit from BTK for each electronic USMS (Unified Site Management System) infrastruccommunication device constructed and the audit In this context, the fact that a base station has ture; therefore we provided fuel saving by reducing operations are carried out after the devices a Safety Certificate issued by the Information 54 the need for transport and reduction in emissions become active by BTK. Technologies and Communication Council means arising from transport. Thanks to the same infrastructhat this station is constructed in compliance ture, we saved the energy used in air conditioners and The right and freedom of communication is guaranwith the provisions of the Regulation, audited by emissions arising from the air conditioning gas with teed under Article 22 of the T.R. Constitution. Mothe Council and continues its activities without remote control of the fan ventilation system. bile communication service is a public service. Base exceeding the limit values specified in the Regustations that have to be constructed for physical lation in constant settlement areas, and there is We started using RPMO-Real-time Performance provision of service are a part of the public service. no reason for our citizens to be concerned. The and Measurement Operation features for promoting address information, technical specifications Network Optimization tools to reduce field test Turkcell base stations are constructed taking the and safety distance information are stated on needs and therefore we reduced exhaust emissions maximum care for natural texture and urban or this certificate. Turkcell conducts its activities in as well as fuel consumption. rural structure. All work to be carried out in this compliance with all these standards. context is carried out by conducting the necesFuel Consumption / Our Vehicles sary audits by the related units. Environmental Base Station Energy Back-Up Units Fuel consumptions of the Turkcell sales and service compliance work carried out are established The common backup units used at Turkcell base team vehicles are stated in the table below. The fuel and developed together with the control and stations in order to provide service continuity in consumption recorded a balanced increase compared acceptance mechanisms. case of energy cuts are batteries and generators. to the previous year due to increase in number of Batteries used are generally 100 Ah and 155 Ah vehicles. Environmental compliance works are carried out with a capacity of 6 and 12 volts. The average under three topics. These are: number of batteries used in a base station is 16. INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION OF These batteries are dry batteries with no need BASE STATIONS 1. Environmental compliance work carried out for for maintenance. facilitating the rental process of the stations to Turkcell provides electronic communication be constructed and construction of the field, Outer sections of the dry batteries used by services in Turkey according to the Concessi2. Works additional to the preceding environTurkcell are fully covered and they don’t have on Agreement it signed with the Information mental compliance work due to revisions such a lid. These dry batteries are batteries, which do not contain liquid acid, water, electrolytes included in recycling at Turkcell. All scrap sales in them in these boxes with the awareness that the etc., but contain inert electrolyte instead and, our company are recorded and monitored. wastes will be utilized. therefore, do not leak under normal conditions, even in case of piercing. Turkcell carries out all There are approximately 17,500 units of materiA 26% increase in our paper waste and 97% processes related to both transportation and als (equipment, 5,500; disposable, 12,000) in the increase in our garbage from 2010 to 2011 were storage of defective, spent batteries according to Turkcell network. Our total number of units of due to increases in personnel in Maltepe, Kartal, the procedures and regulations published by the equipment is about 3 million. Cables and similar Tepebaşı, Ankara, Antalya, Bursa and İzmir plazas T.R. Ministry of Environment. products that are deemed as disposables are not varying from 40% to 99.5% and the launch of included in this total. Levent Plaza. Paper waste increased in DavutpaAnother backup unit used at Turkcell base şa Plaza when the legal department moved in the stations in energy cuts is generators. The number Towers building. The reason for the increase in Antalya of fixed generators Turkcell uses in base stations There are 2,565 towers at Turkcell infrastructure is that the expired promotional materials of is 260. Annual fuel consumption of these generaas of December 2011, 98 of which are mobile. Digitürk and Inteltek were disposed of and sent tors is about 330,000 liters. 588 of these towers were purchased in 2011. to recycling. Displaced towers are disposed of for renewal or Also, the Regional Solution Partners responsible field replacement. 214 towers were displaced There was an important decrease, especially in for maintenance and operation of base stations and disposed of in total during the reporting paper waste, at the Trabzon Plaza during the feed the base stations with mobile generators period. Towers are given to authorize companies reporting period; group company employees during sudden power cuts. There are 1,523 for disposal as iron scrap for recycling. supplied their own materials in 2011, the Digiturk mobile generators in 17 regions. 718,112 Lt. of sales support unit was closed and plaza employefuel was consumed in these generators in 2009, Our Wastes es were cautioned about paper consumption. The 971,367 Lt. in 2010, and 1,270,692 Lt. in 2011. Wastes in all plazas of Turkcell are utilized and decrease at Diyarbakır plaza also in paper waste included in the recycling process. Boxes that colis due to our monitoring of photocopy activities WASTE MANAGEMENT lect waste paper, cardboard cups and wet wastes in 2011 of our external maintenance solution 55 separately are placed in each business unit. Our partners who used the photocopier and other Managing its wastes effectively with regard to employees separate their wastes before putting disposables in our plaza in 2010. the environment, Turkcell carries out various studies in order to enhance environmental awaWaste According to Locations reness for both its employees and its customers. Waste Paper (Kg) Garbage (m2) Oil (Lt) Offices/Years 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 There are recycling bins at Turkcell plazas where the collected waste is separated as paper, Maltepe Plaza 12,900 16,400 1,050 1,750 2,431 1,450 plastic and domestic waste. Each type of waste Kartal Plaza 10,700 10,400 600 2,688 1,045 940 is collected separately and is given to related Tepebaşı Plaza 18,100 25,550 250 550 270 320 organizations for recycling. Also, the expired Davutpaşa Plaza 2,000 7,800 648 462 760 215 batteries are collected in battery waste bins and Şişli Plaza 2,300 2,800 340 420 0 0 are sent to local municipalities for recycling. Adana Plaza 2,000 1,000 408 37 320 0 In cafeterias, we have containers for used oils as well as solid wastes and oil wastes are disposed Ankara Plaza 980 1,920 450 650 550 650 of by being vacuumed with a vehicle sent by the Antalya Plaza 500 2,160 187 1,200 280 612 municipality every 3 months. Hygienic materials Bursa Plaza 2,000 1,500 68 110 340 0 are also collected in a manner that will not harm Trabzon Plaza 6,200 300 88 75 30 80 the environment and are disposed of by the İzmir Plaza 7,200 7,800 2,586 4,800 0 708 related organization. Diyarbakır Plaza 1,000 350 425 80 320 400 Use of Equipment Samsun Plaza 850 250 43 63 110 270 Used operational or out-of-operation fixed Levent Plaza 5,600 1,200 0 assets are either disposed of and re-used or TOTAL 66,730 83,830 7,143 14,085 6,456 5,645 TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANNEXES OUR AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS Awards received by various departments and Evaluated as “World’s Best Annual Report in “The Most Popular Company of 2008” award by projects of Turkcell during the reporting period are Telecommunication Sector” in 2010 by LACP, one Capital Business Magazine stated below under 4 main topics. of the most prestigious public relations platforms in the world. Training and Employment Social Responsibility Snowdrops, first place in “Social Contribution” at “Best Financial Disclosure Made to Public” Turkcell, first place award with “I Have More at 2011 World Communication Awards in IR Global Rankings Award ceremony held in Turkcell” in “Best HR Strategy Overseas” cateAmsterdam gory by British HR Magazine Turkcell Volunteers, “Honorary Award” in PR News Nonprofit PR Awards held in USA in 2009 First place in “The Most Satisfactory and ConsisTurkcell Academy mobile training application, tent Company Strategy in Mobile Phone Sector” “Best Practice” award by Corporate University Turkcell Volunteers, “Best Social Responsibility and third place in “Best Governed Company” Exchange Project Established by Employees” award from category in “Best Governed Companies of Middle USA-based E2E in 2010 and East Europe 2010 Survey” organized by EuroTurkcell Academy, Silver award in “Best Mobile money Magazine Training Application” category and Bronze award Bridge of Hearts, Silver Drum Award in “Corporain “Best Content” category in Brandon Hall 2011 56 te Social Responsibility” category in 2009 Golden “Most Popular Company of 2010” award by Excellence Awards Drum Award and TÜHİD 8th Golden Compass Capital Business Magazine Public Relations Awards, “Other Corporate Turkcell Academy, “Annual Corporate University Social Responsibility” category award First place in “Best Corporate Governance and Xchange Awards for Excellence and Innovation” Public Information” and “Best Annual Report” held by Corporate University Xchange, “Excellence Forest of Life Foundation volunteer activities, 2009 categories and first place in “Best CFO – Investor Award in Learning Technologies” category PR News Nonprofit PR Awards “Internal CommuRelations” category awarded to Turkcell Chief nication” award Financial Officer Serkan OKANDAN in the first Turkcell Academy “Leadership Development Investor Relations Awards of Turkey Programs,” award on “Applied Excellence” by Snowdrops and Bridge of Hearts projects, Honorary American Society for Training & DevelopmentAward in “Social Responsibility Project of the General Manager Süreyya Ciliv, “CEO Of The Year” ASTD Year” category in 2009 International Business in 2009 World Communication Awards Awards Turkcell Academy, Honorary Award in “Best New General Manager Süreyya Ciliv, Honorary Award Corporate University” category in Cubic Awards Good Corporate Governance in “European Executive Of The Year” category in (Corporate University Best in Class) International Business Awards 2009 “European Employer Of The Year” award in European Business Awards with innovative human “The Most Popular Telecommunications resources applications Company of 2008” award by Capital Business Magazine Products and Services Turkcell NTV 3G Video News Packages, “Best OUR MEMBERSHIPS Mobile Video Content Producer” in “Best Mobile Turkcell Technology, ISO Innovation 2011 “Grand Production” in Mobile Excellence Awards 2009 ATC (American Turkish Council) Prize” CEPS (Center for European Policy Studies) Turkcell, Ebiko 2009 5th International IT GSMA (GSM Association) Turkcell Technology, SIMagine award in “Best Olympics “The GSM Communication Company ITU (International Telecommunication Union) No-Touch Mobile Transaction (NFC)” category Supporting the Science the Most” award Internet Committee (Ministry of Transportation) with Cep-T Cüzdan ISO (Istanbul Chamber of Industry) “Innovation of the Year Award” in Second White ITO (Istanbul Chamber of Commerce) More Tweets project, “Innovation of the year” Gold Turkish Entrepreneurship Awards by EskiMMA (Mobile Marketing Association) award in Digital Communication Awards şehir Association of Entrepreneur Industrialists and MOBILSAD (Mobile Service Provider Businessmen (EGSIAD) Businessmen’s Association) 3G Speed test event held by Turkcell for 1st anniTABA (Turkish-American Business Association) versary of 3G, honorary award in “Best AnniverFirst place in “Best Mobile Advertisement” TBD (Informatics Association of Turkey) sary Event” category in PR News Awards category with TonlaKazan application in World TBV (Turkish Informatics Foundation) GSMA Awards TEID (Turkish Ethics and Prestige Association) “Turkcell Partner Program,” 2009 Alliance Excel57 TESID (Turkish Electronic Industrialists Foundalence Awards “Growth Company: AllianceMaTurkcell Super League Campaign, 2009 Internatiotion) nagement Excellence” category award nal Business Awards, “Best Online Ad CampaTOBB (The Union of Chambers and Commodity ign” category award Exchanges of Turkey) 3G Launch, first place awards in “Best Service TUBISAD (Informatics Industry Association) Launch” category in IPRA Awards SMS Search, 2009 International Business TUSIAD (Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Awards, “Best New Product or Service of the Association) First place in IT 500 Awards with “Mobile AppliYearServices” category award TUTED (All Telecom Businessmen Foundation) cation” ITEA2 (Information Technology for European Advancement) First place in “Product Development Team of UMTS Forum (Universal Mobile Telecommunicatithe Year” category with AdinAction Developons System) ment Team, “Marketing Web Site” with www. Tax Council turkcell3g.com, “Financial Services” with Garanti YASAD (Software Industrialists’ Association) e-trader in International Business Awards and 10 YASED (International Investors’ Association) more Honorary Awards in 7 different categories First place in “Best PR Event” category in Golden Drum with 3G first Anniversary Event TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI AND UNGCP REPORTING INDEX Profile Disclosures GRI Strategy and Analysis References & Comments Reported 1.1. Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Pages 4,5 Fully organization 1.2. Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pages 4,5, 11, 24-39, 42-49, 52-55 Fully GRI Organizational Profile References & Comments Reported 2.1. Name of the organization Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. Fully 2.2. Primary brands, products, and/or services Page 10 Fully 2.3. Operational structure h”http://www.turkcell.com.tr/site/en/turkcellhakkinda/ Fully yatirimciiliskileri/Sayfalar/genel.aspx IFRS_Report_Q3_2011_Final.pdf (Page 68)” 2.4. Location of headquarters “Turkcell Plaza Meşrutiyet cad. No: 71 Tepebaşı ISTANBUL” Fully 2.5. Countries of operation “Turkcell 2010 Annual Report (Pages 8, 56-61)” Fully 2.6. Ownership Turkcell 2010 Annual Report (Page 75) Fully 2.7. Markets served Page 8 Fully 2.8. Scale and Size “http://www.turkcell.com.tr/site/en/turkcellhakkinda/ Fully yatirimciiliskileri/Sayfalar/genel.aspx IFRS_Report_Q3_2011_Final.pdf (Pages 1-3)” 2.9. Significant changes Pages 10, 14, 55 Fully 58 2.10. Awards Pages 56-57 Fully GRI Report Parameters References & Comments Reported 3.1. Reporting period Page 2 Fully 3.2. Date of previous report 2007-2008 Fully 3.3. Reporting cycle Annually Fully 3.4. Contact Page 63 Fully 3.5. Defining content Pages 18-19 Fully 3.6. Boundary of the report Page 2 Fully 3.7. Limitations Page 2 Fully 3.8. Basis for reporting entities Page 2 Fully 3.9. Data Measurement Techniques Page 2, 11 Partially 3.10. Re-statements Similar topics as in our first report took place with updated Fully activities. We have either gave summary of some of the information that took place in our annual report or gave references. 3.11. Changes No changes Fully 3.12. GRI Content Index Pages 58-61 Fully 3.13. Assurance No external assurance Fully Profile Disclosures (Continued) GRI Governance & Committments References & Comments Reported 4.1. Governance structure Pages 14-17 Fully 4.2. Chairman Page 14 Fully 4.3. Unitary Board Page 14 Fully 4.4. Mechanisms for recommendations Pages 17, 19, 31 Fully 4.5. Compensation and performance Page 14 Fully 4.6. Conflicts of Interest Page 15 Fully 4.7. Qualifications Turkcell 2010 Annual Report (Page 18-19) Fully 4.8. Mission and Values Pages 4, 12-19 Fully 4.9. Overseeing sustainability Page 15 Fully 4.10. Evaluating sustainability Page 14 Fully 4.11. Precautionary approach Page 15 Fully 4.12. External principles Page 2, 47 Fully 4.13. Memberships in associations Page 57 Fully 4.14. Stakeholder Groups Page 19 Fully 4.15. Basis for selection Page 19 Fully 4.16. Approaches to stakeholder engagement Page 19 Fully 4.17. Key topics from stakeholders Page 18-19 Fully 59 Un Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UNGC GRI Social Performance (Employees) References & Comments Reported Employment LA1 (Core) Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Page 23 Fully region 6 LA2 (Core) Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, Pages 24-25 Fully and region LA3 (Add) Benefits provided only to full-time employees Pages 25-26 Fully Occupational Health and Safety 1 LA7 (Core) Injuries, occupational diseases, working days lost, absentee rate and Pages 27-28 Fully work-related fatalities 1 LA8 (Core) Preventive healthcare counselling and training regarding serious Pages 25-26 Fully diseases Training and Education LA10 (Core) Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Page 29 Fully category LA11 (Add) Skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Pages 28-29 Fully employability of employees LA12 (Add) Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Page 30 Fully development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 1,6 LA13 (Core) Diversity in senior management and employee structure Page 25 Fully 1,6 LA14 (Core) Ratio of basic salary of male and female employees Page 25 Fully 60 UNGC GRI Social Performance (Human Rights) References & Comments Reported Investment and Procurement Practices 1-6 HR3 (Add) Employee training on human rights Page 30 Fully Non-Discrimination 1,2,6 HR4 (Core) Incidents of discrimination and actions taken Page 30 Fully Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 1,2,3 HR5 (Core) Operations with significant risk concerning the freedom of associaPage 26 Fully tion and collective bargaining Child Labor 1,2,5 HR6 (Core) Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labor and Pages 30, 47 Fully measures taken Forced and Compulsory Labor 1,2,4 HR7 (Core) Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced and compulPage 47 Fully sory labor BMKİS GRI Social Performance (Society) References & Comments Reported Community SO1 (Core) Impacts of entering, operating, exiting on local communities and Pages 10-11, 48, 54 Fully regions Corruption 10 SO2 (Core) Business units analyzed for corruption risks Page 16 Fully 10 SO3 (Core) Employee training regarding anti-corruption Page 16 Fully 10 SO4 (Core) Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Turkcell 2010 Annual Report Fully (Pages 83-84, 92-94) UNGC GRI Social Performance (Product/Service Responsibility) References & Comments Reported Customer Health and Safety 1 PR2 (Add) Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and No incidents Fully safety of products Product and Service Labelling 8 PR3 (Core) Principles and measures related to product and service information Pages 10-11 Fully and labelling 8 PR4 (Add) Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product No incidents Fully information and labelling PR5 (Add) Customer satisfaction practices Pages 43-44 Fully UNGC GRI Economic Performance References & Comments Reported Economic Performance EC1 (Core) Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 42 Fully EC3 (Core) Organisation's defined benefit plan obligations Page 26 Fully Market Pesence 6 EC7 (Core) Procedures for local hiring Pages 24, 32-33 Fully Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 (Core) Impact of infrastructure investments and services for public benefit Pages 32-39, 42-49 Fully EC9 (Add) Indirect economic impacts Pages 33, 42 Fully UNGC GRI Environmental Performance References & Comments Reported Energy 61 8 EN3 (Core) Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Page 53 Fully 8,9 EN5 (Add) Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Page 52 Fully 8,9 EN6 (Add) Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Pages 53-54 Fully products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Water 8 EN8 (Core) Total water withdrawal by source Page 53 Fully Emissions, Effluents and Waste 7,8,9 EN18 (Add) Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Page 52 Fully achieved 8 EN22 (Core) Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Page 55 Products and Services 7,8,9 EN26 (Core) Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and serPages 52-53 Fully vices, and extent of impact mitigation Compliance 8 EN28 (Core) Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monNo fines paid Fully etary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport 8 EN29 (Add) Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Page 54 Fully other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall 7,8,9 EN30 (Add) Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Page 52 Fully TURKCELL 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 CONTACT INFORMATION For your feedback and questions regarding the report: Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. Turkcell Plaza, Meşrutiyet Cad. No: 71, Tepebaşı, İstanbul Phone: (212) 313 10 00 Miss. Zeynep Özbil – Head of Corporate Responsibilities Department Zeynep.ozbil@turkcell.com.tr Mrs. Aslı Ünlü – Corporate Social Responsibility and Sponsorships Unit Manager Asli.unlu@turkcell.com.tr 63 Miss. Derya Kökten – Corporate Social Responsibility and Sponsorships Specialist Derya.kokten@turkcell.com.tr Reporting Consultants Sercom Consulting Mrs. Elif Özkul Gökmen elif@sercomconsulting.com 0533 648 07 40 FCS Consulting Mr. Alp Borak borak.alp@finansaliletisim.com 0216 353 20 20 www.turkcell.com.tr/en
