NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 | xxxxxxx 1/8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011-2012 nkt cables group | CSR Report 2011-12 2/8 Sales and manufacturing facilities Sales offices Cooperation partners and agents Sales and manufacturing faciSales offices Cooperation partners and nkt cables in brief nkt cables is a global front-line supplier to the energy sector. Our vision is to create value for our customers by providing solutions with cables nkt cables develop, manufacture and market high quality cables and the highest technological level. CO2 emissions have a high priority solutions to the electrical infrastructure, the construction area, the as to neutral production and waste prevention with our brand new railway and the automotive industries.We supply creative, innovative state-of-the-art factory in Cologne being amongst the most and high technological and sustainable products, services and modern in the world. solutions for our customers. Our main focus is to be at the forefront and find innovative products Our manufacturing plants are among the most modern, flexible and and solutions whilst taking care of the environment. cost-effective in the world, and we invest heavily to keep them at Development in turnover Sales by application areas Sales by customers mEuro Other 1,500 6% Other Automotive 5% Automotive 1,200 Railway 7% Railway 900 Industry Utilities Electrical 30% 41% Construction infrastructure Construction 600 19% 63% Electrical infrastructure 300 Wholesalers 29% 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Numbers concern 2011 nkt cables group | CSR Report 2011-12 3/8 nkt cables Highlights 2011-2012 nkt cables joins the UN Global Compact Accidents reduced In 2009 NKT became signatory to the A new Health & Safety (H&S) policy was UN Global Compact, and from the outset, introduced in the autumn of 2011. The nkt cables has fully supported this policy’s focus areas are: H&S is now a top initiative. In December 2011, nkt cables management priority; it is a regular topic 25 became a participant itself, to underline the commitment to at all meetings, and is integrated in the UN Global Compact. This CSR Report fulfils the obligation incentive programmes. The H&S policy to provide Communication on Progress (COP) for the period now involves an increased use of safety 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012. walks, communication campaigns, visible % action plans and training programmes as well as a greater degree of employee involvement. These efforts are bearing first fruits as the Heating accident frequency dropped by 25% on average over the Concerted efforts, including the replacement of several old last 12 months (July 2011 June 2012). and inefficient boilers, the move from old buildings to new premises in Cologne, Germany, and the concentration of production in a smaller area at Czech sites resulted in an average 34% reduction of emission of greenhouse gasses due to space heating in the last 12 months (July 2011 June 2012) compared to full year 2008. RECUN Employee development programme All employees (400 in total) at nkt cables in Denmark have completed the “RECUN” nkt cables’ plant in Cologne, Germany development programme, a two-year Water EU funded project with An investigation on water consumption at all plants revealed the objective to train several technical defects and leaks. The subsequent repairs and employees in problem other improvements at several sites resulted in a 26% reduction solving skills, to take more responsibility at the workplace and to have (average) of water consumption in the last 12 months (July a better understanding of how the company targets depend on the 2011 June 2012) compared to full year 2010. performance of everyone. The registered results include higher job satisfaction and reduced sickness absence. nkt cables group | CSR Report 2011-12 4/8 ’’ Under the banner of our commitment to the UN Global Compact we have invested in the development of our employees, our products and the environment ’’ Marc van’t Noordende CEO nkt cables group nkt cables believes that strict adherence to CSR principles helps to create a sustainable and profitable future for our activities Corporate Social Responsibility has been a recognised priority of customers alternative cable constructions without materials of nkt cables for many years. For example we have 55 years of environmental concern such as phthalates or PVC. We have experience with cable recycling and we were among the first in the developed slim line products with less use of limited resources. industry to offer environmentally friendly cable products. We have further improved internal reporting requirements and have developed an extensive data collection on CSR parameters NKT joined the UN Global Compact in 2009, and nkt cables as a basis for measuring our progress as well as identifying further autonomously in 2011. Being a participant of the UN Global improvement potential. We have implemented projects for Compact has contributed significantly to raising awareness of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and energy and water importance of Corporate Social Responsibility within nkt cables. consumption. Finally, we have made respect for CSR standards The 10 UN Global Compact principles provide us with a part of the way we conduct our business in all the markets we framework when taking decisions, dealing with our customers operate in. and suppliers all the way to the day-to-day operations at the plant floor. Under the banner of our commitment to the UN Global Our efforts have generated progress in many fields and we are Compact we have invested in the development of our employees, committed to do more where we can. We continue to be strongly our products and the environment. We have trained employees convinced that living up to our CSR principles will make nkt on a variety of subjects such as respect for legal, ethical and HSE cables a better supplier to our customers, a better customer to standards. We have focused on providing employees a safer our suppliers, a better neighbour in our communities and, last but working environment. We have developed and are offering our not least, a better place to work for our employees. nkt cables group | CSR Report 2011-12 5/8 Human and labour rights For nkt cables as a global company represented in more than 20 Additionally, we have finalised the development programme countries and with suppliers and customers from all over the world RECUN (see page 3), where focus of the last modules has been on consideration of human and labour rights is a natural part of our using the learned methods in our day-to-day business. Development daily business. Once a year we ask the local management opportunities are provided throughout the organisation, teams in nkt cables to draft and sign a Statement of regardless of gender, race, age or religion. Representation of adherence to the UN Global Compact principles to ensure that the In March 2012 we conducted a worldwide fundamental principles in NKT’s ethical employee survey to further identify our key guidelines are known and followed throughout assets’ needs. Based on the results a number of the organisation. Last year we started to focus areas will be identified in the next promote the same principles in our supplier reporting period. base. We have continued our survey with more and new suppliers regarding their position o A new Health & Safety policy was signed by the noErg towards the UN Global Compact. During this mic Top Management Team 25 October 2011. The cable trolley reporting period the purchase volume with vision is ‘People leave work as healthy as they suppliers that commit to the ten principles has arrived before’. The ambition is to achieve “best in class increased by 6 percentage points to 86%. level” in 5 years, that is an accident frequency of below 5 per 1 million working hours in 2016, compared to 22 last year. Read Our employees are our key asset and we firmly believe that more about the policy on page 3. education and training of employees positively influence the company’s results. We have continued our focus on communication Also, an extensive Root Cause Analysis tool will be taken into use skills and have provided English classes, and we have launched a as from mid-2012 in order to find the cause of each work accident. special training programme for start of our customer service centre. Goals & actions Human and labour rights Deadline Status 30.06.12 Procurement Based on results of the previously conducted survey a further improvement of suppliers‘ commitment to the UN Global Compact will be targeted by also approaching smaller suppliers to do the same. 30.06.12 () New goal: Request for commitment to UN Global Compact principles shall become standard procedure in 30.06.13 qualification process for new raw material suppliers. Work injuries () Improve safety performance towards best-in-class industry standards. Best in class is defined as frequency less than 5 accidents per 1 million working hours (frequency reduced by 25% the last 12 months). 30.06.16 Employee education Improve employees’ competences and capabilities, thereby improving the company competitiveness. The RECUN project has been initiated and completed in the Danish operations. () 01.03.12 Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global people survey and developing action plans based upon the findings. () 31.12.12 ongoing Improve communication skills by launching a training project for Customer Service Centre Staff. () 30.06.12 Health management New goal: Focus on Health Management, where all Units are requested to address the subject in the action plans 30.06.13 following the employee survey, if necessary supported by group initiatives and a monitoring system. Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track nkt cables group | CSR Report 2011-12 6/8 Environment Scope 1 80% of nkt cables’ carbon footprint is 3% at our suppliers of raw materials Scope 2 Traditional industrial pollution such as black smoke, 15% 375,000 tonnes CO 2 heavy noise and poisonous waste water is not an Total emission (cradle to cable) issue in modern cable production. Our discharge Scope 3 of substances of environmental concern to air and 82% water is negligible, except for greenhouse gas Scope1: Direct combustion of fossil energy sources carbon dioxide due to space heating, mainly from Scope2: Procured energy in the form of electricity natural gas-fuelled boilers. An overall evaluation of our and heat activities has identified consumption of energy and water as Scope 3: Production of raw materials, transportation well as use of non-renewable raw materials, including some of of goods, and business flights environmental concern, as the areas with the greatest potential for environmental improvement. In the light of these facts we have Over the years, nkt cables has made a great effort to substitute identified as most important topics for environmental improvement: substances of environmental concern. For example we were the first to provide lead-free PVC cables in the 1990s, ten years later • Saving energy and water (see cases on page 3) we substituted the PVC softener DEHP with other phthalates of • Optimising material utilisation minor health concern and we marketed halogen and PVC-free • Substituting substances of environmental concern alternatives for installation cables. Action plans on these topics will benefit the environment as well as Moreover, we have successfully extended our business involvement improve the competitiveness of nkt cables. in the fields of renewable energy by assisting our customers in conserving natural resources and reducing CO2 emissions. Our Production scrap is an inevitable follower with industrial activities. submarine cables are instrumental in realising the benefits of Since 2008 the material utilisation efficiency has increased from offshore wind farms, and our supply of monitoring solutions and 95.2% to 95.8%. This means a reduction of more than 2,000 tonnes technologies contributes to significant reductions of transmission CO2 in our total carbon footprint (cradle to cable). and distribution losses. Goals & actions Environment Deadline Status 30.06.12 CO2 emissions CO2 emission from heating reduced to less than 80% of 2008 level. () 31.12.13 Derived goal: As 34% reduction has been achieved already, the goal is tightened up to be less than 31.12.13 60% before end 2013. Reduce total CO2 emission from heating and production by 4-5% compared to 2008 level corrected for climate and insourcing (5.1% reached in the present reporting period). () 31.12.13 Optimise the energy consumption on machinery. Ongoing measurements followed by analysis of data will lead to definition of specific goals. 31.12.13 () Material utilisation efficiency Material utilisation is to be increased by 0.2% per year from 95.2% in 2008 to reach 96% in 2012 (1st half 2012: 95.8%). 31.12.12 () 31.12.13 New goal: Increase utilisation 0.1% per year. and ongoing Water Water saving of 35% per tonne cable produced compared to 2010 (last 12 months: 26% savings). () 31.12.13 ÷ Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track nkt cables group | CSR Report 2011-12 7/8 Anti-Corruption nkt cables engages in transparent business relations with partners who should respect the UN Global Compact principles. We are committed to taking responsible corrective action wherever and ’’ whenever we detect deviations from these principles. We are committed to taking nkt cables’ management has established rules and guidelines based on these principles and encourages our employees to view them as responsible corrective action wherever non-negotiable. and whenever we detect deviations from these principles Once a year, local management teams must draft and sign a Statement of Representation to ensure knowledge and adherence ’’ to the set of rules. Additionally, as part of an awareness campaign the management has given presentations emphasising compliance with laws and regulations. A whistleblower system has been rolled out in nkt cables. During Objections from the European Commission in connection with the the reporting year the internal company newsletter was used to Commission’s investigation of the submarine and underground high encourage the use of this facility. The system is designed to let any voltage cable markets in the period 1998-2008. nkt cables and NKT individual employee anonymously raise significant concerns so that Holding examined the documentation from the European wrongdoings or irregularities that may arise can be stopped, thus Commission and submitted their response by the deadline in early protecting the companies in the NKT Group and its stakeholders. November 2011. Subsequently, the European Commission Management support for this system sends a clear signal to produced additional documents, and nkt cables and NKT Holding everybody that we will act in the event of wrongdoings or launched a review.The findings of this review were submitted on 16  irregularities. March 2012. nkt cables and NKT Holding gave an oral presentation of NKT’s viewpoints at a hearing held by the European Commission Although not an anti-corruption case, it should be mentioned that in June 2012. The European Commission is expected to reach a in July 2011 nkt cables and NKT Holding received a Statement of decision on this issue within the next few years.  Goals & actions  Anti-Corruption Deadline Status 30.06.12 Anti-Corruption  Explicit communication is to be established and understood by all employees and business partners. An awareness campaign started in 2012 using a variety of tools and forums. 30.06.12 and ongoing () Facilitation payments Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation payments has been part of the awareness campaign. () 30.06.12  Compliance with laws and regulations Renewed attention to the Code of Ethics behaviour in relation to competitors by including this aspect in the awareness campaign and by scrutinizing memberships to associations. () Immediate ÷ Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 | xxxxxxx 8/8 nkt cables group GmbH Düsseldorfer Straße 400 Im Chempark D-51061 Cologne
