NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Note: The information in this report and NIKE, Inc.’s corporate responsibility/sustainability reporting and website, inclusive of charts, graphs and discussion, and all other information presented, may contain forward-looking statements, estimates or projections based on expectations as of the original date of those materials. Those statements, estimates and projections are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties are detailed in our reports filed with the SEC, including Forms 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q. Presented information may also discuss non-public financial and statistical information and non-GAAP financial measures. All information content was current only as of the date originally presented. We do not update or delete outdated information contained in website materials, and we disclaim any obligation to do so. All content is the property of NIKE, Inc. How to Use This Report We report to share the journey of our strategy, approach and progress factories and estimates and extrapolations based on sampling or design on sustainability issues: how we approach sustainability and innovation, specifications. We continuously work to improve our ability to capture how we work, where we have the greatest impacts on the environment data and report as systems and processes improve. and society, what we aim to do, and our progress and performance. This printed version is only a summary of additional information and Information in this report is gathered and reported for the fiscal years experiences available online that let users explore our value chain and 2010 and 2011. NIKE, Inc.’s fiscal year starts June 1. impacts, find more stories, experience some of our tools and search for the areas they are most interested in. You can find that information at The information in this report primarily reflects our operations www.nikeresponsibility.com. associated with the NIKE Brand (which accounted for about 87 percent of revenue in FY11), but throughout the report we describe our progress While we publish this report for a broad audience that includes our in reporting across all of our brands, and where information is specific investors, it is not subject to the same internal controls and procedures to the NIKE Brand. Data contained in our reporting is based on the best as the sources used to report our financial reports. Please refer to the information available to us from various sources across our value chain, sections in the Appendix titled Reporting and Assurance & Validity including primary data, as well as secondary data from contract of Data for more context. TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CEO · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS ONLINE CONTENTS www.nikeresponsibility.com Impacts Overview · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 43 Glossary PART 1 – STRATEGY Energy & Climate · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 44 Interactive Map of Contracted Manufacturers Business Overview · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 7 Labor · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 49 Design Experience Our Sustainability Strategy · · · · · · · · · · · 11 Chemistry · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 57 Data Sets Targets & Performance · · · · · · · · · · · · · 17 Water · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 60 Background Waste · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 63 Historic Reporting Community · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 66 Timeline PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS People & Culture · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 72 Guidelines & Principles Index Product Design & Materials · · · · · · · · · · · 23 Public Policy · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 77 Manufacturing · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 30 APPENDIX Reporting · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 79 Corporate and Sustainability Governance · · 81 Stakeholder Engagement and Reporting Reviews · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 82 Reporting Recognition · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 85 LETTER FROM THE CEO NIKE, Inc.’s commitment to a more transparent and sustainable future The Lessons We Are Learning is stronger than ever. Nike succeeds because we’re obsessed with innovation. We are relentlessly curious about our world and how we can make it better. In the next decade the competition for new revenues, new markets, We apply that curiosity to our sustainability efforts, and we continue new products and new services will continue to intensify. To fulfill our to learn what is required for real, meaningful progress. potential we know we need to operate in completely new ways, making sustainability integral to our innovation and performance. Three specific lessons stand out: Sustainability at Nike means being laser-focused on evolving our >> Collaboration is essential. Nike is a large company by most business model to deliver profitable growth while leveraging the standards, but our ability to influence meaningful change at efficiencies of lean manufacturing, minimizing our environmental the systemic level has limitations. It is absolutely crucial impact and using the tools available to us to bring about positive that we work with other players to prompt real, sustainable change across our entire supply chain. We’ve made significant progress system change. in these areas. But as we all know at Nike, there is no finish line. We embrace partnerships and open-source collaboration. We Our long-term goals are ambitious and present challenges that are have proactively shared our sustainable design tools to help substantial, complex and systemic. Put simply, they will demand create an industry standard and continue to look for ways to disruptive innovation from business, civil society and government. We scale innovations at Nike and across our industry. And we work know that achieving our long-term vision requires us to hold ourselves with global players including the United Nations Global Compact accountable for real and meaningful short-term progress. This report is initiative to support its principles and to report our carbon data an overview of the gains and challenges of the past two years as well as a to the Carbon Disclosure Project. look into the short, midand long-term strategy we have for the future. >> Transparency is a strategic advantage. Understanding and acknowledging the facts enables us to set relevant targets. Only then can we take real action to achieve those targets. It also The Challenges We Face enables us to work far more productively with governments, Over the past 15 years, we have moved from an approach of simply NGOs and other companies. We’re proud that Nike was first in our reacting to criticisms to pursuing sustainability as an integral driver industry to disclose its contract-factory base and that our culture of our long-term growth. of transparency enables us to lead industry sustainability efforts. It is clear to us that our long-term potential, and the long-term >> Sharing innovation does not require sacrificing competitive potential of virtually every other major company in the world, will advantages. When we share breakthroughs in materials be severely pressured by multiple external factors: business practices and processes with other companies – like our formula for environmentally-preferred rubber or our >> Traditional models of manufacturing and distribution need to water-assessment tool – the impact of those innovations on the evolve to offset rising energy costs and environmental concerns environment becomes much more significant, with little or no >> Many more natural resources will become increasingly scarce, negative impact on our ability to compete in our industry. driving up competition and cost >> Ongoing globalization, access to information and transparency These three lessons have been central to our progress. But the most will intensify the demand for equal access to economic important insight we have gained is this: Sustainability is not merely opportunity an addendum to our core operation. Sustainability can positively impact and improve our business and our growth potential. That’s why we continue to invest substantial resources and Sustainability will be at the nexus of transformations in business, management attention on innovating to get ahead of these challenges. economies and markets, and we will continue to evolve our business to ensure we are able to grow profitably, and to lead. LETTER FROM THE CEO <4> NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Sustainability As a Driver of Growth Looking through the creative lens of innovation, we aim to create As innovators, we thrive on the challenge to redefine performance and breakthroughs that improve our world and are also better for our unleash innovation. And we are gaining momentum. Here are three athletes and our investors. This is a fundamental re-writing of the old key examples: belief system in which sustainability was so often cast as a cost to business, or a drag on performance. The evidence tells us this simply >> Waterless dyeing. Driving innovation into our product creation does not need to be the case, and indeed, the combining of sustainability process demands that we also invest in innovative technology. This and innovation can trigger advances in both. past year we formed a partnership with a company that created a way to dye apparel using CO2 instead of water. This partnership was A great example is our Nike Flyknit technology. It’s a new way to knit facilitated by our new Sustainable Business & Innovation Lab, a a shoe upper out of what is essentially a single thread. It’s great for team at Nike created specifically to identify external opportunities the athlete because it is lighter and offers a more custom fit. It’s good for collaboration to promote sustainable growth. for the planet because it drastically reduces waste from the upper >> Manufacturing Index. We are changing the way we measure production process. And shareholders benefit from the reduced cost factory performance, adding environmental and labor-sustainability of production and increased margins. It’s a nascent technology that metrics to the traditional supply-chain measures of quality, cost holds tremendous opportunity to be scaled over time. and delivery. We are building incentives into our relationships with suppliers. Those that prioritize and focus on workers and You will see many specific targets and commitments in this report, but sustainability in their planning and operations will benefit. Those I want to call your attention to the three that best express the boldness that don’t will feel the financial impact. of our long-term aspirations. >> Target setting. We continue to push ourselves with aggressive First, we have set our vision to ultimately decouple our profitable aims, targets and commitments, and equally distribute the growth from constrained resources. accountability for these across the business. That said, a goal is never a destination. It’s a checkpoint where we reassess and Second, we’ve committed to ensuring that our product innovation will recommit to new challenges and opportunities. meet the rigorous sustainability standards we established as part of our “Considered Design” ethos, which is detailed in this report. Future Performance Third, we know it is important for us to play a strong role in helping As I mentioned at the top of my note, this report outlines our progress to accelerate improvement of responsible labor practices where we against our goals – where we’ve met them, exceeded them and sometimes do business. To this end, we’ve set ambitious targets to improve the struggled with them. lives of workers at the factories we contract with, aiming to source As a young designer, I remember Bill Bowerman frequently asking the exclusively from those that demonstrate commitment to workers question: “Is that the best we can do?” That question, and the restless and sustainability with a minimum Bronze-level achievement on our spirit behind it, drives us more than ever. Sourcing and Manufacturing Sustainability Index by the end of FY20. The age of abundance is over. The definition of business performance The complexity of culture and commerce suggest there are no easy is expanding. Innovation is being redefined. Expectations are being solutions to addressing the challenges ahead. We will continue to redefined. At Nike, we believe the world must innovate faster for push for improvement – to inspire progress, to take accountability growth that is good for all. for things we do control and to use our considerable influence to encourage others to do the same. It is in this spirit that we share our results. I am proud of the progress we have made. But I know we can and must do better, and we will. Unleashing Innovation We cannot achieve our bold goals for sustainability simply by delivering incremental improvements. We will frequently need to deliver innovations that change the way things are done at Nike, and share our findings with others in our industry and throughout the business world to affect positive change in the form of newly developed materials, highefficiency and low-waste manufacturing methods, and partnerships that inspire long-term growth, profitability and sustainability. President & Chief Executive Officer NIKE, Inc. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY <5> LETTER FROM THE CEO PART I STRATEGY BUSINESS OVERVIEW As the world’s leading athletic footwear, apparel and equipment company, NIKE, Inc. is dedicated to inspiring every athlete to reach peak performance. Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman saw endless possibilities for human potential embodied through sport. His philosophy still guides our mission today: “To bring inspiration and innovation to every athlete in the world.” (And if you have a body, you are an athlete.) Through our commitment to innovation and design, we are continually >> Hurley International LLC designs, markets and distributes action challenging ourselves, and our customers, to reach that next level of sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories achievement. We strive for: >> Umbro designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for the sport of >> Innovation to serve the athlete football (soccer) >> Innovation to grow the company >> Nike Golf designs and markets golf equipment, apparel, balls, >> Innovation to inspire the world footwear, bags and accessories >> Jordan Brand designs and markets premium footwear, apparel Company Portfolio and accessories inspired by the dynamic legacy, vision and direct NIKE, Inc. includes seven distinct brands, each with a powerful involvement of Michael Jordan connection to its customers: >> NIKE Brand designs, develops and sells high-quality athletic Cole Haan, Converse, Inc., Hurley International, LLC and Umbro performance gear and sport-inspired casual products, including International Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of NIKE, Inc. footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories These Affiliate businesses, as we call them, play a significant role in our future growth plans. At the end of FY11, NIKE, Inc.’s Affiliates, >> Cole Haan designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, together with our Nike Golf division, contributed approximately handbags, accessories and outerwear $2.7 billion of the company’s $20.9 billion in revenue. >> Converse designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY <7> PART 1 – STRATEGY Plan for Growth Nike is a growth company. But we want to deliver growth in the right costs for energy and labor sparked inflationary pressures. In turn, way. We seek growth that is: higher costs for materials, labor and freight were evident in our margins. >> Sustainable >> Capital efficient While the headwinds we faced were shared across our industry, the >> Profitable >> Brand enhancing competitive advantages we have are unique to the Nike portfolio. In spite of ongoing macroeconomic challenges, we are well positioned Like many other businesses, Nike faced some significant headwinds in to leverage our strengths – including scale, operational capabilities FY10 and FY11. Around the world, unemployment was high, especially and pricing power – to help mitigate the risks beyond our control and among youth; and governments wrestled with high debt levels. Rising capitalize on opportunities to grow the company. PART 1 – STRATEGY <8> NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Integrating Sustainability Into Our Game Plan NIKE, INC. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE At Nike, one way we seek to deliver shareholder value is through REVENUE PERFORMANCE sustainable growth. To us, sustainable growth means our long-term $20,862 vision to deliver profitable growth decoupled from constrained natural $18,627 $19,176 $19,014 21,000 resources, even as we work to deliver value to our shareholders in the REVENUE IN MILLIONS five-year CAGR 7%* near term. Meeting these two objectives requires a careful balance – one 18,000 $16,326 our stakeholders expect of us – and it remains our commitment. We 15,000 attempt to strike this balance by leveraging our significant competitive advantages, including our authentic, emotional connections with 12,000 consumers; innovative product and retail experiences that lead the 9,000 industry; and a strong NIKE, Inc. portfolio that gives us tremendous opportunities for growth and profitability. 6,000 As we set aggressive goals in all areas of our business – financial, 3,000 social and environmental – we are committed to sharing these goals and to reporting on our performance to consumers, the investment FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 community and others interested in our commitments and progress, * 5-Year Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) based on FY06 Revenue of $14,955 million. including the wider sports and apparel industry, community groups and academia. Over the past 15 years, we have moved from approaching sustainability as a risk management issue to viewing RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL it as an innovation opportunity and a competitive advantage to be 24.4% integrated into every aspect of our business. 25 21.9% 21.7% PERCENTAGE OF RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL 20.7% A more holistic sustainability strategy that is fully integrated into the business enables Nike to create value, not just through 20 17.8% risk mitigation, but also through top-line growth, cost avoidance and better access to capital. As an example, our next portfolio of 15 sustainability targets is designed to improve Nike’s environmental and social impacts for us and across our value chain, while also 10 avoiding costs across the value chain by reducing waste, energy and water expenditures. 5 In FY10, to help us further accomplish this transition, we launched a new business unit called Sustainable Business & Innovation, as well as FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 a new business sub-unit called Sustainable Manufacturing & Sourcing. * Return on Invested Capital calculation is available in the financials section of our investor And in FY11, we launched Nike Better World, an online platform relations website, www.nikeinc.com/investors. to engage consumers in our sustainability vision and our efforts to balance people, profit and planet. DILUTED EPS PERFORMANCE** See page 11 for more on Nike’s sustainability strategy. 5 $4.39 REVENUE IN MILLIONS Five Year CAGR 11%* $3.74 $3.86 4 $2.93 $3.03 3 2 1 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 * 5-Year Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) based on FY06 diluted EPS of $2.64. **EPS amounts are not directly comparable as they include non-recurring expenses and benefits such as impairment and restructuring charges, tax settlements and other items. To see comparable annual EPS amounts please refer to our prior press releases and SEC filings. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY <9> PART 1 – STRATEGY Nike Value Chain Companies often use the term “value chain” to refer to the actors and toxics out of products determines whether materials can be recycled in a stages needed to bring their product or service to market and ultimately closed loop. Working with the right manufacturers means better insight to its end of life. At Nike we use this term too, though we also find the and control of quality and in performance for the environment and “chain” metaphor a bit linear and limiting for something that is actually their workers. Choosing the right partners for moving our products interconnected in multiple ways, like an ecosystem or a web. around improves our ability to gather and track data on transportation emissions and to get products where they need to be at the right time. The connections in this chain drive our decision making. For Each choice has financial, environmental and social impacts that are example, the quality of our planning shapes the choices we make for intertwined and mutually dependent. manufacturing. Efficient manufacturers create little to no scrap and turn what remains back into material inputs for new products. Nearly These are just a few examples of the interconnections. We invite you to 85 percent of our footwear manufacturing waste is now diverted from explore Nike’s value chain through the graphic below and online where landfill or incineration through recycling and other efforts. Also, you will find additional detail about impacts and relevant stories. This insights we gain in the use phase impact how we design our products. value chain outlines each phase, where the greatest impacts occur, and Our design decisions, in turn, determine whether a product can be some of the key tools we are using to increase efficiencies, reduce recycled at the end of its life. Design choices can also eliminate the impacts and improve working conditions throughout the system. need for toxics in the manufacturing process, and our ability to get OVERVIEW OF THE NIKE, INC. VALUE CHAIN Our business has many dimensions. Every product and partner, every We believe these stages provide the best way to track, measure and decision, every gateway, every stage from concept to reclamation adds report where we have influence, compared to where we have control, to a near-infinite ecosystem of cause and effect. and how the decisions we make have impacts in terms of energy and To offer as much clarity into this ecosystem as possible, we’ve climate, labor, chemistry, water, waste and community. distilled it down to seven fundamental stages: Plan, Design, Make, Move, Sell, Use, Reuse. MAKE DESIGN MOVE PLAN SELL REUSE USE PLAN DESIGN MAKE MOVE SELL USE REUSE At the core of our Form. Function. Superior Ideas don’t become We ship products Nike operates more Once you bring home Finding innovative business is a plan – performance. Minimal reality by magic. For wherever and whenever than 750 retail stores your new shoes, shirt ways to reuse our our opportunities, our impact. While our a global business, they are needed, to get around the world across or shorts, a different products – creating resources and our values. designers always strive it requires people, to thousands of partners all our brands. Beyond footprint starts to take running tracks, sport It’s who we are. What we to create products materials, tools, and millions of consumers selling products, each shape. This one belongs courts and even new believe. And how we get that are faster, lighter knowledge, skill and a around the world. location strives to be a to you. shoes and clothing helps things done. and stronger, they also whole lot of coordination. Airplanes, boats, trucks rewarding experience minimize our impact on pay close attention to We contract with more and trains are the tools for its consumers and an the environment. Good smarter. than 900 factories our transport providers asset to its community. becomes better over globally to make products use to overcome the The stores are in leased time. And so do we. from our designs. obstacle of distance space. While NIKE and every day. our Affiliate brands sell primarily through retail partners not owned by our company, our focus is on See Impacts on page 43. the impact of the selling See online for stories at www.nikeresponsibility.com. we do in our own stores. PART 1 – STRATEGY < 10 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The game has changed, forever. Sustainability used to be the exclusive domain of experts, activists and idealists. Then, it moved into a silo at the outskirts of the corporate landscape. Today, it is seen as an important, well-integrated part of any forward-thinking company – as one of the key drivers of success. At NIKE, Inc., we are exploring new sustainable business models to prepare us for a fundamentally different operating environment. To do this, we must deftly navigate a quickly changing landscape. We see a future in which: >> Competition for scarce natural resources affects the cost and availability of the inputs needed to make our products, and in turn, the price and availability of the products themselves >> Rising energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions lead to increasing pressure on traditional models of product manufacturing and transportation >> Persistent global disparity in access to financial and other opportunities influence workers throughout our supply chain >> Continued urbanization and the growing middle classes create new demands for products and services, and new opportunities to meet them >> Emerging regulations related to materials use, labor practices and other issues continue to shape our business environment Our vision is to build a sustainable business and create value for Nike and our stakeholders by decoupling profitable growth from constrained resources. This is not just key to our sustainability strategy. It’s part of our business strategy – and it guides us as we move forward. This report covers our performance during FY10/11, the time during which we developed and refined this vision. Much of our progress and what we learned during this period laid the foundation for how we’re moving ahead to make the vision a reality. This vision has been built on years of assessing trends and materiality for Nike and the changes that are impacting our business, our value chain, our consumers and the world. In 2007, we undertook an assessment (along with SustainAbility, a consulting firm) of some meta trends that have only become more relevant as we’ve shaped and defined our strategy (see findings on the next page). These meta trends highlight the areas of our value chain and our business that have the most potential for innovation. We use these filters in our work, our assessment of opportunity and the way we approach reporting. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 11 > PART 1 – STRATEGY PART 1 – STRATEGY < 12 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Sustainable Innovation Sustainability is the world’s greatest products, like Nike Flyknit’s innovative innovation challenge. Although incremental manufacturing process, which reduces We are maintaining improvements play an important role, on their waste in knitting together the upper of the a relentless focus own they will fall far short of achieving the shoe. Another is exploring new materials on sustainable progress that’s needed. Retrofitting and fineand manufacturing processes through our Sustainable Business & Innovation Lab. innovation, from tuning the approaches of the past will simply evolutionary not solve the problems we face. The world needs new systems, new business models, We launched our Lab as a business enhancements to development and strategic partnership team disruptive shifts new relationships and new ways of thinking. within Nike that helps us drive innovation Sustainability requires transformation, and that can transform and collaboration, particularly as it relates to innovation lies at the heart of that process. the industry. sustainability. The Lab is an expression of our culture and commitment to collaboration and As we continue to successfully innovate across and risk reductions; our ability to bring the innovation; we believe leveraging innovation in our entire value chain, sustainability will be innovation to scale; and other factors. We then sustainability can be a vehicle for growth and an engine for growth. For example, we created manage projects throughout our innovation will help us accelerate our vision for superior jerseys for the 2010 World Cup that were made pipeline from the kernel of an idea to its mass performance and minimum impact products. from recycled plastic bottles, and we have built adoption (see graphic). Recommendations that come from the Lab, as tools such as the Nike Materials Sustainability with any other area of the Nike business, are Index (Nike MSI) to make it easy for designers In 2011, we launched an executive-level reviewed by management for alignment with to create products with lower environmental Committee for Sustainable Innovation. This our strategic and financial goals. impacts. Through other initiatives, we hope group is chaired by our CEO and oversees to go much further, helping our supply chain Opportunities for innovation are countless, so our innovation pipeline and portfolio. It become leaner, greener, more equitable and we prioritize our initiatives and investments. helps to fully capitalize on opportunities by empowered. One example is employing We consider potential environmental and accelerating adoption and bringing these fundamentally different processes to make social impacts; possible revenue; savings activities to scale. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 13 > PART 1 – STRATEGY Our Sustainability Pillars We drive sustainable innovation throughout our company across four environmental attributes of the materials we use while maintaining the strategic pillars (see above). These pillars do not stand alone – they are highest standards of product performance. We further propelled these interconnected. The work we do today to optimize and deliver positive efforts forward in 2011. Specifically, we upgraded our materials rating impacts also drives insights into disruptive innovations that will create tool, the Nike Materials Sustainability Index (Nike MSI). The Nike MSI our future. is embedded in the indexes that our designers and developers use to assess potential products, and it plays a pivotal role in product design. Creating a portfolio of sustainable materials – the first pillar – addresses one area of our greatest potential impacts. The choice of Materials are a substantial cost, so identifying long-term access to materials for our products has a cascading effect across our entire affordable materials that meet our environmental standards is key to value chain. From farms and factories to trucks and ships to stores and our ongoing success and our ability to decouple materials from scarce homes where our products are used and laundered, materials drive resources. See page 23 for more information about our materials our footprint. For the past decade, we have worked to improve the programs and progress. PART 1 – STRATEGY < 14 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY The second pillar – prototyping and scaling sustainable sourcing and manufacturing models – directly affects the activities at the heart COLLABORATION TO INCREASE SCALE of our value chain. We are culminating more than a decade of work in this area with an initiative to transform our relationships with contract The sustainability challenges we face, such as bringing to scale factories. Our vision is to create a sustainable supply chain across all the use of innovative new materials and changing deep-rooted supplier behaviors, are much broader than Nike alone can address. of our brands that is lean, green, equitable and empowered. We expect We are seeking scale across our industry. We will play a role in this transformation to benefit our business as well as hundreds of changing the underlying systems and transforming the way that thousands of workers worldwide. Our new Manufacturing Index, industry, government and citizens share data and responsibility, launching in 2012, will place a factory’s performance and sustainable working together to enhance transparency and accountability. manufacturing practices on equal footing and performance with Unprecedented levels of collaboration are crucial to promoting system transformation and developing effective and lasting the traditional measures of quality, delivery and cost, for sourcing solutions, and are core to our strategy. evaluation. See page 41 for more detail. We focus much of our efforts on our suppliers, due to the scale Igniting and driving market transformation – the third pillar – of the opportunities in our supply chain. For example: is about creating the conditions for sustainable consumption to thrive. This requires mobilizing key constituents (such as civil society, > The H2O*Insight Water Tool, nongovernmental which we developed for the organizations (NGOs), employees, government and industry) to partner in driving solutions to Nike Water Program and academics and the U.S. scale. It depends on sharing knowledge and expertise across companies have recently made available Environmental Protection and entire industries to broaden the adoption of sustainable principles through subscription to Agency to launch the and practices (see sidebar on page 35 for examples). Above all, we other companies, enables Sustainable Apparel Coalition. must engage consumers in sustainability. Nike begins and ends with our vendors and other brands We have shared our tools the consumer. We need to both inform and meet consumers’ growing worldwide to more effectively with them to help create track water quantity, quality an industry-wide index for expectations in this area, such as through Nike Better World, which is and efficiency indicators measuring and evaluating our brand commitment to serve the needs of athletes and the planet (see page 62). product sustainability at the same time. (see page 29). > In 2011, we worked with Creating digital services revenue – the final pillar of our sustainability other footwear and apparel > We are working with other strategy – describes our vision to extend our leadership in athletic companies to create a leading brands and the Fair footwear, apparel and equipment into the digital realm of fitness, roadmap for achieving the Labor Association (FLA) goal of zero discharge of to create key performance coaching and training services. We see the potential to help every hazardous chemicals* by our indicators linked to the FLA’s athlete get better and do more, as well as the potential for us to material vendors and contract principles of fair labor and develop deeper relationships and insights with athletes. This will manufacturers by 2020 responsible sourcing. Common help grow our business while diversifying our company away from (see page 57). standards will increase the natural resources we depend on today. consistency in measuring and > Also in 2011, we joined reporting supplier performance This sustainability framework informs the structure of this report. We with other leading apparel and improve collaboration and footwear brands, among brands. include in-depth sections on materials and manufacturing, reflecting the retailers, manufacturers, proportionate impact of those first two pillars, and we also discuss our performance in the “impact areas” identified in the graphic on page 43. We also work across industries. GreenXchange, a web-based marketplace we founded with several other companies in 2006, is one example. GreenXchange was our first foray into open Sustainability Governance and Management innovation with other businesses, set up to allow organizations Even the best strategy comes to nothing without the commitment, to collaborate and share intellectual property. We have gained people and processes to make it happen. Continuing to integrate significant insights from this collaboration which continue to inform our strategy to bring sustainability innovations to scale. sustainability into our business, rather than layering it on top of how NIKE, Inc. and our brands currently operate, will increase and *Hazardous chemicals are those that show intrinsically hazardous properties (persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic; very persistent and very bioaccelerate progress, drive scale and the proliferation of sustainable accumulative; carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic for reproduction; endocrine innovation, and enable broad employee engagement. disruptors; or equivalent concern), not just those that have been regulated or restricted in other regions. At Nike, dedication to and accountability for sustainability begins at the top. In 2001, we formed a Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee as part of our Board of Directors committee structure. The CR Committee has oversight of environmental impact and sustainability issues, labor practices and corporate responsibility issues in major business decisions. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 15 > PART 1 – STRATEGY In FY06, we created a management framework to ensure executive companywide; collaborates with sustainability specialists in other accountability for corporate responsibility across the company. The parts of the organization; drives sustainability integration; leads Vice President for Sustainable Business & Innovation reports directly engagement with stakeholders; works to mitigate risk and facilitate to President and CEO Mark Parker, and co-manages dedicated teams compliance; and reports on our progress to scale the impact of with business and functional executives to develop and review policies sustainable innovation beyond Nike. with Board oversight, approve investments and evaluate and refine our approach and direction. Our new executive-level Committee for Sustainable Innovation, described previously, also steers our efforts specific to innovation. The SB&I team acts as a catalyst for sustainability companywide. Made up of about 130 people, the team leads sustainability strategy development; provides content expertise and consulting to teams PART 1 – STRATEGY < 16 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY TARGETS & PERFORMANCE We are clear on our ultimate destination: To decouple profitable growth from constrained resources. Our vision of the future is a world in transition from an industrial we worked to develop targets that organize our efforts, drive our economy to a sustainable economy – where renewable sources of performance and help us to take account of what’s important and energy flourish, water is borrowed responsibly and returned clean how we’re managing. to communities, waste is a new asset, workers across the industry are consistently valued and environmental impact will be a critical We know where we’ve been, and we know where we want to go. metric of success. And we know that there is substantial work ahead. We continue to set the bar higher for ourselves and across our value chain. This is a future that will be good for business, economies and communities, and citizens, workers and consumers. And we are We have evaluated our value chain and our impacts, assessed the determined to set Nike up to lead and thrive, in this environment. coming scenarios and challenges, taken account of our progress against past performance, and worked across our business to In order to get there, we will need to move from incremental to disruptive set targets embedded deeply into the way we operate. innovation. Our aim of decoupling growth from constrained resources will require change at a systems-wide level. No single company can Many of the sustainability issues we seek to solve are still undergoing eliminate toxic chemicals from vast supply chains, nor improve living innovation. Others are firmly in place and moving forward with conditions of workers in low-income communities, nor eliminate waste needed changes. from consumption. We need step change in collaboration to drive collective understanding of the systemic issues we face and agreement We deliver on our vision in two ways: on the solutions. Competitive advantage should be built on a sustainable >> Make today better by taking account of our impacts and redefining playing field where getting better faster than the competition raises the business performance for the better bar for everyone. That will require relentless focus on systems innovation and collaboration across government, industry, social influencers and >> Design the future by unleashing innovation, embedding even consumers. It also will require putting sustainability at the heart sustainability into our approaches to product and manufacturing, of innovation. and solving challenges in business and sustainability for the world We operate in a globally competitive industry, where markets change, and where local, regional and national policies play into the impacts Make Today Better we have and the way we can address them. In some cases, the kind We can always do better by constantly refining the way we define our of large-scale systemic changes needed to make a lasting positive performance with greater focus and more attention. We are working to impact in the environment and society – while retaining vibrant manage our impacts not only in our own business but in its reach across communities and businesses – requires movement on all fronts: our value chain. from government, industry, businesses, even consumers. It sometimes requires agreeing with and moving toward common approaches and At Nike, we refer to this type of continuous improvement as seeking our definitions. One example is in our approach to sourcing and assessing “personal best.” It’s much like the one-mile race, with world records factory performance by including the expectation of progress toward the bested by fractions of a second over years or decades without a major Fair Labor Association’s definition of “fair wages” into what we consider breakthrough but ultimately resulting in significant cumulative change. compliance. But even that definition is tied to policies and realities such as minimum wage, inflation, community vitality and other things We recognize the bar can always be higher and that sometimes beyond our control. It speaks to the intersection – on all fronts – of it seems just out of reach. We’re constantly asking ourselves what efforts needed to bring about a joint vision of a better world. company co-founder and legendary track coach Bill Bowerman asked the company’s first designers: “Is that the best we can do?” But vision alone is not enough. Vision is long term. Getting there demands action. We need steps to get there – a plan. We need We have looked across our value chain, at the areas of greatest milestones along the way. We take our environmental and our social impact, and where we have solid information to assess, understand targets seriously. In the same way a company’s business targets and drive performance. In these areas we have defined targets we’re are based on the planned, the real, the owned and the predicted, working toward. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 17 > PART 1 – STRATEGY Design the Future We see innovation as an engine, an accelerator, a disruptor, to get us reflect a deeper understanding of our impacts on the world and to that future state. Great innovation has the ability to make the status the integration of sustainability work across our business. quo obsolete. Like Dick Fosbury who went backward over the bar and changed the high jump forever. Nourishing innovation is both art and We’ve structured our plan in three levels: science. It demands creativity, patience and high tolerance for failure. >> Aims show what we aspire to do, even if we can’t measure It also demands dedication and rigor. progress against these today. In this space we define our desire We need scalable system change to transform our business, the industry to find a solution and share our strategy and approach. and markets. These are the breakthroughs, some visible on the horizon >> Targets specify our focus and determination to relentlessly and some unseen, that will help us leap forward and turn assumptions improve our performance. We’ve focused targets based on about the way we think and operate on their heads. materiality, our ability to measure and what role we can take in bringing about change. These breakthrough opportunities are less defined than reliant on the willingness to set the path as we go and to fail along the way. >> Commitments are the promises we make that show where and We are sharing our aims and ambitions in this space to bring our how we focus our energy and effort by providing insight into how stakeholders along in the journey. We have set our vision for what we intend to achieve our targets or address other relevant issues changes are needed in innovation, with our people and culture and and set the structure for our ongoing reporting. in the way we work. We also have two areas of innovation – in product and in manufacturing – that build on our past achievements and on Together, these plan elements reflect our work, recognizing as well processes we have put in place to drive change. the great opportunity of partnering across brands and with other sectors to achieve deep and lasting change. We know that our success Our aims, targets and commitments, outlined below, take into account depends on others, and theirs depends on us. what we’ve learned during the last five years in working toward our past targets. We achieved some, missed others and learned a lot in We continue raising the bar and reaching new heights in innovation and the process (see page 20). Now we have a laser focus on what is most performance, enabling long-term, sustainable growth of our business, relevant to our business and our various stakeholders, and our targets and, in turn, a better world. SEE FULL GOAL MAKE TODAY BETTER DETAILS ONLINE AT NIKERESPONSIBILITY.COM TOPIC AIM TARGET COMMITMENTS Achieve 20% reduction in CO2 emissions >> Increase contracted manufacturer participation in Nike’s Drive innovation, collaboration energy and carbon continuous improvement program per unit1 from FY11 levels through FY15 and public policy advocacy to >> Expand use of renewable energy in our built environment CUT ENERGY (in aggregate from assessed footprint in deliver carbon reductions across (where available), including all new retail stores the built environment, logistics and the value chain >> Design new build to LEED standards footwear manufacturing) >> Assess and report energy and CO2 footprint Transform our working relationship with contract factories to >> We will align sourcing decisions by the end of FY20 to prioritize incentivize changes that benefit sourcing in factories that have eliminated excessive overtime2 Source from factories that demonstrate their workers. Instill changes in our >> Require commitment to lean manufacturing and demonstrate commitment to workers by achieving EMPOWER code, instigate innovation, educate progress toward a lean culture for contract factories to move minimum Bronze on our Sourcing & WORKERS to build management capabilities, beyond compliance by the end of FY15 Manufacturing Sustainability Index by address root causes in our own >> Develop and test new models of manufacturing by the end of FY15 the end of FY20 that serve to improve worker compensation, skills and livelihood, processes, work with the industry, and reward factories’ progressive and share findings to drive industry change achievement >> Establish industry-wide management coalition Minimize the impact of product Achieve zero discharge of hazardous >> Expand chemicals management and awareness training REJECT ingredients throughout the chemicals* for all products across all >> Expand use of positive chemistries TOXICS lifecycle pathways in our supply chain by 2020 >> Expand material traceability >> Explore disclosure advancements Improve efficiency by 15% per unit in >> Increase participation in Nike Water Program across NIKE, Inc. brands SLASH apparel materials dyeing and finishing Borrow water and use it responsibly >> Drive industry change through expanded access to the WATER USE and footwear manufacturing (from FY11 use of Nike-developed H2O*Insight Tool through FY15) >> Assess geographic impact of water 1 Measuring energy and emissions based on footwear. 2 Our Code of Conduct defines excessive overtime as: 1) more than 60 hours in a week; or 2) less than one day off in seven. *Hazardous chemicals are those that show intrinsically hazardous properties (persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic; very persistent and very bio-accumulative; carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic for reproduction; endocrine disruptors; or equivalent concern), not just those that have been regulated or restricted in other regions. PART 1 – STRATEGY < 18 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY MAKE TODAY BETTER CONTINUED TOPIC AIM TARGET COMMITMENTS Achieve 10% reduction in waste from manufacturing across NIKE, Inc. and shoebox >> Reduce waste in manufacturing weight per unit (from REDUCE Use less, buy less to reduce impact >> Improve packaging FY11 baseline through WASTE across the value chain >> Increase recycling, reuse, repurpose & compost of waste FY15), building on (manufacturing, retail, distribution centers, offices) reduction in footwear manufacturing of more than 35% per pair in first 10 years of program Deliver focused areas of impact >> Build and expand access to sport agenda through innovation, partnership, >> Tap the power of our brands to engage consumers and leverage support Invest a minimum of for the issues they care about SUPPORT advocacy and movement making, 1.5% of pre-tax income >> Through the Nike Foundation, continue to use insight, innovation and COMMUNITIES with a stable source of funding to in communities annually inspiration to equip adolescent girls in the developing world and transform allow for a portfolio of innovation their world, so that their full potential can be realized to scale and flourish >> Engage, encourage and enable employees to support communities SEE FULL GOAL DESIGN THE FUTURE DETAILS ONLINE AT NIKERESPONSIBILITY.COM TOPIC AIM TARGET COMMITMENTS >> We  will build sustainable innovation capabilities across the business to drive a disruptive innovation agenda as we continue our endless pursuit Integrate sustainability principles of delivering performance products and services to athletes into our innovation processes, >> We will develop and prototype an Index to drive and measure how sustainability is integrated into our innovation portfolios, decision governance and portfolios to UNLEASH making and processes. We will share a version of this Index and lessons generate innovation that delivers INNOVATION learned with others in an effort to contribute to larger-scale adoption of products and services that approaches that link sustainability and innovation to drive business growth combine performance, and performance innovation and sustainability >> We will develop tools, processes and systems to establish metrics to measure impact that can be shared as part of the index, without compromising the competitive nature of innovation >> Footwear: New NIKE Brand global footwear product achieves minimum Silver rating on Nike Footwear Sustainability Index by the end of FY15 Understand and improve >> Apparel: New NIKE Brand global apparel product achieves minimum Bronze Design products that provide superior rating on Nike Apparel Sustainability Index by the end of FY15 REVOLUTIONIZE the environmental profile performance and lower environmental >> Equipment: New NIKE Brand global equipment product achieves minimum PRODUCT of our product designs impact across NIKE, Inc. Bronze rating on Nike Equipment Sustainability Index by the end of FY20 by the end of FY15 >> Other Product: Expand reach of indexes to score other NIKE, Inc. product (i.e. products of Affiliate brands, licensees and carry over products) >> Better Materials: Increase use of environmentally preferred materials Drive improvement in factory sustainability performance by Source all products >> All product will come from factories that have achieved Bronze or better implementing sourcing systems that from factories that have on our Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index by the end of FY20 >> Incorporate factory labor and environmental performance criteria into include measures of sustainability achieved Bronze or TRANSFORM production vendor sourcing selection and evaluation performance (as well as traditional better on our Sourcing MANUFACTURING >> Expand and optimize factory labor and environmental performance metrics of cost, quality and Manufacturing sustainability capabilities and delivery) in sourcing-evaluation Sustainability Index >> Engage external partners to drive sustainability and transparency processes when selecting factories by the end of FY20 across industry with which to invest or divest over time Tap our people and our culture, our >> Invest in employee development PEOPLE & most powerful source for innovation >> Engage employees CULTURE and change >> Inspire ideas and ignite innovation Build sustainability into the DNA >> Hardwire sustainability in the way we do business of our business model, into our >> Be a catalyst of sustainable innovation THE WAY operations and into our culture >> Measure the business value of sustainability WE WORK where innovation is unleashed, >> Participate in multi-sector efforts to drive system change shared and scaled and market transformation NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 19 > PART 1 – STRATEGY Performance Against Past Targets The following goals, set out in our FY05/06 report, describe our approach has shifted – for instance, focusing on reducing the use of ambitions based on the world we knew, the way we were organized energy overall in our value chain rather than on achieving climate and what was important. Some things have changed. Some haven’t. neutrality through offsets. Further discussion of our efforts is included In some areas our focus is sharper, reflected in either adjusted or in relevant sections of this report. updated targets. In other areas, we have shifted as the world or our PERFORMANCE AGAINST PAST TARGETS GOAL 1 BRING ABOUT SYSTEMATIC CHANGE FOR WORKERS IN THE FOOTWEAR, APPAREL & EQUIPMENT INDUSTRIES STATUS KEY: ACHIEVED LONGER-TERM TARGET SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS CHANGED APPROACH DID NOT MEET TOPICS PAST TARGET PERFORMANCE THROUGH FY11 STATUS Implemented in 79% of focus factories (76 of 96)1 HUMAN RESOURCES 4Implement Human Resources Management MANAGEMENT (HRM) training program in all focus NIKE Brand Covered 94% of footwear volume SIGNIFICANT TRAINING PROGRAM contract factories1 PROGRESS Covered 43% of apparel volume Implemented in 79% of focus factories (76 of 96)1 FREEDOM OF 4Implement Freedom of Association education SIGNIFICANT Covered 94% of footwear volume ASSOCIATION program in all focus NIKE Brand contract factories1 PROGRESS Covered 43% of apparel volume Completed by 79% of focus factories.1 More than 25,000 workers (of 422,000) took part. We continue to offer this program, extending it to new areas and offering training 4Have 100% of focus NIKE Brand contract factories SIGNIFICANT WORKER SURVEY and support to new and existing factories in Asia complete statistically relevant sampling of employees1 PROGRESS Covering 94% of footwear volume Covered 43% of apparel volume 4Promote multi-brand collaboration on improving Shared 39% of Nike FY11 audits through COLLABORATION working conditions in the global supply chain, ACHIEVED Fair Factories Clearinghouse covering 30% of factory locations Continued to assess root causes of excessive overtime in FY10 and FY11 4Reduce Nike-caused excessive overtime incidents By FY11, we were able to assess excessive overtime found (Updated from FY05/06 when stated goal was to in 128 factories and establish that 68% of incidents EXCESSIVE OVERTIME eliminate excessive overtime. We clarified what DID NOT MEET analyzed were due to factors that Nike could influence information we had and what we could deliver based on our causes) Worked with factories to address systemic approaches to excessive overtime. Did not have enough information to assess whether those have declined 1 “ Focus factories” indicates factories that we had targeted to participate in the Human Resources Management program in FY05/06 based on volume of production and country of location. In many cases, these are footwear and apparel strategic partners, but we also targeted other factories that were compliant in labor, health, safety and environment, and started on their lean manufacturing journey. Some targets were clarified or redefined from what was presented in FY05/06. For full discussion of progress and our work in these areas, please explore the relevant section of this report. Unless otherwise noted, target was through FY11. PART 1 – STRATEGY < 20 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY GOAL 2 CREATE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND BUSINESS MODELS STATUS KEY: ACHIEVED LONGER-TERM TARGET SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS CHANGED APPROACH DID NOT MEET TOPICS PAST TARGET PERFORMANCE THROUGH FY11 STATUS 4Footwear: Have 100% of new footwear products1 Saw 97% achieve a minimum of baseline for the Spring ACHIEVED reach baseline Considered standards by FY11 and Summer seasons of FY11 CONSIDERED 4Apparel: Have 100% of new NIKE Brand apparel 16% of the FY11 Nike Apparel line achieved the baseline LONGER-TERM DESIGN INDEX level, outpacing the ramp-up schedule to the FY15 target TARGET product2 reach baseline Considered standards by FY15 (SEE DESIGN & 4Equipment: Have 100% of NIKE Brand equipment Made progress in developing specialized indexes for different MATERIALS SECTION product3 reach baseline standards by FY20 types of equipment. Developed a Considered Bags Index LONGER-TERM FOR FURTHER in FY10, and 24% met the baseline or better for Fall 2011. TARGET DESCRIPTION) Created and tested a Considered Inflatables Index in FY11 4Footwear: Achieve a 17% reduction from the FY06 Achieved this target in FY09. Continued to improve, baseline in grams of waste generated per pair (gpp) of decreasing to 149 gpp during FY11 despite a 38% ACHIEVED footwear by FY11 (equates to 157 gpp by FY11) increase in production since FY06 4Apparel: Set target in FY09 Did not set a target. Piloted training, on-site consulting and technical assistance in Apparel factories in FY10 and DID NOT MEET FY11 to segregate waste, build systems and establish new WASTE waste baselines 4Packaging/Point-of-Purchase Materials: Achieved a 23% weight reduction on our shoebox, the Achieve a 30% reduction. Revised in FY09 major contributor to our packaging waste footprint. While to focus on footwear box the new shoebox design was implemented in FY10 and SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS FY11. In FY11, reverted to previous designs due to supply chain performance issues. Now researching new designs PETROLEUM-DERIVED SOLVENTS 4Footwear: Maintain current petroleum-derived Achieved a 95% reduction from the 1995 baseline by FY04 (FORMERLY KNOWN solvents grams/pair amount (represents 95% and have continued to improve. Dropped an additional 1 gram ACHIEVED AS VOLATILE ORGANIC reduction from a 1995 baseline) per pair from FY09 to FY11, reaching 96.4% below the baseline COMPOUNDS) 4Footwear: Increase use of EPMs by 22% by FY11 (as Achieved this target in FY08 ACHIEVED measured by average EPM score of 69 in FY07 to 84 CONSIDERED INDEX: in FY11) ENVIRONMENTALLY LONGER-TERM PREFERRED MATERIALS 4Apparel: Increase use of EPMs to 20% by FY15 Achieved 9.8% in FY11. On track to meet the 20% FY15 goal TARGET (EPMs) 4Equipment: Announce EPM use target in FY10 Focused efforts on creating Considered Indexes during this time and, based on great difference in product lines across SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS equipment as a whole, did not set equipment-wide EPM goals CLIMATE STABILITY Reduced absolute CO2 emissions by 6% from FY08 through FOOTWEAR F ootwear manufacturing CO2 emissions footprint: SIGNIFICANT FY11 (983,015 tCO2e to 919,700) despite a 20% increase in MANUFACTURING Announce goals by January 2008 PROGRESS production. Did not publicly announce a target Have revisited this target as business conditions have changed from when we set it The emissions reductions we achieved through FY10 were offset by an increase in air freight in FY11, resulting in an INBOUND  eliver a 30% absolute reduction in CO2 emissions from D CHANGED absolute increase of 17.3% from FY08 through FY11 TRANSPORTATION 2003 by FY20. (2003 baseline is 311,859 metric tons) APPROACH We continue to work on reductions and will work on measuring on a per-unit basis. Also, we are working with our transport logistics partners to accelerate the adoption of cleaner fuels and vehicle technologies 1 Refers to newly developed products coming out of world headquarters. 2 Refers to newly developed consumer product coming out of Nike global design centers. 3 Refers to new, top-volume retail products coming out of Nike global design centers. (“Top-volume” products include headwear, socks, bags, inflatable balls and gloves.) Some targets were clarified or redefined from what was presented in FY05/06. For full discussion of progress and our work in these areas, please explore the relevant section of this report. Unless otherwise noted, target was through FY11. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 21 > PART 1 – STRATEGY CLIMATE STABILITY CONTINUED STATUS KEY: ACHIEVED LONGER-TERM TARGET SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS CHANGED APPROACH DID NOT MEET TOPICS PAST TARGET PERFORMANCE THROUGH FY11 STATUS Showed a drop in NIKE Brand facilities emissions of 29.4%, but this change was due largely to better accuracy of measurement over this time period Increased emissions from business travel 88.7% (from 30,307 to 57,200 tCO2) over the same period; stopped purchasing carbon offsets in FY09. From FY08 to FY11, overall CO2 emissions grew just 0.8%, even as NIKE Brand revenues M  ake NIKE Brand facilities and business travel climate increased 10.7% FACILITIES AND CHANGED neutral by FY11. Make NIKE, Inc. facilities climate As discussed in our FY07-09 reporting, this target no BUSINESS TRAVEL APPROACH neutral by FY15 longer aligns with our sustainability strategy, as it relied upon offsets but did not address overall energy use. For the greatest impact, we now prioritize investing in saving energy – including in our contracted factory base – instead of purchasing carbon offsets Note: Baseline year for comparison is FY08 because significant data improvements between FY07 and FY08 affected the data in some places by as much as 25% GOAL 3 LET ME PLAY. UNLEASHING POTENTIAL THROUGH SPORT STATUS KEY: ACHIEVED LONGER-TERM TARGET SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS CHANGED APPROACH DID NOT MEET TOPICS PAST TARGET PERFORMANCE THROUGH FY11 STATUS Invested a total of $268.7 million, about 85% of the targeted amount Also, focused on leveraging additional support for community 4By FY11, have NIKE, Inc. invest an additional $315 activity through NIKE Brand initiatives and work, including SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTIONS million into programs worldwide (starting in FY07) $100 million contribution into the Nike Foundation from the PROGRESS Novo Foundation to support its efforts, and broader reach through other campaigns such as LIVESTRONG, which has raised $80 million since 2004 In FY07, identified a measurement and evaluation framework designed to assess and communicate the social impact of our investments in consultation with internal and external stakeholders 4Social Impact: Set targets and metrics around LET ME PLAY/ In FY08 and FY09, customized and piloted the online CHANGED SOCIAL IMPACT programs for excluded youth around the world by January FY08 portion of The Women’s Funding Network’s Making the APPROACH Case™ tool and continued evaluations through FY10 and FY11. In FY10 and FY11, further refined our focus on social impacts. While we are not currently using this tool, we are still using the data and concept to refine our methodology Some targets were clarified or redefined from what was presented in FY05/06. For full discussion of progress and our work in these areas, please explore the relevant section of this report. PART 1 – STRATEGY < 22 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY PART II HOW WE DO BUSINESS PRODUCT DESIGN & MATERIALS The “age of abundance” is over. Conspicuous consumption, wanton waste of natural resources, cheap energy – those days are long gone. In this new world, resources are scarce, and sustainability is a business imperative. At NIKE, Inc., we’ve taken a hard look at what we need to do to thrive in this new world. One key insight: Focus on materials. The choice of materials for our products has environmental implications up and down our value chain – implications for water, land, energy and chemical use; greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; wastewater discharge; and solid waste. We estimate that materials make up about 60 percent of the lifecycle environmental impacts of a pair of NIKE Brand shoes, whereas the manufacturing process accounts for about 25 percent. (The remainder is split between transport, retail, office facilities, packaging, use and disposal.1) Consider leather, for example. We design for product performance, and leather has some great performance attributes. In particular, it’s strong and flexible. Since it’s a natural material, people might assume that it’s environmentally benign. But cows require a lot of land, feed and water. The processing of hides into leather uses large amounts of energy, water and chemicals. And leather cutting scrap is the second-largest waste stream in Nike’s footwear value chain (in part because leather comes in the irregular shape of a cow, not in a uniform-edged roll like fabric). Many synthetic leathers have lower lifecycle impacts than natural leather. However, we know that some customers prefer leather over other materials, so in addition to designing with synthetic leathers where appropriate, we are working to encourage the development of lowerimpact natural leathers. 1 For apparel, the use phase includes considerable water and energy impacts due to washing and drying. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 23 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS To take an active role in defining the future of materials, our innovation agenda focuses on four areas: AMAZON BIOME LEATHER >> What materials we use – including new choices for recycled and recyclable materials SOURCING POLICY >> Better processes – employing new ways of processing with less energy, water, chemicals In 2009, we established an Amazon or waste Leather Policy, in which we commit not to use leather produced from >> Better choices – creating and applying indexes, restricted substance lists, policies and cattle raised in the Amazon Biome, better ways of operating, and sharing them with vendors and suppliers because cattle ranching in that region contributes to tropical deforestation. >> Bringing choices to scale – increasing the scale and availability of new material choices, including sharing intellectual property and enabling recycling of materials We require all suppliers of Brazilian leather to certify in writing that the leather they supply for Nike products The Materials We Use complies with this policy. We use a vast array of materials in Nike products – more than 16,000 in an average year. (As an example, a single pair of shoes, alone, uses an average of 30-plus materials.) These materials include everything from natural fibers such as cotton and wool to technical synthetic materials such as polyester, nylon, rubber, synthetic leather and ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA). As with leather, many of the natural materials we use have significantly higher environmental impacts than the synthetics. Given the huge range of materials available, it’s easy to see the difficulty involved in making informed decisions about what materials to use to design a product. In the past decade, we have developed a method for evaluating the environmental impacts of materials and have used that method to assess the more than 80,000 materials that might be used in products across our brands. Our product design teams work to integrate this information in their material selection processes. PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 24 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY How We Drive More Sustainable Choices: Considered Design The materials in just our NIKE Brand footwear and apparel Indexes, materials make up 35 percent of the score for footwear and products come from 900 different material vendors (i.e., supplier 60 percent of the score for apparel, so it’s clear to the design teams that companies). We do not source directly with these vendors; they are focusing on materials is an effective way to meet their goals. independent companies that sell materials to our contract finishedgoods manufacturers based on our design specifications. To drive While the Considered Indexes have been used primarily by the NIKE sustainability improvements in materials, we focus on the part of the Brand, our Affiliate brands have also begun introducing and using value chain over which we have the most control: product design.2 them to evaluate their product designs and have committed to adopt the indexes by the end of FY15. For example, Hurley International Decisions made in the product design phase determine the majority of scored selected apparel designs in FY11. a product’s environmental impacts. Nike teams design products with very detailed material specifications, and by providing those teams with the information they need to choose better materials from better Next-Generation Tools vendors, we can improve the sustainability of our products. We are now working to take the Considered Indexes to the next level. We have been on a multi-year journey to refine the footwear and apparel To do this, in 2006 we introduced Considered Design. This design ethos Considered Indexes based on feedback from product creation teams. – together with evaluation systems for footwear and apparel that we call Updates are expected to launch in FY13 (see box below). Indexes for the Considered Indexes – enables our product-creation teams to easily equipment are also under development. compare materials and make informed, sustainable choices during the design phase. The Considered Indexes represent years of research In addition, we have significantly upgraded the materials rating tool and analysis of materials and their environmental impacts (including embedded in the indexes and are calling the new tool the Nike Materials energy use, GHG emissions, water use, land use, waste and chemical Sustainability Index (Nike MSI). Development of the Nike MSI finished use) and consolidates that information with the major manufacturing in FY11, and designers are beginning to use it in FY12 (see graphic on environmental impacts (waste and solvents) into a decision-making tool next page). that our teams can use to score their footwear and apparel designs in One major improvement in the Nike MSI is that it rates material vendors just minutes. in addition to materials themselves, providing strong incentives for We provide our product creation teams with extensive training in how the vendors to become more environmentally sustainable. We score to use the Considered Indexes and on the importance of focusing on the material vendors on criteria such as whether they are complying with sustainability of materials. The teams are given scoring targets for each the Restricted Substance List (RSL) testing requirements and the Nike season of products they design. In the current version of the Considered Water Program requirements; if they take part in materials certification 2 W hile this section focuses on design, it’s important to note that we also train material vendors and collaborate to drive better performance. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 25 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS processes, such as the Global Recycle Standard; and whether they have Measuring Our Performance ISO 14001 certification or operate out of certified “green” buildings. We set a goal of having all newly designed NIKE Brand footwear models Rating higher on these types of criteria will increase a vendor’s overall designed at world headquarters 3 score at the baseline level on the Nike MSI score. Considered Index – meaning they meet Nike’s baseline sustainability criteria – by the end of FY11. We very nearly met that goal. In the last two We also hope the Nike MSI will drive vendors to develop more seasons of FY11, 97 percent of footwear met this standard (see chart). environmentally preferred materials, which will score higher on the index. For NIKE Brand apparel, we’re working to reach 100 percent baseline for new global apparel styles through FY15. For the Fall ’11 line, We have collaborated with and trained material vendors to familiarize 26 percent of apparel achieved the baseline level, outpacing the them with the new Nike MSI. As of the end of FY11, we had trained ramp-up schedule to the 2015 goal. Hurley International also scored approximately 500 vendors. a selection of its apparel designs in FY11, with 40 percent reaching baseline or better. 3 The majority of NIKE Brand footwear (by volume) is designed at our world headquarters in Oregon. CONSIDERED INDEX SCORING FOR NIKE BRAND FOOTWEAR BY SEASON FY09 FY10 FY11 SEASON % RATED % BASELINE+ % RATED % BASELINE+ % RATED % BASELINE+ FALL 1% <1% 17% 16% 82% 78% HOLIDAY 1% <1% 13% 12% 91% 86% SPRING 9% 1% 22% 20% 100% 97% SUMMER 6% 5% 60% 56% 99% 97% PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 26 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY We have also seen progress in specific equipment product areas, such has grown from 47 percent in FY04 to 90 percent in FY11. All as bags (where 24 percent scored baseline or better for Fall ’11) and told, we used more than 7 million kg of organic cotton in FY11 – inflatable balls. approximately equivalent to the amount used in 15 million T-shirts, and representing 10 percent of our total cotton use that year, up So, what does this mean in terms of the sustainability of our products? from 2 percent in FY04. While we remain committed to increasing The truth is, it’s a challenge to figure out how to measure that. Rather our use of organic cotton, we are also moving toward the use of than working toward a certain percentage of, say, recycled content in a cotton grown to standards set by the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). finished product, we have worked to improve our base materials, and We signed on to the BCI’s “Fast Track Program” in 2011 with the we are now creating systems that allow us to better assess the impacts commitment to source 100 percent more sustainable cotton – of the resulting products. Better Cotton or organic – by the end of FY20. The BCI establishes standards for the management of inputs such as pesticides, That said, we do already have some ways to measure our success. fertilizers and water; it also seeks to improve livelihoods and For example, over the past five years we have achieved a 19 percent stability for farmers. Also, with the aim of making Better Cotton a reduction in waste related to the production of footwear uppers. truly mass-market commodity, the BCI intends for Better Cotton Considered Design contributed to that gain, along with manufacturing to be sold at the same market price as conventional cotton, making process optimization and other best practices. That’s the same as not it more affordable for companies like Nike, and for consumers. producing 15 million pairs of shoe uppers over that time period. Our use of Environmentally Preferred Materials (EPMs) – ones that have >> Recycled polyester: Recycled polyester textiles, which can be lower environmental impacts throughout their lifecycles in terms of made from used beverage bottles, have lower energy use, less raw chemistry, water, energy use and waste – provides another strong materials extraction and less waste compared to virgin polyester indicator of our progress. fiber. In FY11, we doubled our use of recycled polyester in apparel compared to FY10, the equivalent of removing more than 280 million plastic bottles from the waste stream. The number of NIKE Environmentally Preferred Materials Brand garments containing at least some recycled polyester fiber Over the past decade, we have worked to develop environmentally grew from 3,000 in FY04 to 31.5 million in FY11. preferred alternatives to our most-used materials, such as cotton, >> Environmentally preferred rubber: In the late 1990s, Nike polyester and rubber. We have steadily increased our use of EPMs over researched environmentally preferred rubber and developed time, with a 77 percent increase in our use of EPMs in footwear from formulations suitable for performance footwear. We now have FY05 through FY09. We have a current average of eight EPMs per shoe two environmentally preferred rubber base formulations, used out of an average of 32 total materials. in more than 30 finished rubber compounds that meet a range of We assess our use of EPMs based on the volume of production for each sport performance requirements. (See the Chemistry section for product design. Because contract factories typically source materials details.) In FY11, 80 percent of NIKE Brand footwear designs used directly from material vendors, we do not have direct insight into environmentally preferred rubber, up from 3 percent in 2004. volume of materials purchased or everything that happens to materials >> Leather: We have been working to ensure that the leather we before they become final products. Some variables include the amount of source is as sustainable as possible. In 2006, we collaborated with waste generated between purchase and actual manufacturing, although tanneries and other footwear brands and retailers to establish much of the waste in factories is recycled or otherwise diverted from the Leather Working Group (LWG). The LWG developed an landfills. Our ability to assess the total amount of material in footwear environmental assessment protocol that was launched in 2007 also is complicated because the systems do not currently track the and updated in 2012. The LWG protocol establishes standards volume or percentage by weight of that material for given styles, which for better environmental management of leather processing. We change seasonally. Because of this, the Footwear Considered Index have made significant progress in sourcing from tanneries that counts incidents of material use as a proxy. have joined the LWG and certify their processing facilities to the LWG protocol. As of FY11, all active NIKE Brand leather supplier The following are some of our most commonly used EPMs, along with facilities achieved LWG certification, and we are making progress data on our progress in increasing their use. (See the performance within our Affiliate brands. summary table on page 21 for information on progress toward our overall EPM targets, and visit online for our Design Experience). >> Synthetic leather: There are many qualities of synthetic leather, but all are made with a textile substrate coated with a polymer. >> Organic cotton: Organic cotton is grown and harvested without Typically, the polymer coating process requires the use of solvents. the use of synthetic chemical pesticides, fertilizers or defoliants. We’ve been working for more than a decade with synthetic Nike was the world’s third-largest user of organic cotton in 2010, leather suppliers to reduce and eliminate the use of solvents in according to the Textile Exchange. The percentage of NIKE Brand the manufacturing process or switch to more environmentally cotton apparel that includes a minimum of 5 percent organic cotton preferred solvents. (See the Chemistry section for details.) NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 27 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS WHY NIKE, INC. USES INDEXES At NIKE, Inc. we use a number of Indexes across our We started with our Considered Index in 2005 and sustainability work. We use them because they work for have evolved our approach and shared versions of us and the way we do business. They balance a number of our indexes with the industry, including the Sustainable important measures with proper weighting. They provide Apparel Coalition to help drive systemic change toward a consistent framework to assess performance. They environmental design and comparability. We have found provide a filter for us to make decisions. that indexes can drive adoption, fit into a known way of working and can evolve to meet new needs. TO SHOW OUR PROGRESSION IN USE OF THESE INDEXES, WE HAVE INDICATED AGAINST OUR INNOVATION PIPELINE: [1] EXPLORE, [2] SCOPE, [3] HUNT, [4] PILOT, [5] ADOPT, [6] SCALE INDEX WHAT IT MEASURES PROGRESSION 1 2 3 4 5 6 Allows us to evaluate specific products (i.e. footwear and apparel) against environmental CONSIDERED INDEX impacts of waste, water, energy and toxics NIKE FOOTWEAR AND APPAREL Evolution of the Considered Indexes, incorporating Nike MSI scores as well as improved SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES (NIKE FSI & product evaluation metrics NIKE ASI) NIKE MATERIALS A component part of the Nike FSI and Nike ASI, measuring materials and material vendors SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (NIKE MSI) against environmental impact metrics MANUFACTURING Measures contract factory manufacturing performance on a balanced scorecard including INDEX costing, delivery, quality and sustainability A component of Manufacturing Index, measures factory compliance with Code Leadership SOURCING & Standards and progression of continuous improvement of sustainable manufacturing MANUFACTURING behaviors and systems, and scores contract factory performance on key sustainability SUSTAINABILITY INDEX metrics: lean manufacturing, environmental performance, labor and health and safety beyond compliance Evaluates sourcing and manufacturing risk at a country level, taking into consideration COUNTRY RISK INDEX political risk, social/compliance risk, economic risk and infrastructure and climate risk Serves as a common framework that outlines the attributes of a sustainable business. SUSTAINABILITY Assess how deeply sustainability is embedded into the Strategy, Structure, People and INTEGRATION INDEX Operations across our company Will measure how sustainability is integrated into our innovation portfolios, decision INNOVATION INDEX making and processes, linking sustainability and innovation to drive business growth and performance PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 28 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Sharing Our Tools With the Industry Looking to the Future We have made several of our scoring tools available to the industry in Our Considered Design ethos – and the belief that design processes an effort to improve the sustainability of materials beyond our own adopted broadly can be a key driver of systems change – has been value chain. For instance, we shared our Materials Analysis Tool with a corner stone of our sustainability strategy. Going forward, we the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), which has used it in evaluating believe our next-generation indexes will accelerate progress in product an approach to an industry-wide apparel index. (SAC estimates that and materials sustainability throughout our value chain – particularly its members represent approximately 30 percent of global apparel the Nike MSI, which will encourage material vendors to become and footwear sales.) We have also shared the next generation of this more sustainable themselves and to create more environmentally tool – the Nike Materials Sustainability Index – with the SAC, which is responsible materials. Our vision is that through these efforts, our now reviewing it as they build a public version scheduled to launch in material vendors will be our sustainable innovation partners in 2012. Also, in 2010 we made available publicly, through the SAC, the pushing new and better materials to scale. Environmental Apparel Design Tool. This tool is a simplified version of our Considered Index, and can help any apparel designer quickly At the same time, Nike’s R&D teams are working to accelerate the make design decisions that would reduce the environmental impact innovation of new materials and expand our palette of available of their products. EPMs across all NIKE, Inc. brands. For example, we have developed definitions for “good,” “better” and “best” EPMs for our strategic These efforts are tied to our commitment to greater traceability materials. But most of the “better” and “best” options remain and transparency. Our long-term vision is to have a widely adopted theoretical at present – much more research must be done before industry means of rating and reducing the environmental impact of they can be brought to market. Through innovations in these types products – a vision we share with the SAC. The complexity of this of materials, we aim to create disruptive change in the industry and vision is recognized throughout our industry, which is why we’re set new benchmarks for sustainability and performance. working together. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 29 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS MANUFACTURING Our value chain is global: strengthening relationships with the factories operating at the highest levels of performance. Overall, our aim is to build business partnerships >> More than 900 contract factories characterized by long-term, trust-based, transparent interactions. >> More than 1 million workers >> More than 500,000 different products – each with its own Our Manufacturing Vision environmental and social footprint To enable this evolution in our supply chain relationships, we have articulated a new manufacturing vision: to create and to deliver great Our ability to improve our own footprint and shape sustainability products through a sustainable, NIKE, Inc.-wide sourcing base. solutions at scale relies on fundamentally changing the nature of our Our definition of a sustainable supply chain is one that’s lean, green, relationships across the value chain, including – importantly – with equitable and empowered: the factories that make our products. Like many global companies that >> Lean with regard to our manufacturing philosophy outsource production, our supply chain is complex, fragmented and often influenced by factors beyond our power and purview. That’s what >> Green in our approach to design, product creation and sourcing makes our work so challenging. We do not own these factories, so we >> Equitable in our commitment to balance people and profit cannot simply mandate change. Instead, we must build and influence >> Empowered by building a workforce that knows and can advocate positive change through our contracts. for its rights As we work to maximize the positive impact of our influence, we also seek to help the contract factories and others in our value chain This vision is at the core of how we plan to source product moving understand and take seriously their own impacts. We collaborate to forward. It is deeply rooted in what we have learned about the vital link address the issues central to our industry, issues that matter to Nike: between a factory’s human resources management and environmental worker rights and protections, living conditions for workers, wages practices, and its overall performance. We are working to achieve this and the environmental impacts of manufacturing processes. We’ve vision by: spent more than 15 years working with contract factories on these >> Elevating product excellence and innovation at the factory level issues, setting high expectations for workers and the environment, providing training and tools to help factories meet those expectations, >> Helping to lead industry efforts to integrate sustainability into and assessing their performance. This approach has created clear product creation and manufacturing baseline standards, improved oversight and helped some factories to >> Managing sourcing through a balanced approach, taking into move beyond compliance, especially in environmental performance account environmental, social, quality and cost impacts and worker safety. >> Developing and testing new models of manufacturing that serve At the same time, some problems persist. While some factories meet to improve worker compensation, skills and livelihood or beat all of our standards, certain issues continue to arise. Issues >> Consulting with, coaching and building capacity with contract around working hours, overtime and associated wages have made up factories to optimize labor and environmental capabilities the vast majority of violations found by audits of footwear, apparel and equipment factories. We’ve found ourselves devoting a lot of time and In the past our processes were not consistent, which sometimes led us resources to addressing these types of issues in the poorer-performing to make decisions in the wrong order. Our intention was to audit, then factories, while having less time to engage with the higher-performing remediate, then source. However, at worst, we sourced, then audited, factories. That’s why we have evolved our approach to building then remediated. To remedy this, during FY10 and FY11 we developed relationships with contract factories and why we have developed the “lean, green, equitable and empowered” strategic framework a new manufacturing vision. needed to drive consistent consideration of – and expectation for – total performance in sourcing decision making. Now, we are assessing Through this journey we have learned that monitoring does not bring minimum standards up front and rooting out issues at the start of the about sustainable change. Often, it only reinforces a pattern of hiding sourcing process, in line with our Code of Conduct. These decisions are problems. We have also recognized that one of the major barriers to not made separately from our other business decisions; they’re now factories embracing change is a lack of knowledge and relevant systems. made as part of the business process. (We share more detail about So while compliance auditing with core standards is still a central the processes and performance in these areas in our online reporting, at feature of our relationship with factories, we are now moving from www.nikeresponsibility.com.) monitoring for minimum compliance against our Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards toward a model that rewards factories We have also been developing tools and approaches to provide contract for their management practices, performance controls and commitment factories with tangible business incentives to aim for higher performance to continuous improvement. This represents a fundamental shift from and stronger management practices. Just as important, we’re sharing a risk-reduction focus – which devotes time and attention on the lowest with our contract factories what we’ve learned about how a sustainable factory performers – to a strategy that invests time and attention to business model can and must also be a successful business model. PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 30 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY NIKE, INC.’S REACH Profile of Contract Factories At the end of FY11, NIKE, Inc.’s three product engines – footwear, were audited. By the end of FY11, 80 percent were. Auditing is the first apparel and equipment – source product from more than 900 contract step toward working to improve factories that may meet minimum factories that employ more than 1 million workers in 50 countries. compliance standards but have opportunities to improve their Factories represented are “above-the-line” NIKE, Inc. contract sustainability performance. It’s also the first step toward eliminating factories. Above-the-line refers to all product manufacturing sites from our supply base those factories with serious, recurring violations. directly contracted by NIKE, Inc., licensees or agents delivering By the time our tools and processes are fully implemented (over finished goods ready for retail and/or public consumption bearing the next three years), we anticipate that our approach will have the NIKE, Inc. brand logos and marks. Excluded, for example, are evolved significantly: material suppliers. We began including Affiliate data in FY09; we formerly reported only on NIKE Brand data. >> All factories that supply our product needs (for footwear, apparel and equipment) will be selected and assessed using an integrated Globally, we have made progress in optimizing our factory base by and consistent approach. focusing on rigorous screening and by assessing the performance >> Social and environmental sustainability will be systematically of contract factories. We have moved toward establishing long-term considered using a balanced scorecard that also weighs cost, relationships with fewer factories as trusted partners, rather than delivery and quality and is the fundamental tool in our sourcing having short-term transactional relationships with a larger number of strategy. We will move from enforcing minimum compliance factories. In fact, across Nike, we have reduced the number of contract standards to defining a model of “good, better and best” with factories by just over 10 percent since FY09, while increasing revenues incentives for our contract factories, and from monitoring nearly 9 percent over the same period. performance against the Code of Conduct to collaborating with factories as business partners. We have worked to create a consistent approach across the NIKE, >> Principles of sustainable manufacturing and sourcing will be Inc. portfolio to assess on equal terms the performance of all contract further embedded in product creation, and will be part of ongoing factories. In FY09, just under half of factories across all of our brands reviews of factory performance. PROFILE OF NIKE, INC. CONTRACT FACTORIES GLOBALLY BY PRODUCT ENGINE, REGION AND FISCAL YEAR GLOBAL APPAREL EQUIPMENT FOOTWEAR REGION FY09 FY10 FY11 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY09 FY10 FY11 AMERICAS 161 202 189 118 135 117 24 26 25 19 41 47 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 115 99 78 70 67 53 33 26 18 12 6 7 NORTH ASIA 517 508 471 268 244 217 170 172 156 79 92 98 SOUTH ASIA 241 203 192 175 149 142 35 30 29 31 24 21 TOTALS 1,034 1,012 930 631 595 529 262 254 228 141 163 173 As of May 31. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 31 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS Even as we have focused on our own supply chain, we have not in our huge industry. That’s why we have practiced and advocated for forgotten the bigger picture. We know that we cannot, on our own, transparency and collaboration, including the sharing of data and drive all the changes needed to achieve large-scale improvements for tools. (See case study on page 33.) workers and the environment. We are still one player among many NIKE’S SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING EVOLUTION When we began working to create a sustainable supply chain, the global Nike continues to push the rest of the industry to provide transparency manufacturing landscape was very different. Companies kept sourcing about factories and facilitate more collaboration among multiple parties decisions highly confidential, and there was little public transparency to support sound working conditions, strong environmental performance about conditions for workers or environmental impacts. and resilient communities in the global supply chain. Through the Fair Labor Association (FLA), the Fair Factories Clearinghouse (FFC) and pilot Our sustainable manufacturing efforts have evolved through several projects of the Better Work Initiative, leading companies are converging “generations” (see graphic on page 35). We’ve had some notable on codes of conduct, common assessments and mechanisms for sharing successes. We know better the factories we work with, and they know performance data among each other and publicly. better what we expect of them. We’ve defined our expectations clearly and regularly raise the bar. PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 32 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Working across the Industry The Fair Labor Association’s Sustainable and safety audits. We believe these are important Compliance Initiative: Formed in 1999, the steps toward industry-wide transparency, Fair Labor Association www.fairlabor.org is a comparability of data and accountability to collaborative effort among NGOs, colleges and standards that seek to achieve more than universities, and socially responsible companies simple compliance. to improve working conditions in factories around the world. The FLA has developed a beyondThe Fair Factories Clearinghouse (FFC): Nike has compliance Workplace Code of Conduct based on been working with the Fair Factories Clearinghouse International Labour Association (ILO) standards, www.fairfactories.org to further enhance our as well as a practical process of monitoring, Brand Collaboration Program and commitment to remediation and verification to achieve those transparency. The FFC, a nonprofit organization, standards. Nike is one of 16 companies whose labor uses technology to provide a platform for brands compliance program is accredited by the FLA; this to work together by identifying factory overlap accreditation indicates the presence of systems among them. Sharing compliance documents, and procedures required for successful labor utilizing a shared calendar to proactively identify standards compliance. collaboration opportunities, and working together on a shared corrective action plan on the same We have supported the work of the FLA since audit, are a few features that FFC’s application its founding. Nike is now one of a small group provides. Nike has been a member of the FFC of companies that are advancing the FLA’s since 2007. In FY11, we shared 39 percent of our Sustainable Compliance Initiative (SCI). The audit results through the FFC and look forward to philosophy behind the SCI is quite compatible with increasing our capabilities on their platform in Nike’s own: The Initiative recognizes that “policing” the future. factories, while useful in certain instances, is not sufficient to create a self-governing approach Association for Retail Technology Standards within factories that maintains sound working (ARTS): ARTS, the technology-support division conditions over time. Through the SCI, the FLA of the National Retail Federation, has joined is developing an assessment methodology that with Nike and a select number of brands, auditing uncovers the systemic causes of labor-code companies, and multi-stakeholder initiatives to violations and identifies sustainable ways to standardize the sharing of audit data for brand improve conditions and reduce risks. It does collaboration. This global innovation solution this through the use of an assessment tool that seeks to translate audit data provided in different focuses on factory capabilities to manage these formats from different companies into one that issues proactively. can be assimilated into any system. This has The FLA is converting its assessments to the SCI been the missing ingredient in efforts to enable format beginning in 2012. As other companies data-sharing between companies that need do the same, assessment results will become to take raw data into their systems as opposed to more comparable. All SCI assessment results will linking documents as attachments. The combined eventually be made public on the FLA website. Nike strengths of the FFC and the ARTS solution will has been testing the SCI assessment methodology allow Nike’s multi-brand collaboration program to and will incorporate sections of the SCI tool into our evolve with our new systems, metrics and tools for own labor audits, as well as our environment, health measuring audit performance. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 33 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS The Better Work Initiative: The Better Work performance of apparel products and the supply Initiative is a unique partnership, launched chains that produce them. The SAC believes a in February 2007, between the ILO and the common approach for measuring and evaluating International Finance Corporation. Better sustainability performance is essential for driving Work builds on the learnings of the Better a “race to the top” in the apparel supply chain. Factories Cambodia Program and is based on Apparel retailers and brands can compare the the premise that improved compliance with performance of products and upstream supplylabor standards will not only improve workers’ chain partners, and those partners will have a livelihoods and promote decent work, but also single standard for measuring and reporting unlock business opportunities to facilitate job performance to their downstream customers. creation and strengthen participating countries’ Eventually, this approach can provide a foundation competitiveness in the global supply chain. for reporting to consumers on the environmental and social footprint of the products they purchase. Better Work’s national programs seek to replace the patchwork of company-driven audits and The Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs: remediation programs in each country in which In China, Nike is participating in an innovative, it works with a single, comprehensive program NGO-driven effort to use public data to hold of independent compliance assessments and companies accountable for their environmental advisory and training services. Better Work also performance. The Beijing-based Institute of supports publicly reporting results for any factory Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE), has that has been part of the program for a year or developed the China Pollution Map Database. more. Nike engages with the program stakeholders This publicly available information resource at both local and global levels, and participates in brings together environmental supervision Better Work factory monitoring and remediation records from government departments, at programs in countries including Cambodia and all levels and regions. The IPE is a member Vietnam, and is moving into Indonesia. In these of a coalition of 41 environmental non-profit countries, Nike uses better work assessment organizations throughout China. This Green data rather than conducting Nike’s own audits. Choice Alliance (GCA) initiative promotes a This system is more efficient for companies and global green supply chain by encouraging factories alike. organizations to concentrate on responsible procurement. The GCA has been able to assist The Sustainable Apparel Coalition: multi national corporations to regularly screen Complementing our work to improve factory the supply chain for environmental compliance conditions, Nike is exploring ways to evaluate issues with suppliers – encouraging companies to and communicate the environmental and provide explanations, to submit corrective action social performance of individual products, plans and to complete on-site audits or off-site in cooperation with the Sustainable Apparel document reviews, thus providing assurance Coalition (SAC). The SAC is an industry-wide group that environmental management systems are in of leading apparel and footwear brands, retailers, place. Nike signed a pledge to participate in the IPE manufacturers, NGOs, academic experts and the initiative, and we require our contract factories in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, working to China to take part. We have compared our footwear reduce the environmental and social impacts of contract factory base to the list of polluting apparel and footwear products around the world. factories, and we are reviewing apparel contract Its core initiative is developing the Sustainable factories as well. (For more information on the IPE, Apparel Index, a common, industry-wide tool see page 59.) for measuring the environmental and social PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 34 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Destination: A Truly Sustainable Supply Chain We have developed innovative processes and tools to move our supply manufacturing, which we attribute to increased awareness among chain vision toward reality. That’s the how, discussed later in this factory managers of what good human resources (HR) management section. But first, let’s take a closer look at exactly what we mean by a looks like and better capacity to implement it. “sustainable supply chain.” Each of the following four elements, when taken together, form our sustainable supply chain vision. The success of the lean approach depends on the implementation of physical changes to production processes, increased leadership Lean: Better Manufacturing capabilities and the development of an empowered workforce. Lean Lean manufacturing has been a hallmark of our approach with factories manufacturing seeks to engage the minds of those closest to the work and is the foundation of how we advance sustainable manufacturing. to solve the problems that prevent them from delivering quality Lean manufacturing is a business system and continuous improvement product on time, every time. philosophy that aims to deliver the highest-quality product while eliminating waste, including lost time and material. At Nike, we also Since FY09, Nike has provided resources to contract factories to believe lean can empower workers and teams. Our journey toward support their transition to the lean approach, including training, lean manufacturing has helped reinforce the need for a deeper coaching and technical assistance (see the Labor section for a understanding by factory management of the cultural differences discussion of progress in this area). By the end of FY11, within between management and the predominantly female workers the NIKE Brand, 80 percent of footwear, 57 percent of apparel and in the workplace. Worker surveys indicate a significant increase in 11 percent of equipment was made using processes meeting our the satisfaction of workers in factories that have implemented lean minimum baseline definition of lean. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 35 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS Green: Improving Performance at Every Step Equitable: Toward Economic Security Factories that make footwear, apparel and sports equipment have a wide Wage concerns among workers continue to be among the top issues variety of environmental impacts, including their use of energy, water identified in our factory audits. We believe this is an important issue, and diverse materials; the related creation of waste, greenhouse gases and we’ve spent years studying and exploring total compensation, and other emissions; and the use and release of toxins. Many of these including pay and benefits, that workers in contract factories receive. environmental issues are also social issues. Water used in footwear manufacturing, for example, could compete with local community In many cases, jobs in Nike contract factories are among the most needs in water-scarce areas. sought-after locally. But more can be done. Achieving an equitable supply chain is a key piece of our sustainable manufacturing vision. We expect the factories that make our products to comply with all We encourage contract factory management to view workers as valued legal and Nike requirements set out in our Code of Conduct and Code partners who can help achieve the factory’s business goals. Working Leadership Standards and to be good stewards of the environment. As with contract factories to help their workforce gain valuable skills is natural resources come under increasing pressure, a factory’s capability also consistent with our long-term strategy. We sell high-performance to use resources efficiently and reduce its environmental footprint is an products, and to grow sustainably, we need access to an experienced indicator of its potential for long-term success. and motivated workforce. We believe that a highly valued workforce can improve quality and productivity by reducing turnover and We have worked with contract factories for several years to improve absenteeism. In turn, higher worker productivity – measured in skill, their management of energy, water, waste, toxic materials and water craftsmanship and quality, not just units produced – may enable discharges, as described in the Impact Areas sections of this report. higher compensation for workers. Recently, we committed to a goal of zero discharge of hazardous chemicals* by our material vendors and contract manufacturers by 2020. We measure and report on our contract manufacturing base’s performance across environmental impacts such as greenhouse gas *Hazardous chemicals are those that show intrinsically hazardous properties (persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic; very persistent and very bio-accumulative; carcinogenic, emissions and waste generation – recognizing that their impacts are mutagenic and toxic for reproduction; endocrine disruptors; or equivalent concern), not part of our own. just those that have been regulated or restricted in other regions. PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 36 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Equity is about each party – workers, contract factories and Nike – Empowered: Workers Unlock Value investing in manufacturing and getting a return. Nike wants to invest As brands that believe in the power of human potential, we believe that because it is both a smart business move and the right thing to do. one of the greatest impacts we can have is to help give a voice to the Factories that invest in their workers can reduce turnover and increase million people who work in our supply chain. For many years, footwear their ability to produce quality products, profitably. and apparel manufacturing was considered an inherently low-tech, low-skill and low-wage job. The move to lean manufacturing models We recognize that, to date, factory workers are not consistently challenges that assumption: To participate in lean production, workers recognized as a valuable part of the business value chain. And we know need knowledge, skills and decision-making authority. However, when some workers feel that they are not fairly compensated in return for we first started working with our contract manufacturing partners on their work and this can lead to a lack of morale, low self-esteem and the implementation of lean manufacturing principles, many factories reduced productivity. To address this, we are exploring ways that lacked the capability to develop these skills in their workforce. our contract factories can reward their workers for obtaining higher skill levels through supported training and more focused investment at In FY07, we began to offer human resources management (HRM) the factory level. We believe this will lead to an increase in productivity training and other support to our contract factories to help them invest that will allow factory partners to transition to a more complex wage in the potential of their people. Research shows that satisfied workers model and still maintain profitability. are more productive workers, and that investments in workers will yield long-term value for factory owners. We are now transitioning to an In the communities where our contract factories are located (and integrated training model – Sustainable Manufacturing Training – that where their workforce lives), poverty can be pervasive despite the addresses a full range of issues, including lean manufacturing, HRM, availability of local jobs, and it affects the quality of life of everyone health and safety, environmental compliance, energy management, in the community. To contribute to solutions, we are piloting a new environmental sustainability and freedom of association. Worker approach that we hope will begin to get at the fundamental local surveys are an essential part of this model and help to establish drivers that affect poverty in these communities. We are studying feedback loops between factory management and workers. approaches to address issues beyond compensation that affect quality of life, such as access to basic services, personal financial management We believe this training to be some of the most important work going on tools and payment vehicles, and the kinds of training and services that in our industry’s supply chain. As noted above, worker surveys suggest might improve workers’ lives. that increasing awareness among factory managers of what good HR management looks like and helping them develop related capabilities These approaches link directly to our increasing focus on helping leads to significant increases in worker satisfaction in those factories. contract factories build their capacity for good management practices. As of June 2011, contract factories employing nearly half the workers in Our aims include coaching factories to better address workers’ needs, our manufacturing base have benefited from participation in our HRM training workers for high levels of performance, and aligning pay to program, which includes training on freedom of association and worker the skills that workers bring to the job rather than just the number of survey responses. The Labor section of this summary (starting on hours worked. We have developed additional expectations for factories page 49) and our online report provide further detail on the HRM around these areas, as described in the Labor section of this report. And program. See graphic on the following page. we will be sharing more of our journey as we continue to study and test responses to these issues. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 37 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS NIKE, INC. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT GLOBAL TRAINING WITH CONTRACT FACTORIES – FY09-11 ALL COUNTRIES PARTICIPATING FACTORIES FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT 32 42 2 CHINA 100% 100% 100% 100% refers to the total number of factories trained. INDIA THAILAND VIETNAM WORKERS SURVEYED MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS 244 115 25,468 SRI LANKA 100% 100% 100% INDONESIA CHINA VIETNAM INDIA PARTICIPATING FACTORIES PARTICIPATING FACTORIES PARTICIPATING FACTORIES FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT 14 9 1 11 4 1 1 2 0 44% 21% 50% 34% 10% 50% 3% 5% 0% WORKERS WORKERS WORKERS SURVEYED SURVEYED SURVEYED MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS 79 39 7,539 50 26 5,372 6 3 1,285 32% 34% 30% 20% 23% 21% 2% 3% 5% SRI LANKA THAILAND INDONESIA PARTICIPATING FACTORIES PARTICIPATING FACTORIES PARTICIPATING FACTORIES FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT 0 8 0 0 11 0 6 8 0 0% 19% 0% 0% 26% 0% 19% 19% 0% WORKERS WORKERS WORKERS SURVEYED SURVEYED SURVEYED MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS MANAGERS SR. LEADERS WORKERS 27 16 3,129 26 10 3,059 56 21 5,084 11% 14% 12% 11% 9% 12% 23% 18% 20% PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 38 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY How We Will Build a Sustainable Supply Chain Achieving our vision of a sustainable supply chain requires performance. Our Code Leadership Standards (CLSs), available fundamentally rethinking every stage of our relationship with online and widely to the industry, describe those expectations in factories: how we choose which factories to work with, what we much more detail. Both the Code and the CLSs have been translated ask of them, how we engage with them and how we assess their into multiple languages. performance. Some of this work has been accomplished already, and some is underway. Ultimately, we seek to do business with In FY11 and FY12, we introduced a new version of the Code and the self-governing factories, capable of monitoring and assessing their CLSs, bringing them more closely in line with Fair Labor Association own performance, that function more effectively across a range standards. The revisions reflect a significant evolution, as shown in of business practices. the table below. In FY11, for the first time, all NIKE Affiliate Brands Setting Consistent Expectations began using the same Code and CLSs, with preambles tailored to each We have defined and implemented expectations for the factories with brand’s strong and unique culture. The revised Code and CLSs – which which we contract, through a companywide Code of Conduct. The Code continue to be updated and communicated to factories – provide a covers working conditions, health and safety, and environmental baseline, while encouraging factories to do more. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 39 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS Defining What “Good” Looks Like: Our Manufacturing Index In FY11, we developed a single evaluation system across all types of The Manufacturing Index creates one overall score for each contract products and all of our brands that redefines what “good” looks like for factory, enabling a consistent and comprehensive conversation about factories that supply to NIKE, Inc. A new Manufacturing Index (MI) is Nike’s business with that factory. We are developing incentives and being implemented in 2012 that integrates scores from key performance sanctions based on the MI ratings. For example, Silverand Gold-rated areas into a single dashboard rating that groups factories as Gold, Silver, factories will be able to self-audit and calibrate with Nike staff and Bronze, Yellow or Red. Contract factories that are able to consistently will have access to a range of Nike technical assistance, leadership and exceed Nike requirements in the equally weighted areas of Quality, education resources, as well as possible innovation or community coCost, Delivery and Sustainability performance management, and show investment, and priority consideration for orders. consistent performance leadership in the industry, will achieve a Silver rating in the MI. Contract factories that go beyond our industry and Importantly, the MI will provide a consistent, transparent, objective are demonstrating innovation and benchmark performance within the rating for use in sourcing decisions. The MI itself will evolve and broader manufacturing landscape will achieve Gold. At a minimum, improve over time as we learn more through implementation and as factories in our supply chain will be expected to achieve and sustain a the tools that feed the Index evolve. Bronze rating, indicating that they meet our baseline standards and can self-govern through integrated systems and a lean approach. PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 40 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY NIKE, INC. SOURCING & MANUFACTURING SUSTAINABILITY INDEX A COMPONENT OF THE MANUFACTURING INDEX RED YELLOW BRONZE $ / % SILVER $ / % GOLD (+0-11pts) NEW 100% LINES LEAN COMMITMENT ON LEAN Lean Assessment Tool (LAT) HEALTH, SAFETY & MINIMUM (+0-5pts) ENVIRONMENT AUDIT* ENERGY Energy & Carbon EXISTING PROGRAM Assessment Tool (ECAT) Environment, Health & Safety Rating Audit (ERA) MINIMUM (+0-5pts) Sustainable Compliance ENVIRO. Environmental Sustainability Initiative (SCI) 35pts PROGRAM Assessment Tool (ESAT) MINIMUM (+0-4.5pts) LABOR AUDIT* (SCI) Health & Safety EXISTING Management Audit SCORE Assessment Tool (HSAT) Verification (MAV) Sustainable Compliance MINIMUM (+0-4.5pts) Initiative (SCI) 35pts (SCI) Human Resource Management SCORE Assessment Tool (HRMAT) BASELINE COMPLIANCE NEW SOURCE MUST SUSTAIN BASELINE COMPLIANCE (HSE & LABOR STANDARDS) SELECTION PROCESS (NSSP) REQUIREMENT 0pts 70pts 85pts 95pts 100pts *Until the Sustainable Compliance Initiative (SCI) tool is ready (FY13) existing tools will be used. Defining What Sustainability Looks Like: Making Sustainable Sourcing Decisions Our Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index Along with development of the MI and SMSI, we have established To measure factory sustainability performance, we have established a new source-selection process that embeds consideration of risk a Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index (SMSI). The SMSI is indicators (through a Risk Index) and performance indicators (using a component of the MI, and it gives us clear metrics for how to evaluate the MI metrics) into the process of evaluating potential new suppliers the extent to which a factory is lean, green, equitable and empowered and contracting with factories already in the supply base. (see the graphic for index components and the tools that rate them). The Risk Index identifies countries with the highest risk and most Like the MI, the new SMSI is beginning to be implemented in 2012. potential for low factory performance on our MI metrics. It assesses four Those factories that score Yellow or Red on the SMSI will need to fund key areas, including political risk, social/compliance risk, economic risk third-party audits until they can achieve and sustain compliance to and infrastructure and climate risk, weighting each one equally with Nike’s Code of Conduct standards (i.e., Bronze-level performance). 25 percent of the total score. While a work-in-progress and subject to Noncompliant factories may receive sanctions and will have a defined further refinement, the Risk Index is being implemented across all period of time to achieve compliance. Failure to achieve compliance NIKE, Inc. brands. It is our hope that, over time, the Risk Index will on a clearly defined timeline can result in further sanctions, up to and evolve and lead to more consistent decisions at the outset of sourcing, including the loss of business contracts with Nike. with the ultimate goal of identifying low-risk, high-quality factories to make our products. Eventually, we expect this more-strategic sourcing approach to significantly reduce the time required to reach sourcing decisions. See Risk Index online. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 41 > PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS Assessing Performance Achieving Consistency Across Our Brands Even as we have been developing our MI, SMSI and Risk Index, Achieving our vision of a sustainable supply chain requires us to bring we have continued to monitor factory performance in labor, health, our Affiliate Brands and licensees under the same manufacturing and safety and environment areas against our Code of Conduct and strategy and processes we’ve developed for the NIKE Brand. During Code Leadership Standards. Our team of auditors includes about FY10 and FY11, one of our major areas of concentration was addressing 70 Nike employees and a set of approved third-party auditors, who our sourcing practices across the entire business. This transition audit factories every 12 to 18 months based on our schedule of audits. includes the steps discussed above – aligning our Code and CLSs, That schedule takes into account timing considerations, relative risk using the MI and SMSI as tools for identifying and engaging with associated with individual factories and their overall ratings. factories, and utilizing the Risk Index and new source-selection process. In FY10 and FY11, factories received a letter grade based on the Over the past few years, we laid the groundwork for this transition by lowest result observed, reflecting all relevant information about their working with our Affiliate Brands to establish consistent sustainability compliance performance and progress in resolving items identified ratings for their factories. The Affiliate Brands have made a fairly rapid for remediation, including previous audit results. transition into auditing and addressing noncompliances, facilitated by a focus within Converse and the addition of Nike-trained resources at If a factory received a C (noncompliant/serious) or D (noncompliant/ Hurley. Differing business models, some with higher concentrations of critical) rating, we worked with them to improve their performance licensees, have added to the complexity of this transition. Once factory and rating through specific steps outlined in a master action plan ratings are complete, each brand can participate fully in our sustainable that we developed together with the factory leadership. If they failed sourcing strategy and its implementation. to make progress against that plan, we elevated these concerns with From FY09 to FY11, we reduced the number of factories working under Nike senior leadership in Manufacturing and Sourcing as part of contract for our Affiliate Brands by nearly 17 percent, while revenues reassessing our business relationship. As we implement the new among our other businesses, which includes our Affiliate Brands, grew SMSI standards in FY12 and FY13, factories formerly rated C or D by more than 13 percent. We also worked to audit these factories using a would typically fall below our Bronze requirement which equates to consistent approach across NIKE, Inc. The numbers tell the story here: full compliance with all standards. These factories will move into the E ratings at our Affiliates, indicating “no information available,” went Yellow or Red rating, which will require them to pay for their own down from 350 in FY09 to 36 in FY11. third-party audits and demonstrate an ability to achieve and sustain Bronze-level performance. In FY11, C ratings made up 37 percent of total factory scores, while GLOBAL # FACTORY VISITS/AUDITS – NIKE, INC. D ratings made up 5.5 percent. These numbers have increased FY09 FY10 FY11 compared to FY09, owing largely to the work involved in getting all Affiliate Brands aligned on a single Code of Conduct standard and # VISITS/AUDITS 515 1,030 1,161 conducting audits at factories across all brands. % THIRD PARTY 60% 68% 59% Visits/Audits include full Labor, HSE, Collaboration, FLA Audits and Remediation Visits. Full Affiliate visit/audit reporting initiated in FY09 Q4. Some factories visited more than once. GLOBAL CONTRACT FACTORY RATINGS – NIKE, INC. GLOBAL CONTRACT FACTORY RATINGS – NIKE, INC. AFFILIATES RATING FY09 FY10 FY11 RATING FY09 FY10 FY11 A 70 60 40 A 9 13 10 B 261 337 418 B 12 55 107 C 172 258 344 C 14 87 141 D 33 75 51 D 11 52 35 E 498 282 77 E 350 178 36 TOTALS 1,034 1,012 930 TOTALS 396 385 329 Note: More detailed discussion of factory performance trends is available in the Labor Notes to chart: Contract factories represent aggregate across Nike Affiliates: Cole Haan, section of this report and online. Converse, Hurley International, Umbro. Notes to chart: Contract factories represent aggregate across all NIKE, Inc. production “ A” denotes “fully compliant” and demonstrates leadership best practices. Scores including NIKE Brand and Affiliates, “A” denotes “fully compliant” and demonstrates are incremental down to “D” level, which indicates serious, repeated violations. leadership best practices. Scores are incremental down to “D” level, which indicates “E” indicates a lack of data. Detailed description of letter grades available online. serious, repeated violations. “E” indicates a lack of data. Detailed description of letter grades available online. PART 2 – HOW WE DO BUSINESS < 42 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY PART III IMPACT AREAS IMPACTS OVERVIEW Through a variety of processes, including stakeholder consultation and lifecycle assessment, we have identified NIKE, Inc.’s most significant impact areas. These include climate/energy, labor, chemistry, water, waste and community. Our approach to managing these issues and performance in FY10 and FY11 is discussed in detail in the following sections and in our expanded reporting online. The graphic at right provides an overview of several of these impacts VALUE CHAIN within our value chain. For some impacts – greenhouse gas emissions, for example – we have good information about where they occur, and at what magnitude. For others, such as water use, we are only beginning to get a sense of the distribution of impacts across the value chain. MAKE DESIGN MOVE As we evaluate and manage these impacts, we develop a better PLAN understanding of how interrelated they are and how an integrated approach to product design and process innovation can yield benefits across multiple impact areas. A prime example of this is the strategic SELL REUSE partnership we announced in 2012 with DyeCoo Textile Systems B.V., USE a Netherlands-based company that has developed and built the first commercially available waterless textile dyeing machines. DyeCoo’s process virtually eliminates water consumption and the use of auxiliary chemicals and reduces energy use, in part because it avoids the need for drying. In addition, the process is twice as fast and improves quality. PLAN: SELL: Implementing this process at scale will conserve natural resources and reduce multiple impacts in our value chain, including water and energy DESIGN: USE: use, waste generation and potentially worker and community exposure to chemicals used in conventional dyeing processes. MAKE: REUSE: MOVE: Climate & Energy Labor Chemistry Water Waste Community NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 43 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS ENERGY & CLIMATE Climate change is perhaps the ultimate system-wide challenge, in that the “system” is our entire planet. Indeed, climate change and the related issue of ever-increasing energy demand pose challenges to our business, our industry and society as a whole. We believe that we need strong energy and climate policies to protect Our Approach our supply chains and ensure market certainty, as well as to help create The energy use and GHG emissions under our direct control – i.e., jobs, level the playing field among businesses, enhance economic our office buildings, distribution centers, retail stores and a portion development and ensure our global competitiveness as we move into of business travel – represent a small slice of the lifecycle carbon the future. 4 footprint of our products. We report our energy use and GHG emissions from those sources, as well as from finished-goods We recognize the recommendations of the majority of leading climate 5 contract manufacturing facilities and inbound transportation. scientists that the global economy needs to see greenhouse gas emissions reduced 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. We recognize There are 6 Greenhouse gases SF6, CO2, CH4, NO2, HFCs, PFCs. that there are a number of ways to reach this level of mitigation. And We have phased out of SF6 and no longer use it. The majority of our that includes us. measured emissions are CO2. Facilities and Footwear includes CH4 and NO2 and are rolled up into a reported CO 2e calculation. For At NIKE, Inc., reducing our own contributions toward climate change simplicity we speak to all of our measured emissions in tons of CO2 is a primary aim of our sustainability strategy. But we know that doesn’t since it is the predominant unit of measurement. go far enough, so we also work to provide leadership in the business community (and beyond) toward climate stability. We are still working to identify the full lifecycle energy and GHG impacts of individual Nike products. So far, we understand that To do this, we have been working for well over a decade to understand, substantial amounts of energy are needed to create the materials that track and decrease energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions go into our products and to maintain them in the use phase (i.e., the across our value chain and to share what we’ve learned with others washing and drying of apparel). We have developed a methodology to in industry. We also advocate for strong and effective climate-related assess impacts across the value chain and are working to scale up this legislation and regulation. effort across our wide array of products. (For additional information on our progress, please see our website.) 4 I n addition to sharing data and information in sustainability reports like this one, we report our energy use and GHG emissions annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project. See www.cdproject.net. 5 In this section, “inbound transportation” refers to emissions from the transport of our products from manufacturing facilities to distribution centers. “Facilities” include Nike World Headquarters and all major NIKE, Inc. distribution centers, as well as U.S. Niketown stores and stores for employees. For consistency, other retail locations are not included. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 44 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Contract Manufacturers Finished-goods footwear manufacturing is our largest measured We are also helping contract manufacturers to embed sustainability – source of GHG emissions. In FY08, we launched the Nike Energy and including energy efficiency – into the design and construction of new Carbon Program with contract footwear manufacturers to help reduce factories. We have a design workshop covering factory layout, energythese emissions. In FY10, we expanded the program to include apparel efficiency technologies, water-reclamation strategies, Leadership and equipment manufacturing, and in FY11 we further expanded it in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) “green” building to include select material vendors. Based on lean-systems thinking, certification and more. About a dozen such workshops have been held. this program trains, consults with and coaches our manufacturing Already, a new factory has opened in Indonesia that is anticipated to partners in strategies for making shortand long-term energy and be 50 percent more energy and carbon efficient than existing factories, carbon-efficiency gains. earning a LEED Gold certification. The Nike Apparel Innovation and Training Center in Sri Lanka also earned this recognition. A factory in The Nike Energy and Carbon Program has proven effective already. Vietnam is seeking LEED certification, and we are working with two NIKE Brand contracted footwear factories’ absolute carbon dioxide other factory groups that may seek such certification in the future. (CO2) emissions were down 6 percent from FY08 through FY11 – despite a 20 percent increase in production. Inbound Transportation Our new factory rating indexes (described in the Manufacturing and While we have worked with our shipping partners to optimize Materials sections) provide incentives for factories – as well as our transportation choices, this effort has not resulted in an absolute material vendors – to implement the Energy and Carbon Program and reduction in emissions. From our baseline year (FY03) through FY10, show progress. Simply put, we hope that factories’ and vendors’ efforts we achieved a 12 percent reduction in emissions per unit. In FY11, to score higher on these indexes (and thus have a better opportunity continued revenue growth coupled with factory capacity constraints to grow their relationships with Nike) will promote competition and required additional air freight to meet customer demand. This change innovation among them. resulted in FY11 emissions well above our target zone. We now know that in order to significantly reduce emissions from transportation, The new indexes will also provide incentives for our designers to we need three things: better planning, better carbon accounting tools make choices in the design phase that ultimately will reduce energy and a commitment from our key logistics partners to accelerate their use in contract factories. For example, our analysis of energy use in adoption of cleaner vehicles and cleaner fuels. We are fully engaged footwear factories showed that the majority of energy is used to heat with our strategic logistics partners and are addressing emissions metal molds to create footwear components. Through their designs, on a per-unit basis on all three fronts. our product designers dictate the number of molds used to create a product. The new Nike Footwear Sustainability Index, to be released We are also currently migrating to a new, more accurate carbon in FY13, includes an energy score based on the use of molds. This thus accounting tool for inbound product transportation and plan to provides a scoring incentive for designers to reduce design-driven extend the emissions accounting to outbound transportation in FY13. energy use in factories. See our Design Experience online. We believe that our old tool has been materially overstating our transportation-related emissions based on best-available averages at the time. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 45 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Progress and Performance Our absolute energy use and CO2 emissions have risen and fallen in resultant decreases in production. In FY11, production (and energy recent years in line with production levels. For example, our energy use) was back up. use was down in FY09 and FY10 due to the global recession and NIKE, INC. TOTAL ASSESSED ENERGY AND tCO2e EMISSIONS COMPARED AGAINST REVENUES (FY08-11) 20K 2M 20.9 B REVENUES 1,687,900 1,640,700 15,395 1,593,900 70,100 15,006 80,900 15K 1,109 67,100 30,300 14,251 43,100 355,100 749 57,200 1.5M 336 5,135 397,700 1,098 1,406,100 396 466,400 Total Emissions (in tCO2e) 12,532 298 6,021 62,200 Total Energy (in TJ) 4,520 1,108,500 50,500 611 331,800 350 919,700 10K 983,000 19.2 B 1M 4,284 7,990 7,544 863,800 7,007 6,589 19 B 18.6 B 5K 0.5M 644 88,800 621 85,700 78,200 96,300 567 698 181 27,000 170 25,400 131 19,600 135 20,200 TJ tCO2 TJ tCO2 TJ tCO2 TJ tCO2 FY08 FY08 FY09 FY09 FY10 FY10 FY11 FY11 SEGMENT COMMENTS NOTES For Nike-owned and-operated facilities, FY06 through FY09 energy use reporting is based on calendar years. For FY10 and FY11, we converted to fiscal year reporting. World Headquarters and all major Global Distribution FACILITIES [1, 2] Better data accuracy applied in FY10 and FY11. Centers are included, along with U.S. Niketown locations and Employee stores. All other retail locations are excluded at this time for consistency. Reported GHG is in tCO2e instead of tCO2. No more use of carbon offsets; new methodology BUSINESS Includes all commercial air travel, majority of global car rentals and all applied in FY09. See the table on page 22 for a TRAVEL [1,3] owned aviation. broader discussion of change in approach. Increased due to unexpected demand increase; INBOUND Noted in previous years as “inbound logistics.” Covers shipment from moving to more accurate carbon accounting TRANSPORTATION [3] finished goods factories to distribution centers globally. methodology. Energy-efficiency program and new methodology FOOTWEAR Finished goods manufacturing, with 90 percent factory-reported primary applied in FY09; expanding into apparel and MANUFACTURING [3] data and 10 percent extrapolated. Reported GHG is in tCO2e instead of tCO2. materials vendors. This enhancement improved the data and our ability to extrapolate to other APPAREL Calculated using extrapolations based on lifecycle facilities with more accuracy. For perspective, the energy used across the MANUFACTURING [3] analysis data. entire cut-and-sew contract base for our production is estimated to be equivalent to a single footwear factory. EQUIPMENT Calculated using extrapolations based on lifecycle MANUFACTURING [3] analysis data. Facilities (1, 2) Business Travel (1, 3) Inbound Transportation (3) Footwear Manufacturing (3) Apparel Manufacturing (3) Equipment Manufacturing (3) Note: “TJ” is terajoules (a measurement of energy use) and “tCO2e” is metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents. Reporting is in alignment with WRI scopes 1, 2 and 3. Baseline year for comparison is FY08 because significant data improvements between FY07 and FY08 increased quality as much as 25 percent in some places. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 46 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Expanding Our Impact Climate stabilization – i.e., reducing global emissions enough to avoid In November 2008, we helped to establish the Business for Innovative the most serious consequences of climate change – is a huge challenge Climate and Energy Policy (BICEP) as a project of Ceres. BICEP is an for all sectors of society, but it also presents enormous opportunities advocacy coalition of businesses committed to working with policy to decouple economic activity from energy use and GHG emissions. makers to pass meaningful energy and climate legislation that will We are working with like-minded companies and other institutions enable a rapid transition to a low-carbon, 21st century economy. to encourage operational and public policy changes that help achieve BICEP aims to create new jobs and stimulate economic growth while climate stabilization. stabilizing our planet’s fragile climate. BICEP membership now includes 21 major brands, covering sectors from apparel and personal In March 2011, for example, Nike sponsored a two-day, multiproducts to IT, sports and real estate. During the 2009-2011 time stakeholder Climate & Energy Summit at our world headquarters period, BICEP conducted multiple activities and outreach on important in Oregon. The Summit brought together key participants in Nike’s climate and energy policy. In particular, BICEP worked to advocate for sustainability efforts, peer companies, NGOs with climate expertise comprehensive climate legislation, mobilized voices to defend the Clean and academics to discuss Nike’s strategy, approach and opportunities, Air Act and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and organized in as well as the new GHG Accounting Protocol. All told, 78 individuals opposition to California Proposition 23, which would have undermined took part. The event enabled us to share the best practices we’ve California’s groundbreaking climate bill (AB 32). For more information discovered and hear feedback from others. on BICEP, visit www.ceres.org/bicep. NIKE, Inc. is a founding member and currently holds a Steering In addition to our work with BICEP, we have worked with the Climate Committee position on the Clean Cargo Working Group, an industry Group, and participated actively in business-related forums at the collaboration of carriers and shippers, which developed the standard Copenhagen, Cancun and Durban United Nations Conference of for measuring and reporting emissions from ocean transportation. the Parties. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 47 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Looking Ahead We have been actively measuring and reducing our greenhouse gas a framework for Nike to assess the complete lifecycle impacts of footprint for some time. Many have noted our leadership in this area. our products, packaging and operations across our full value chain. While setting targets for continued reductions, we note that a lot We have identified a number of these areas and have set targets to of the “low-hanging fruit” is gone. We recently set new targets for measure new baselines. For example, we are developing new baselines energy use and CO2 emissions. Achieve 20 percent reduction in CO2 in our materials and manufacturing supply chain, packaging, waste, emissions per unit from FY11 levels through FY15 (in aggregate from distribution centers, logistics and retail. For more on the scopes and assessed footprint in the built environment, logistics and footwear our progress in these areas, please see additional information online. manufacturing). We also aim to achieve LEED certification in all new We look forward to seeing similar efforts across our industry. Nike retail stores. Nike is continually upping its game. The Scope 3 standard responds We realize that some areas of our energy and carbon footprint to the effects of globalization and, viewed through the lens of have yet to be measured. The new World Resource Institute’s Scope 3 sustainable innovation, sets the context for much of what we’re standard has expanded our understanding of our footprint and sets about to do including setting the pace for others to follow. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 48 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY LABOR NIKE, Inc. has worked to improve labor conditions in our footwear, apparel and equipment supply chains for more than 15 years. Key issues in which we have engaged include the health and safety of the workers who make our products, excessive overtime, the ability of workers to freely associate, and child labor and forced labor. Our Approach In our FY05/06 Corporate Responsibility Report, we identified what success looks like. The vision and steps we are taking to achieve an overall goal to bring about systemic change for workers in the this strategy going forward are described in the Manufacturing section footwear, apparel and equipment industries, and we set five targets of this report. In this section, we take a look back and report on key for FY11. indicators and our progress toward the targets we set for the FY07 to FY11 period. During FY10, we “rewired” our approach to managing risks and opportunities within our supply chain. We launched new sourcing We have been working with contract factories to build their human and manufacturing tools that are embedded within product creation resources management skills and help them reach even higher levels (discussed in the Manufacturing section), and created an integrated, of economic, social and environmental performance. Our work has multi-disciplinary team to support sourcing selection and performance. centered around three fronts: We also created a new organizational structure within the company that brought together labor compliance, health, safety and environment, lean >> Working conditions in factories: environment, safety and health manufacturing, human resources management, climate and energy, >> Labor rights, freedoms and protections waste and water management. More recently, we identified the creation >> Workers’ lives outside of the factory, and living conditions in of a “sustainable supply chain” – i.e., one that includes sustainability their communities on equal footing with cost, on-time delivery and quality – as one of the pillars of our sustainable business strategy and developed a vision of LESSONS WE HAVE LEARNED Today, when a company suddenly receives situation as a reputational problem that we and today we operate with a great deal more intense public scrutiny for practices in its needed to manage through compliance and insight into what consumers expect of us and value chain, comparisons are often drawn better communication. We quickly learned what will be required for us to thrive in a world to Nike. In the late 1990s we were one of the that the issues were indeed genuine and of increasingly constrained resources. first companies to deal with the challenges substantial, and that we needed to go further. of a global supply chain. Because we were We dedicated significant resources and This insight and awareness is something among the first companies and industries to created new programs focused on monitoring that has changed the way we think about experience such scrutiny, we did not have the and environmental improvements. sustainability. It has quietly but purposefully benefit of an established roadmap. Instead, we shifted from a peripheral concern to a deeply had to learn a great deal through taking action Those efforts produced real benefits, but their integrated component of our business based on our best instincts, evaluating the impact was relatively limited because they did strategy, designed into the way we think results of those actions, and then modifying not really address the deeper, systemic causes about what we produce and how we produce our course based on what we learned through of the issues. And despite the fact that we it. In fact, today we assume that our ability those experiences. were a large company by most standards, we to consistently create sustainability simply did not, on our own, possess the scale or breakthroughs through innovation will Consequently, we have moved through several influence required to exert meaningful impact be a key factor in our long-term growth. distinct phases in how we have engaged, on the market forces driving the dynamics both when it comes to the specific issue of of our supply chain. To go beyond merely Innovation is at the very heart of our culture at responsible labor practices within our supply addressing the symptoms of the problems, Nike. One of the cornerstones of innovation is chain, as well as the broader overall issue of we realized that we had to actively collaborate a willingness and desire to learn. And, while we sustainability. Nike’s track record of learning with others, including governments, NGOs, have learned much from our past and others and changing is an almost textbook example activists and, yes, our long-time competitors. have learned much from our experience, we of how sustainability experts describe the believe the next era in the evolution from an transformative steps organizations must take That required us to become far more open. industrial economy toward a sustainable to evolve from reputation management toward Nike realized that transparency and economy will teach greater lessons than real change. collaboration are competitive advantages. learned before. They are enablers of long-term growth. In the early years of our evolution, we took Opening up and collaborating has the approach of “risk mitigation,” viewing our significantly accelerated our learning, NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 49 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Our approach employs three main tools: audits, human resources and will evolve over time, assesses such areas as political risk, social/ management (HRM) training and lean manufacturing (discussed in the compliance risk, economic risk and infrastructure and climate risk. The Manufacturing section). In addition, we have established collaborative ultimate goal is to significantly reduce the amount of time required on efforts with other brands and civil-society organizations to develop the front end to assess a potential factory for a new work order. common approaches for raising and sustaining standards in footwear, apparel and equipment manufacturing. A centerpiece of our work in the past few years is our HRM program, GLOBAL CONTRACT FACTORY COUNTRY AND WORKER COUNT which combines multi-stakeholder workshops, training for factory managers and the surveying of workers. We have found that factory FY09 FY10 FY11 managers aiming for full and consistent compliance with labor requirements sometimes lack the systems and skills to achieve it. FACTORIES 1,034 1,012 930 By building the capabilities of contract factory management, we strive to create a sustainable framework for improving working conditions overall. In addition, the training supports the transition to lean COUNTRIES 55 55 50 manufacturing powered by a skilled, empowered workforce. (See the Manufacturing section for more detail on the lean approach) We piloted the first wave of this program in FY09 with contract WORKERS 1,220,288 1,146,207 1,079,137 factories in Vietnam. During FY10, HRM evolved into Sustainable Data at last day of fiscal year, May 31. Manufacturing Training, which takes an integrated approach to sustainability capability building. Sustainable Manufacturing Training has an expanded focus (beyond just HRM), including GLOBAL CONTRACT FACTORY WORKERS BY REGION modules on health, safety and the environment (HSE), environmental sustainability and energy/greenhouse gas management. The training FY09 FY10 FY11 also covers how to protect workers’ freedom to associate. Where appropriate and possible, government officials, trade union AMERICAS 77,097 81,150 76,942 representatives, representatives from the International Labor Organization and other key local stakeholders participate in the training EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST program. Following an initial workshop, there is a six-month followAND AFRICA 34,000 26,890 17,896 up process in which the factories implement an action plan under the supervision of Nike compliance staff and the factory’s lean production lead (or “sensei”). The factories are then expected to participate in NORTH ASIA 758,627 726,707 684,497 “learning communities,” in which they continue to share best practices on a regular basis. SOUTH ASIA 350,564 311,460 299,802 Global Contract Factory Worker Profile The factories that supply the brands of NIKE, Inc. employ more than TOTALS 1,220,288 1,146,207 1,079,137 1 million people. The workforce is 67 percent female, with an average Data at last day of fiscal year, May 31. age of 31 (as of the end of FY11). Progress and Performance GLOBAL CONTRACT FACTORY WORKERS BY PRODUCT ENGINE We collect and analyze substantial amounts of data on our contract FY09 FY10 FY11 factory base. A deeper dive into that data is available as part of our full web-based reporting, www.nikeresponsibility.com. Below we provide some key performance data, with a focus on summarizing longAPPAREL 491,209 428,314 397,380 term trends. As described in the Manufacturing section, Nike’s approach to ratings EQUIPMENT 186,618 185,820 145,882 and scoring will change in FY12 and beyond with the introduction and implementation of new tools and indexes. In particular, a new Risk Index will help us identify, at the outset of a sourcing relationship – whether FOOTWEAR 542,461 532,073 535,875 with a new factory or one already in our supply chain – the potential for low performance. The Risk Index, which is being rolled out in FY12 Data at last day of fiscal year, May 31. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 50 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FACTORY RATINGS AND TRENDS NIKE, INC. NIKE BRAND NIKE AFFILIATES RATING FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 A 15% 13% 7% 6% 4% 16% 12% 9% 7% 5% 0% 23% 2% 4% 3% B 32% 32% 25% 33% 45% 32% 33% 39% 45% 52% 16% 23% 3% 14% 32% C 18% 24% 17% 25% 37% 19% 24% 25% 27% 34% 11% 17% 3% 22% 43% D 4% 5% 3% 7% 5% 3% 5% 3% 4% 2% 5% 7% 3% 14% 11% E 31% 26% 48% 28% 8% 30% 26% 24% 17% 7% 68% 30% 89% 46% 11% Data at last day of fiscal year, May 31. Note: Ratings and audits formally included NIKE Affiliates at the end of FY09; some factories contracted to NIKE Affiliate brands were included earlier. Note: Average scores at year end. These ratings are comprised of labor ratings and environmental, health and safety ratings, rolled into one. This functions as an overall factory rating. Additional data is available online. “A” denotes “fully compliant” and demonstrates leadership globally. Scores are incremental down to “D” level, which indicates serious, repeated violations. “E” indicates a lack of data. For a detailed explanation of the ratings, see additional detail online. Factory Ratings We audit factories in our supply chain and evaluate their compliance >> The proportion of the most severe issues has decreased across a range of labor and HSE factors. During the period covered by >> The number of factories with unknown conditions (i.e., E-rated this report, findings were rolled up into overall ratings on a scale of A on the chart above) has decreased from 48 percent in FY09 to through E, where A is the best and E represents “unrated.” Full details 8 percent in FY11, as transparency has expanded on the letter grades are available online. Key trends have included the following: As we transition to the new Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index, all factories rated at the A and B level will typically convert to >> The number of audits showing serious, repeated violations has “Bronze” standing, setting a high bar for performance. remained low, at 4 percent or fewer over the past three years NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 51 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Labor Beyond the breakdown of factory ratings, we also look at trends in the Other categories tracked have remained relatively steady over the fivetypes and severity of violations found through our auditing processes. year period and the inclusion of Affiliate brands. Age-related incidents We made a significant shift with the incorporation of NIKE, Inc. remained steady at 1 percent. Freedom of Association remained Affiliate brands in our auditing and reporting. We moved from 68 relatively low, from 0 percent to 2 percent of incidents. Harassment percent non-rated factories in FY07 to 89 percent rated in FY11 (see decreased from 7 percent to 3 percent of noncompliance incidents, previous table). By comparing the percentage of C (serious) and D which we believe to be partly due to the HRM training. (critical) rated incidents found during factory audits, over time we can The category of “other” – which includes issues of dishonesty, such as see where changes are taking place. coaching workers to lie about conditions, denial of auditor access, Over the five years from FY07 through FY11, the most common issues falsifying statements and unwillingness to comply with standards – were those related to hours worked and wages. has decreased from 20 percent to 13 percent of incidents over five years. We believe this indicates increased transparency in the supply chain. In FY11, 41 percent of overall noncompliance incidents were related to hours, down from 52 percent in FY07. Hours issues entail the We have continued to analyze the root causes of noncompliance. The three main causes we saw in FY10 and FY11 are broadly consistent serious (C-rated) incidents of contract factories with workers putting with previous years: lack of systems, lack of commitment and lack in between 60 and 72 hours per week or not providing one day off in of knowledge. seven. Other issues in the general category of hours include critical (D-rated) issues of no verifiable timekeeping systems, exceeding daily work hour limits, working more than 72 hours per week, or not Wages providing one day off in 14. We have undertaken research and continue our engagement with stakeholders including non-governmental organizations, academics Wages represented 17 percent of noncompliance incidents in FY07, and factories – to better understand the impact of wages on overall when assessing NIKE Brand only, compared with 36 percent of quality of life for workers and our role in wages. incidents found in FY11 with inclusion of all brands across NIKE, Inc. Most wage-related incidents were miscalculations of wages or benefits, While we neither own contract factories nor employ their workers, rather than an overall failure to pay workers the agreed wage for work we can influence their business practices – including wages – through performed. These kinds of incidents are systemic within factories our own sourcing and assessment processes. across the industry, as understanding and correctly paying social Wages are complex, affected by a market economy of global supply security-type benefits can mean navigating confusing and complex and demand, including trade and social stability. But complex issues laws and standards. We recognize the complexity of and interest sometimes call for complex responses. We continue to take positive around the broad issue of wages, and we address our efforts in this steps and we recognize there’s more to be done. area both below and in the Manufacturing section of this report. Over the past 10 years, wages paid to workers in factories contracted by Nike have been increasing at a rate higher than inflation. These TOP ISSUES OF LABOR NONCOMPLIANCE changes mostly align to growth in minimum-wage standards, changes in pay structures and increased demand for labor. And as a component FY07 FY10 FY11 of our total cost of finished footwear goods in China, Vietnam and AGE 1% 1% 1% Indonesia, wages have increased. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION We are also working with other brands and on multi-stakeholder & COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 0% 2% 2% initiatives to improve the industry as a whole and we are innovating our own supply chain (see Manufacturing section) in a number of ways HARASSMENT 7% 4% 3% related to wages and other issues important to factory workers. HIRING 3% 4% 4% One such area is with the Fair Labor Association, to develop a new “fair-wage” standard that identified 12 dimensions to fair wages. HOURS 52% 38% 41% (More information is available online at www.fairlabor.org). The dimensions span areas covering systems, comparability (e.g. to other OTHER 20% 19% 13% industries, to inflation, to minimum standards, to cost of living), overtime, tying wages to skills, protecting the factory’s financial health WAGES 17% 32% 36% and communication. The FLA sets out the dimensions and provides a gradual way of addressing each one, some based on information TOTALS 100% 100% 100% not readily available. We have begun addressing these dimensions Note: FY07 includes NIKE Brand only; Affiliate brands were incorporated in FY09 and reported through our Code and work with factories but other areas will take here in FY10 and FY11. Percentages are used to show the relative rate of type of incident. considerably more time and study. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 52 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY As a leader in our industry, in FY11 we incorporated updates into our Excessive Overtime Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards to tackle some of We continue to evaluate why excessive overtime is a persistent issue the more pervasive wage problems, such as full funding and payment in contract factories. During FY11, more than two-thirds (68 percent) of statutory severance by factories and confirming that overtime is of the excessive overtime incidents identified and analyzed through consensual and paid at a premium rate of at least 125 percent. audits of 128 factories were attributable to factors within Nike’s control, primarily forecasting or capacity planning issues, shortened These changes are backed by updated Code Leadership Standards production timelines and seasonal spikes. However, it is unclear how on factory closures and retrenchment (downsizing), which provide often these factors are directly linked to one of our brands, as some full detail of our expectations regarding pay, benefits and factory factories also produce products for many other brands. In factories for responsibilities. The Standards call for detailed actions in the case which multiple brands place orders, it is very difficult to isolate the root of factory closure or retrenchment in addition to what is required cause of production-capacity planning bottlenecks. As a result, we will by country law or collective bargaining agreement, and factory begin to explore ways to create internal systems that allow us to isolate management is encouraged to work directly or in coordination with Nike-caused capacity spikes and imbalances that can contribute to governmental, nongovernmental or other third parties. a factory’s inability to effectively manage production planning. In addition, we will begin the process of creating new tools and reporting In addition, we have begun to define the actions we expect for mechanisms for apparel factories to proactively communicate with contract factories to make progress toward better wage systems – Nike when their production team is approaching overtime limits that is, wages that meet the FLA definition of “fair wage.” Examples that would be in violation of our standards. We have instituted these of these actions include: consistent payment of wages and benefits; reporting requirements in NIKE Brand footwear factories already, standardized pay systems, policies and procedures; communication and have seen marked improvement in the management of excessive and dialogue around wages, training and development; monitoring and overtime as a result. remediation; and wage self-assessments. The systems call for methods to track legally required minimum wages as well as different levels of We recognize that excessive overtime is a serious issue – in terms worker education, skill, training and experience; monitoring against of both hours worked and days on the job without a break. We are inflation and consumer prices; and equal-pay policies. These changes focusing on these areas through continued analysis of root causes, are being introduced in 2012. which has led us to identify and address key business processes upstream from the factory. Variability is one of those root causes. We are addressing wages on several fronts. We know that standards are Some of the key variables we have assessed include: seasonality in important: they communicate intent, they reinforce our position, they styles, the lack of predictability in consumer or product demand, and serve to heighten attention at factories for management and workers, the impact of global economic challenges. We are working to develop and they form a rigorous and necessary baseline for performance. But our abilities to successfully respond to these real variables without standards themselves do not drive change; they set only a minimum negatively impacting factories or workers. bar that can help to identify and remove the worst performers. We are addressing these issues throughout our product-creation We are also beginning to test with factories how they can increase process, including via improved forecasting alignment, which involves workers’ wages while maintaining a financially competitive business. coordination across geographies, categories and product engines to Our theory is that when factories invest in their workforce, they will get the right information and decisions made at the right time. We’re see higher productivity and returns that can be shared across Nike, also optimizing our sourcing base in footwear and apparel to handle contract factories and their workers. We do not know the answers but fluctuations in capacity and to adopt and implement the technologies are working with nongovernmental organizations, academics, factories needed to respond to the demand for emerging styles and products. and other businesses to find out how this can work and are committed to sharing the results to drive broader industry change. We discuss this Outside of those items influenced by Nike, in some places overtime theory and our approach in the Manufacturing section of this report is expected by both workers and factories, tied to broken models of where we define what “equitable” means for a sustainable supply chain. compensation in which the only way workers can earn more is by working more hours. We recognize that excessive overtime is not Going forward, we are further studying wages and working with sustainable from a worker or business point of view, as the costs are contract factories to explain our expectations and source from high for both. We are working with factories to build an understanding factories that make progress toward the FLA definition of “fair-wages” of these costs in terms of workers’ health and safety, productivity using our assessments in our Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability and quality of life, and as a contributing factor to labor turnover. We Index and Manufacturing Index to factor this issue more directly into will continue to track our impact on excessive overtime at factories our sourcing decisions. and believe that the inclusion of excessive overtime in our Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index will elevate the issue and help us to recognize where and when these issues arise and to factor this aspect of factory performance into our sourcing decisions. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 53 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Freedom of Association While factory noncompliance on issues of freedom of association empowerment of workers is a critical part of the implementation of (FOA) and collective bargaining have remained steady at a low rate lean manufacturing principles in a factory. In our HRM program, a key of about 1 percent of all noncompliance issues, these issues are feature is a survey of factory workers that further helps to establish serious and important. Our Code states that both FOA and collective a focus on building dialogue and skills. The survey helps establish a bargaining are to be respected and, to the extent permitted by the feedback loop between workers and management and provides factory laws of the manufacturing country, that a contracted factory respects leaders with valuable data to improve retention and productivity. the rights of its workers, including the right to form and join trade unions and other worker organizations of their own choosing without In advance of the HRM training, factories conduct a survey among harassment, interference or retaliation. workers that asks 70 questions about workers’ perception of pay and benefits, health and safety, management culture, hours worked, their In countries where law restricts free association, we call upon empowerment as workers and general job satisfaction. Nike developed factories to facilitate alternative means to individually and collectively the survey in FY08, built on topics that were considered core to workers engage with workers and to enable workers to express their grievances and were validated by factories. A third-party provider administers and protect their rights regarding working conditions and terms the survey through an anonymous on-site questionnaire, worker of employment. interviews and a factory tour. Results are reported confidentially to factory management and in aggregate to Nike. We have included further information on expectations for factories in our Code Leadership Standards, and we address FOA training in our Through FY11, 25,468 factory workers participated in worker HRM training (see the following page) at factories. satisfaction surveys; the workers selected represented a statistically relevant sampling. The results of these surveys are used in HRM A powerful example of how we have encouraged freedom of association capacity-building workshops, where factory HR, corporate can be seen in the work Nike and other brands have done over the past responsibility and lean leaders work together to prioritize and two years with the Play Fair Alliance (local union representatives and identify issues to address. Each factory defines gaps in its current factory owners) to create the Indonesia Freedom of Association Protocol. HRM systems and creates action plans to address them. In FY10 This historic agreement, endorsed by the Indonesian government, and FY11, all participating factories had completed the survey and has created a platform for the advancement of free association rights implemented HRM system improvements. in Indonesia. In FY11, factories participating in the HRM initiative began We also are including FOA in the assessment of risk in our sourcing conducting follow-up worker satisfaction surveys using the same selection process. We include country-based assessments, including questions and methodology as the original survey. A comparison the likelihood of violations based on FOA and other core International of preand post-HRM workshop responses from 16 factories in Labour Association standards. Vietnam showed increases of 9 to 15 percent in each of six key areas of satisfaction, including perceptions of management and morale Human Resources Management Program Implementation (e.g., “I am very satisfied with my job,” and “I am treated with As an extension and elevation of lean manufacturing, the development respect.”) An area with less improvement was worker perceptions of and delivery of our HRM program had, through the end of FY11, been performance appraisals. This area improved only 3 to 4 percent (e.g., delivered in 76 factories in Vietnam, China, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India “I think performance appraisals are fair,” and “I think performance and Thailand, representing more than 422,000 workers, 94 percent appraisals motivate employees.”) of total footwear volume and 43 percent of total apparel volume. Some results of the training have included the following: Health, Safety and Environment >> Factory groups developed shortand long-term HR strategies Our audits and reviews of health, safety and environmental performance assess 35 different factors. The audit tool used for >> Factory groups recruited and hired better-qualified HR directors this area differs from the labor tool, and global totals are assessed and managers as an overall score rather than number of incidents of noncompliance. >> Factory groups allocated budget resources to HR and worker Results from HSE assessments help to inform training areas and the development approach to working with contract factories and addressing issues. In FY11, contract factories scored 68 percent on average, globally, >> 408 factory leaders completed advanced-level training on lean, across all areas of HSE performance. HRM, HSE, environmental sustainability and energy issues The top issues of concern to Nike are those areas of noncompliance Our HRM training builds from, and on, our investments in lean associated with the highest risk to workers. Hazardous materials manufacturing training at the factory level. Lean is a journey that and electrical safety are high risk, especially within footwear begins with technical skills, reorganization and training, and then manufacturing, due to the number of manufacturing machines and advances to changing workplace behaviors and mindsets. The chemicals involved in the processes. We make it a high priority to PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 54 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY assess these risks, and auditors have additional training in these Expanding Our Impact areas, making them more likely to identify these issues in an audit. We believe that collaboration with other companies and other sectors of society is the only way to achieve systemic change in global supply More information on each area and the detailed Code Leadership chains. It is an essential element of our approach and complements our Standards that outline our expectations for each is available direct engagement with factories in our own supply chain. online, along with the audit tool that provides information on how assessments are conducted. On average across all HSE factors, each We are collaborating with a variety of organizations on new initiatives, region has similar average performance, ranging from 67 percent in some of which aim to develop common approaches to assessing and our Europe, Middle East and Africa region and 69 percent in our sharing data on factory performance. We have made considerable South Asia region. In FY11 there were no areas that scored below progress in this area, as described in the Manufacturing section. 60 percent on any single element. In FY07 we set a target to promote collaboration by using other Across Nike globally, our HSE team includes 31 employees who companies’ audit results. We discovered, however, that this is laborconduct audits and provide training. This staff provides technical intensive in practice, because our information systems are not set assistance through workshops and helps to teach factories how to chart their own safety-risk activities and use case studies to focus up to handle them. Our work, and that of other leading companies, on the highest-risk noncompliance issues. has helped to spur the development of platforms that we believe are more effective for industry collaboration, such as the Fair Factories Going forward, health and safety assessments will be a component Clearinghouse (FFC). Accordingly, we chose to support that initiative of the Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index. by using it to share audits in FY11. A current FFC focus is developing technology that will make it easier for companies to use one another’s audit results and work together on a co-created corrective action plan. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 55 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Looking Ahead We are continuing to expand our Sustainable Manufacturing Training. to conduct workshops in Indonesia, China, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. In FY12, we will present the first workshops in Brazil and Mexico. We We are also rolling out our new systems and tools for evaluating are also evolving the training model in Asia, where factories are now factory performance and influencing sourcing decisions, as discussed choosing to enroll and fund their own participation. We will continue in the Manufacturing section. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 56 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY CHEMISTRY We are committed to making our products in ways that protect workers, consumers and the environment – all while delivering the high quality and performance for which we are known. One aspect of this commitment is to eliminate, reduce and responsibly manage hazardous chemicals in our supply chain. Our Approach Our Sustainable Chemistry Guidance Our material vendors use chemicals in dyeing and other processes, encourages sustainable practices and our contract manufacturing facilities use them in making and transparency throughout our footwear, apparel and equipment. We have programs in place that supply chain. restrict the use of certain chemicals, promote the use of “green chemistry,” encourage better choices in the design of products, and empower and encourage our vendors and contract factories to Green Chemistry identify toxics in their processes and find alternatives. The RSLs tell suppliers what they cannot use. At the same time, we want to encourage our material vendors and contract manufacturers to use and develop the right kinds of chemistries – i.e., more sustainable Restricted Substances options. So, in 2010, we established our Sustainable Chemistry Our Restricted Substance List (RSL) – publicly available since 2001 Guidance (SCG). The SCG is a platform for highlighting preferred – details chemical compounds that cannot be present in any finished chemistries, defining better chemistry and empowering our supply products sold by NIKE, Inc. The RSL includes substances that are chain partners to more closely align with Nike’s sustainability goals banned by law, as well as chemicals we’ve restricted voluntarily. around fewer toxics, less water use and less energy use. To ensure compliance, we incorporate the RSL into agreements with all of our contract manufacturers. We then monitor compliance The SCG includes a list of “positive” or preferred chemistries and is a through a risk-based testing program that employs analysis by resource for vendors and contract factories as they select alternative third-party laboratories. chemistries for use. We have made it clear to our vendors and contract factories that we will include in the SCG proven, open and accessible We also have RSLs specific to manufacturing (the MRSL) and innovations that they develop. The goal is to provide contract factories packaging (the PRSL). The MRSL identifies substances that cannot with a resource for helping to choose positive chemistries and to intentionally be used in the manufacture of our products. The PRSL, provide an incentive to chemical vendors to research and develop publicly available since 2003, restricts certain chemicals and such innovations. The positive chemistries list is short now, but we materials from use in packaging. are hopeful it will expand aggressively. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 57 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Both the RSLs and Green Chemistry are part of our broader guidance, Progress and Performance which is designed to drive innovation in our supply chain and is inspired We have significantly reduced the use of several kinds of toxic by the widely recognized “12 principles of green chemistry.” 6 Through chemicals in our value chain in recent years. this program, we assess chemical hazards based on a benchmarking tool called the Green Screen for Safer Chemicals 7 (version 1.0). We also As discussed in the Materials section, for example, we have developed evaluate exposure potential in order to prioritize toxics for elimination two types of environmentally preferred rubber. Version 1 targeted the and/or restriction. most toxic chemicals compared to a typical rubber formulation. We shared the patent for this version with our industry via GreenXchange. Our material vendors can participate in the Green Chemistry Program Version 2 built on the advances in Version 1 by reducing total zinc in several ways. As a first step, they can make a formal commitment to content by 80 percent and leachable zinc content by more than 90 self-evaluate the chemicals they use. Vendors can also engage in a more percent. In FY11, NIKE Brand footwear designs used environmentally advanced effort by submitting data that would validate their materialpreferred rubber in 80 percent of shoe pairs, up from 3 percent in 2004. specific green chemistry innovations. The Nike Material Sustainability Index (MSI) – the tool for rating the sustainability of materials and the We have also replaced solvent-based chemistry in all NIKE Brand material vendors that produce them (discussed in the Materials section) footwear with water-based chemistry, which has reduced the use of petroleum-derived solvents in our shoe designs by 96 percent per pair – rewards material vendors for taking part in the Green Chemistry since 1995. Program. Using the Nike MSI, our material vendors can engage in a measureable way in green chemistry: The deeper the engagement, the Further, we have significantly reduced hazardous-waste generation in greater the reward through the Nike MSI. all NIKE Brand footwear through materials substitution, operational improvements and process modification. As a result, hazardous waste generated per pair of shoes is estimated to be down by more than oneBetter Choices in Design third since FY05. The Nike MSI does more than rate our material vendors, however. It also scores materials according to (among other things) the chemicals required to make or process them. These scores enable Nike productExpanding Our Impact creation teams to make more sustainable, less-toxic choices during Industry collaboration is an important part of our efforts to reduce product design. toxics, because many of our material vendors and manufacturing facilities are also part of the supply chains of other brands. We have worked within a variety of industry associations to discuss chemicals Working with Contract Manufacturers management and share insights and best practices. For example, we are Our efforts to responsibly manage, reduce and ultimately eliminate members of the Apparel & Footwear International RSL Management toxic chemicals in the contract supply chain also include work Group, the Sustainable Apparel Coalition and the Outdoor Industry conducted by our Sustainable Manufacturing & Sourcing (SM&S) team Association’s Chemicals Management Working Group. We also belong with manufacturers. The SM&S team provides hands-on consulting to the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council and the American to contract manufacturers to drive the elimination of toxics through Chemical Society’s Green Chemistry Institute. substitution, improved production practices and process modification. The team also provides incentives for action through implementation Looking Ahead of the Nike Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability Index (SMSI). Our We are now firmly focused on meeting our commitment to zero contracted finished-goods factories have significant influence through discharge of hazardous chemicals* by 2020. With our RSLs and their purchasing power and material vendor choices – decisions that Green Chemistry Program – and incentives embedded in the Nike make a difference in the toxics footprint of Nike’s extended supply MSI and Nike SMSI – we know we have the right tools in place to chain. By defining what “good” looks like, the Nike SMSI – described in help us get there. At the same time, we know it will require continued detail in the Manufacturing section – serves as a powerful incentive for collaboration by multiple players in the industry and the cooperation contract factories to reduce their own use of toxics, as well as that of of our material vendors and contract manufacturers to drive progress their sub-vendors. forward and meet the goal. 6 See www.epa.gov/sciencematters/june2011/principles.htm. The 12 principles include, *Hazardous chemicals are those that show intrinsically hazardous properties (persistent, for instance, the use of renewable feedstocks and the design of chemicals so that they bio-accumulative and toxic; very persistent and very bio-accumulative; carcinogenic, break down into innocuous components in the environment. mutagenic and toxic for reproduction; endocrine disruptors; or equivalent concern), not 7 See www.cleanproduction.org/library/cpa-fact%20grscreen_Jan09_final.pdf. just those that have been regulated or restricted in other regions. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 58 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Let’s Be Clear: China Environmental Transparency Program At Nike, we understand the value of relentless seen more rapid responses to problems. All told, we teamwork. So when we were approached to link up have used the information to encourage 31 factories with one of China’s most influential environmental to make improvements. NGOs – the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) – we rose to the challenge. By joining For example, we found out that Fujian Lifeng Footwear the IPE’s Green Choice Alliance, we knew our Co., Ltd. – one of our contract footwear factories, factories in China would be held to higher standards which belongs to Fengtay Group – was listed on the of environmental compliance and transparency noncompliance list because of a wastewater issue because their performance would be monitored in 2006. Even though it was a historical issue, we and shared publicly. informed Lifeng about it to make sure the factory had taken corrective actions and was now in compliance. The IPE has developed a “China Pollution Map,” Lifeng contacted IPE at once to report that they had which lists factories that are out of compliance indeed already taken corrective actions to resolve the with environmental regulations. We use this online problem. At the same time, Fengtay Group realized database to track the environmental compliance that the IPE database could provide them with an status of approximately 350 factories in China every opportunity to “green” their own supply chain. In year – including Nike contract factories and key October 2010, they began using the list to screen their material suppliers. sub-vendors in China. Fengtay has since checked about 80 sub-vendors; they found two factories with When we find one of our contract factories on the IPE noncompliance records in 2010 and another three in list, we immediately communicate with that factory or 2011. Fengtay urged all factories on the IPE list to supplier to determine the root cause of the problem, make improvements and also to report actions on develop corrective action and remediation plans with the IPE website. them, and require them to post corrective actions on the IPE website. We also use this database to screen The IPE database helps to alert Nike about any new factory that will be entering the Nike supply environmental violations in our supply chain. chain. If a new factory is on the noncompliance list, Also, the engagement with NGOs reinforces corrective action and disclosure is required. We train factories’ environmental accountability, which and require factories to be in compliance with local is a great step for factories building their law and regulations, require them to track their own environmental compliance capabilities. compliance status through the IPE database, and also highly recommend that they use the database Recently, we introduced this program to NIKE to screen their own supply chains. Affiliate brands – Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley and Umbro. Screening for factories producing In our three years with the program, we have gained global product against the China Pollution Map increased insight into factory noncompliance and have was completed by February 2012. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 59 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS WATER Water stewardship – including attention to water quantity and quality – is an essential part of our sustainability strategy. Freshwater supplies around the world are under pressure, which is pushing costs up. Since water is essential for communities to survive and thrive, water scarcity has potentially far-reaching effects. Some parts of our value chain can be water-intensive. Dyeing and finishing facilities that supply fabric for our apparel, for example, use and discharge 12 to 24 gallons of water per pound of textile. Therefore, we are working to design products from materials that require less water to produce, help material vendors and contract factories to reduce their water-related impacts, and eliminate hazardous substances from discharging into water. Our Approach, Progress and Performance In all of our sustainability efforts, we focus on the areas in our supply chain where we have the greatest potential to make significant improvements. For water, that’s primarily in the growing, production and processing of materials, followed by contract manufacturing. Our greatest opportunity to change use is in materials processing and contract manufacturing. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 60 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Material Vendors Product Design We launched the Nike Water Program in 2001 to help our material The new Nike Materials Sustainability Index (MSI) – described in the vendors address their wastewater quality. In the first year, about 50 Materials section – assigns sustainability scores to materials based vendors participated; in FY11, more than 500 took part8 (see chart). on multiple criteria, including how much water is required to produce them and the water stewardship of vendors that process them. The Vendors enrolled in the Water Program must supply detailed data Nike MSI creates a strong incentive for material vendors to enroll in regarding the processes they employ, the materials they produce and the Nike Water Program and reduce their water-related impacts by how much water they use and discharge. If they discharge more than recycling process water or implementing innovative lowor no-water 50 cubic meters of wastewater per day (as about half of them do), we coloring processes – as these activities help to increase their Nike MSI also require copies of wastewater discharge permits and laboratory scores. Water-efficient materials from water-efficient vendors receive water-quality testing results. Vendors self-report this information more points on the MSI, and, therefore, stand a better chance of being using H2O*Insight, an online data-collection system Nike developed. selected by our product creation teams than otherwise similar materials. The data and documentation that vendors provide allow the Water Contract Manufacturers Program to first assess whether vendors are compliant with their Some finished-goods manufacturing facilities are also significant own discharge permits and local environmental standards, and then users of water, so reduction is an important part of our environmental whether they also meet Nike’s water-quality guidelines (see chart), sustainability strategy for our contract factories as well. In 2011 we which were developed jointly with other apparel brands through conducted our first-ever water-use baseline for footwear manufacturers. Business for Social Responsibility’s Sustainable Water Group. The baseline measured water usage in production, kitchens and on-site (Business for Social Responsibility is a U.S.-based membership dormitories, among other uses. We learned that contract factories in organization focused on corporate responsibility). If vendors are our supply chain together use approximately 3.5 billion gallons of not compliant, we require a plan and timeline for improvement. water annually. We are working to reduce this number with a variety of approaches, spanning from leak detection and elimination, to setting standards for cleaning, to green technology innovation in mid-sole washing. NIKE WATER PROGRAM MATERIAL VENDOR PARTICIPATION AND COMPLIANCE Estimated Wastewater <50m3/day (so not assessed for compliance) Wastewater <50m3/day (so not assessed for compliance) Meets Nike Water Quality Guidelines (including compliance with local regulations) Compliant with local regulations Needs Improvement 550 527 495 440 403 435 385 313 328 330 282 275 261 203 220 146 184 165 110 55 55 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 8 T he Nike Water Program first included only apparel material vendors; footwear material vendors were invited to participate beginning in FY10. With the increase in enrollment, we see an initial decrease in percentage of vendors that are fully compliant. Vendors that have poor/average performance during the first year of enrollment typically move to better performance as they continue to participate annually. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 61 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Expanding Our Impact Looking Ahead Our efforts to affect water use and wastewater discharge extend well We recently set new targets for water use, including a 15 percent beyond our own value chain. Nike’s material vendors also supply textiles increase in efficiency at footwear manufacturing and in materials for many other apparel brands. The Nike Water Program is currently dyeing and finishing – two top areas of use. We are also in the process tracking more than 60 billion gallons of water use per year, but only of aligning our Nike water sustainability programs for material about one-tenth of that volume is likely related to fabrics used to make vendors and contract manufacturers. Going forward, we will be NIKE Brand or Affiliate Brand apparel. So in practice, our Water phasing contract manufacturers into the Nike Water Program, Program is helping to make other companies’ supply chains more in addition to material vendors. Also, the Water Program will be sustainable too – whether they know it or not. presented in Nike’s global supplier training agenda, along with other sustainability topics. And, new global water resource data will allow Because we share so many of the same supplier facilities with other us to renew our focus on prioritizing and accelerating program brands, we are seeking to drive broader industry impact through the activities in water-scarce regions. release of the H2O*Insight online reporting system. We developed this robust data-collection tool for the Nike Water Program, but in 2011 we Nike’s Sustainable Manufacturing & Sourcing team is continuing turned it over to C*Insight, the software development company that to work with our apparel and equipment contract factories, including built the system, which is now making it available to Nike and other helping them to improve water-use measurement and data management companies by subscription. The system uses a single questionnaire as building blocks for reporting and to achieve reduction targets. for each manufacturing facility, a shared database of water use and Furthermore, the new Nike Sourcing & Manufacturing Sustainability discharge data, and secure online access for brands and retailers to Index (discussed in the Manufacturing section) will serve as a leverage evaluate their suppliers’ performance. Our hope is that sharing this point for contract factories to improve their own water stewardship, as tool with the industry will enable a much larger group of companies well as that of sub-vendors. and suppliers to evaluate and improve water quality and efficiency in the apparel and footwear industries. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 62 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY WASTE As environmental issues go, reducing waste is a pretty easy sell. After all, waste results in lost natural resources and lost profit. At NIKE, Inc., we define waste as any material purchased anywhere in Our Approach, Progress and Performance our supply chain that does not ultimately end up as a useful component The largest amounts of waste in our value chain are due to product of product, or cannot be reused at the end of product life. This includes packaging and shipping, followed by waste generated in footwear packaging, shipping material and product samples, in addition to a wide manufacturing. Our product creation teams work to eliminate waste range of manufacturing waste such as scrap fabric, leather and rubber. from our designs from the outset, and we collaborate with materials This definition – which is broader than most companies’ – forces us to vendors and manufacturers to eliminate it along the way. think about waste at all points across our value chain. Our ultimate, long-term vision is the conversion of raw materials into finished products with zero waste, as well as “closing the loop” on materials use – that is, using only materials that can be fully recycled. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 63 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Nike Product-Creation Teams Our product-creation teams make decisions while designing our waste materials. We have also led the development of six dedicated products that heavily influence the amount and type of waste that will recycling centers in three countries – China, Vietnam and Indonesia – be created during manufacturing. Our Nike Considered Index and its to support our closed-loop vision. successors provide a scoring mechanism that both shows designers the waste implications of their decisions and provides an incentive to Our factory rating indexes (described in the Materials and Manufacturing design less-wasteful (therefore higher-scoring) solutions. sections) are, for the first time, providing incentives for contract factories and material vendors to participate in waste-reduction activities and One way our teams can earn higher Index scores for their designs is certifications. Those vendors and factories that earn high sustainability to avoid waste through “pattern efficiency.” For example, fabrics with scores – including waste-related measures – score better in our indexes omni-directional graphics (e.g., dots) can be cut with a lot less waste and are better positioned to keep our business. than fabrics with uni-directional graphics (e.g., stripes). Over the past five years we have achieved a 19 percent reduction in waste related to In NIKE Brand footwear manufacturing, we had a goal to achieve a the production of footwear uppers. 17 percent reduction in total waste from FY06 to FY11, as measured in grams of waste per pair of shoes. We met this target in FY09, and as of Contract Manufacturers and Material Vendors FY11 had achieved a 21 percent reduction (see chart). In FY11, total waste We regularly work with our contract finished-goods manufacturers to generated by our NIKE Brand contract footwear manufacturers was assist them in reducing waste. To date, we’ve focused on helping them 48.7 million kgs, 85 percent of which was diverted from incineration or to optimize manufacturing processes, segregate waste at the source, landfill through in-house recycling, closed-loop recycling, downcycling measure waste types and volumes, and target reductions of high-volume and other efforts. WASTE MANAGEMENT IN FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 DISPOSED WASTE AND ENERGY RECOVERY (GM/PR) 75 61 57 57 58 57 RECYCLED WASTE (GM/PR) 115 109 100 97 92 92 PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 64 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY NIKE, Inc. World Headquarters At NIKE, Inc. World Headquarters in Oregon, we have worked hard to improve recycling rates. While our total waste rose in FY11, along with our employee base, the percentage of waste diverted from landfill through commingling and composting rose from 54 percent in FY09 to 65 percent in FY11. Logistics At our distribution centers, we have begun assessing our waste, most of which is corrugated cardboard, and most of which is recycled. We have also been seeking opportunities to reuse inbound shipping boxes for outbound shipping, rather than discarding and recycling them. Our distribution center in China has been testing this process. Looking Ahead NIKE REUSE-A-SHOE AND NIKE GRIND We have recently set new targets for reducing waste, one being a 10 percent reduction from NIKE REUSE-A-SHOE – OUR RECYCLING PROGRAM FOR DISCARDED manufacturing waste across NIKE, Inc. and 1990 ESTABLISHED IN ATHLETIC SHOES – IS MORE THAN 20 YEARS OLD AND REMAINS AN shoebox weight per unit through FY15 (from INDUSTRY-LEADING PROGRAM AND A KEY ASPECT OF OUR LONGTERM VISION FOR CLOSED-LOOP MANUFACTURING. FY11 baseline), building on reduction in footwear manufacturing waste of more than 35 percent per pair in the first 10 years of the program. In addition, we are expanding our engagement with apparel and equipment SINCE THEN, 25 MILLION NIKE HAS COLLECTED MORE THAN contract factories, including helping them to segregate scrap and to implement data management systems as building blocks for reporting, establishing baselines and A MATERIAL THAT HAS BEEN USED target setting. IN MORE THAN 400,000 AND PROCESSED PAIRS OF SHOES THROUGH THE THEM INTO NIKE GRIND, REUSE-A-SHOE PROGRAM LOCATIONS WORLDWIDE IN FY11 WE MORE THAN DOUBLED THE NUMBER OF NIKE, INC. THIS EFFORT WAS LAUNCHED AT CONVERSE, RETAIL STORES THAT ACCEPT WORN-OUT SHOES FOR RECYCLING. A NIKE, INC. AFFILIATE BRAND. WE ALSO USE PRE-CONSUMER NIKE GRIND – TO MAKE OTHER PRODUCTS, INCLUDING BUTTONS, ZIPPER PULLS AND SOME OF OUR BESTSELLING FOOTWEAR, AS WELL AS PRODUCTS INCLUDING CARPET PADDING AND INFILL FOR SYNTHETIC TURF NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 65 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS COMMUNITY We believe in the power of human potential. We are leveraging the size and reach of our brands to affect positive long-term changes that empower and support the communities in which we live, work and play. We recognize that our work to positively impact energy, labor, chemistry, water and waste also influences the communities across our value chain. We see our work in those areas as part of how we address communities’ basic needs for health, safety and vitality. Our Approach Our community engagement strategy focuses on the following In these areas, we aim to find the most effective and innovative key areas: approaches and programs for driving change. When we find those winning strategies, we want to see them tested, refined and taken to >> Expanding access to sport, in order to break and prevent scale. Our role varies. Sometimes we find innovative programs or new intergenerational cycles of inactivity ideas that need resources to get off the ground. Sometimes we uncover >> Engaging consumers and employees directly to help create successful programs – hidden gems – and provide the support needed innovative solutions to social and environmental issues to scale them widely. >> Investing in the power of adolescent girls in the developing As in everything we do, we want to improve our performance, so we world via The Nike Foundation strive to better track our community investments and measure our >> Using sport to help rebuild and strengthen communities impacts. (Our efforts to better measure results are discussed in the devastated by natural disasters Performance and Progress section.) SPORT: A POWERFUL INVESTMENT TO MOVE OUR KIDS TOWARD SUCCESS Sport is a universal language. It helps to nonprofits, community organizations and transportation systems and healthcare develop the next generation of youth with other partners. infrastructures. We will advocate for policies skills such as teamwork, determination, that support such collaborations. And we will self-confidence, creativity, resilience and In FY10 and FY11, we continued to support a work hard to channel collective resources, so physical and emotional health. We believe large portfolio of community sport programs that with one voice, we increase the potential that improving access to sport, play and around the world. We also invested heavily to of our children through sport, play and greater levels of physical activity overall – consolidate and validate a global fact base increased levels of physical activity. especially for kids – is one of the greatest on the holistic benefits of sport and physical investments a society can make. activity. We directed original research to Nike is certainly not alone in supporting better understand the cumulative economic increased access to sport. We have many Sport has the potential to be a powerful burden to countries and societies trusted friends, partners and sports-industry force in sustaining and rejuvenating our as a result of physical inactivity. allies who have been sounding the call future, but today its impact is undervalued. for decades, investing in and supporting Nike sees an opportunity to identify, In FY12, we will share this work in hopes of sport and physical activity programs. While support and help elevate the people, ideas fostering new partnerships. Specifically, we’ll there have been a variety of innovative and and opportunities that demonstrate how focus on supporting large-scale investments well-intended efforts, impact could be even sport can help to change the world. Nike is that invite collaboration across sectors that greater with increased collaboration by the committed to protecting access to sport and have the greatest impact on kids’ physical major players in those sectors that have the has developed a number of global initiatives activity. For example: schools, urban design, greatest effect on whether a kid has access in support of this goal, in collaboration with parks and recreation organizations, local to sport and physical play. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 66 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Our Impact Scaling the Power of Sport to help the organization reach 500,000 young people through As a global company, we continue to leverage the power of our their program. We amplified our commitment to organizations employees, consumers and partners to uncover new and exciting like GRS during World Cup 2010 in South Africa with Nike(RED) – innovations that enable a “scaling up” of the power of sport. We using red laces to raise awareness with athletes and fans, and have seen some of these innovative ideas grow from simple, direct raising funds that would directly benefit community-based football investments into widely adopted, easily implemented programs with programs designed to educate youth about HIV/AIDS. To date we incredible impacts on the lives of young people. We have taken the have granted more than $1.3 million to 55 programs in 21 countries lead in creating a number of these programs, and we have partnered throughout Africa. on others; each have uncovered best practices that have been scaled >> Magic Bus across the globe. The following are a few examples. India – the world’s second-most populous country – is sports-crazy. It is also home to millions of vulnerable children who do not have >> Sport for Social Change Networks access to education, a place to live or a stable home environment. The concept was simple – how could we bring together locally Magic Bus, an India-based organization, saw the opportunity to relevant, sport-based community programs to share ideas and engage with these children through sport by providing scalable, best practices, leverage funding and create a collective voice activity-based programs that include safe places to play. Nike around the power of sport to overcome local challenges? Nike partnered with Magic Bus more than five years ago because we worked with CARE, a leading humanitarian organization fighting believed that their idea to train volunteer coaches in local villages global poverty, to fund and convene partners to create Sport throughout the country would enable them to reach hundreds of for Social Change Networks in southern Africa, eastern Africa, thousands more children. The results speak for themselves: In Brazil, the United Kingdom and the United States over the past 2010, school attendance for kids in urban slums and rural villages five years. The Networks have enabled community-based sports where Magic Bus operates increased to 78 percent, and 85 percent programs to learn how to collectively lobby for funding and of participating children went on to get jobs. The results have been support from local governments, NGOs and local businesses. so positive that the Indian government has made the Magic Bus Each of the Networks is flourishing – and the community curricula part of its national “sport for development” program. programs are reaching thousands more youth and training >> Let Me Play more coaches as a result of the collaboration. The world’s largest peaceful internal migration is happening in >> Homeless World Cup China, as people move from rural areas to urban centers looking There are many routes to becoming homeless – losing a job, being for work. As these migrant workers move, they bring their families, unable to cope with addiction, or for whatever reason, falling but their children do not always receive equal access to public through the cracks of society. An organization called the Homeless health or education services. Over the past five years, our Let Me World Cup believes that football (soccer) can be a path forward Play initiative has connected with children of migrant workers in for tens of thousands of people who become homeless. Our long11 Chinese cities to promote teamwork, confidence, gender equity term support of the Homeless World Cup, which works with the and social integration through sport. The proof: More than 80 homeless in order to build camaraderie, resilience and self-esteem, percent of Let Me Play participants reported gains in self-worth, has helped the organization expand to 73 countries around the relationships and studies. The local government has been so world, using football as the entry point to help more than 50,000 impressed with the results that plans to bring the program into people annually get back on their feet. Every year the organization additional communities and schools are now underway. holds the Homeless World Cup in a new country, engaging with >> Students Run L.A. governments and local businesses in a dialogue to help the In some parts of Los Angeles, high school graduation rates are as homeless reintegrate into society – into educational pathways, low as 60 percent. Youth inactivity, a lack of mentoring programs into jobs and back into their communities. and long-term economic challenges contribute to these low rates >> Grassroots Soccer/Nike(RED) for vulnerable youth. That is, until they become part of Students The world’s beautiful game ignores geographic boundaries, Run LA. For more than 23 years, this organization has operated races, religions and gender. So does HIV/AIDS. More than 10 a running and mentoring program that coaches students to run a years ago, when a group of players in Zimbabwe saw their friends marathon, while also providing the support they need to graduate disappearing from the football (soccer) pitches for no apparent from high school. Many of these kids are the first in their families reason, they soon realized that HIV/AIDS was sweeping through to graduate. Two years ago, Nike partnered with Students Run L.A., their hometowns. They knew the only thing that would stop providing high-performance running shoes, organizing running the disease was to help future generations understand that the events and mobilizing our employees to help slower students run decisions they were making in their lives could mean the difference the last four miles of the marathon. In 2011, this program helped between life and death. To communicate to the neighborhood kids, 2,800 underserved youth in Los Angeles complete the marathon. they created Grassroots Soccer (GRS). Since 2002, Nike has worked The academic results are also impressive: 97 percent of the seniors with GRS to provide funding, product donations and inspiration who ran the marathon in 2011 graduated from high school. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 67 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS The Nike Foundation The Nike Foundation www.nikefoundation.org – a separate based sport programs. Since the creation of the Air Native sneaker, 501(c)3 nonprofit organization fueled primarily by NIKE, Inc., we have inspired a new generation of athletes to get physically active the NoVo Foundation, and the UK’s Department for International through the many programs we have been able to support. Development (DFID) – is dedicated to investing in adolescent girls as the most powerful force for positive change on the planet. Our Affiliate Brands have unique relationships with their consumers and the things they care about, but they all share a commitment to When we provide a girl in adolescence – before she’s married, supporting their communities. For example: pregnant, or HIV-positive – access to education, sport and adult mentorship to develop the life skills necessary to support herself >> Cole Haan has sponsored Penny Harvest since 2008, with the and others around her it’s a solution for poverty, not a cure for its re-imagining of the iconic penny loafer and encouraging schoolsymptoms. That’s the girl effect. age children to gather pennies from homes and neighbors as a first phase in a year-long program of lifelong values. Through Igniting her potential and transforming her world starts a ripple effect this program, children collaborate to identify worthy programs of change – for herself, her family and her community. When a girl in to support with their time and the cash that they gather and the developing world receives seven years of education, she marries four pool together. years later and has 2.2 fewer children. An extra year of secondary school increases her eventual wages 25 percent. >> Converse’s (Product) RED has connected consumers to supporting those with HIV/AIDS. The Nike Foundation’s sole focus is to fuel the girl effect. But we are only >> Through Hurley’s H2O Ripple Effect program, in partnership with one player in a global network of doers, movers and influencers in the Waves For Water, Hurley has helped provide filtration systems girl space. From the World Bank to the Center for Global Development, to more than 7.5 million people in remote locations and those the Nike Foundation works in collaboration with a host of organizations to communicate broadly (and loudly) about girls, and to scale what works. affected by natural disasters – bringing them access to clean water. >> In partnership with The Police Community Clubs of Great Britain, Since 2007, the Foundation has committed more than $100 million to Umbro sponsored the National Umbro Community Sports Award programs and partners benefitting adolescent girls. In FY10-11 alone, in FY11. The award recognizes the positive impact that sports has Nike contributed $27.7 million to the Nike Foundation. Through on young people and brings attention to an innovative, replicable a formal collaboration with the NoVo Foundation, we ensure our school sports program. philanthropic investments are having the greatest possible impact. NoVo has fueled the girl effect with $112 million in investments. Dealing with Natural Disasters The Foundation’s formal strategic joint venture with DFID fuses the We are constantly learning about how to be our best by doing the right Foundation’s private sector and girl expertise with DFID’s robust thing. There is no more important moment to bring this to life than development network. when communities are devastated by natural disaster. The Nike Foundation and DFID jointly operate Girl Hubs in three In the past, our response has been to help disaster-affected communities focus countries: Rwanda, Nigeria and Ethiopia. Girl Hubs equip girls in short order with funding and product donations, in order to quickly with programs that work to scale. But she must not only be equipped, replace what had been lost. However, we found that this work did not she must be inspired. By amplifying teen spirit, Girl Hubs are breaking always meet the needs of those affected at the right time or in the right the mold with social communications. ways. And it was not leveraging our core strengths as a company. So we went back to the drawing board to refine our approach. The girl effect starts with one girl. And it ends with 250 million girls leading 2.6 billion people out of poverty. We realized we could support our NGO partners, such as Mercy Corps and CARE, during the immediate aftermath of a disaster through Brands and Consumer Engagement grant-giving and by supporting our employees who wanted to actively Consumers engage with our brands across the NIKE, Inc. portfolio to contribute via our matching gift program. support issues they care about. Nike’s global collection of LIVESTRONG But we also realized that our greatest potential impact would be in an products has helped the Lance Armstrong Foundation raise more than arena where we have expertise, contributing what we know best. So $100 million in the fight against cancer. This initiative, one of the most we began to focus on using the power of sport to help youth affected successful to date, supports the 28 million people around the world by natural disasters to deal with the trauma of losing loved ones, their living with cancer. homes, their possessions and sometimes even their communities. We In addition, our N7 Fund has helped spur Nike’s commitment to partnered with the Swiss Academy for Development, Mercy Corps and bring sport and all its benefits to Native American and Aboriginal CARE to create the Moving Forward program, specifically designed to communities in North America by providing support to communityhelp communities rebuild after a natural disaster. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 68 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY With these NGO partners, we created a scientifically tested and In addition to tracking volunteer hours and matching employees’ proven Moving Forward curriculum that provides teachers, coaches contributions, the WE Portal increases governance and due diligence and parents with tools to help youth post-disaster, through carefully in the accounting and reporting of global employee giving and designed sporting activities and counseling sessions. volunteering figures. The Moving Forward curriculum has been implemented in many In its first two years, about 20 percent of Nike employees, or communities around the world, including China, Japan, Haiti and Peru. approximately 7,850 people, joined the WE Portal. Employees have In each case, the curriculum was adapted to be locally relevant. We feel nominated organizations to be included on the Portal, and more than so passionate about the impact of the Moving Forward program and its 1,300 globally have been vetted and approved. Over FY10 and FY11, there were more than 2,500 opportunities posted by employees, adaptability that we have made it available online for any community or encouraging others to give, volunteer, rally or otherwise get involved. organization to use. More than 135 teams have formed around employee-led causes Also, in partnership with Architecture for Humanity, we have mobilized and interests. a community of Nike employees who volunteer to help in rebuilding In the future, the WE Portal will be expanded to foster employee-led schools, and sport and community centers. We are also constantly innovation, empowering the global NIKE, Inc. employee community looking for ways to leverage the power and energy of our brands to across functions and geographies to share information, ideas mobilize our consumer base in times of need. As a response to the and innovation. Haiti earthquake in January 2010, more than 1,600 Nike employees made personal donations that totaled more than $170,000. Combined with Nike’s matching funds, the total raised for Haiti disaster relief Nike School Innovation Fund was $450,000. Then, in the aftermath of the Japan tsunami, Nike In January 2007, Nike created the Nike School Innovation Fund (NSIF) contributed $1 million in cash and $250,000 in product. Running – a $9-million, five-year commitment to support public education in posted an “All for Japan” challenge to the global Nike Plus community, Oregon’s Beaverton, Hillsboro and Portland school districts. The vision where runs logged raised funds for relief and rebuilding efforts. Nike for the NSIF is to use the power of innovation to fuel excellence in employees gave more than $63,000 to Japan disaster relief in FY11, education, the driving force behind a productive society. which NIKE, Inc. matched. Through partnerships with school districts near Nike’s hometown, the Fund helps to: WE Portal In FY10, Nike launched a digital employee engagement platform, the >> Create strategic partnerships with school leadership teams WE Portal, which is accessible to all global NIKE, Inc. employees. The >> Accelerate the sharing of best practices by encouraging districts WE Portal has evolved to be a worldwide engagement hub, linking to collaborate on common challenges Nike employees from 34 countries around social and environmental >> Enhance teacher and principal development with a relentless issues they care about. Via the Portal, employees can get their donation focus on improved student achievement matched by Nike, create volunteering teams, earn points for giving and post community-giving opportunities. The points employees earn can be >> Invest in the school districts’ youngest learners to improve traded in the Portal’s Giving Marketplace for product that is donated to school readiness the community organization of their choice. Since its inception, the program has invested in more than 250 teachers and 75 principals, benefiting more than 100,000 kids each year. More than 300 Nike employees have volunteered their time, and 30 company leaders have developed strategic and sustained relationships with NIKE, INC. EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS (IN MILLIONS USD) principals and school leadership teams. The program focuses on young learners and teacher leadership, and student achievement FY10 FY11 indicators are trending positive. Students in summer “early literacy academies” have improved reading scores, and student writing scores EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTION (INC) $ 1.48 $ 0.96 for schools participating in the leadership collaborative exceed overall district gains. COMPANY MATCH* $ 1.80 $ 0.89 In July 2011, the White House lauded the work of the NSIF, and Nike leadership was invited to participate in a roundtable with President TRACKED VOLUNTEER HOURS 47,039 29,040 Barack Obama on how corporate partnerships can help transform the American education system. Note: Previous reporting tracked U.S. employees only. A new system for capturing, tracking and reporting contributions and volunteer hours was implemented across NIKE, Inc. *The company shifted away from matching volunteer hours with monetary contributions midway through FY10. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 69 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS The Nike Employee Grant Fund The Nike Employee Grant Fund makes grants of $500,000 per year in During the latter part of this goal period (in FY10/11), we have been communities near Nike’s global headquarters. Funding priority areas working to identify the greatest areas of impact and difference, include: the environment, education, social inclusion and health. Within streamline some of our processes and partnerships and sharpen the each area, priority is given to projects that incorporate physical activity focus of our investments. Due to a reorganization of our business or sustainability practices and have the potential for broad, lasting in FY09, some of the donation figures on file are not comparable to community impact. In FY11, funding was funneled to 44 programs and later years, as community giving is tracked by differently defined served more than 28,000 people. Nike employees serve on the committee geographic areas matching to how we are now organized. to review grant applications and make funding recommendations in collaboration with The Oregon Community Foundation. We have also come to realize that one of the most powerful ways we can make a difference – beyond the dollars and time that Nike and our employees donate – is by inspiring a ripple effect of giving among Progress and Performance others which extends to include like-minded partners, including our In FY07, we set a target to achieve a total of $315 million in contributions consumers. When you consider the funds the NoVo Foundation invested by FY11. In FY10/11, our total community investment was just under in the Nike Foundation to support girls, alongside money raised by $100 million, including product donations, cash and in-kind services Converse (RED)-branded merchandise to support anti-poverty efforts, provided to our community partners, bringing our cumulative total and the 84 million LIVESTRONG wristbands that have been distributed (since FY07) to $268.7 million, or 85 percent of our target. Overall worldwide in support of the Lance Armstrong Foundation, it adds up giving was down slightly from previous years but grew in Asia, emerging to a much larger ripple – in the hundreds of millions of dollars. markets and the Americas. NIKE, INC. TOTAL CASH & IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS (IN MILLIONS USD) FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 $ / MIX % $ / MIX % $ / MIX % $ / MIX % $ / MIX % CASH $21.9 / 43% $36.6 / 62% $35.1 / 60% $34.7 / 70% $35.9 / 71% PRODUCT/IN-KIND $29.4 / 57% $22.0 / 38% $23.8 / 40% $14.7 / 30% $14.7 / 29% TOTALS $51.3 / 100% $58.6 / 100% $58.9 / 100% $49.4 / 100% $50.6 / 100% PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 70 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Measuring the Impact of Our Giving Creating social change is complex; so is measuring it. In FY05/06, Nike framework centers on the principle of “Shifts” as the indicators of social committed to measure the social impact of our community investments. change – for example, if a Shift in behavior has occurred, social change Over the next four years, we sought the counsel of NGOs, academics and has taken place. other experts in the field. We learned that there is no single standard for measuring social impact, and that qualitative data is equally important Using this framework, we evaluated the results of more than 200 Nike to inform strategy and a key contributor to a more comprehensive projects conducted over five years, which reached more than 2 million picture. We realized we would have to find a methodology to measure people directly. We found that key social changes did occur, most and evaluate the effectiveness of our community investments. notably Shifts in behavior and in engagement, especially when alliancebuilding was a component of the program. We will be using this data to In FY08, we partnered with the Women’s Funding Network and piloted refine our methodology and help direct funding more effectively in their “Making the Case” framework to better track our social impact the years to come. over time. An expanded roll-out occurred in FY10 across many of our sport-related community investments. A key component of this NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 71 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS PEOPLE & CULTURE At NIKE, Inc., we believe that a talented, diverse and inclusive employee base helps drive the creativity that is central to our brands. Our employee base includes a broad range of functions and roles globally, from brand and category experts to footwear designers and retail workers, from specialists in logistics, customs, tax and trade, to distribution-center managers and many, many more. Our Approach We believe that our company’s guiding philosophy has the power to influence, inspire and COMPANY OF STORYTELLERS challenge employees on a daily basis. Our global strategy for human resources (HR) is to help unleash this potential across every area of our business by enabling leaders to make great We’re a company of storytellers, and we decisions that, in turn, enable Nike’s business growth. Our HR function supports growth goals as mine our history to give us the insights partners to our leaders to ensure we evolve the organization to support all of our brands, ensure about how we will think about the operational and functional excellence, and plan the size and cost of our global workforce. future. We have a set of company-wide maxims – 11 principles – that guide us. At the end of FY11, Nike employed almost 38,000 people on six continents, an increase of Together, they embody the spirit of Nike: nearly 5,000 employees and 15 percent compared to FY10. 1. It is our nature to innovate. Our employees have been actively engaged in shaping our sustainability journey. In 2005, 2. Nike is a company. 3. Nike is a brand. people from across the company participated in an effort to focus on what the future of 4. Simplify and go. sustainability at Nike, and their roles within it, should look like. We challenged employees 5. The consumer decides. through group exercises and brainstorming sessions to define how the future could look and 6. Be a sponge. how we would get there. We brought in external voices and did scenario planning. We led a 7. Evolve immediately. process to create shared ownership of a set of scenarios that all pointed to one conclusion – 8. Do the right thing. that the way we did business at that time would not serve us in a future world. Employees’ 9. Master the fundamentals. insights during that exercise helped us to shape our business approach to sustainability and 10. We are on the offense – always. employees’ roles in delivering on that. 11. Remember the man. (The late Bill Bowerman, Nike co-founder) Our employees are well positioned to address change. In fact, the nature of Nike’s business is SEE FULL MAXIMS ONLINE. change. Consumers are constantly evolving what they expect, and we know that employees across the company, at all levels, making quick, but wise, decisions is crucial to our success. Honing the ability of employees to ask the right questions, examining learning opportunities, and continually rethinking the needs of the business are ever-present priorities that are supported by leaders who coach and inspire. Insights from Employees To gauge our employees’ engagement with and motivation about their work, Nike conducted three global employee surveys between FY04 and FY09. The key themes that emerged from the surveys during these six years remained consistent – so much so that we decided to stop conducting global surveys. For example, we heard consistently that: >> Nike employees globally are highly engaged >> Employees wanted more involvement and clarity around career growth and development >> Employees wanted better managers These insights helped us to build our strategy and focus our efforts. For example, we knew we needed to define concretely what good management looks like and share that with all managers. As a result, we have worked to transform expectations for managers, equip them with the right tools and develop their capabilities. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 72 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY The global surveys also provided us with consistent perspectives on teams while ensuring the highest return on investments in our talent. the role of diversity and inclusion. Employees identified four themes This comprehensive career approach strengthens our globally diverse that now comprise the business case for diversity and inclusion at Nike: talent with the critical experiences and leadership skills they need to achieve Nike’s business objectives and realize their own potential. >> Drives recruitment of the most dynamic people To ensure that we have the leadership required for Nike to continue to >> Enriches the creativity and innovation that shapes the brand grow, we are investing significantly in the areas of sustainable talent >> Grows our competitive advantage practices and infrastructure. >> Heightens the stature of and belief in the brand among our culturally diverse consumer base Rewards and Benefits We celebrate and reward successful employee results through excellent benefits and rewards. Nike offers competitive total compensation, Coaching to Inspire Individuals and Teams including benefits that provide employees the opportunity to stay fit, Nike’s commitment to its workforce includes enabling managers and ensure the wellness of their families and create a positive working leaders to be levers for accelerating the company’s growth. We invest environment. As a global company, every geographic location is in our leaders by providing learning and development opportunities different, but each provides for variable health coverage, fitness center that teach managers how to amplify their employees’ talent, energy and memberships, time off, retirement savings and more. Total benefits capabilities. Being a “talent multiplier” is not about making people work packages depend on position, location and years with the company. harder, but about engaging them in a way that helps them produce better The range of benefits available includes: and more relevant work. >> Health insurance >> Paid sabbaticals Our Manager Manifesto, launching in FY12, outlines four core principles of manager excellence: lead, coach, drive and inspire. These principles >> Life and accident insurance >> Product discounts define how we reach our individual and collective potential. Managers >> Disability insurance >> Onsite fitness center/ are role models who inspire their teams, live the passion of our brands >> Retirement savings plan with and promote creative environments for best thinking and work. fitness discounts a company contribution Nike equips leaders to plan, land and grow individual talent, align >> Transportation >> Employee stock purchase plan strategy and manage team performance, celebrate and reward (15 percent discount) allowance/discount performance and drive excellence across the organization. Through >> Paid vacations and holidays >> Tuition assistance it all, managers listen to their teams. To support this process, we are developing a new upward feedback tool – “Manager 90” – that Within the United States, Nike reviews and shares with employees will give Nike managers the insights they need to identify their own an annual report card comparing compensation, benefits and other opportunities to improve. components of total compensation to other leading global companies. Acquiring, Managing and Developing Talent Culture Nike’s recruiting efforts mine the world’s best talent. In building our At Nike, we want an open and creative culture that harnesses teams, we focus on Nike’s future business needs and how we can plan diversity and inclusion to inspire ideas and ignite innovation. To for growth. achieve this, our diversity and inclusion strategy focuses on three In the past, talent development was something that everyone, in a foundational priorities. First, like all championship teams, we focus sense, owned. Over the past few years, we have transitioned from an on the fundamentals. We offer a resource center with various tools individual-brand-based approach to a true NIKE, Inc. approach. So and exercises to help teams discover how diversity and inclusion drive today, instead of “many workforces” across our brands, we are focused creativity and innovation. And we promote the power of diversity on maximizing “one workforce.” through team experiences like one we introduced in FY10 called “Diversity & Innovation: The Medici Effect,” which help teams put the To do this, we concentrate on key areas that help to sustain our business principles of innovation into play. To date, we’ve facilitated more than performance. Our talent strategy focuses on critical assignment 200 sessions in more than 30 countries across the globe. We’ve worked planning, manager accountability for coaching and mentoring, and a with more than 5,000 employees who now have new and creative ways variety of innovative approaches to individual and team learning. We to leverage their teams’ diversity as they approach their work. also work to ensure successful leadership transitions, develop the next generation of leaders and grow emerging and diverse talent. Second, we seek to empower inclusive cultures. In FY09, for example, we launched a new experience called “Culture as Offense,” inviting a Talent reviews play a key role in deepening the strength of our bench panel of young employees (“young” in both age and tenure) to share their and help leaders make thoughtful choices about putting the right people perspectives and experiences with senior leadership. This event spurred to work in the right areas. In these reviews, leaders are accountable for an intergenerational dialogue and ripple effect spreading to more than improving the performance, potential, diversity and continuity of their 20 locations (and counting) globally, spawning discovery and action. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 73 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS And third, we inspire ideas to ignite innovation. By designing new and other business units to reinforce the importance and value of an creative models of engagement, we equip leaders and teams with tools inclusive culture that taps the diverse perspectives and strengths of to create a culture of openness and innovation, where new perspectives our workforce to gain competitive advantage, as well as develop internal and ideas are invited, heard and considered. More ideas lead to better diversity assessments and measurements. ideas, and better ideas lead to innovation. Our focus on culture and innovation as an approach to diversity has been recognized by external Health and Safety diversity professionals such as Georgetown University’s Consortium of We promote and manage a healthy and safe working environment for Chief Diversity Officers, of which Nike is a member, and other global employees. We offer everything from healthy-living pledges included innovation conferences. in employee-benefit plans and on-site gyms and classes at corporate facilities, to risk-based safety assessments and tracking globally. We We recognize there is no single approach nor is there a finish line to provide extensive safety training to employees based on the type of this type of work. There are many factors that need to be in play to job they do and the level of risk associated with that job. create high-performing, diverse and inclusive teams. Team composition, manager excellence and team culture are all critical to success. While We track and assess recordable and lost-time incident rates against we take an innovative approach to this work, we balance it with the need industry and benchmarked world-class averages. Measured facilities to offer the fundamentals through education and awareness programs. include high-risk facilities, consisting of distribution centers, inThese basic principles of diversity and inclusion not only make Nike a house manufacturing and high employee population locations. better company, but have the ability to contribute to making a better The measurements cover more than 15,000 Nike workers. world. To this end, we are seeking external partners to help us create We use internal and external audits to assess facility performance, a shared index that will help teams and leaders gauge their ability to on a oneto three-year cycle based on performance and risk profile create open and creative cultures where everybody plays. – targeting high-hazard and large-population facilities. We audit for Nike supports an internal “Women of Nike” community, six employee compliance with Nike’s environmental, safety and health standards. networks and numerous councils promoting cultural understanding, For high-risk locations (including distribution centers and in-house awareness and employee growth. manufacturing), we track and assess recordable rates against industry Coaching us in this work is our Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion averages and world-class status. (D&I) who reports directly to our CEO. The D&I team partners with NIKE, INC. RECORDABLE INJURY AND LOST-TIME RATES BY INDUSTRY CLASS FY09 FY10 FY11 INDUSTRY AVG INDUSTRY AVG INDUSTRY AVG NIKE NIKE NIKE (OSHA) (OSHA) (OSHA) DISTRIBUTION RECORDABLE RATE 5.22 8.20 3.93 7.60 4.52 6.80 LOST-TIME RATE 2.24 1.80 1.72 2.10 2.53 2.30 IN-HOUSE MANUFACTURING RECORDABLE RATE 2.28 6.80 3.11 6.00 2.85 5.50 LOST-TIME RATE 0.87 1.50 1.22 1.60 0.76 1.30 OFFICES RECORDABLE RATE 0.70 1.50 0.81 1.20 0.66 1.30 LOST-TIME RATE 0.27 0.50 1.18 0.30 0.13 0.40 Note: All reporting based upon 100 employees working for a full year (or 200,000 working hours). “Recordable Rate” is based on the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordkeeping standards and Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 74 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Sharing Expectations NIKE, INC. EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION We produce and share employee handbooks that cover company missions and maxims, GEOGRAPHY FY10 FY11 as well as specific guidelines on conduct, including ethical behavior, conflicts of AFFILIATES 4,070 4,579 interest, corruption, corporate responsibility, anti-harassment and anti-corruption, and a CENTRAL violence-free workplace. This handbook is also & EASTERN EUROPE 2,838 2,928 available online. 2,305 2,475 NIKE, INC. CORPORATE FUNCTIONS Employee Snapshot In our last full report (FY07-09), we shared EMERGING MARKETS 1,915 2,291 global employee data across Nike regions for the first time. The following is an updated GLOBAL NIKE BRAND 4,210 4,565 snapshot of data by geography, gender and ethnicity. NIKE GOLF 652 659 Gender Our global workforce is half male, half GREATER CHINA 1,380 1,483 female. In FY11, Nike employed slightly more women than men in Central and Eastern Europe and Greater China, and slightly more JAPAN* 394 1,220 men than women in the United States. The gender breakdown of management is about NORTH AMERICA 11,265 13,166 60 percent male and 40 percent female. WESTERN EUROPE 3,681 4,149 TOTALS 32,710 37,515 *In FY11, Nike retail field employees in Japan not previously counted in global HR systems. NIKE, INC. GLOBAL MANAGEMENT TOTALS BY GENDER* GENDER FY09 FY10 FY11 WOMEN 2,043 / 40.4% 2,009 / 40.1% 2,274 / 40.4% MEN 3,016 / 59.6% 3,001 / 59.9% 3,359 / 59.6% TOTALS 5,059 / 100% 5,010 / 100% 5,633 / 100% * Changes in systems allowed more sophisticated global management tracking beginning in FY09. Therefore, data from FY0708 is not comparable. NIKE, INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS TOTALS BY GENDER GENDER FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FEMALE 2 2 1 2 3 MALE 9 10 10 11 11 Note: As of May 31, 2011, with brief overlap before retirement. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 75 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS Ethnicity Nike collects detailed ethnicity information about our U.S.by choosing from more than one category as applicable. based workforce. Just over half are Caucasian. Our proportion Among management, ethnically diverse employees comprise of minorities is just under 50 percent, remaining relatively around 22 percent of the total workforce in FY11, up from steady since FY09. In FY08, we changed our tracking system, 19 percent in FY06. allowing employees to more accurately identify their ethnicity NIKE, INC. U.S. EMPLOYEE TOTALS BY ETHNICITY FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 WHITE 7,732 / 54% 8,391 / 52% 8,150 / 52% 8,950 / 52% 9,903 / 51% BLACK/ AFRICAN AMERICAN 3,100 / 22% 3,621 / 23% 3,445 / 22% 3,712 / 22% 4,348 / 22% HISPANIC/LATINO 1,910 / 13% 2,270 / 14% 2,270 / 15% 2,694 / 16% 3,271 / 17% ASIAN 1,435 / 10% 1,468 / 9% 1,410 / 9% 1,427 / 8% 1,616 / 8% AMERICAN INDIAN/ ALASKA NATIVE 148 / 1% 142 / 1% 143 / 1% 144 / 1% 155 / 1% NATIVE HAWAIIAN/ OTHER PACIFIC ISLANDER 40 / 0% 104 / 1% 121 / 1% 131 / 1% 203 / 1% TOTALS 14,365 / 100% 15,996 / 100% 15,539 / 100% 17,058 / 100% 19,498 / 100% Note: Figures rounded to nearest percentage. Based on tracking in US only, based on regular employees, based on data at May 31 each year. NIKE, INC. U.S. MANAGEMENT TOTALS BY ETHNICITY FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 WHITE 1,821 / 81% 1,946 / 79% 1,936 / 79% 1,831 / 78% 2,013 / 78% BLACK/ AFRICAN AMERICAN 161 / 7% 188 / 8% 190 / 8% 203 / 9% 213 / 8% HISPANIC/LATINO 123 / 5% 144 / 6% 141 / 6% 140 / 6% 157 / 6% ASIAN 126 / 6% 157 / 6% 152 / 6% 137 / 6% 161 / 6% AMERICAN INDIAN/ ALASKA NATIVE 21 / 1% 25 / 1% 23 / 1% 17 / 1% 19 / 1% NATIVE HAWAIIAN/ OTHER PACIFIC ISLANDER 2 / 0% 2 / 0% 4 / 0% 5 / 0% 7 / 0% TOTALS 2,254 / 100% 2,462 / 100% 2,446 / 100% 2,333 / 100% 2,570 / 100% Note: Figures rounded to nearest percentage. Based on tracking in US only, based on regular employees, based on data at May 31 each year. Management defined by one or more direct reports. NIKE, INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY ETHNICITY ETHNICITY FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 WHITE 10 10 9 10 11 BLACK/ AFRICAN AMERICAN 1 2 2 2 2 HISPANIC/LATINO 0 0 0 0 0 ASIAN 0 0 0 1 1 Note: As of May 31, 2011, with brief overlap before retirement. PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS < 76 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY PUBLIC POLICY We engage in public policy advocacy on issues affecting our business, our employees and our consumers. We have harnessed the power of our brand to mobilize policy makers and promote initiatives that align with our business strategy, corporate values and objectives across different policy areas. This section describes our positions on several key public policy issues, Access to Sport as well as our approach to political contributions and trade association Our policy agenda also includes the promotion of access to sport and memberships. physical activity in the various geographies in which we operate. We build coalitions and encourage governments to develop policies that promote physical activity and education in schools and places for Policy Advocacy youth to play. Free, Fair and Sustainable Trade We advocate for free trade by seeking improvements in existing global, Sustainability multilateral, regional and bilateral agreements, as well as by seeking Through partnering with governments and other stakeholders, we new, innovative agreements and challenging protectionism. We promote public policies that reward innovation, as well as sustainable believe free, fair and sustainable trade encourages growth, investment business models that meet the expectations of our consumers. The key and innovation and serves the interests of workers and consumers policy areas in which we focus are climate change; the sustainability of globally. Our objectives include seeking the elimination or reduction of materials, products and supply chains; resource efficiency; and postimport duties, protecting intellectual property rights and establishing consumer waste. mechanisms that promote sustainable trade and growth. We also seek policies and government action that promote the efficient and secure Nike has been a committed member of the U.K.’s Sustainable Clothing transport of products. We believe we can help create opportunities Action Plan (SCAP) and is actively engaged in policy initiatives focusing for workers and communities by advocating for sensible labor and on resource efficiency, sustainable transport and carbon footprinting. environmental provisions within trade agreements. For example, in In the U.S., we helped to create Business for Innovative Climate and Vietnam, we meet regularly with the Vietnam Ministry of Labor as they Energy Policy (BICEP), a business coalition that advocates for climatereview and update their labor laws. This is a process undertaken by the change legislation. government of Vietnam every five years. Tax Political Contributions and Trade Association Memberships Nike supports efforts to create an efficient tax system by identifying In 2011, we undertook an extensive review of our policies and practices and advocating for tax policies that allow us to be competitive in the regarding political contributions and trade-association memberships, global marketplace. as well as our policy positions. After this review, the Nike Board of Directors adopted a company policy on these issues. The new policy Intellectual Property is available online at www.nikeinc.com. We advocate for intellectual property policies that support innovation, development and consumer trust. For example, we have actively In the U.S., we make stateand local-level political contributions contributed to the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, a new primarily to ballot-measure campaigns and candidates in Oregon, international treaty currently undergoing ratification in several countries. where our world headquarters is located. Oregon contributions are listed at www.sos.state.or.us. We also contribute in a limited way Employment/Nondiscrimination to state and local candidates and ballot-measure campaigns in other We have been a strong advocate of workplace nondiscrimination states. Under current U.S. election law, employees of corporations legislation for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered employees can jointly donate to candidates through the creation of political in the territories and geographies where we have a significant employee action committees (PACs). Contributions from the NIKE, Inc. PAC base. In November 2011, we completed an extensive policy review are bipartisan and relatively modest, and are listed at www.fec.gov. of civil marriage in the U.S. and signed a business amicus brief that advocates for setting aside federal legislation prohibiting same-sex In our global and territory policy hubs, we share – on applicable civil marriage. government registries and platforms – information about our policy advocacy, relevant trade-association memberships, and individuals engaged in lobbying or advocacy on behalf of NIKE, Inc. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 77 > PART 3 – IMPACT AREAS APPENDIX REPORTING In NIKE, Inc.’s previous corporate responsibility (CR) report, which covered FY07 through FY09, we shared that we were shifting away from periodically producing a single, comprehensive report. Since then, we have carried out this promise by introducing additional, more-frequent updates and stories via the Nike Better World website and an updated NIKE, Inc. corporate website, both of which include news and stories about our sustainability and performance but do not replace this point-intime look back. We have also shifted our reporting to align with our approach to business and have created a platform for ongoing reporting. While still reporting on corporate responsibility topics, we also talk more about sustainability and innovation, which are key drivers of growth within the context of responsibility. Our reporting for FY10/11 continues this trend. This print-on-demand report summarizes our strategy, approach and performance and is complemented by more comprehensive reporting on the www.nikeresponsibility.com website, which includes a rich user experience and deep online content where information, tools, stories and descriptions can be accessed. The Value of Reporting At Nike, we see reporting as an important means of sharing information about our corporate responsibility strategy, targets, approach and performance. The information we prepare and report accounts for our business impacts and the desires of stakeholders and seeks to provide an open, clear picture of our aims and progress in incorporating responsible practices into our operations. We believe that reporting also provides an indicator – to ourselves and others – of our ability to succeed and thrive. We use sustainability as way to systemically address risk management, efficiency, innovation and future-looking efforts – all of which are critical in positioning Nike for long-term growth. We believe that transparency is a central component of a responsible business strategy and that reporting is critical in delivering transparency. Reporting is the main tool we use to provide critical information to our stakeholders about how we manage CR issues and impacts. Our previous reports include a broader discussion of why we report on CR performance and our perspective on materiality – and are available for context. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 79 > APPENDIX Reporting Guidance We support the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and continue to Writing for multiple audiences is difficult, as we must take into work with the GRI to develop specific guidelines for the apparel and consideration readers’ wide range of understanding of and exposure to footwear industries. We developed this report with reference to the the issues we face. In addition, we recognize that the world of reporting Global Reporting Initiative’s third generation of indicators (G3). has fundamentally changed. Information can be accessed by anyone, The Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement Indicators, in draft/ anywhere. Given the potentially broad reach of our reporting, we have pilot form, have also been considered. Nike is a member of the Ceres worked to provide the information required by key stakeholder groups Company Network and endorses the principles of the United Nations while making the text accessible, relevant and easy to understand. Global Compact (UNGC). This report describes actions we have taken to implement these principles, and serves as our Communication on Progress as required for all companies that endorse the UNGC. Scope Our previous CR reporting focused primarily on activities and data Our website, at www.nikeresponsibility.com, includes an related to the NIKE Brand. For FY10/11 we have taken a broader look index that points readers toward relevant GRI indicators and across NIKE, Inc. – i.e., incorporating the company’s Affiliate brands. UNGC principles. The site also includes search functions that In our reporting, information on manufacturing and labor applies allow users to find information and access our reporting. The GRI across NIKE, Inc., unless otherwise noted. Other information brings guidelines include different application levels, from A+ (the most in approaches and strategies that cover Affiliate brands, though at rigorous) to C. We have assessed our performance against the GRI times those strategies are being implemented at a different pace. guidelines at the B level. Throughout our reporting, we note where information refers to NIKE, Inc. as a whole, to the NIKE Brand only or to Affiliate brands in total or individually. Intended Audiences Our primary audiences for this report are those who seek a deep This report covers FY10 and FY11. Unless otherwise noted, all understanding of both the issues Nike faces and our strategic references to dates are made on a fiscal-year basis. Some important response to those issues as we strive for long-term sustainable growth. events that took place after the close of FY11 are also covered here; Historically, these audiences have included leaders of nongovernment their inclusion reflects the impact or influence these events may have and advocacy organizations, media, other businesses, academics, on Nike’s future direction. and analysts and investors representing the socially responsible investment community. Other important stakeholders who access and read our reporting include employees, students, suppliers, contract manufacturers, customers, consumers and individuals with an in-depth knowledge of corporate responsibility. APPENDIX < 80 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY CORPORATE AND SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE The Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors was established in 2001 to review significant policies and activities and to make recommendations regarding labor and environmental practices, community affairs, charitable and foundation activities, diversity and equal opportunity and environmental and sustainability initiatives. NIKE, Inc.’s Board of Directors is responsible for corporate governance Details regarding the linkages between performance and the in compliance with reporting laws and for representing the interests compensation of Board members, senior managers and executives of our shareholders. As of January 2012, the Board was composed of are described in our annual Proxy Statement, accessible at 12 members, 10 of whom are considered independent, non-executive www.nikeinc.com. Details regarding employee and shareholder directors under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. communication with the Board can be found in our annual Proxy Details on Board membership, oversight and activity are available Statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission online and in our financial reporting. (SEC). In addition, the process for submitting shareholder resolutions is described in the Proxy Statement, or Bylaws, and also under SEC Either the company chairman or the chief executive officer attends Rule 14a-8. These are accessible at www.nikeinc.com and at the the Corporate Responsibility Committee meetings. The Committee SEC website. met five times each year in FY10 and FY11 to review strategies and plans for corporate responsibility. Ethics and Conduct As of May 31, 2011, members of the Corporate Responsibility NIKE, Inc. has a code of ethics for all employees called Inside the Lines. Committee of the Board were: This code defines the standards of conduct we expect employees to follow and includes a range of topics on employee activity, ethical behavior, >> Jill Ker Conway, committee chair product safety, legal compliance, competition and use of resources. >> Douglas G. Houser Each year, all NIKE, Inc. employees are required to verify that they >> Johnathan A. Rodgers have read and understand Inside the Lines. Nike also operates a global >> John R. Thompson, Jr. toll-free AlertLine for employees to confidentially report any suspected >> Phyllis M. Wise violations of the law or our code of ethics. Any reported concerns around accounting, auditing or internal control are communicated to >> John C. Lechleiter the Board’s Audit Committee, which determines appropriate action. Board member Dr. Phyllis Wise became chair of the Corporate We expect our suppliers to share our standards and to operate in a legal Responsibility Steering Committee in September 2011, at the time and ethical manner. While Inside the Lines addresses the behavior of Jill Ker Conway’s retirement from the Board. of Nike employees, our Code of Conduct addresses contractors that manufacture NIKE Brand products for NIKE, Inc. It directs them to In FY09, the vice president of Nike’s Sustainable Business & Innovation respect the rights of their employees and to provide them with a safe (SB&I) group became part of the NIKE, Inc. Strategic Leadership Team, and healthy work environment. chaired by President and CEO Mark Parker. This team is responsible for directing NIKE, Inc.’s midand long-term strategy, and also manages the sustainability reporting process. In FY12, a new Committee for Sustainable Innovation was formed to provide additional executive-level, cross-business leadership on sustainability and innovation. See chart on page 16. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 81 > APPENDIX STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND REPORTING REVIEWS Our stakeholders help us to prioritize key issues and develop our corporate responsibility policies. We engage with stakeholders because we learned early on in our corporate responsibility journey the importance of engaging and listening. We see engagement with multiple stakeholders as a key enabler of both risk mitigation and innovation. Nike engages with a broad range of stakeholders on an ongoing >> Expertise and reputation in sustainability strategy and/or issue basis, including individuals in civil society organizations, industry areas ranging from water to energy to labor to toxics and government, as well as consumers and shareholders. We do this >> Geographic/nationality, gender and issue diversity informally, through participation and/or membership in networks and organizations and as a structured part of our outreach strategies on Ultimately, 18 stakeholders were identified and invited to participate issues and challenges. We also do this through formal partnership work in the process and 16 were able to participate in stakeholder feedback covered by area throughout this report. conversations and virtual meetings: We believe that developing and refining the skill of listening is critical >> Charles Bezerra, Ph.D., Executive Director of to a company’s success. This has been true for Nike’s history of listening Gad’Innovation/Brazil to and innovating for athletes to deliver performance products, and it is how we approach our corporate responsibility efforts. >> Garrett Brown, M.P.H., C.I.H., Coordinator, Maquiladora Health & Safety Support Network The various sections of our reporting discuss specific stakeholder>> Anne Gillespie, Director of Industry Integrity, Textile Exchange engagement activities; additional details can be found on our website. >> Peter Graf, Ph.D., Chief Sustainability Officer and Executive Vice President of Sustainability Solutions, SAP Feedback on Reporting >> Ma Jun, Director, Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs Nike first held a formal multi-stakeholder forum for feedback on reporting in February 2004. We have continued that type of >> Mark Kenber, CEO, The Climate Group engagement through a number of meetings – some informal and >> Corinna Kester, MBA Student, University of California, Berkeley casual, some formal and facilitated. For subsequent reports, we >> Richard Locke, Head, Department of Political Science, established panels of experts who provided feedback on early drafts Class of 1922 Professor of Political Science and Management, and discussed issues such as materiality, completeness, relevance, tone, Massachusetts Institute of Technology performance and the future of our reporting, among other topics. >> Helio Mattar, President Akatu Institute for Conscious Consumption, Sao Paulo, Brazil Stakeholder Review Panel >> Andrea Moffat, Vice President, Corporate Programs, Ceres Nike engaged BSR to facilitate feedback for Nike’s FY10/11 Sustainable Business Report. The purpose of this process was to provide Nike >> Jason Morrison*, Program Director, Pacific Institute; unfiltered, expert input on issues, targets and information to improve Technical Director, UN CEO Water Mandate; Co-Founder, the quality and enhance the credibility of the report. BSR played the Alliance for Water Stewardship role of a neutral facilitator in this process. BSR is a mission-driven, >> Max Ogden, Fellow, Code for America membership-based organization that advises its 300 member companies >> George Serafeim, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, on sustainability issues and practices. In this capacity, BSR jointly Harvard Business School selected stakeholders with Nike, coordinated the overall process, led >> Joel Tickner, Sc.D., Associate Professor, Department stakeholder discussions and virtual feedback sessions, and consolidated of Community Health and Sustainability, University of feedback to provide back to Nike. Nike’s SB&I team managed the overall Massachusetts, Lowell reporting process, and actively participated throughout the stakeholder engagement as an information provider and listener. >> Ned Wills, Global Director, Laureus Sport for Good Foundation >> Diana Zarowin, Sophomore, New York University’s Leonard N. Stakeholder Selection Stern School of Business, Candidate for Bachelor of Science Nike and BSR jointly created a list of relevant stakeholders who possessed a range of the following attributes: The participation of listed stakeholders and organizations is not an indication of support, recommendation, or endorsement of any >> Understanding of the apparel and footwear business information, persons, or organizations in the report. >> New and unique perspectives *Participated as an individual, not in an official organizational capacity APPENDIX < 82 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Engagement Process Assurance & Validity of Data BSR sought individuals to participate in a process to provide the most Nike continues to seek quality and transparency in our management valuable and informative input into Nike’s sustainability reporting and reporting. As we do this, we have explored additional ways to process. The intent was to bring together a virtual conversation provide confidence in our processes and our reported data. with subject-matter experts who can respond to expectations around Various data points are confirmed internally through staff and systems reporting, particularly on reporting formats and the future of that have been established to collect and review that data. For instance, reporting, impact progress, materials and manufacturing, etc. we have moved to primary-source information on energy use across the In order to assure diversity of voices while reducing GHG emissions, U.S. from verified metered data that come directly from utility billing the stakeholder-engagement process was conducted virtually. After systems. Other data and information are confirmed externally through Nike disseminated a draft of the FY10/11 Sustainable Business third parties such as the Fair Labor Association. Report through BSR and the selected experts had a chance to review its contents, BSR conducted an in-depth, one-hour telephone interview Following our FY05-06 and FY07-09 reports, Nike’s internal audit with each stakeholder separately. Nike team members listened to these team was asked to assess our sustainability reporting processes. sessions and provided clarifying input. These individual conversations Their audit report noted a number of opportunities for improvement ensured that each stakeholder was afforded an equal amount of time to and investment, including better documentation of information, provide their expertise and insight both to share their thoughts on the internal checks at multiple levels, review of forward-looking public overall report strengths and opportunities for improvement as well as commitments, documentation of systems and controls and improved to hone in on specific content areas of interest. interactions with key internal audiences including Corporate Communications, Investor Relations and Legal. The SB&I team felt, BSR then consolidated that feedback, synthesized it into themes and after focusing our reporting on key impacts and business targets, that issue areas, and presented it to the stakeholders during two virtual Nike had significant work to do internally on assurance. Toward this participant feedback sessions that BSR organized, managed and end, we worked closely with our internal audit department in 2011 to facilitated. These virtual sessions allowed for global participation and design and train subject-matter experts and data consolidators on the for the stakeholder experts to build on prior feedback. This feedback expectations for verifiable work, and reviewed some key data collection, was also consolidated and provided back to the Nike team. consolidation and retention processes. The Nike team addressed it in one of the following three ways: Going forward, we continue to address information-systems development and consistency. Where direct-source information is only >> Revamped sections of this report summary and/or the partially available or is extrapolated, we note that in our reporting, and online report throughout we understand that there are significant improvements to be >> Made language and tone changes to better clarify particular made, especially where data comes from third parties such as contract report sections, and/or factories or material vendors that supply to such factories. Some areas >> Flagged some stakeholder input for future considerations in are subject to rotating audits, where we go deeper into the information Nike’s SB&I strategy and/or future reports and systems that generate information and help us to calculate and report on our impacts. It is not possible to verify 100 percent of data contained in our reporting, although we track the sources and the Subsequently, Nike also provided their targets to the stakeholders and methods for measuring and consolidating what we do report and aim BSR conducted three virtual feedback sessions to seek ways to clarify, for continuous improvement. At times, that aim is met by our need to amplify and expand on the targets. This feedback was provided back adjust information based on new systems or better data which can to Nike in a presentation that covered the targets issue by issue. replace previous information or metrics – especially those based on estimates and extrapolation. Impact on Report Outcome There was high value to Nike in engaging stakeholders in the In 2008 we explored third-party assurance and audit systems with reporting process – it provided Nike’s leadership with direct insights leading providers. At the time, the available approaches appeared to and perspective from external experts. The Nike team made many be very cumbersome and had the potential to lock us into systems that substantive changes to the report based on this feedback in the were less nimble and less able to address the evolving nature of this areas of reporting structure, content and design; data, metrics and practice area. dashboards; and environmental and social issues. Their feedback and Nike’s response is available online. We understand the value of external assurance. We have continued to review and discuss the issue with company management, our internal Nike sincerely appreciated the deep expertise and extensive input audit team and other external stakeholders. We still believe we have of the stakeholders to materially improve this report and to identify internal steps to complete before undertaking this kind of robust opportunities to improve future reporting procedures and results. review. We have begun discussions around the timing, pace and value The net result of constructively engaging actively critical stakeholders of assurance, while continuing to address issues raised through our has resulted in, in Nike’s opinion, a stronger and more credible report. internal audit processes. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 83 > APPENDIX Our aim is to measure our performance and report accurate data. apply for assessing data – past, current and future – and how those At times, that means the systems and methodology for gathering methods can change over time for reasons including evolutions in information need to change even as we collect data and learn more methods and standards, and availability of data. At times these changes about whether we are asking the right questions and whether we are may render previously reported data incomparable. We aim for getting the information that will help us to answer those questions. transparency about how these changes affect comparability over time. We also aim to be transparent in the systems and methodologies we APPENDIX < 84 > NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY REPORTING RECOGNITION Our online reporting describes some of the awards, recognitions and listings we have achieved in FY10 and FY11, including the Ceres-ACCA 2010 North American Best Sustainability Report for our FY07-09 reporting. While we participate in some relevant surveys and listings, we recognize that the type and nature of these surveys change each year. We aim to provide accessible and transparent information consistent with our strategy and to use our reporting to drive transparency, rather than to drive toward performing well on surveys or rankings. NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY < 85 > APPENDIX Sustainable Business & Innovation One Bowerman Drive Beaverton, Oregon 97005 Contact: nikeresponsibility@nike.com www.nikeinc.com www.nikeresponsibility.com NIKE, INC. FY10/11 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY – WWW.NIKERESPONSIBILITY.COM
