SEB Com m unication on Progress UN GlobalCom pactreporting year 2011 SEB signed the UN Global Compact in 2004, a strategic initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas ofhuman rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As part ofSEB’s commitment to this initiative, we report on our activities and performance in an annual Communication on Progress. This covers the preceding fiscal year 2011 and consists ofthis report with a table ofreference, our Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 (CS)and www.sebgroup.com/sustainability (www). The report highlights a number ofactivities, and provides direction to further information, which shows that we are committed to the 10 UN Global Compact principles in our everyday business. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE TO CS Human Rights Principle 1 EC5, LA4, LA6-9, LA13-4, CS 2-3, 8-9, 11-14, 16, 20Businesses should support and respect the protection HR1-9, SO5, PR1-2, PR8 21, www of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 HR1-9, SO5 CS 8-14, 16, www Businesses must ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour standards Principle 3 LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, SO5 CS 8-9, 11-14, 20-21, Businesses should uphold the freedom of association www and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 HR1-3,HR7, SO5 CS8-9, 20-21, www Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 HR1-3, HR6, SO5 CS 8-9, 20-21, www Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 EC7, LA2, LA13-14, HR1-4, CS 2-3, 8-9, 20-21, www Businesses should support the elimination of SO5 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 CS 2-3, 7, 9, 12-13, 15-19, Businesses should support a precautionary approach to www environmental challenges Principle 8 EN1-30, SO5, PR3 CS 7-9, 10-19, www Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 EN2, EN5-7, EN10, EN18, EN CS 7-9, 12-13, 15-19, Businesses should encourage the development and 26-27, EN30, SO5 www diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 SO2-6 CS 2-3, 10-14 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Sustainable perspectives How we take responsibility for the economy, people and the environment Corporate Sustainability Report 11 Contents About this report About us 1 CEO statement 2 SEB’s Corporate Sustainability (CS) Report B level. Our complete GRI cross-reference presents our non-financial performance table can be found online. As part of SEB’s Our role and approach across an extensive amount of indicators commitment to the UN Global Compact Contribution to society 4 covering the governance/business ethi(UNGC), we report on our activities and Material issues 5 cal, environmental and social aspects of performance through a combination of this Sustainability strategy and performance 6 our business. It supplements the Annual report and an annual Communication on Governance and risk management 8 Report & Fact Book as well as the Annual Progress (COP). Our UN COP table of referOur priorities Review, which covers the Group’s financial ence can be found online. Responsible selling and marketing 10 performance and corporate governance Responsible ownership 12 policies (view at www.sebgroup.com/ ir). Our Corporate Sustainability Report Tackling financial crime 14 describes our approach and presents key We continue our Sustainable finance and investments 15 achievements and future-oriented work focus on eight business within eight business priorities. To compleReducing our environmental ment this written report, we also publish a priorities, which we believe footprint 18 Valuing our people 20 CS Fact Book online. are key to creating shared Our CS Report is primarily written for Investing in communities 22 institutional investors, non-governmental value for SEB and our Access to financial services 24 organisations (NGO’s) and others with stakeholders. Indexes and awards, international a particular professional interest in the Viveka Hirdman-Ryrberg, commitments, contacts Group’s approach to corporate sustainChairman of the Corporate ability. We report on issues material to our Sustainability Committee stakeholders and we consider the Report an We are included in research from important tool in our stakeholder dialogue. There have been no significant changthe following organisations: es from the previous report in scope and Scope and principles boundary. Work has started to integrate • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) We have published a CS Report annually our financial and non-financial indicators • EIRIS since 2007. The Report covers the precedand reporting. We have expanded our gov• Vigeo ing fiscal year, January to December 2011. ernance metrics to better align with busi• Ethix SRI advisors In some cases information for early 2012 is ness strategy, including the introduction • Oekom also included to present an up-to-date picof more specific community investment • Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) ture. Facts and figures refer to the Group metrics. Information is gathered from our • Sustainalytics unless indicated otherwise. The previous reporting systems as well as manually. report was published in March 2011. The report has not been reviewed by an We continue use the GRI G3 guidelines external party; the main reason being our and the Financial Services Sector Suppleambition to secure data and process qualment (FSSS) as our main reporting frameity as well as geographic reach prior to an work. We currently report at a self-assessed extensive external verification. For complete reporting, policies, extensive non-financial data and case studies – visit www.sebgroup.com/sustainability Cover: The awarded “Oxygen Campaign”, arranged together with the Latvian State Forests during 2011 to promote environmental awareness and plant 2 million trees. Photographer: Andrejs Strokins About us Branches and representative offices Operating income1 SEB representation worldwide Geographical distribution, per cent 2011 2010 Sweden 58 (56) Norway 8 (8) Denmark 8 (7) Finland 4 (4) Moscow Germany 1) 9 (8) London Warsaw Luxembourg Kiev Estonia 3 (3) Geneva Latvia 3 (3) Lithuania 4 (4) Beijing New York Other 3 (7) Shanghai SEB’s activities principally embrace customers based in the Nordic New Delhi Hong Kong and Baltic countries and Germany. Sweden is the single largest market, accounting for more than half of operating income in 2011. 1) Excluding centralised treasury operations São Paulo Singapore 2,700 Corporates and Institutions 400,000 SME customers 4,000,000 Private customers SEB is the leading corporate and investSEB offers small and medium-sized corSEB provides some four million individuals ment bank in the Nordic countries, serving porate customers several customised with products and services to meet their large corporations, financial institutions, products that were initially developed in financial needs. These include products banks and commercial real estate clients co-operation with SEB’s large corporate and services for daily finances, loans, with corporate banking, trading and capiclients. In addition, numerous services savings, wealth management and life tal markets and global transaction serviare specifically designed for small cominsurance. ces. Comprehensive pension and asset panies and entrepreneurs. management solutions are also offered. Banks have a key role to play Our mission is to help people and businesses thrive by providing quality advice and financial resources. We aim for financial strength and stability and longterm sustainable economic growth. Ethical, social and environmental considerations are therefore an important part of how we do business and manage our company. We have an opportunity to invest in a better future. We collaborate with local partners to achieve lasting, positive change in areas like small business growth, financial literacy, child and youth development. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 1 CEO STATEMENT Driving change through responsible banking 2011 was in many ways a difficult year. The financial markets were marked customers, employees and other stakeby uncertainty and high volatility on the back of the severe sovereign debt holders as well as ourselves to manage situation for many countries in Europe. The global banking system which is risks and capture opportunities. Long-term so highly intertwined with economic development in society at large thus relations with our customers are crucial, faced numerous challenges. and we aim for a sound working environment where all employees feel valued and Perhaps more than ever, banks have to effect of this is that despite the continued have equal opportunities to develop. approach their fundamental role in society financial uncertainty, customers chose We conduct our work within eight busibased on a long-term perspective, putto increase their business volumes with ness priorities designed to help us increase ting a premium on financial stability and SEB. Last year’s deposits increased by SEK our positive contribution to society. These continuously building trust and relation150bn, corporate lending by SEK 62bn priorities are relevant to our entire busiships. We do that in SEB. Through a strong and household lending by SEK 46bn. We balance sheet and sufficient liquidity executed over a billion transactions on reserves, we can support our customers as behalf of our customers and also increased Our eight business a financial partner in good and bad times. the number of meeting points through priorities help us to Over the past years, two priorities have the rapid development of mobile banking guided us – resilience and flexibility. SEB services. increase our positive has a unique role as a financial partner for Following the failures of two local contribution to 2,700 large corporations and financial inbanks – Snoras Bank in Lithuania and stitutions and increasingly so for 400,000 Krajbanka in Latvia – SEB was appointed society. small and medium-sized companies and to manage the payment of the deposit 4 million private customers. As the uncerguarantee in Lithuania. We supported ness and offer guidance to our employees. tainty in the euro-area increased in 2011, the banks’ customers through prolonged One important milestone during the year we chose to take the costs of prolonging opening hours in Latvia and Lithuania, and was the formal introduction of three posiour funding, increase liquidity reserves and we could support about 190,000 people tion statements and six sector policies. raise the quality in our bond portfolio. We with pay-out of deposit insurances. They guide our approach to responsible improved our capital ratios further and lending and investment practices. They are SEB is now one of Europe’s best capitalised SEB’s approach to sustainability the result of collaboration with important banks. In SEB, we take a broad approach to corstakeholders including some of our major porate sustainability with efforts targeting clients and business partners. A more integrated bank governance, business ethics, environmenWe continue to support international Customers today meet a more integrated tal and social responsibility. Our strategy initiatives such as the UN Global Combank where it is easier to do business. One enables us to fulfil our role by helping our pact, the Equator Principles and the UN January February March April May June The divestment of SEB’s SEB’s three position We launched a broadened The result from our Roll-out of “You are SEB” Launch of the iPad German retail bankstatements and six sector savings offering in Sweden, employee survey VOICE – a Group-wide employee application “My Economy” ing business to Banco policies were adopted by introducing Exchange was presented. engagement programme. in our largest market, Santander, as announced by the Group Executive Traded Funds for private Sweden. SEB was one of three comLaunch of the online in July 2010, was finalised. Committee. individuals. panies in the Gold category training and workshops; Lithuania’s largest busiSEB acquired and conin terms of sustainability Sustainability@abank ness daily Verslo Žinios solidated DNB’s Swedish work in Latvia. arranged a Sustainability and career portal CV.LT. mortgage portfolio. Week for employees in appointed SEB the Most The Oxygen Campaign, Latvia. Attractive Employer in initiated in SEB in Latvia, the country for the third was awarded. Introduction of customer consecutive year. support through Twitter. 2 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 CEO STATEMENT Principles for Responsible Investment. The footprint. We are making progress and work performed by these organisations, in have reduced our CO2 emissions by 22 SEB – an important partnership with companies such as SEB, percent against the 2008 baseline. I am is vital to secure the transformation to a proud that SEB was the only Nordic bank part of the economy more sustainable global economic model. to receive an A-ranking in the “Nordic We are included in several sustainability indices, such as FTSE4Good, but we aim Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index”, in the annual ranking by the Carbon SEK 680bn for more. Disclosure Project. in corporate lending Responsible corporate behaviour Deploying our resources and skills a business necessity Economic, social and environmental 735 million The requirements for banks to assume a challenges remain at the top of the internumber of payments wider responsibility are increasing. We see national agenda. Our particular resources this in discussions with our large corporate and skills can be deployed to assist cusand institutional clients, and in their retomers and society at large to understand SEK 260bn quests for proposals. We see it in demands and adapt to a changing landscape. in customer deposits from private customers and politicians – and also from our employees. (private and SME) Transparency and dialogue are key for us as we try to meet these demands. One example of this is that SEB, as the only maSEK 240bn jor Swedish bank, has been transparent on Credit facilities to SME’s disclosing funding costs, and the structure of our pricing on mortgages. We have also gained recognition for 1.9 million Green Bonds, financial instruments that Stockholm, March 2012 Customers with a pension support climate change mitigation and adaption projects. Since we first launched solution Green Bonds in 2008, in collaboration with the World Bank, some USD 2bn have been issued. 55 million 2011 marked the third year of our Annika Falkengren Internet bank, no of visits efforts to reduce SEB’s own environmental President and Chief Executive Officer July August September October November December SEB was ranked as the The result of our second Sponsored the PRI/Mistra Our website, SEB SustainSEB divested its Retail SEB became “Business best bank in the Nordic research on the importance conference on Responsible able Perspectives, was business in the Ukraine. Bank” of the year, awarded and Baltic countries by of environmental and social Investments in Sweden. awarded best area specific by Privata Affärer in We celebrated one year of Euromoney. responsibility among Sweweb site in Sweden. Sweden. Launch of Green Car Swedish customer service dish SME’s was presented. A “Green Day” was arranged Leasing in the Baltic SEB was invited to discuss on Facebook. We invested in our third in the Scandinavian House SEB re-opened a branch countries. Green Investments in the climate compensation SEB was ranked the fifth (location of our London in Hongkong. UN General Assembly. project. best company in the Estooffice) to raise awareness Top rankings for Best nian Sustainability Index. and engage staff and other Employer by Universum in rental guests in achieving Sweden and all three Baltic a greener building. countries. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 3 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Contribution to society The greatest service we can do to Distribution of economic benefits tomers and providing undisrupted levels the economy, to society and to the In 2011, SEB generated SEK 37.7bn in of service. Running a stable and secure environment is to manage our busioperating income. We paid a total of business, with well-communicated continness responsibly, supporting our SEK 11.4bn in compensation, pensions gency management routines is key to any customers and making SEB sustainand benefits (excl social charges) to our system-critical organisation in society. employees and SEK 10bn to suppliers. More than half of the largest Nordic able for the long-term. This allows us During the year, SEB also paid SEK 3.8bn in companies are SEB customers. We are the to continue servicing our customers, dividends to shareholders and SEK 6.5bn largest or the second-largest broker on the pay salaries to employees, payments in taxes and fees to governments in the local stock exchange in the Nordic and the to suppliers, taxes to governments different jurisdictions where we operate. Baltic markets (Denmark excluded). SEB and dividends to shareholders. In 2009, the Swedish Government is the largest bank in Lithuania, and the introduced a stability fee for financial instisecond largest bank in Estonia and Latvia. Banks in general play an important role in tutions. The fee amounts to 0.036 per cent The overall deposit volume of SEK 66bn society, by providing credit and managof applicable debts and appropriations. increased by 15 per cent. In Lithuania, the ing financial assets in ways that promote Fees are allocated to a special stability market share is close to 30 per cent. economic growth and prosperity. SEB is a fund which is targeted to reach 2.5 per relationship bank which provides private, cent of Sweden’s gross domestic product. corporate and institutional customers with In 2011, SEB paid SEK 600 million in stabilTaxes and SEKm financial solutions tailored to their various ity fee to the fund. We contributed SEK 54 government fees 2011 2010 needs. This includes savings, loans, paymillion to community investments in the Tax on profits 3,046 2,569 ments, pensions and asset management local markets where we are present. for private customers. We provide corpoEmployee social charges 2,487 2,408 rate and institutional clients with services Strong position Stability fee, (Sweden) + including lending, corporate finance, cash We have a strong position in the Nordic deposit insurance (Group) 995 878 management, foreign exchange, life insurand Baltic markets. This puts emphasis TOTAL taxes 6,528 5,855 ance and debt capital markets activities. on the importance of standing by our cusOur stakeholders SEB’s value distribution SEKm ment and regulator vern s 35,000 Go 32,048 31,810 s Cu 29,758 yee more stom 30,000 27,815 lo 26,629 ors tha p 0 0 n4 e Em ,0 etit 25,000 17 rs illion mp Med ia Co m 20,000 15,000 n s Co m r lde 10,000 S h a r e h o 00 om m u n oc e 20 i t i e s 5,000 300,0 at ps Civ Su c o u n tr i e s eg ro u d s bu p p lie r s a n rs il s 0 i 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 sin e ss par e t n oc i et yo rg 12,000 dv an is a e ra Dividends to shareholders (3.8) tio n su m Taxes and fees to governments (6.5) s Co n Payments to suppliers (10.0) Compensation and pensions to employees (11.4) 4 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Material issues and stakeholder engagement Stakeholder opinions play an NGO’s we see a request for openness Customer surveys integral role when we develop our regarding how we work and the processes We conduct a wide range of surveys to approach to corporate sustainabilwe use. Examples include talent manageassess how our customers perceive us, ity and our business priorities. We ment and competence development, including broad surveys on brand positrack stakeholder insights primarily supply chain management, and how we tion and customer recommendation and integrate environmental, social and govspecific customer satisfaction surveys. through various ongoing surveys ernmental issues into our business. We see an improvement in our corporate and open dialogue but also through reputation, but see that we have more to specific sustainability surveys. We Moving forward do on being perceived as a responsible aim for transparency and intend to A general conclusion is that SEB has clearly and transparent financial partner. engage all stakeholders. moved forward on the issues identified in Understanding our customers’ chalour latest specifically dedicated stakeholdlenges and opportunities related to climate By listening to our stakeholders we can er assessment survey, performed in 2009. change, resource constraints, human rights better understand emerging trends and We have taken steps towards defining and other issues is increasingly important. material issues, and how to prioritise and anchoring a collective understandWe know this both from dialogues with our among them. Stakeholder engagement is larger customers as well as from surveys not only used for managing our environwith small and medium-sized customers. mental and social impact but also for The issue of banks’ financial strength and managing our business in a more transparUnderstanding our approach to risk management is again a ent and efficient way. Input received from customers’ challenges matter of crucial importance, as customers surveys and dialogues with customers, and other stakeholders scrutinise financial employees and other stakeholders are and opportunities institutions more closely in the wake of applied directly in the development of is increasingly financial crises. our offerings and business practices. important. A broad internal engagement Dialogues and surveys SEB’s employee survey conducted in We conduct a variety of dialogues and 2011, shows clear progress on sustainsurveys to identify issues that are material ing about SEB’s approach to corporate ability awareness among our employees. to our stakeholders. During 2011, we held sustainability throughout the organisation. 74 per cent of SEB’s employees stated some 25 stakeholder dialogues throughWe have formulated goals and strategies that our work to integrate sustainability out SEB, with investors, NGO’s, corporate that connect to and support SEB’s overall is important for the business and the clients and institutions, all of which vision, and we are gradually integrating Bank’s long-term profitability. There was supplied valuable input. Dialogues are carcorporate sustainability into our business. also a substantial increase in the share of ried out within divisions that have direct We have also intensified our communiemployees that believed SEB is actively customer contact, but also centrally. cation efforts to close the gap between working with corporate sustainability, from From shareholders, SRI analysts and actual and perceived performance. 42 per cent in 2009 to 68 per cent in 2011. The issues that matter the most The issues described below are primarily managed sheet and sustainable funding sources, and by Climate change – including the challenge of rewithin each business unit. Information on progress maintaining stringent risk management standards. ducing our emissions whilst growing our business, in 2011 is presented in this report, in our Annual See Governance and Risk Management and the and providing customers with solutions to mitigate Report and Annual Review. Annual Report. climate risk. See Reducing our environmental footprint, Sustainable finance and investments Customer relations and service – delivering Financial crime prevention – concerns about and Governance and risk management. products and services in a way that builds trust IT security, fraud prevention approach, employee among customers. See Responsible selling and screening, etc. and what we are doing about it. See Staff competence – how we ensure employees marketing and Access to financial services. Tackling financial crime and the Annual Review. are given opportunities to develop; how we equip them with the skills required to address future Transparency in pricing – interest rates and fees Responsible lending and investments – how challenges. See Valuing our people. continued to capture stakeholders’ attention during we address the challenges of a changing world by the year. See Responsible selling and marketing considering environmental, social and governance Diversity and work-life balance – how we build and the Annual Review. issues in our lending and investment practices. See on early progress to ensure that we continue to Responsible selling and marketing, Sustainable be a place where the best people want to work. Regulatory landscape – adapting to the new finance and investments and the Annual Review. See Valuing our people and the Annual Review. regulatory landscape by having a strong balance SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 5 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Sustainability strategy Our vision is to be the trusted partner for customers with aspirations. By taking responsibility for our impact on society and promote a long-term sustainable perspective throughout our business, we aim to strengthen relations with all our stakeholders and thus enhance our reputation. During 2011, we continued our efforts in implementing the corporate sustainability strategy decided upon in late 2009. We made significant progress in many areas, but we also have many things left to do. Our sustainability journey never ends. Our ambitions Our goal is to further improve the confidence and trust our customers and other key stakeholders have in SEB. We aim for long-term relations with our customers and depend on our people being engaged and feeling valued. Over the next three years, we will focus on quality advice based on customer insights, good Kn governance, strong business ethics and transparency. tio n ow ibu le We will improve communication abut SEB’s role and Knowle Governance tion contribution to society. dge a ntribu ic co Responsible selling & marketing nd e nom con Tackling financial crime For well-balanced decisions we will continue to Eth eco om ics Responsible ownership integrate governance, social and environmental asic c nd ea Eth ics on pects throughout the organisation. We will work for intr dg creased diversity at all levels and an engaging, healthy To be the trusted partner and inclusive work environment. We will further for customers with explore how we best can support the next generation; aspirations entrepreneurship and innovation, financial literacy and children and youth in the communities where we are present. We will continue our efforts to reduce our Environment Social environmental footprint and resource usage. Reducing our footprint Valuing our people Sustainable finance & Access to financial services Our long-term ambition is to provide space for investment Investing in communities multi-stakeholder dialogue and engagement around key issues and to propel our industry to higher stanEthics dards. We view our business from a systems perspecKn o i on wle d ge and economic contribut tive, thinking in closed loop cycles rather than with a linear approach. Sustainability is integrated into our culture and brand. Eight business priorities SEB’s sustainability strategy is focused on Responsible ownership Valuing our people eight business priorities in three key areas. – investing money responsibly – taking good care of our people By focusing our efforts on these priorities, Ensure that we perform our owner­ Being a modern workplace, attracting we can contribute to better banking govership role responsibly, promoting good business the right people and providing scope for individual nance and protection of the environment, ethics and governance, and displaying good development by making our people feel valued, while enhancing our social contribution. corporate citizenship. included and engaged. Responsible selling and marketing Reducing our environmental Access to financial services – being true and fair to people footprint – being gentle to nature €$ – being accessible for all people Assist our customers in reaching Managing our direct environmental Promoting equal access to financial their financial objectives. Ensure that our impact. services regardless of socio-economic standing, customers understand the consequences of ethnic origin or other factors. our advice and their overall dealings with us. Sustainable finance and investments – driving change Investing in communities Tackling financial crime through money – making people and societies grow – protecting people and money Together with our customers, reduce the risk for Supporting the development of local Actions to prevent money laundering, negative social and environmental impact related communities, including support of youth developfraud and financing of criminal activity. to our finance and investment activities. Work to ment and the growth of small and medium-sized increase our and our customers’ positive con­trienterprises. bution through offering sus­tainable products and services. 6 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Objectives 2011 Status Performance 2011 Objectives 2012 Governance responsibility • Continue to act on customer insights to • 2nd year of customer excellence programme. • Continued customer centred further improve customer experience and Competence development throughout organisation. business development based Net Promoter Score. • Pilot project to redesign lending processes, including on customer insights. • Render product and service offering easier > 2000 customer interviews. • Launch updated Code of to use and understand. • Developed financial advisory module for client executives Business Conduct. • Continue efforts to improve financial literacy in the Baltic division. • Further strengthen transparency. among customers. • Financial planning tool (private) available on Internet bank. • Perform a health check on fraud and any • Health check carried out, comparing SEB with best practice, • Implement updated fraud prevenrisks related to such activity. legal requirements and auditor benchmarks. Measures are tion model with increased focus on • Review potential education need to raise in place for strengthened governance. Action plan includes proactive measures. Aim to build awareness among employees. enhanced pre-employment screening for security reasons. ”fraud proof” banking processes. • Increase focus on ESG aspects to support • Ownership policy and policy for responsible investments •C  ontinue to improve PRI engagement and investment analysis. updated. Sector policies launched. Internal education on implementation. • Deeper engagement with portfolio compaESG issues. Refined responsible investing process. • I ntegrate ESG aspects into nies on ESG issues. • Engagements in collaboration with UNPRI on anti-corruption investment process of three and transparency, water scarcity, climate reporting, oil sand of the major investment teams. and responsible business in conflict areas. Own engagements • Improve engagement process. with Swedish holdings. Environmental responsibility • CO2 emissions –25 per cent from 2008. • Reduced CO2 emissions by 22 per cent. • Continue CO2 reduction towards • Action plan to reduce emissions related • Growth in business travel halted in Q4. New travel policy and target of –45 per cent. to business travel. increased focus on alternative meeting formats. • Reduce electricity consumption • Evaluate pilot green branch offices. • Pilot for green branch offices resulted in increased awareness with 2.5 per cent per annum on • Reduce energy consumption. and new ideas for improvement. average, in order to reach a 20 • Improved water and waste management. • Reduced water consumption by –15 per cent. per cent reduction by 2020. • Implement sector policies and position • About 700 client executives participated in training. • Implementation to continue. All statements. • CS and policies gradually being included in customer relevant clients in Merchant Bank• Increase share of sustainable financing, dialogues. ing to be assessed by end 2012. investments and other savings products. • Dedicated financing of renewable energy equipment and • Sustainable financing solutions • Develop two new sector policies and /or solutions amounted to SEK 17bn. based on customer insights. position statements. • Launch of Green Leasing in each of the Baltic banks. • Savings and investment solutions • No new sector policies, focus on implementation. to reflect customer insight and preferences. Social responsibility • Develop action plan on result of Voice • Voice survey indicated improvements in all major areas. • Further employee engagement. employee survey. Action plans developed for each unit and division. • Increased focus on diversity, e.g • Improve employee engagement. • Roll out of “You are SEB” programme to increase employee in leadership training. • Implement employer value proposition. engagement. • Strengthen strategic focus on • Collaboration platform, Connect, launched in May 2011. health and a sound workplace. 11 intranet chats with CEO and other senior managers. • Retain and develop SEB’s talent • Four internal career days held. pool. • New initiatives to further facilitate accessibil• Sharing expertise: on average our experts were quoted or • Continue to share expertise and €$ ity of, and availability to, SEB’s services, based interviewed 3 times/week in Sweden in 2011. knowledge in all our markets. on customer insights. • Several new mobile applications developed. • Initiatives to further facilitate • SEB in Lithuania and Latvia assisted 50 000 customers of accessibility of, and availability the bankrupt Snoras Bank and Krajbanka so that they could to SEB’s services. access their money. • Harmonise community investments and social • Focus on next generation, but mapping of community • Strategy for community investpartnerships. involvement not yet complete. ments and sponsorship to be • Further develop cooperation with Mentor. • Additional mentoring programmes launched. Support to emconcluded. • Decide upon applicable KPI’s to track progress. ployees as parents provided through lectures and seminars. • Increased scope for data gathering, targets still to be developed. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 7 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Governance and risk management A structure is in place to implement Risk management staff, an explicit decision making structure, the corporate sustainability strategy SEB’s business success is directly related common definitions and principles, and throughout SEB. We have specific to our ability to understand our customtransparency in external disclosures. processes for addressing environers’ situation and needs and to evaluate, Our risk management is constantly mental, social and governance asmanage and price the opportunities and evolving to reflect the changing world risks that we encounter. Our investors, cusaround us. Sustainability aspects are incorpects in our risk management. Each tomers, employees and other stakeholders porated into our assessment of potential manager and employee is ultimately expect us to take a responsible approach customers and are featured in the longresponsible to make the right decito our finance and lending activities. Credit term support for our customers. sion and to be accountable. risk is the most significant of SEB’s risks. SEB maintains capital resources and During 2011, the former Chairman of the has a funding and liquidity position to CS Committee, Head of Group Staff and match. This enables us to always be there Business Support, handed over the role for our customers and to meet unforeseen to the Head of Group Communications. events. With a reported core tier 1 capital The Chairman of the CS Committee is ratio of 13.7 per cent (12.2) at year-end responsible for Corporate Sustainability 2011, SEB belongs to the group of Europe’s in the Group Executive Committee, on bebest capitalised banks. half of the President and Chief Executive We apply a robust framework for our Officer (CEO). risk management and have long since Some key sustainability initiatives have established independent risk control, specific governance structures to support credit analysis and credit approval functhem. A Sector Policy Committee oversees tions supported by a toolbox of advanced the development and implementation of internal models. sector policies and position statements. The cornerstones of SEB’s risk and A Carbon Chasing Committee oversees the capital management are board superviwork to reduce SEB’s environmental footsion, a high level of risk awareness among print. In addition, several of the business divisions and countries have established their own local CS councils and dedicated CS-coordinators to drive the sustainability Governance structure for the corporate sustainability work agenda and facilitate the integration of Board of Directors Adopts the Corporate Sustainability (CS) Policy. As applicable, environmental, social and governance matters are dealt with by the Board or by any of its established factors into the business. committees: The Risk and Capital Committee; the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Human Resources Committee. Several policies updated During the year, both the Corporate SusGroup Executive Decides upon the Group targets and SEB's approach to tainability Policy and the Environmental Committee (GEC) Corporate Sustainability. Approves the CS Policy. Head of Group Communication holds the CS responsibility in the GEC. Policy were updated to reflect SEB’s new sector policies and position statements. Corporate Sustainability Governance, environmental and social issues are overseen by The CS Policy, which was adopted by the (CS) Committee the CS Committee, a sub-committee of the GEC. Chaired by the Board of Directors, was also updated to Head of Group Communication. Responsible for advising the clarify our responsibility to work against GEC and the executive committee. Has representation from all divisions and key functions. corruption and respect for human rights. The updated Environmental Policy clarifies Group Corporate Coordinates and drives the overall sustainability agenda within our Environmental Management System Sustainability SEB. Responsible for the implementation of the CS Policy as well as well as our commitment to international as for reporting on its annual progress. Headed by the Group initiatives and standards. Head of Corporate Sustainability and supported by the Group Environmental Manager. Local CS Committees; Manages the business priority work on a daily basis within a • The Corporate Governance Report Business and country coordinators; specified division, country or staff function (Procurement, Real 2011 can be viewed at www.sebgroup.com. Program Managers Estate, HR, IT, Marketing, Security etc). Further information about corporate sustainability governance, including the Managers and employees Each head of a division, business area, group function is responsible for ensuring that activities carried out and instructions Corporate Sustainability Policy, is found adopted are in accordance with the CS Policy. Employees are at www.sebgroup.com/sustainability. expected to act in accordance with the CS Policy. 8 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Integrating sustainability into our business decisions In 2009, the development of our sector As of June 2011, sector policies and ing, Baltic and Retail divisions and other policies and position statements was position statements are included in the key professionals. The training and workinitiated. Six sector policies and three regular business review as well as in shops form a critical part of the impleposition statements were formally adopted the annual credit review for large and mentation of sector policies and position by the Group Executive Committee in medium-sized corporates. By year-end, statements into our daily business. About February, 2011. They regulate our view on we have had future-oriented dialogues 700 client executives and other key key issues and industry sectors that are with more than 30 per cent of those professionals were included in our sensitive from an environmental and social customers, and we have assessed approxie-training and/or dedicated workshops, perspective. The policies highlight relevant mately 60 per cent. In addition we have also involving customers and NGO’s. international conventions, guideLooking ahead to 2012 and belines and standards that we wish By including environmental and soyond, our priority will be to ensure the companies we do business that our policies and statements with to adhere to. cial factors in our business decisions are thoroughly integrated into By including environmental and discussions with customers, we the business, and that business and social factors in our business opportunities in key sectors are decisions and discussions with are better equipped to mitigate risks maximized. customers, we are better equipped and seize opportunities. to mitigate risks and seize opporMagnus Carlsson, Download statements and policies tunities. Our primary objective is to Head of Merchant Banking division at: www.sebgroup.com/sustainestablish a platform for a proactive ability. and future-oriented dialogue with our had a sustainability dialogue with about customers and portfolio companies on sus30 per cent of our larger SME customers. tainable development – we want to work towards improved business practices. Working with suppliers Our efforts to secure a sustainable supply Working with customers chain include the introduction of a selfPosition statements These policies and statements are now assessment tool for potential and existing • Climate Change being implemented throughout SEB. They suppliers. We have also revised our • Freshwater apply to all markets where SEB operates general supplier agreement to clarify the • Child Labour and in all lines of our business. They also responsibility we expect our suppliers to apply to SEB-branded investment funds take regarding environmental, social and Sector policies and investment products. They have been governance aspects of their business. • Arms and Defence developed in consultation with stake• Forestry holders, including non-governmental Implementation and training • Fossil Fuels organisations (NGO’s) and large corporate During 2011, we developed a specific • Mining and Metals customers in the Nordic and Baltic counonline course to train client executives and • Renewable Energy tries and Germany. business advisors in the Merchant Bank• Shipping SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 9 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Responsible selling and marketing also need to coordinate ourselves better avoid products such as loans via mobile What's the issue? internally. phone text messages. More than 2,000 customer interviews In our Retail Banking division we apply The global financial crisis has increased were conducted as part of a pilot study credit scoring methods and information pressure on banks to be stable and within mortgage lending and corporate from credit information agencies to gain transparent and to conduct their business retail lending. Numerous tangible proposinsight into the customer’s entire financial responsibly. At SEB, our foremost responals for improvement, anchored in deep situation before taking our decision. sibility is to our customers, many of whom customer insights, have been developed. In Sweden, household mortgage have entrusted us with their business for To improve customer satisfaction lending grew by SEK 49bn. We advise cusdecades. We act with a long-term view and customer service we utilise the Net tomers to lower their risk profile and to be through both good times and bad. High Promoter tool, by which we conduct over prepared to meet significantly higher interethical standards are an integral part of 100,000 customer surveys annually. This est rates than today’s levels. In Sweden, we the way we do business and of the behavgives us both an early warning system and adhere to the 85 per cent national leverage iours we foster. a set of indicators to appropriately direct our ratio regulations, and SEB’s customers can focus on the areas requiring improvement. generally borrow a maximum of five times We also gain customer insights through the household income. More than 95 per At SEB, we believe it is essential to focus other types of surveys. In February 2012 cent of the mortgage loans have loan-to on our customers’ needs and to take a pruwe launched a new internal Customer values below 75 per cent. We continue to dent approach in all our business dealings. Insight Portal, to facilitate access to the safeguard customers’ repayment capacity In order to be able to support our customwealth of customer information we gather. by requiring amortisations and restrictions ers in a deteriorating market environment, on the household debt ratio. 450 we extended our funding and increased our liquidity buffers during the year. Our High standards for employees capital ratios are among Europe’s highest. For our customers it is vital that we have the ability to explain the risks involved Supporting our customers in their dealings with us and that our SEB stands by its customers in good proposed solutions are appropriate to the times, and in bad. This principle has broad customer’s needs and desired risk taking implications, as became clear when Lithucorporate and private level. We constantly work with improving ania’s fifth-largest bank (Snoras Bank) and standards for employee training, product its Latvian subsidiary (Krajbanka) were advisors have taken part development, marketing and sales as well declared bankrupt. SEB was chosen by in training to obtain the as after sales service processes. the Lithuanian government as the trusted Within in the Swedish Retail division bank to disburse more than 3bn Litai (SEK SEB Advisory Diploma we set higher competence requirements 7.6bn) of Snoras deposits, insured under on private advisors than most of our peers. the state guarantee scheme. By end-year Therefore, in addition to the requirement 80 per cent of the fund was disbursed. In Responsible banking that private advisors must have a SwedSec total more than 190,000 citizens in Latvia Ensuring that our customers can afford or Investment Advisors licence (e.g. that and Lithuania received compensation payto manage their debt is a key component they must possess the basic skills and ments, and SEB welcomed an additional of all responsible lending. This is why our personal qualities required to provide 50,000 customers. credit decisions always are based on the advice on the Swedish securities market), In Lithuania, SEB was selected by Ernst customer’s individual situation and repaywe provide private and corporate advi& Young and United Nations Developing ment abilities. Our approach entails fair sors with an SEB Advisory Diploma. The Programme to participate in a study to and ethical marketing, and we consciously training which is mandatory since 2010 benchmark the impact of CS on banking activity, running through to 2012. SEB was also recognised the most sustainable bank Key performance indicators in Latvia in 2011. 2011 2010 2009 2008 Evaluating the customer experience Employees trained in Code of Conduct, per cent 93 93 87 n/a 2011 marked the second year of a longCertified advisors, private & SME business. per cent 100 100 98 90 term Customer Excellence initiative within Total customer complaints, Retail banking Sweden 6,348 7,264 n/a n/a SEB. To meet our customers’ needs and Customer complaints compensation > EUR 10 000 47 91 165 71 expectations in all situations, we need to Net Customer recommendation score, private Swe 13.32 12.53 7.18 n/a increase our knowledge of their needs. We Net Customer recommendation score, SME Swe 11.25 6.63 0.58 n/a 10 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE comprises investments, legal and taxes, clear pricing models and offerings to simFacebook customer service and, since March insurance, financing and payments. 450 plify everyday life. This includes the Enkla 2011, through our Twitter customer service. advisors took part in these trainings during (“Easy”) concept, which now comprises We seek to resolve a complaint on the 2010 and 2011. lending, deposits, custody, pensions and spot, and intend to develop these proSEB in Estonia has taken lead in imSME banking. cesses further. If we need additional time proving advisory services and consultation to get back, we provide a first response by its 90 private client executives. In 2011, Managing customer complaints within 48 hours. If we cannot resolve the this meant engaging in comprehensive We welcome our customers’ feedback, concern at the first point of contact, we redevelopment of a “Financial Advisory Modwhether it is a compliment, suggestion or fer the complaint to a dedicated Customer ule” for client executives, aimed at improva complaint. We receive feedback from our Relations team. Complaints are registered ing the advisory quality. The module will be customers through all our channels – by in SEB’s Operational Risk Management implemented in client meetings in all three phone, online, in person, by mail, through our Information System. Baltic countries and Sweden. In the Baltic division, corporate customer relationships were also strengthened through CS advisory dialogue, where client executives were informed on SEB’s CS strategy during Client Executive Academy meetings. License for insurance brokers In early 2012, SEB introduced a license for life insurance brokers. The initiative is the result of collaboration between the major life insurance companies, including SEB, and the Swedish insurance intermediary compound (Svenska försäkringsförmedlares förening). The purpose of licensing is to increase consumer protection and transparency in respect of insurance mediation. Transparent pricing SEB has for several years been the only major Swedish bank to publicly disclose its funding costs for retail mortgages. The current debate and mistrust among customers and the general public against banks makes transparent pricing a top priority. We are continuously introducing Code of Business Conduct SEB’s Code of Business Conduct, which The Code is available in eleven languages on both the receiving and giving end. In is supported by the Board of Directors, and has also been developed into a cusorder to ensure that we do not receive or embodies our approach to all our business tomised e-learning tool. All SEB employees give gifts intended to influence business dealings, including interactions with cusare expected to abide by the Code in their decision-making, the Group Executive tomers. The Code is based on our four core daily work. By year-end, 93 per cent of SEB Committee adopted a new Instruction for values: commitment, continuity, mutual employees had completed training on the Gifts and Business Entertainment during respect and professionalism. It highlights Code. 2011. SEB’s behaviour shall be charactercertain important issues covered in existised by openness, moderation, and a ing external and internal rules and also Openness and modest benefit must never be of such nature that includes specific instructions for whistle Business gifts and entertainment are cusit typically should be seen as affecting the blowing procedures, e.g. for reporting postomary ways to strengthen business relabehaviour of the recipient in an improper sible violations to the Code. tionships, and SEB employees are involved manner. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 11 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Responsible ownership SRI funds, where ESG aspects play a larger companies in water intensive industries What's the issue? role in the selection of companies. to measure and disclose their water impact. Again, the result of the initiative Businesses that actively manage the enviProgress 2011 was a measurable improvement of the ronmental, social and governance impact In our work with responsible ownership dialogues. of their business are more able to reduce we focus on relevant themes and topics. risks and costs, and to attract capital and In 2011, these themes were climate • Responsible business in conflict zones: seize opportunities. As a large institutional change, water scarcity, responsible busiThe SEB ESG team participates in an shareholder and real estate investor, SEB ness in conflict zones and anti-corruption. expert group within the UN Global seeks to engage with portfolio companies Some examples of what we did under the Compact and UNPRI, working on how to pursue long-term value creation. Acting respective topics are: companies can do business in conflict responsibly forms an important part of the • Climate change: The quality of data is zones and other complex environments mandate given by our customers. increasingly important when assessing in a better way. how well companies are responding to the challenges from climate change. • Anti corruption: in mid-2011, the UK It is our firm belief that well-run companies In 2011, SEB took the leading role in a Bribery Act came into force in the UK. that manage their risks and capitalise on global PRI initiative focusing on improvThis encompasses all companies globally opportunities related to environmental, ing the quality of climate change data affiliated with the UK. We contacted social and governance (ESG) issues will in companies. Together with 13 other the relevant companies in our Swedish increase shareholder value over time. As international investors, we contacted portfolios to assess how prepared they a responsible owner, we strive to create 98 carbon intensive companies globally were for the legislation. Furthermore, value in companies we invest in by influwith a bottom quartile Carbon Disclowe participated in a PRI initiative aimencing them to improve on their work with sure Leadership Index score (see www. ing at improving general transparency corporate sustainability. We signed the cdproject.net for further information) to regarding anti-corruption measures in UN Principles for Responsible Investment encourage them to improve their climate companies. (UNPRI) in 2008, which guides our work reporting. The initiative saw significant with responsible ownership and investing. improvements in the companies we had PRI implementation dialogues with. Our involvement in the UNPRI has inHow we work creased over the years. We see the PRI as SEB is one of Sweden’s largest institutional • Water scarcity: We supported the CDP useful and important tools when practicing shareholders. As such, we attended 30 Water Disclosure programme by particiresponsible ownership. From 2010 to 2011, AGM’s in Sweden during 2011. In addition, pating in the PRI initiative encouraging our result increased on all seven indicators1. our German fund company, SEB Asset Management AG, participated in some 40 German annual general meetings. SEB UNPRI score* As relates to environmental and social *Reported in May each year 2011 2010 aspects, we mainly exercise our influence Trend Score Median Quartile Score Median Quartile via dialogues with companies, either directly through the ESG team or our Governance, policy and strategy (↑) 0.81 0.81 2 0.74 0.79 3 portfolio managers, or indirectly via our Principle 1 (↑) 0.19 0.67 4 0.01 0.62 4 ESG research provider. In 2011, we had Principle 2 (↑) 0.80 0.73 2 0.01 0.70 4 259 dialogues of this kind. Principle 3 (↑) 0.87 0.75 2 0.85 0.75 2 Principle 4 (↑) 0.81 0.59 1 0.58 0.58 2 We strive to collaborate with other inPrinciple 5 (↑) 0.95 0.75 1 0.73 0.75 3 vestors where we have common agendas, Principle 6 (↑) 0.79 0.62 2 0.55 0.58 3 regarding governance as well as environNo. of peers 257 339 mental and social aspects. This is predominantly done via UNPRI’s Engagement P1 – We will incorporate ESG issues into investment P6 – We will each report on our activities and progress Clearinghouse, which is a forum created analyses and decision-making processes. towards implementing the Principles. specifically for collaborative engagement P2 – We will be active owners and incorporate ESG activities. issues into our ownership policies and practices. 1) The indicator where we have the most room for improvement is principle 1, regarding ESG integration, Our exclusionary criteria are based on P3 – We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues which is also the current focus for our activities. by the entities in which we invest. adherence to international conventions We expect that indicator to be in line with the other P4 – We will promote acceptance and implementation indicators by year-end 2012. We measure our result on bans of certain types of weapons. Exof the Principles within the investment industry. against similar institutions, i.e. excluding fixed income amples of these are cluster munitions and P5 – We will work together to enhance our effectiveness and hedge funds since that is most representative for anti-personnel landmines. We also provide in implementing the Principles. our business. 12 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Responsible investment model In 2011, we refined our responsible inlandmines from our investments in our le ownership and in vesting model as a part of the implemennsib ves own branded products. spo tin tation of SEB’s corporate sustainability Re g 1. A g ortin ctiv strategy. The model consists of four nd rep ed ial og III. Responsible products and sustainya main elements: 4. Tra otin g able investments: Our client base is large nsp dv are an and diverse, and we have a corresponding nc ue I. Active dialogue and voting: The range of products combining the ESG foundation for our work with responsible n strategies of exclusion, positive screening, investments is active ownership. This is le lu sio integration and thematic investments. Our si b e i displayed in the way we work through the p o n bl ambition is to continuously develop our ofexc 3. Res taina nd nomination committees, through voting at sus p fering in line with the developments on the na nv ro d ti o es u c ts gr a AGM’s, and through our engagement with tm e nt a n d s 2. E SG i n te different markets where we are present. company management. IV. Transparency and reporting: A core II. ESG integration and exclusion: As a part of SEB’s responsible investment stratsignatory to the UNPRI, we are committed egy is to be transparent to stakeholders. to integrate ESG aspects into our investequity portfolios, a project, which will be We report on our corporate governance ments. We do this in our Private Equity and ongoing throughout 2012. The SEB sector work and our priorities. Our UNPRI ReportProperty portfolios, as well as in our SRI policies will provide guidance in this work. ing and Assessment, describing our work equity portfolios. Towards the end of 2011, Since 2010 we exclude companies involved with UNPRI implementation, is publicly we started a project to integrate the most in the manufacturing and marketing of available on the UNPRI website (http:// important ESG aspects in our mainstream cluster munitions and anti-personnel www.unpri.org/reporting/result.php). Green Real Estate through SEB’s German Asset Management business Climate change and carbon mitigation regulation have a direct impact on the Real Estate sector. It is estimated that real estate represents some seven percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, mainly from lighting, heating and cooling, hot water and ventilation. As a consequence, the sector is in focus for legislators’ carbon mitigation strategies. Improved energy efficiency in buildings also results in cost reductions, making green property relevant from a commercial as well as legislative perspective. SEB’s German Asset Management business is the SEB Group’s specialist investment house for real estate investment funds. It works in a structured way to improve portfolio properties in line with Via Laurentina, Rome, Italy (www.sebassetmanagement.de) sustainability criteria while matching the tenants’ needs and requirements. ExamProgramme, which examines the heating, in close cooperation with the tenants. ples of activities include actions to prevent cooling and electricity consumption as As a result, the “Via Laurentina” is the water pollution and protect the soil, as well well as the carbon dioxide emission of real first building in Italy to be awarded the as investments in environmentally-friendly estate properties. The programme is to be LEED Gold Green Building certificate for a infrastructure. The economic benefits are applied for both existing portfolio properrefurbishment, documenting the building’s clear – stronger brand value, lower operatties and in acquisition decisions. ecological sustainability, high user comfort ing costs, higher rental incomes and lower One example of the Carbon Footprint and low operating costs. An example of depreciation costs. Programme is the real estate portfolio “Via this is that water consumption was reIn 2011, our German Asset ManageLaurentina” in Rome. The office building duced by nearly 80 percent and energy ment team launched the Carbon Footprint was bought in 2003, and was refurbished consumption by nearly 40 per cent. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 13 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Tackling financial crime Fraud prevention model What's the issue? Prevent Detect Respond Preventing financial crime is a high priority • Compliance risk for banks, given the magnitude of the • Policies and analysis procedures • Sanctions problem and the possible consequences • Whistleblowing • Training • Case management on local and global economies. As a major • Compliance audits • Consultation and due diligence • Remediation provider of credit, payment systems and Targets other financial services, SEB plays an • Investigations important role in the societies where we Communication and training operate. It is our responsibility to protect Compliance system and audits the people we serve and the money we Corporate culture, objectives and organisation handle. Fraud prevention health check Know Your Customer (KYC) During 2011, a review of the governance In order to prevent and combat financial Financial crime is a large-scale international of fraud risks and management within crime, international agreements as well as problem. At SEB, we devote considerable the Group’s main business areas in ten common measures and rules are necesresources to prevent its damaging effects sites was undertaken by our Internal Audit sary. We abide by European Union legislaon our business, our customers and society. team. The review included an evaluation of tion on AML and KYC. We apply enhanced We focus on three key areas: the overall adequacy of the fraud prevendue diligence for customers, products and • Actions to prevent money laundering and tion measures within SEB. We wanted to countries, where there is a perceived risk financing of terrorism. evaluate the Group’s overall governance that the Bank is used for money laundering • Compliance with government sanctions and management of fraud risk as comand financing of terrorism. against criminal suspects. pared with best practice, legal require• Fraud prevention. ments and external auditor benchmarks. As the audit report showed, strong Financial Coalition Fraud prevention has been a priority for measures for fraud prevention are in place Against Child SEB in recent years, including the launch at SEB. The focus of future work includes Pornography of a new fraud prevention strategy and strengthened governance in terms of Work in the Swedish training of 9,300 SEB employees in policies and procedures as well as enFinancial Coalition against 2009 – 2011. We are strengthening our hancement of pre-employment screening Child Pornography is focus on proactive measures, by reviewprocesses. beginning to yield results. MOT BARN SEXH AN DEL ing fraud issues earlier in the business According to WWW. ECPAT. SE the Swedish police, the processes. Our core fraud combating units Employee awareness training number of commercial Internet sites has are Security, Compliance, Internal Audit, Enhancing employee awareness about fraud been reduced significantly and there are Information Security, Human Resources trends and combating techniques is key to indications that the area is becoming and Risk Control. They work together to successful financial crime prevention. We commercially less interesting for criminals. strengthen fraud prevention management. provide all our employees with general and The purpose of the Coalition, which had This includes assisting business and suptailored training depending on position. All 20 members at year-end 2011, is to join port functions in building and maintaining employees must pass our general anti-monforces to prevent and obstruct payments “fraud proof” banking processes. ey laundering (AML) e-learning programme. for documented sexual abuse of children through the Swedish financial system. During the year, we contiuned our efforts to increase awareness about the issues. SEB also monitored transactions and Key performance indicators served as the main contact for the Swedish police. In November, we hosted the semi2011 2010 2009 2008 annual meeting, with some 50 guests and Employees completed anti-money laundry education 96 98 89 n/a employees receiving in-depth information Employees completed fraud prevention education 52 49 43 n/a from the Swedish police, Interpol, the Markets and sites with “Know-Your-Customer” Coalition steering group and End Child (KYC) process and instructions 21 21 19 n/a Prostitution and Trafficking, ECPAT. EffecSuspicious market transactions (MAD) reported, number 35 23 58 43 tive from January 2012, we are represented Branch office robberies (Sweden and the Baltic countries) 1 0 3 n/a in the Coalition steering group through our Card fraud costs, Nordic, SEKm 34.2 39 85 120 Head of Group Corporate Sustainability. 14 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Sustainable finance and investments What's the issue? Dedicated financing of renewable energy projects and equipment To address the many social and environFinancing of renewable power Financing of renewable energy mental challenges that the world faces, producers, SEK 13.3bn equipment manufactures, SEK 3.7bn new thinking, innovations and financial Wind 42% Solar 32% assistance are needed. Banks can play an important role by creating financial solutions and assisting customers in their sustainability efforts. By including environmental and social factors in our business decisions and discussions with customers, Wind 49% we are better equipped to mitigate risks Bioenergy 54% and seize opportunities. Hydro 4% Hydro 19% In our role as a large corporate bank and asconcentrated to wind and solar energy (to date available in Swedish) that visualises set manager we have considerable indirect while well over 90 per cent of the financing the carbon savings customers can achieve impact. We want to work together with our of renewable power producers were for bio by using e-invoicing. In addition to reducing clients in order to drive sustainable growth, energy and wind power. emissions, there is also cost savings comprotect the environment and contribute In 2011, SEB granted over EUR 15 pared to normal handling of invoices. positively to society. Our newly adopted million in renovation loans for apartment position statements and sector policies buildings in Estonia and Latvia, especially Supporting SME guide our employees in their dialogues with targeting energy savings. On average, A survey, performed by our Business our customers about the future. the financed projects provide 40 per cent Economist during spring 2011, showed savings in energy cost per building. More that small and medium-sized enterprises Financing a low-carbon economy buildings are being completely renovated (SME) see a clear customer demand on We are committed to finance the transition with complex work to significantly improve environmental and socially responsible to a low-carbon economy with innovative energy efficiency. products. They believe those issues will financing solutions. By improving knowThe framework for transforming become even more important in the ledge and expertise on low-carbon techsocieties towards a low-carbon economy future. These aspects already affect their nologies, and by arranging the finance includes trading of carbon emission rights business orientation and profitability. that will help bring these technologies to and certificates for green electricity. We Our current transactions within the markets at scale, we can make a major aim to support our corporate customers SME sector range from financing renewcontribution to a low-carbon future as also in this area. We currently provide able energy projects to financing developwell as generate new revenues. These are advisory and risk management tools such ment and manufacturing of products and opportunities we take seriously. as forward and future contracts for carbon technologies that address a wider range One of our most significant climate emissions rights and green electricity of sustainability concerns. Examples of contributions is to assist our large industrial certificates. the companies we serve are engaged and commercial property clients in their In chasing carbon emissions, every step in climate-friendly engine technology, efforts to reduce environmental footprint. counts. During 2011, we developed an app weather forecasting solutions that contribOver the last years we have established knowledge and capability within SEB to support low-carbon solutions and renewKey performance indicators able energy. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Renewable energy World Bank Green Bonds – money raised since inception, USDbn 2 1.6 1 0.3 n/a We are committed to financing new clean Green Car loans, total number 1,500 2,000 1,300 910 n/a tech, energy efficiency and renewable Green car loans as a per cent of total car loans, number 50% 50% n/a n/a n/a energy transactions. In 2011, SEB provided Equator Principle transanctions, total number 12 10 0 7 6 SEK 17bn in dedicated financing of renewNumber of Socially Responsible Investment/ethical funds 15 16 14 14 13 able energy projects and manufactures Total assets under managements in SRI/ethical funds, of renewable energy equipment. About SEKm 14,848 16,008 11,105 6,413 8,318 80 per cent of the financing of renewable SRI/ethical funds share of total assets under energy equipment manufacturers were management, per cent 1.26% 1.21% 0.87% 0.56% 0.65% SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 15 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT ute to reduced energy consumption, and forum again, this time in cooperation with recycling systems. INCR, the Investor Network on Climate Risk. Some 500 senior managers from Profiled offerings for private US investors, representing assets of USD individuals 26tn, participated. SEB was represented by For the retail market, SEB offers some Christopher Flensborg on the “Financing used by financial institutions to assess the climate friendly products. Since 2006 in Clean Energy Structure” panel. Visit www. social and environmental impact of large Sweden, we offer a Green Car Loan for sebgroup.com/greenbonds to learn more. projects and to help their customers to financing at subsidised interest rate levels manage them. Signatory financial instituof cars that meet national environmental Responsible investments tions are required to apply the Principles certification criteria. In 2011, we approved We support sustainable development by to project finance deals amounting to some 1,500 Green Car Loans. In autumn offering investment products designed to more than USD 10 million. 2011, we also launched a new Green meet a variety of concerns and responsible The Principles, which typically apply Leasing product in the Baltic markets, investment preferences among SEB’s to complex installations such as power granting favourable leasing terms for new customers. Assets under management plants, refineries and waste treatment environmentally friendly cars meeting EU in the 15 funds we offer with a socially plants, have contributed to developing environmental criteria. responsible investment profile amount and operating such large projects in accorto almost SEK 15bn. dance with good international practice. USD 2bn The funds are managed using a comDuring 2011, SEB was involved in bination of negative screening, positive twelve financings reported under the screening, ESG integration and thematic Principles. SEB also participated in the approach. The norm-based screening is the consultation process, together with the Money raised for World Bank foundation for most funds, and combined Equator Principles Association and other with other approaches depending on the signatory banks, regarding an assessment Green Bonds since inception preferences of the clients. We also apply of whether the Principles should apply company engagement to these products, also to corporate loans tied to specific Green Bonds with the aim of improving company perforassets. Should such lending eventually be In 2008, SEB pioneered the issuance of mance related to ESG. Please see page 12 included, the number of SEB transactions Green Bonds, working closely with the for further information. under the EP’s will significantly increase, World Bank on its inaugural Green Bond due to the nature of SEB’s business. issue. Since then, SEB has assisted the Equator Principles In October, a tailored EP training was World Bank and its affiliate the InternaIn 2007, SEB adopted the Equator Prinarranged for 30 advisors and client executional Finance Corporation in issuing a ciples (EP), a voluntary set of guidelines tives in the international team. total of USD 2bn in Green Bonds (close to 60 per cent of total global investments of USD 3.4bn). These bonds fund investments in countries throughout the world, and are designed to mitigate climate change or help people and communities adapt to it. At the end of 2011, 88 investors had invested in Green Bonds through SEB, ranging mainly from Pension Funds, Life Companies, Insurance Companies to Asset Managers and Swedish Municipalities. During the year, we participated at various events and seminars, promoting Green Bonds and the environmental and social benefits. These included, among others, the SSgA Green Bond Summits, the UNPRI Webinar “Green bonds – a viable alternative for fixed income investors?”, the United Nations General Assembly, and the Environmental Finance & Carbon Finance Conference. In early 2012, the Green Bonds were discussed in a UN 16 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Supporting economic progress, environmental protection and social development worldwide 6 8 9 3 10 12 4 2 1 5 7 11 1 Germany: Wind energy to 445,000 households SEB participates in the financing of 4 Latvia: Solar energy equipment producer SEB has financed the company 7 Lithuania: Gas-powered ferry SEB in Lithuania has issued 10 Estonia: Finance boom to eco-renovations In 2009, SEB in Estonia began a Global Tech I, one of Germany’s most Sidrabe that through vacuum guarantees covering the obligations co-operation with the Credit and ambitious wind farm projects. Global coating technologies produces of UAB Vakaru Baltijos laivu statykla Export Guarantee Fund Kredex, proTech I is one of the first commercial the special photovoltaic foil overlay to construct the world’s largest viding clients with more favourable offshore wind farms in the German for producing energy. This unique gas-powered ferry, MF Boknafjord. credit conditions and lower interest Sea, and will have 80 wind turbines material has been exported to The ferry’s hull design and efficient for apartment building renovations capable of serving the electricity remajor energy companies. engine technology combined with that offer a minimum of 15 per cent quirements of 445,000 households. changing from diesel to natural gas in energy savings. The number of 2 USA: Natural gas storage SEB finances the development 5 Germany: Environmental approach in plant expansion SEB co-finances the expansion will reduce CO2 emissions by 25 per cent, and eliminate emissions of particulates and sulphur oxides. loans approved has increased from 25 loans in four years to nearly 80 in 2011 alone. Experience shows of a natural gas storage field 25 of a new coking coal plant at that energy savings of up to 50 per miles southwest of the Opal Hub in Unita County, Wyoming, USA. The project comprises the conversion of Hüttenwerke Krupp Mannesmann in Duisburg, Germany together with KfW, a government-owned 8 Sweden: Lingbo SPW AB wind farm In Lingbo, situated in mid-Sweden, cent is achievable if the renovation is approached holistically. an existing but depleted oil and gas field into a storage facility, thus reutilising a large share of the existing development bank. Due to the project’s environmental approach, it was able to benefit from financing SEB has provided finance to a wind farm project including three wind turbines with a total power of 6 11 Clean buses to Mexico SEB has been engaged in export financing of some 800 Volvo infrastructure. The use of natural via KfW’s Environment and Energy MW. Forecasted output is 20 GWh buses to Mexico. The new buses, gas offers a number of environmenEfficiency Programme. Besides inannually. the Volvo 9700 series, complies tal benefits over other fossil fuels. creased energy efficiency, emissions with Euro V exhaust requirements 3 UK: Croydon street lighting SEB has provided finance of particulates, nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides will be reduced. 9 Finland: Ii Olhava wind farm The Ii Olhava wind farm in northern Finland will significantly and will replace older, less environmentally-friendly coaches. in a Public Private Partnership to replace and maintain 46,000 street lights and street signs for 6 Sweden: Gabrielsberget wind farm SEB has provided finance to both contribute to an increase in Finnish wind energy production. SEB has financed eight wind turbines for 12 Estonia: Wind energy installations SEB is a major provider of sustainthe London Boroughs of Croydon the southern and northern phases the company TuuliWatti with a total able finance in the Baltic countries. and Lewisham. The PPP project, of the Gabrielsberget wind farm capacity of 24 MW. The Finnish govIn the Estonian market, SEB finances which stretches over 25 years, is project in north of Sweden. Once ernment’s launch of a new feed-in around 25 per cent of the total wind expected to contribute to better completed, the 40 turbines in the tariff system for renewable energy is energy installations. In 2011, SEB night safety and lower crime rates wind farm will generate 250 GWh expected to contribute to speedier financed 29.4 MW of new wind in the Boroughs. of electricity each year. build-up of wind energy in Finland. farms (wind parks) in Estonia. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 17 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Reducing our environmental footprint and accurately report on the information emissions from 2008, slightly below the What's the issue? requested by investors, customers and target of -25 per cent. This is explained employees. by increases in business travel in the MerMany scientists believe that global warmWe draw on guidance from the Greenchant Banking and Wealth Management ing is one of the most serious threats to house Gas Protocol for our carbon reportdivisions, which are in an expansionary both humanity and our planet. More and ing. We currently account for the CO2 phase and whose activities are particularly more research emerges, arguing that the emissions from operations over which we travel intensive. speed of climate change is increasing and have control, such as energy and electricity For the second consecutive year, SEB substantial preventive actions is needed. use in our own buildings, paper consumpwas included the Nordic “Carbon DiscloAlthough the direct environmental impact tion and business travel (Scope 2 and 3 sure Leadership Index”. As the only Nordic of our operations is limited, we have the emissions). We include the emissions from bank, SEB received an Afor its work with obligation and opportunity to do what we eleven countries, accounting for more than reducing carbon emissions. can to limit our footprint. 90 per cent of our income and 98 per cent of our employees. We report on and moniEnergy use in offices tor our direct environmental footprint on a and branches In 2009, SEB decided to reduce the annual quarterly basis. A specific Carbon Chasing Energy use in our offices and CO2 emissions by 45 per cent, from the Committee steers and monitors the work branches has decreased by 12 per cent base level in 2008. The decision reflected to reduce SEB’s emissions. since 2008. We have successfully impleour ambition to address a broader range mented a wide range of small energy of environmental issues. Energy use, paper Carbon emissions: – 6 per cent efficiency measures both in the office consumption and business travel, and the Our target for 2011 was to reduce our anspace that we own or rent and in the data related greenhouse gas emissions, reprenual CO2 emissions by 25 per cent against centres that we manage. Combined with sent the most material direct impact of our the revised 2008 baseline of 44,380 the switch to renewable energy sources operations on the environment. tonnes CO2. This was to be achieved by made in 2009 and 2010, carbon emissions SEB divested its German retail business expanding the use of renewable energy from energy consumption have been rein early 2011. Consequently, the 2008 basesources, changing travelling patterns and duced by 52 per cent against the revised line has been revised to 44,380 tonnes improving energy and resource efficiency 2008 baseline. We will continue to work CO2, from 50,404 tonnes CO2. Concurthroughout SEB. The divestment of our for a change to renewable energy where rently, we have confirmed our commitment German retail business, which represented possible combined with increasing energy to the 45 percent reduction of our carbon 12 per cent of the original baseline emisefficiency in our offices and branches. emissions by 2015. sions and about 25 per cent of the planned CO2 reductions, made the target more Paper consumption Carbon management challenging. Total paper consumption was Our approach to protect the environment Despite the significant CO2 emission reduced by an additional 109 is based on the carbon management hierreductions that we have achieved in key tonnes in 2011, corresponding to almost a archy. We measure our carbon footprint, areas, our total emissions were only re7 per cent reduction. Among the 2011 work to reduce it over time, compensate duced by 6 per cent in 2011. In total, we achievements in our largest market Sweden for the emissions that we cannot reduce have achieved a 22 per cent decrease of can be mentioned double-sided printing Total CO2 emissions, tonnes Key performance indicators (restate Retail Germany) 2011 2010 2009 2008 50,000 CO2 emissions by source 45,000 CO2 emissions from energy consumption* 11,120 17,545 23,287 23,409 40,000 CO2 emissions from business travel* 18,761 15,196 11,280 13,547 35,000 CO2 emissions from paper consumption* 1,540 2,115 3,121 3,369 CO2 emissions from company cars* 3,169 3,742 3,940 4,087 30,000 Total CO2 emissions, tonnes 34,590 38,598 47,320 50,404 25,000 Total CO2 emissions, tonnes (restate Retail Germany) 34,590 36,929 41,516 44,380 20,000 CO2 emissions, tonnes / employee** 2.1 2.3 2.5 2.3 15,000 Energy consumption MWh / employee** 7.3 8.9 7.9 7.2 10,000 Voluntary carbon offsets purchased, tonnes*** 38,598 47,320 33,388 5,000 * CO2 from energy consumption has been changed from previous reports due to the sale of German retail business. CO2 from travelling, 0 paper and cars have not, due to limited emissions. ** KPIs not comparable with previous CS reports due to sale of German retail. 2008 2009 2010 2011 *** Voluntary carbon offsets purchased the year after emitting year. 2008 baseline has been revised. Offsetting for 2008 does not correspond to revised baseline. 18 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT for annual statements to customers, Green IT and data centres Business travel electronic salary statements to 8,900 We run a Green IT initiative since CO2 emissions from business employees and increased use of the more 2009, addressing energy efficientravel increased by 23 per environmentally-friendly “B-post” in cy and environmental targets in offices, cent in 2011. This was primarily due to physical mailings. These actions contribute branches and data centres. We see a great increased travel within the Merchant BankSEK 13 million in cost savings, 30 tonnes opportunity to optimise cost and coning and Wealth divisions. We are strengthless paper usage and a 25 tonnes decrease tribute to environmental protection while ening our efforts to reduce carbon-intenin CO2. Our first paperless branch office will maintaining stable IT systems. Among sive travel. We seek to replace air travel be piloted in the spring of 2012, in Tallinn. activities in 2011 was the installation of with train whenever possible and increase new, more efficient cooling equipment in the use of video and web conferencing. In Water and waste our main Swedish data centre. 2011, the use of video and telephone conSince 2010, we have deThis has increased power usage efferencing increased by 28 per cent within creased water consumpfectiveness, e.g. the share of energy that SEB. During the year, a number of tools tion about 10 per cent. This was mainly due is actually used for computing equipment and guides to increase the level of travel to the sale of the German retail business, in the data centre. We also focused on free meetings have been put in place. but we also see a decrease in water conincreased server virtualisation, to reduce sumption per employee. Waste generation power and cooling costs and carbon Company cars has increased by 36 per cent during last footprint. Installation of print release CO2 emissions from company year, primarily due to construction work at technology has contributed to reducing cars were reduced by 15 per one of our main offices. During 2011, five the number of unwanted printouts. SEB’s cent in 2011, due to the ongoing transition branch offices began a pilot study aimed at procurement process for IT was upgraded to green cars throughout the car fleet. 63.5 increasing awareness and reduce environto include Green IT considerations. per cent of the car fleet were deemed green mental footprint. This study will continue at year-end. The green car policy will be fully during 2012. implemented by year-end 2013. Carbon offsetting at SEB SEB is a fully climate compensated compaThe Uchindile-Mapanda reforestation about 26 per cent of the issued credits. ny since 2009. We have offset the previous project in Tanzania (2010 and 2011) year’s emissions by purchasing certified This project, in the southern highlands The Meru and Nanyuki reforestation emissions reductions from projects under of Tanzania, involves the reforestation of project in Kenya (2011) the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development degraded land to sequester carbon emisThe majority of our CO2 emissions offsets Mechanism or emissions reductions verisions from the atmosphere. 10 per cent of in 2011 were made through a reforestation fied to the Voluntary Carbon Standard, the carbon revenues from the forests are project in central Kenya. The project inteVCS and the Climate Community and allocated to initiatives which will benefit grates reforestation to sequester carbon Biodiversity (CCB) Standard. We seek prothe local communities based on their list with community development activities jects that, in addition to the CO2 offsetof priorities. This includes the construction targeting improved access to food and the ting, have significant social and environof schools and hospitals and increased creation of additional sources of income mental benefits. Our investments in caremployment of teachers and doctors. Durbeyond subsistence farming. The envibon compensation during 2011 amounted ing the first monitoring period, 1/1/2002 ronmental benefits include reduction of to SEK 4 million. This was significantly – 30/11/2008, the project verified and soil erosion, contribution to the improvebelow 2010 investments, due to the lower issued 139,358 tonnes. Of these issued ment of the water catchments areas and emissions level and a drop in the price for tonnes, SEB purchased 36,450 credits, enhanced biodiversity. emissions rights. To date, we have invested in the following projects: Solar cookers to the Ningxia Hui region in China (2009 and 2010) SEB’s first carbon offset project was to provide solar cookers to households in the rural Ningxia Hui region in the northwest of China, one of the poorest in the country. Through our contribution, we subsidised some 17,000 solar cookers to be used for cooking and water boiling, replacing coal consumption and ultimately saving 35,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions each year. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 19 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Valuing our people ance on improvement areas linked to our What's the issue? overall business plan and scorecard. Three of the five main areas – CusAn engaging, sound and healthy work tomer relations, Operational excellence environment encourages high quality and Culture and people – together make performance as well as high employee up the so called Voice index. This index has satisfaction and loyalty. This is in the interrisen from 668 (2007), 723 (2009) to 725 est of both customers and shareholders. (2011). The survey results showed great To retain our position as the relationship awareness of and confidence in the stratbank SEB must attract, develop and retain egy to become the relationship bank in our the best people so that we can provide part of the world. Operational excellence the best service and experience to our was also a clear area of strength. customers. Employees rated own empowerment and engagement highly, and a large majority, 73 per cent, would gladly recommend a Long-term relationships and trust constifriend to apply for a job at SEB. 79 per cent tute the foundation of our business, and would recommend a friend to become an also of the SEB working environment. All SEB customer. Almost as many – 74 per employees should feel valued and have cent – provided positive responses in areas equal opportunity for development. Our such as corporate culture, employee encore values, commitment, mutual respect, gagement and confidence in management. tion and cooperation. All managers in SEB professionalism and continuity, guide us Estonia passed the training. “Home Bank in our daily lives, and constitute an inner Room for improvement Day” was organised with 1,200 employees compass that supports us in our work. Although Operational excellence was an participating. They discussed business area of strength there is still room for strategy, their role in it, and looked at the Employee survey some improvements, for example regardbank through the eyes of the customers. SEB has conducted comprehensive eming the use of efficient tools and processes. ployee surveys for more than a decade. As regards customer relations, 69 per cent Customer insight portal In 2011, around 14,700 employees, correof all employees set high overall scores, During 2011, SEB started a process to cresponding to an 89 per cent response rate, but this is an area for improvements as ate an internal Customer Insight Portal, all answered the Voice survey, conducted there are major differences between units customer surveys gathered in one place, for the third time, and the result showed and departments. which enables managers and employees improvements in all major areas compared Naturally, units that are far from the to get a complete overview of the bank’s with 2009. This survey was different from customer give lower ratings whereas units customer insights. The portal was operaearlier surveys as it provided better guidworking close to the customers have very tional in early 2012. high scores. Units that are good at collaboAn internal professional collaboration ration and where employees continuously platform, Connection, was introduced Voice main areas: learn from each other also tend to rate in May 2011. It enables employees to Percentage of positive (4 or 5) answers their customer relations higher. connect with colleagues globally, to share Customer relations 69 % knowledge, ideas and success stories. Customer competence 66 % Increased engagement More than 9,000 people have been active Business competence 72 % Through the group-wide employee enon this platform since the start and over Operational excellence 75 % gagement programme “You are SEB” we 3,400 people enter the site every month. Collaboration 77 % have strengthened our focus on customer The employee interaction with SEB’s Efficiency 70 % insight and on increasing the collaboration top management on the intranet is highly Speed 78 % among our people. During 2011, employappreciated. In 2011 CEO Annika Falkenees and managers within SEB have particigren hosted 11 chats where she answered Culture and people 74 % pated in dialogues focusing on our values, 500 questions together with the members Motivation 72 % how we meet customer expectations and of the Group Executive Committee. Accountability 74 % how we can become better at cooperating Respect, involvement within the organisation. Cross-collaboration encouraged and openness 72 % In the Baltics, the “You are SEB” proWe believe that all people want to develop. Competence & learning 76 % gramme aimed to support implementation Employees who are encouraged, chalEmployee engagement 75 % of the Home Bank strategy through sharlenged and take responsibility for their Vision and goals 82 % ing of positive experiences, communicapersonal development, will grow and 20 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL contribute to the long-term success of our profile, describing seven behavioural comequal distribution between genders in business. The well-being of our employees petencies that have been identified as esall positions, also at manager levels. For is essential for our ability to perform. sential for managers at three different levels. all positions there must be at least one To strengthen cross-collaboration woman/man among the candidates. In within the bank, we encourage our em2011, 43 per cent of the managers were ployees to be open for new positions. In female. 51 per cent of all participants in order to highlight existing opportunities, any of SEB’s basic leadership development all job vacancies are regularly published on Mind programmes were female. kills set SEB’s intranet. Additionally, four internal ds Knowledg Sustainable employees ehaviours career days have been arranged in Stockdb ea holm and Göteborg during 2011, and four Personal health, a sound work environCore an n sessions are planned for 2012, in Sweden ment and work-life balance are important and the Baltic countries. Values factors for the well-being of employees SEB has a structured way of working and the ability to perform. They lead to with individual performance and developsustainable employees, lower costs and ment. Each year, all employees have a diahence promote a favourable business logue with their manager to set individual E x p e ri e n ce result. targets, and formulate a development SEB wants to ensure that we can deplan, both of which should be aligned with liver the best possible health care services the Bank’s goals and competence needs. to our employees, while keeping our costs This process, which includes coaching, under control in the challenging economic feedback and performance review, is the Diversity enriches the business situation we are facing at the moment. In foundation for driving individual perforWe believe that diversity enriches the Sweden, the long-term sickness absence mance and competence development. In business and increases the ability to meet was down to 0.8 per cent in 2011; short2011, 83 per cent of all employees stated various customer expectations. SEB aims term sickness absence was down to 1.7 that they had had a Performance developto ensure that equal opportunities and per cent. This is the result of an active and ment discussion and 85 per cent that they rights are offered to everyone, regardless purposeful rehabilitation process develhad received constructive feedback on of gender, national or ethnic origin, age, oped internally. their performance. sexual orientation and faith. SEB offers many different services A diverse workforce increases our and solutions for employees adapted to Development at all levels ability to deliver the products and services local conditions, such as home and family We are committed to increasing the knowthat our customers need. It also contribservice, parental insurance, preventive ledge and competence of all employees and utes to strengthening SEB as an attractive health care benefits and company health we have a tailor-made portfolio of training employer. During 2011, training was held in services. We support and facilitate a sound and development programmes and activiStockholm for 20 HR recruiting specialists work-life balance, for example for employties at the individual, team and organisafocusing on the recruitment process from ees in Sweden with children under eight tional levels. We equip and support individua diversity perspective. years, and, in Germany, for employees with als for new assignments, to secure high We actively work to identify, develop elderly parents. In Latvia, the Ministry of performance in leadership transitions. and encourage women to take senior Welfare awarded SEB as a Family-friendly The development programmes include positions. Our overall goal is to have an Company. training for generalists, specialists and managers on different levels. During 2011, 450 managers within SEB participated Key performance indicators in one of the leadership programmes. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 In Latvia, external training courses were Total number of employees, incl part-time employees 18,862 20,599 20,835 22,443 22,177 attended by 231 employees. Employee turnover, per cent 9.3 10.9 11.0 13.8 12.1 Average length of employment, years 11.1 11.1 11.1 10.9 n/a Our competence model Gender by management type, all managers (male/female) 57/43 56/44 58/42 56/44 60/40 We plan thoroughly for future competence Gender Senior managers (male/female) 77/23 74/26 73/27 75/25 74/26 needs and we have a structured process Sick-leave rate, share of ordinary working hours, Sweden 2.5 2.7437 3 3.5 3.9 for identifying and developing talents. We Employee survey Voice, participation rate*, per cent 89 n/a 89 n/a 87 have also clearly defined what competence Employees that would recommend a friend to work means in SEB, and it is summarised in our at SEB (Voice), per cent 73 n/a 73 n/a 64 competence model (see above). During Corporate Sustainability Ambassadors 640 600 200 n/a n/a 2011, SEB has implemented a Manager * Employee survey performed every other year SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 21 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Investing in communities and wellness. We communicate our efforts What's the issue? under the umbrella “next generation”. We focus our efforts primarily on our main Companies and the communities where markets – the Nordic countries and the they operate are interdependent, so what Baltic Sea region. is good for society, is good for business. Our total community investments We recognise that a thriving society is in 2011 amounted to SEK 54 million or vital for our future success as a bank. In approximately 0.4 per cent of pre-tax opaddition to the role that our business plays erating profit. Our funding is provided both in the communities where we operate, we centrally and from SEB’s local businesses support local community organisations, and includes support to entrepreneurship sharing both time and money and working (SEK 9m). together with carefully chosen partners and people. Engagement through partnership We run the majority of our community SEB’s future-oriented engagement in local programmes on a partnership model, communities has a long history. Strong through established relationships. We economic growth is what SEB relies on prefer to be involved in decisions on where to continue to build its business. This and how our investments can create value. requires an educated society and a skilled The main part of our community support is workforce living in a healthy and sustaindirected to partnerships with best-in-class able environment. non-governmental organisations (NGO’s) At SEB, we enable our employees to and charities such as the Mentor Foundavolunteer. By engaging in local community Supporting the next generation tion, Young Entrepreneurs, SOS Children projects, and enabling employees to get Our community support is developed to Villages, UNICEF and WWF. We aim to involved, we facilitate for SEB staff to build match a broad range of regions and counimprove the way we measure the impact closer relationships with the communities tries. We are dependent upon the wellof our contribution. in which they live and work. being and skills of coming generations; SEB supports entrepreneurship at In 2011, we allocated some 38 per cent if we do not support and prepare them different levels, from partnerships with of our community investments in favour adequately, we limit our future potential. secondary schools and universities, to of children and youth. We also encourage Our community investments focus on several entrepreneurial organisations for both employees and customers to donate four themes that we believe are fundanewly started companies which we supthrough our Internet banking channels and mental for the development of healthy and port with developing and implementing by specially arranged fund-raisers. sustainable communities: children and business ideas. Occasionally, SEB allocates means for youth, entrepreneurship and economic humanitarian catastrophes. We have a seunderstanding, environmental awareness, SEB Next Generation lective Group approach. Our policy is to alSince 2006 we are the main sponsor of locate central means, only when there is a the Swedish Tennis Association. Through strong link to our business, our customers Economic contribution by theme the joint project SEB Next Generation we or employees, or when the magnitude of enable 1,000 girls and boys aged 10–15 the disaster is widespread and has global 3% years in the Nordic countries to develop effects. Examples include the tsunami in their talent and to create an identity and East Asia 2004 and the Haiti earthquake 25% community within the sport. in 2010. 38% Key performance indicators 2011 2010 2009 15% Economic contribution to social partnerships, including climate compensation and management costs, SEKm 44.8 57.9 30.0 18% Economic contribution to support entrepreneurship, SEKm 9.0 5.0 5.5 Children and youth Economic contribution to social partnerships, share of operating profit 0.4% 0.5% 0.7% Entrepreneurship Volonteering employees, number of working hours 5,160 n/a n/a Environment (incl. climate compensation) Employee participation in programme through Mentor, number 725 332 380 Wellness (sports and culture) Number of children/youth reached by support 30,800 n/a n/a Other 22 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Our support for the next generation Strengthening children and youth Offering youth a role model Supporting children in shelters Improved literacy and reading habits We co-operate with Mentor, a foundation SEB has been engaged in charity for years The initiative Room to Read aims to develengaged in anti-violence and drug-prevenin the Baltic countries, paying special op literacy skills and reading habits among tion activities among youth. Since 2001, attention to the next generation and the school children in developing countries. over 500 youths from Sweden, Lithuania, widespread social problem of children In 2011, our New York office donated Estonia and Latvia have participated in a without parental care. In Estonia, we $12,000 to have a reading room built in a mentorship programme with 500 mentors founded the SEB Charity Fund in 2005, primary school in Bhitarwar in India. We from SEB. In 2011, SEB organised together committing funds for ten years. Today it support the library by providing books with Mentor Lithuania a Royal fundraising is the largest foundation in the country. and training the librarians and teachers to gala which raised SEK 380,000. SEB emFundraising campaigns are organised twice create engaging literary spaces. We also ployees spent about 4,800 hours together a year. In 2011, the campaign “Happy feet” arranged and underwrote a Room to Read with their mentees. raised EUR 34,500 to provide new pairs of fundraiser together with customers and shoes to children in shelters. other business partners which generated USD 70,000. Supporting entrepreneurs and people with aspirations An entrepreneurial spirit Youth and business start-ups As the main sponsor of Ernst & Young In 2011, we expanded our co-operation Sweden’s national Entrepreneur of the with Ung Företagsamhet (“Young entreYear award, SEB seeks to honour individupreneurship”) an organisation that works als who have built successful businesses to incorporate entrepreneurship into the through innovation, economic growth, Swedish educational system. With our supingenuity, perseverance and hard work. port, full-time staff has been recruited durWe have been the main sponsor since ing 2011 to develop relations with schools 2005. SEB also supports the Business Plan in the Stockholm area. For several years, Tournament in Lithuania. The initiative SEB has been the main sponsor of Ajujaht is meant to encourage entrepreneurship (“the Brain Chase”), a nationwide Estonian among young people with an ambition competition and TV show to find the most to develop their skills and start their own innovative business ideas and to support business. young entrepreneurs. In Latvia SEB sponsors a similar competition and TV show, Firmas Noslēpums (“Company’s secret). Promoting environmental awareness WWF and the Earth Hour Campaign The Oxygene Campaign Baltic Sea Action Group SEB is a partner with WWF since the Together with Latvia’s State Forests, we In Finland, the Baltic Sea Action Group 1980’s. In 2011, we participated in the launched a pan-Latvian tree planting (BSAG) has been founded to encourage worldwide Earth Hour Campaign for the campaign in 2010. Pupils in 800 schools, 30 concrete action to save the Baltic Sea. third year. We switched off the lights in per cent of the population and the majority 11 sovereign states, some 160 companies, main buildings in various markets and of SEB’s employees, participated and planted organisations and individuals are cominvited customers and the general public trees. When the campaign was completed in mitted to develop new green technology, to an “Earth Hour unplugged” concert 2011, over 4.3 million trees had been planted establish research projects, help raise in Stockholm, in partnership with WWF and more than 500,000 seed plantings were awareness etc. SEB provides funding for and The Stockholm Concert Hall. We also registred at the website www.skabeklis.lv. BSAG’s secretariat and its daily operation. co-organised the Earth Hour Conference The campaign gained recognition for being The anniversary of the 2010 BSAG summit in Stockholm that focused on sustainable one of the best ecology and environmental was celebrated at SEB’s Helsinki office in cities and the benefit of Private Public protection campaigns in Europe (European early 2011, in attendance by the Finnish Partnerships. Excellence Awards.) President and Prime Minister. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 23 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL €$ Access to financial services personal computers, and mobile phones What's the issue? are shortly expected to be the primary acMobile Bank of the Year cess point for the Internet. We offer all our Access to finance is crucial to economic customers various forms of mobile access activity. A responsible bank makes its serto SEB, through iPhone, iPad and Android vices available to all people, regardless of applications. economic standing, ethnic origin, disability or other factors. Our goal is to serve our Launch of new features customers whenever and wherever they We introduced Mobile Banking as early as desire. By sharing our specialist know2001, but the service did not really take off ledge, we empower people to make more until 2010, when we launched an iPhone informed financial decisions and contriapp and, later, an Android app. We have bute to better functioning societies. also added a number of new features, such as the ability to scan invoices optically. Growth has been beyond expectations, Financial literacy with mobile log-ins increasing from 6,000 The general public’s ability to understand per month in 2010 to 1 million per month financial matters is important. It allows our in late 2011. In May 2011, we launched In 2011, SEB was named Mobile Bank of customers to make more informed finanTwitter for communicating with our customthe Year by the Swedish magazine Mobil. cial decisions and strengthens society. ers in Sweden, and in Latvia SEB was the The breadth of SEB’s service offering and At SEB, we share our expertise in varionly bank whose customers could acquire the possibility to optically scan invoices ous ways. Our Chief Economist, Household e-signature through SEB’s Internet bank. were mentioned in the award motivation. economists and other experts regularly In Estonia, we created the mobile bankThe winner was selected based on tests appears in the media and engages with ing solution and the new Internet Bank by user groups. customers in a variety of forms. SEB’s for Business, radically improving access to equity, fixed income and FX specialists banking services. Both solutions are curinteract with customers on a daily basis. rently leading in terms of edge technology security tool “digipass”, adjusted for visuOn average, SEB experts were quoted or and ease of use, according to customer ally impaired. interviewed in media three times a week surveys. We are involved in a number of initiain Sweden in 2011. We have pioneered the use of selftives to make financial services available We continued to make increasing service banking channels and online/teleto all people in our markets, regardless of amounts of our insights available to the phone customer service, making it easier economic standing, ethnic origin, disability general public. One example is the Nordic for customers to reach us. In Sweden, our or other factors. SEB co-operates with Outlook report, published four times a year telephone customer centre meets customEesti Post Office which includes more than by our economists. During the year our ers in more than 20 different languages, 200 post offices all over Estonia. experts published some 40 reports, targetincluding Hindi, Panjabi, Persian, Turkish We support entrepreneurs with a ing private individuals, experts, media, and and Urdu. foreign background, partly through our other stakeholders in society. collaboration with IFS, the International Financial services for all Entrepreneur Association in Sweden, and Developing our technology Historically, SEB has developed various ALMI, a public company charged with SEB has been early to adopt new technoltools to facilitate banking for customers promoting growth of small and mediumogy such as the Internet to make financial with special needs. A good example is the sized businesses. services more adapted to customer needs. SEB was among the first banks to introduce Internet banking for private and Key performance indicators corporate customers. As a natural part of evolving our acSEB meeting places and customer interaction 2011 cess and offering via the Internet, we are Branch offices 366 devoting considerable resources to mobile Internet bank, number of visits 55 million access. Smartphones, mobile phones that Mobile bank, number of visits 8.4 million offer more advanced computing ability Telephone bank in Sweden, number of calls 2.5 million and connectivity than contemporary Facebook, number of visits 200,000 phones, are changing the way customers Life insurance intermediaries and brokers 2,200 want to interact with us. Expert reports – private and SME, Sweden 30 Today, smartphones outsell traditional Research reports on economic development 10 24 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2011 Awards and recognitions 2011 Awarded by Customers Best bank of the year, Estonia, Latvia and Sweden The Banker Best client relationship bank in Sweden Prospera Best at Cash Management in the Nordic and Baltic region Euromoney SME bank of the year in Sweden Privata Affärer Best Private Bank in the Nordic region The Banker and Professional Wealth Mgmt Best bank at risk management, Nordic region Global Finance Most satisfied clients compared to peers, Estonia EPSI Baltic Best bank, Latvia EMEA Finance and Euromoney Employees Most attractive employer, Lithuania Verslo Žinios & CV L:T 4th best employer, young professional survey, Sweden Universum 2nd best employer, young professional survey, Estonia Universum Among Top 10 most desired employers, Latvia CV Market Latvia and Workingday Latvia Top employer award, Germany CRF Institute Sustainability Nordic Carbon Performance Leadership Index Carbon Disclosure Project Please recycle me! Gold Category Latvia Sustainability Index Institute for Sustainability and Corp. responsib. SEB Estonia 5th in Estonian Sustainability Index Forum of Estonian Corporate Sustainability SEB Latvia, bank with highest reputation in Latvia TNS TRI*M We like our communications to have an impact on you – but not on the enSustainability indices Index provider vironment. We therefore compensate all emissions related to printed matter. OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index Nasdaq OMX/GES This report is associated with a carbon OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index Nasdaq OMX/GES footprint of 65.4 g CO2-equivalents Nordic Sustainability Stars Ethixs SRI Advisor per m2 printed product, corresponding to 0.2 kg CO2 equivalents per FTSE4Good FTSE report. The selected printing company ECPI Indices ECPI is climate compensated and has ISO STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices STOXX 14001 environmental certification. If Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Forum Ethibel you no longer have use for this report, please recycle it. International commitments Adopted/signed CDP Water Disclosure 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2008 Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) 2008 UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 2007 The FSC logo identifies products UN Equator Principles 2007 which contain wood from wellUN Global Compact 2004 managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Contact us Stewardship Council. Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Group Corporate Sustainability Telephone: +46 8 763 50 00 © Copyright Skandinaviska Enskilda E-mail: cs@seb.se Banken AB, 2012. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be Internet: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any Head office form or by any means, electronic, Postal Address: SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden mechanical, photocopying, Visiting address: Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Corporate registration number: 502032-9081 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. SEGR0051 2012.02 Production: SEB and REWIR Printing: Elanders AB About SEB SEB is a financial services group. We offer financial advice and services for people and businesses in Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany we have a strong focus on corporate and investment banking. We have been active in society, supporting innovation and growth since 1856. We are present in 20 countries and have about 17,000 employees. SEB signed the UN Global Compact in 2004, through which we are committed to promoting human rights and decent labour standards, protecting the environment and working against corruption. Our responsibility We know that the way we act affects the world in which we operate. It is our responsibility to make sure that we do business in an ethical and sustainable way, attending to our customers’ needs and protecting people and the environment. By being a well-managed and profitable company, we can use our resources, time, money and knowledge of our people to contribute to society. This report presents our company from a sustainable perspective. It covers our non-financial performance 2011: how we govern and manage our business responsibly to create value for our stakeholders. Our actions span the spectrum from small details to complex questions on the global business agenda. Eight priorities guide our work. We know this work will never end. Visit us: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability Contact us: cs@sebgroup.com
