2012 PerkinElmer, Inc. United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress 1 November 5, 2012 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, On behalf of our 7,200 employees across the globe, I am pleased to reaffirm PerkinElmer’s commitment to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles and, in particular, addressing human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. I am pleased to share that the Company has advanced our corporate social responsibility program (CSR) to better define goals and activities around three key tenets: community involvement, sustainable and ethical business practices, and eco-innovative products. Highlights from the past year in each of the pillars include: • Community involvement: In 2011, nearly 13% of our employees from around the world participated in a community volunteer project during work hours. PerkinElmer teams worked in their communities to support local efforts to fight hunger, improve health and education, care for the needy, and protect the environment. Our goal in 2012 is to engage 25% of our employees in this community service effort by the end of the year. • Sustainable & ethical business practices: We achieved our goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by 10% compared to 2009, and will strive to reduce carbon emissions by another 10% by 2015. As we focused on continuing to drive ethical business practices throughout the Company, PerkinElmer also renewed its practices regarding anti-corruption and anti-bribery directives. • Eco-innovative products: Our global team has made significant progress towards integrating environmental aspects into the product development process in order to reduce the environmental impact of our products throughout their life cycle. Lastly, we published our third annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report in June 2012. The report describes our progress in embedding the UN Global Compact principles into our corporate strategy and day-to-day operations. I am proud of PerkinElmer’s rich heritage of making life better, driven by remarkable people dedicated to developing innovative technologies to address both customer and societal needs and helping the communities in which we live and work. We look forward to making further progress on our mission to improve global health by enhancing the quality and longevity of life for everyone. Sincerely, Robert F. Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer PerkinElmer, Inc. 2 PerkinElmer 2012 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. For PerkinElmer, protecting human rights means providing the dignity, freedom, respect, and acceptance that each of us deserves. We support and respect the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence. Our Corporate Values, Standards of Business Conduct (SoBC) and policies form the foundation that guide individual and company actions. In the past year, our systematic approach to address human rights included the following: • Initiating a supply chain program to assure compliance with applicable Conflict Minerals requirements, to evaluate sources of raw materials that may be mined in areas of conflict. Incorporating human rights requirements into supplier contracts See the following sections of our 2011 CSR Report for more details regarding our progress in these areas: • Strategy, Leadership and Governance • Workplace and Communities 3 PerkinElmer 2012 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation PerkinElmer’s global business strives for the highest standards of integrity and respect for human rights, expecting the same of our suppliers. We recognize and respect applicable labor and employment laws wherever we operate, explicitly prohibiting the use of child labor at our facilities. Our Standards of Business Conduct define the values and principles that guide individual and company actions. We operate in an environment where the differences in employees’ backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives are embraced and respected—this is a key strength for our organization. We believe a diversified workplace begins with equal opportunity for all. We have not identified any of our operations as being at significant risk for human rights abuses. See the following sections of our 2011 CSR Report for more details regarding our progress in these areas: • Strategy, Leadership and Governance • Workplace and Communities 4 PerkinElmer 2012 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly related technologies At PerkinElmer, protecting the environment is a responsibility we take very seriously — it is fundamental to our leadership in developing solutions that improve human and environmental health. In the past year, we promoted environmental responsibility by: • Pursuing opportunities to improve energy efficiency, conserve water and reduce waste while growing our business. • Working to integrate eco-design principles into our product development processes. • Improving communications with suppliers to help us assure compliance with growing international restrictions on hazardous substances in electronic equipment and other products. See the following sections of our 2011 CSR Report for more details regarding our progress in these areas: • Strategy, Leadership and Governance • Operational Excellence • Product Innovation Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery PerkinElmer’s Board of Directors and executive management have established a systematic approach to guide directors and employees in governance and appropriate business conduct, including written policies, guidelines, and training. Our Standards of Business Conduct provide a set of practical guidelines designed to help us make appropriate business decisions. It is our policy to revisit these Standards periodically, and to regularly communicate them to all of our employees as a reminder of their importance to our continued growth and success. In response to new anti-corruption and anti-bribery directives, in 2011 we initiated additional training directed at these important compliance areas. This online training is required for all employees who interact with customers, vendors, suppliers, and governments to ensure understanding and compliance. See the following section of our 2011 CSR Report for more details regarding our progress in this area: • Strategy, Leadership and Governance 5 PerkinElmer 2012 6
