COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 PROGRESSIVE AND BUSINESS-DRIVEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Nordjysk Elhandel is constantly working to improve the group’s impact on social conditions and the environment. The group’s CSR policy (Corporate Social Responsibility) is based on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles for social and environmental responsibility. The CSR policy is revised every year and is part of the annual report. Nordjysk Elhandel’s CSR policy has been approved by the Board of Directors and comprises the entire group. Nordjysk Elhandel has been committed to the UN Global Compact (GC) since 2008. It is a recurrent element in our CSR policy that the group gives high priority to exercising business-driven CSR and that several of our business areas in themselves contribute to the transition to more renewable energy and reduced CO2 emissions. Among other things, this is achieved by constantly working to increase the profitability – and thus competitiveness – of our customers’ production of renewable energy and by actively and progressively operating on new markets to promote the with no energy production facilities and only limited energy basis for more renewable energy and the spread of the lowconsumption the most comprehensive efforts in the supcarbon economy. Nordjysk Elhandel’s opportunity to help port of the GC are made via our engagement in CDM projshape tomorrow’s energy and climate markets is based on ects. Through the CDM Nordjysk Elhandel actively promotes our social competences – namely the knowledge, visions and the GC and initiates and contributes to extraordinary CSR ideas of our employees for a sustainable energy future are the programs to establish e.g. schooling for children of plantamain reason that the group has created very strong market tion workers, better health care for local villagers, education positions within renewables and climate where our CSR policy of women on women’s rights and recycling etc. The CSR progoes hand in hand with good business. grams vary in content dependent on the present issues of concern locally and are usually based on engagement from the local community, the project host, Nordjysk Elhandel and in some cases NGOs with specialties and experience regarding DIRECTING OUR EFFORT TO MAKE the issues at hand. A BIGGER DIFFERENCE To frame the scope of Nordjysk Elhandels due diligence for the GC it is our view point that the results of our domestic CSR The company’s head office is situated in Aalborg Denmark work for the larger part should ensure wellbeing, health and (The head office is the only office in the group). All employdiversity in the workplace, the situation is very different in, for ees are employed under the Danish labor legislation prescribexample, the Ivory Coast where we have taken the initiative to ing excessive labor rights and anti-discrimination and antistart a major CSR program, which is carried out in conjunccorruption laws which in fact are issues of little prevalence in tion with a CDM project. The program involves several parties, Denmark. Our due diligence on anti-discrimination and antiincluding the local population in the village of Akouedo and corruption are focused on our business activities in Asian and the NGO CARE International, which will act as coordinator in African countries where we participate in Clean Development connection with the implementation of the program. Initially, Mechanism (CDM) projects. For this we have implemented a measures for protection against malaria have been taken and code of conduct with guidelines for establishing knowledge the overall CSR program, which will run for 10 years, is under on matters of human rights, labor rights and anti-corruption. development and will be initiated as soon as the CDM project starts to generate CER credits. Operating strictly as a trading and management company Skelagervej 1 · 9000 Aalborg · Denmark · www.neas.eu · info@neas.dk COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 winning canteen with full-time kitchen staff who put together DEFINING OUR POLICY ON GC a menu and buffet according to healthy diet principles and featuring a wide selection and variation, making it possible for Nordjysk Elhandel continuously develops and adds new eleemployees to eat healthy at work. ments to the company’s CSR policy. The basis is our company specific interpretation of the UN Global Compact’s 10 princiKnowledge ples for social and environmental responsibility within internal Nordjysk Elhandel is very much a knowledge-based company, as well as external focus areas. which has appointed specialists to fill key positions. Attracting and retaining capable employees has very high priority. We therefore want to actively accumulate and maintain knowlINTERNAL FOCUS AREAS edge resources among company employees by stimulating a knowledge-based working environment, dedication to a high degree of professionalism and skills development. Nordjysk Elhandel offers all employees excellent opportuniNordjysk Elhandel will contribute to each employee’s caties for professional and personal development. We are comreer development, and talented employees will be regularly mitted to ensuring proper treatment of all employees and to coached to ensure job satisfaction and adequate challenges. guaranteeing flexible working conditions that ensure a balOur extensive innovation activities are also actively used in the ance between their work and personal life. Nordjysk Elhandel development of talented employees and the company aims to is focused on recruiting managers and employees who supnurture interdisciplinary cooperation and expand collaboraport the company’s values in respect of competence accumution with scientific institutions and relevant interest organisalation and innovation throughout the organisation. tions. Diversity Climate Nordjysk Elhandel does not discriminate on the basis of sex, Nordjysk Elhandel’s total consumption of energy is CO2 neurace, colour, religion or faith, political opinion, sexual orientatral. The group’s consumption of power is ECCS certified wind tion, national, social or ethnic origin, age or disability. Nordpower, and CO2 emissions that can be directly attributed to jysk Elhandel aims to ensure that there is no discrimination in the group’s property are neutralised through cancellation of connection with recruitment, dismissal, transfer, promotion, approved CO2 credits. See Climate accounts below. In our faremuneration, working conditions or training. All decisions recility management we are constantly striving to limit our enlating to recruitment, promotion, dismissal, remuneration and ergy consumption through energy savings and improvement other working conditions are based on relevant and objective of energy efficiency. criteria. Diversity is an important and necessary characteristic of Nordjysk Elhandel, which enables the company to function under a variety of changeable conditions. Discrimination is seen as an unacceptable social principle and a barrier to the company’s business development. Health Nordjysk Elhandel aims to help promote the general health of its employees. This is to be achieved by improving health conditions for employees in terms of a good working environment and initiatives aimed at promoting a healthier lifestyle and greater well-being among the company’s employees. Good health is essential for our employees’ well-being, at work and during leisure. Employees at Nordjysk Elhandel are offered a health check-up, and a number of exercise options are available at the workplace and outside. The company encourages its employees to participate in events that combine social interaction and exercise such as company soccer, relay race etc. The company’s headquarters in Aalborg have an awardSkelagervej 1 · 9000 Aalborg · Denmark · www.neas.eu · info@neas.dk COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Anti-corruption EXTERNAL FOCUS AREAS Nordjysk Elhandel’s climate project development activities under CDM will continue to be expanded and will focus on deCustomer relations velopment in LDCs (Least Developed Countries), where corNordjysk Elhandel wants to have long-term and mutually profruption can also be a real problem. In line with the principles itable customer relations. Customers must be treated with reof the UN Global Compact, no Nordjysk Elhandel employee spect in all situations – and with respect for the individual cusmay give or receive unjustified benefits to/from Danish or fortomer’s situation and needs. We want to offer existing as well eign public or private sector employees. Nordjysk Elhandel will as potential customers the best possible service and we will follow and enforce Danish legislation in accordance with the exercise good business ethics in connection with consultancy European Council corruption convention and OECD convenand customer relations in general. All customer groups must tion on combating bribery in international business transacbe guaranteed easy access to Nordjysk Elhandel’s services and tions. we aim to achieve permanent and a high degree of customer satisfaction. Climate Nordjysk Elhandel has several business activities within cliDevelopment of market and society mate and low-carbon economy including: Nordjysk Elhandel wants to contribute to society through development of the energy markets towards increased liber• CDM project development alisation, more renewable energy and less CO2 emissions. We • Management and trading of more than 2,600 MW inalso want to contribute and commit ourselves to the develstalled capacity renewable power across Europe opment of society on a cultural and social level, for example through sponsorships and support for various cultural and • Management and trading of certificates (RECS, Guarsocial events. antees of Origin, Voluntary Emission Reductions etc.) for renewable energy and carbon offsetting Knowledge and innovation Nordjysk Elhandel will work to contribute to knowledge deOn this basis we enforce progressive and business-driven apvelopment and competence accumulation within the energy proach to climate action. It is our ambition to promote the use area. The organisation and regulation of the energy markets, of renewable energy by making it more profitable and relieve energy supply and energy infrastructure are closely connected risks associated with investing in renewables and integrating to science and political decisions. Nordjysk Elhandel will work renewables in the supply. For this we have invested heavily in actively to develop the ‘energy of the future’ through cooperaIT systems to help forecast, report and remote control protion with educational and research institutions and the politiduction from e.g. wind power and solar. All to make it even cal system. more compatible to traditional fossil based production facilities. Also it is our ambition to promote the development of a global low-carbon economy by participating in the CDM and promoting the qualities and environmental reach of the mechanism. Also, we are among the most active in the structuring of renewable electricity certificates across Europe and we participate in the development of a pan-european standard for renewable electricity certificates in the EU founded Renewable Electricity Certificate System International (RECS International). Internally, we work actively to reduce the company’s own environmental impact, and we have developed a business area as accounted for below. Nordjysk Elhandel is a pure trading company without energy intensive production facilities. Nevertheless, we still want to prepare climate accounts for the group’s energy consumption at our headquarters in Aalborg. While in 2010 we stated emissions on the basis of monetary value, we will use the physical Skelagervej 1 · 9000 Aalborg · Denmark · www.neas.eu · info@neas.dk COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 volume, i.e. the consumption of power and district heating, With respect to the consumption of heating, we are favoured in the climate accounts for 2011. To be able to continue to by the location in Aalborg where district heating is produced state our climate impact in a cost-efficient manner and reduce at Nordjyllandsværket, Reno Nord and Aalborg Portland. The emissions, we restrict our climate accounts to the consumpproduction of district heating at the latter is CO2 neutral. Action of electricity and heating. In case a best practice is estabcording to recent information, the production of district heatlished or a standard for climate accounting Nordjysk Elhandel ing at Reno Nord and Nordjyllandsværket emits 3.7 kg of CO2/ will implement this in our annual reporting. In 2011 the conm3 district heating. sumption figures for Nordjysk Elhandel were: The consumption of district heating in 2011 is CO2 neutralised through cancellation of voluntary emission reductions – VERs 2011 2010 – from the Shimba Hills National Reserve project in Kenya. District heating 6,738 m3 9,781 m3 The project involves replacing the population’s existing fireElectricity 473,264 kWh 485,960 kWh places with simple energy-saving stoves, which will reduce CO2 emissions by 50% as the stoves only require half the amount Compared to our consumption in 2010, there has been a sigof firewood. Nordjysk Elhandel’s website includes a film about nificant reduction of our heating consumption, which can the project for anyone who is interested http://www.neas. also partly be attributed to a generally warmer winter in the dk/privat/el/klimastr%c3%b8m/shimba+hills+projektfilm. consumption year 2011. The electricity consumption at our headquarters has dropped marginally. An important reason for the group’s limited emissions is our purchase of wind power for the headquarters. The emission factor from wind power is significantly lower than the emisVER CERTIFICAT sion factor of 558g CO2/kWh for the traditional Danish elecIt is hereby certified that tricity mix. The purchase of GoO-certified Danish wind power Nordjysk Elhandel A/S in 2011 has cancelled 6,738 tonnes of corresponds to the total electricity consumption for 2011 of Gold Standard Verified Emission Reductions (GS VER) from the Shimba Hills cooking effecient stoves project in Kenya. 473,264 kWh. Shimba Hills National Reserve is located near Mombasa, Kenya. The purpose of the Shimba Hills project is to distribute energy efficient cook stoves into households that in the absence of this project would cook primarily using traditional inefficient wood stoves. These stoves will utilise the efficient rocket technology which initial testing has shown to be 50% more efficient than traditional 3-stone fires. These stoves will use less firewood and emit less smoke, which will reduce daily firewood costs and illness caused by smoke inhalation. The distribution of efficient stoves will result in greenhouse gas emissions reductions associated with the combustion of firewood derived from non-renewable sources. WIND POWER CERTIFICAT It is hereby certified that Nordjysk Elhandel A/S from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 purchased power from Danish wind turbines equivalent to 473,264 kWh. ”Trade in electricity from Danish renewable sources can be proved with guarantees of origin issued in accordance with the Danish regulation regarding renewable energy guarantees of origin “BEK nr. 1323 af 30. november 2010 and the Danish regulation regarding declaration of electricity for consumers “BEK nr. 1323 af 30.november 2010”and Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and amending and subsequently repealing Directives 2001/77/EC and 2003/30/EC. Nordjysk Elhandel keeps records with the traded guarantees of origin and the accounts are subject to the external audit of the company.” Skelagervej 1 · 9000 Aalborg · Denmark · www.neas.eu · info@neas.dk COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 entrepreneurship, women’s work-life, efficient use of recycling NOTABLE PROGRESSION IN 2011 and health care among other issues. During 2011 Nordjysk Elhandel has put even more attention In relation to the groups CSR account for 2011 it must be meninto business-driven corporate responsibility for the promotioned that Nordjysk Elhandel in the 2011 climate account in tion of the GC and for added value to our business activities. the annual report 2011 reports on scope 1 (mandatory reportIn the area of carbon emissions reductions Nordjysk Elhandel ing on direct emissions and scope 2 (mandatory reporting on is co-financing three CSR programs on three CDM projects. indirect emissions from purchased energy) whereas reportTwo programs are in operation and one very ambitious proing on scope 3 (voluntary reporting indirect emissions from gram is under development set for launch in January 2013. The sources other than purchased energy) have not been carried two programs in operation are: out due to lack of a best practice methodology. It must also be mentioned that the group has introduced an account on • A schooling program for the children of plantation knowledge management to help retain knowledge and impleworkers in at a palm oil mill in Sabah Borneo, in coopment policies to support the generation of new knowledge eration with project host Cepawawasan Group Berhad and new business ideas in energy trading and management. and local NGO Humana Borneo Child Aid. For further With the knowledge of the employees as the number one asinformation please view a project video produced by set in Nordjysk Elhandel it is of the outmost importance to Nordjysk Elhandel for the group company NE Climate keep account of knowledge to embed knowledge in the group A/S at http://www.neclimate.com/cdm+solutions/ and utilize the value of knowledge to create positive results project+video for the group and new better ways of dealing with energy and low-carbon development. • A program to sustain better schooling facilities and recreational facility in the Kampot province in Cam“In Nordjysk Elhandel we continue to support the UN Global bodia planed and operated by project host Kampot Compact and are committed to follow the principles in the Cement Co.,Ltd and co-financed by Nordjysk Elhandel. Global Compact through our corporate responsibility. Internally in the group and through our business activities throughout EuThe CSR program under development will be finalized in 2012 rope and in developing countries we will promote the UNGC in cooperation with the NGO Care International and the principles. Consistent with our primary business activities in project host in the village of Akouedo in Cote’D’Ivore. The trading and management of energy we put in a special effort program will have funding from the income from the sale of to strengthen the competition of renewable energy sources and CERs from the CDM project and the program will run for the low-carbon energy production. We look forward to support and entire CDM project period. The investigations carried out by advocate for the UNGC yet again in 2012 and 2013”. CARE International and input gain from the local community suggests that the program must make efforts to support new Bo Lynge Rydahl, CEO Nordjysk Elhandel Skelagervej 1 · 9000 Aalborg · Denmark · www.neas.eu · info@neas.dk
