Page1 Contents Accelerating Sustainability ................................................................................................................ 3 Message from the Managing Directors .............................................................................................. 3 cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization .......................................................................................... 3 Overview and 2011‐2012 Highlights .................................................................................................. 4 cKinetics USA, Inc.: A Registered Benefit Corporation .......................................................................... 5 Tenets of cKinetics’ Operating Philosophy: Making it Count ................................................................. 5 Applying UNGC Principles ................................................................................................................. 6 Materiality Assessment, Commitment and Ongoing Engagement ..................................................... 6 Materiality of Principles ......................................................................................................................... 6 Engagement with UNGC ........................................................................................................................ 6 Sustainability at cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization ................................................................ 8 Communicating Progress: Ongoing Commitment to UNGC Principles ................................................ 8 Sustainability at cKinetics: Creating Impact ..................................................................................... 11 Communicating Progress: Driving Sustainability in Emerging Markets ............................................. 11 Product and Services offered ............................................................................................................... 11 Thought Leadership and Insight Creation ............................................................................................ 11 Driving Impact through Market Driven Interventions ......................................................................... 13 Leveraging Technology and Incubating Innovation ............................................................................. 14 Page2 Accelerating Su ustainability Messagge from the e Managin ng Directors December 14, 2012 We are prroud to declare our contin nued support of, and adhe rence to, the UN Global Co ompact in 20 011‐ 12. This year has been tran nsformative for f our firm; as a a young staartup, we havve grown our revenues and staff several fold since we began ou ur journey thrree years agoo. An enduriing passion fo or sustainability is at the veery core of ouur organizatioon’s mission aand vision. WWe are continnually searchiing for metho ods of engage ement to leveerage our finaancial resourcces and intellectual capital in ways w which crreate the highhest environm mental and soocial impact ppossible. Our mission is to creatte a strong bu usiness case fo or relevant m market‐based sustainabilityy intervention ns in emerging market ecconomies. We e see our role e as a facilitatoor of innovation in the susstainability space, connnecting inno ovative sustaiinability soluttions with Inddian industriees interested iin becoming more reso ource efficiennt and responsible in their operations. In 2011‐12, cKinetics continued to makem progresss in its flagshhip resource m management work in the supply chain of major brands; b we have advanced d our work thhat began in eearly 2011 in building a market model m for reneewable energyy based rural electrificatioon; and promo oting innovattive sustainability solutionss and corporaate initiatives through Susttainability Ou utlook, the Suustainable Business Leadership L Foorum, and Parivartan Awards. Addition ally through o our work in ppromoting Sustainabbility in financce, we have esstablished an n investor focuused workingg group examining the adoption of enhanced environmenttal and social (E&S) disclossure among In ndian firms. As a missiion driven orgganization, we remain com mmitted to Acccelerating Suustainability tthrough all th hat we do; annd do so in a profitable p as well w as responsible manneer. Pawan Mehrra Upendra BBhatt Managing Director Managing Director Page3 cKiinetics: A Mission Driven Organization Overrview and 2011‐201 12 Highligh hts Sustainability Bluep print Market M Acceess and Insigght Invvestment and d Sustainability Finaance  Delivereed Energy and d  Ho osted 2012 Su ustainable Buusiness  Sttructuring pro oject finance ffor Water savings s to the Leeadership Forrum (SBLF) Annnual in nvestment in D Distributed supply chain c of globaal Suummit – India a’s only markeet Reenewable Eneergy (DRE) brands deevelopment pllatform conneecting coompanies sttakeholders inn the Corpora te Suustainability space s  Launcheed Resource  Suuccessfully held Parivartann  La aunched Invesstor Focused Manageement and Tra acking Aw wards 2012 – connecting aand W Working Group p on tool (comMIT) to help mid‐ sh howcasing inn novative En nvironmentall & Social sized buusinesses to trrack su i ustainability initiatives of IIndian Diisclosure andd Reporting their foo otprint Coorporates foocused on enh anced non‐ finnancial disclo osure among Inndian corpora ates  Released March to  Market M Insightts generated i n: Sustaina ability: A Grreen Jobs, Wa aste‐to‐Energyy, compreh hensive guidee to Diistributed Ren newable Enerrgy sustaina ability in the Indian I (D DRE) Policy Textile Sector S The emerrgence and thhe impending and investtors and businesses, cKineetics leveragees a necessaryy growth of em merging econ nomies, has thougght process fo or acceleratinng actions on brought fo orth a unique e opportunityy to leapfrog susta inable practicces that include: (a) Closedd the develo opment of ne ewer industryy and loop ssystems, (b) DDecentralized d production and communitty infrastructure to be mo ore efficient, consuumption, and (c) Resourcee conservation n. sustainable and hence more profitaable. The m mission of cKiinetics is to ppropagate and d It is in thiss context, thaat cKinetics was w founded devel op market drriven solution ns for rapid in 2009 byy a team, passsionate abou ut using adopttion of sustainable growth h strategies in n market baased solutions and industrry dynamics indusstries and commmunities witthin emergingg to address the most prressing issue of o our time: econoomies. sustainably driven grow wth and deve elopment. As a speciialized Sustain nability Advissory firm that proviides end‐to‐e end solutions for Page4 Vision: Our visions is to first‐hand. cKinetics will be a carbon‐neutral company constantly pushing towards zero‐ accelerate creation and carbon. By setting an example for our children maintenance of systems we can enable the generations to come. which shape a balance Be alert to opportunities: Air, water and land between resource needs are considered 'free' (or close to 'free') in many more ways than we can imagine. We need to alert of today and those in the ourselves to such cases and identify opportunities future. to bring about change. Be wise on technology: Technology is our cKinetics USA, Inc.: A Registered biggest ally in increasing efficiency and driving Benefit Corporation conservation. Technology is also our biggest enemy when it lets consumption go out of cKinetics USA, based out of Palo Alto, control. California is, in accordance with California Bill AB 361, now chartered as a Benefit Leverage market driven solutions: These Corporation. have a tendency to work and cKinetics will expend its energies on being creative in The rationale for being among the first few coming up with products and services that help companies to have sought this status is to align incentives along with other players. exhibit and inculcate a firm and ongoing commitment to balance traditional financial Be factual: If it can't be measured, it is metrics with environmental and social impact probably not worth doing. Data will form the and value creation as the key success factor. pillar for cKinetics. All internal initiatives should be measurable and decisions made on Tenets of cKinetics’ Operating data from them. Chances are that others will Philosophy: Making it Count also want to make data‐driven decisions ‘ especially in market‐driven‐scenarios. cKinetics The following are the core elements of the should become their go‐to resource. operating philosophy: Set imagination free: We're limited on what Do: action counts louder than words. is possible by our own minds. Dare to think beyond the conventional and make it happen. Be frugal: Natural resources are scarce and limited. We need to be frugal with them just as we would with anything we own. Set an example: Being an example and adopting low‐resource‐footprint is the best way to be the change as also to understand the challenges Page5 Applying UNGC Principles Materiality Assessment, Commitment and Ongoing Engagement As a part of its ongoing commitment to 2) How, and to what extent, can these mainstreaming sustainability in the Indian principles become central to the service business community, cKinetics is proud to offerings of cKinetics and, thus, attain the support the UN Global Compact Principles in desired impact created through its business December 2012. These principles have been operations? central to cKinetics’ growth strategy and expansion Given the focus of our operations on emerging markets, we feel it is particularly important to Materiality of Principles subscribe to relevant internationally recognized principles, charters and best Given its role as a specialized Sustainability practices in the sustainability space. Advisory firm, cKinetics has limited exposure to Sustainability Risks, and by extension created Engagement with UNGC limited ESG impact through its own operations. The cKinetics team actively participated in the Thus, the issues of materiality of UNGC Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum convened by Principles, their implementation and the UNGC in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012. subsequent outcomes have been evaluated through the following lens: The team engages in the monthly meetings and conferences organized by the Global Compact 1) How, and to what extent, do the principles Network in India. apply to cKinetics in its operations? Page6 Page7 Sustainability at cKinetics: A Mission Driven Organization Communicating Progress: Ongoing Commitment to UNGC Principles In its ongoing day‐to‐day operations, cKinetics Policies for dealing with incidents of Human has, in the year 2011‐12, incorporated several Right Violations and Corruption of the strategies, proposed by UN Global Compact, for integrating the ten principles. We are committed to diligently managing our These include the following: business operations, both internally as well as in external stakeholders, in a manner which Code of Conduct reflects our high ethical standards. The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with and aspirations of cKinetics management and respect to incidents of corruption, both in the staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption public and the corporate sphere. and Work Force Environment, etc. Table 1 outlines how the UNGC Operating Principles Principles have been As explained in the previous section, the implemented in the year 2011‐12 operating principles guide the strategic It should, however, be noted that the planning and day‐to‐day operations. comprehensive application of these principles Training and Development Opportunities is an ongoing area of focus for the company and a number of wide‐reaching improvements The young, talented and passionate team at are planned for 2012‐13. cKinetics are afforded opportunities for and encouraged to engage intellectually and professionally in industry conferences, field building activities and training/certification programs both within India and abroad. Page8 Table 1 Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Human Principle 1: Businesses should support cKinetics is committed to upholding The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to human rights; it There have been reported incidents of Human rights violations in the company Rights and respect the protection of Human Rights, in its capacity as a outlines our stance and strategy for preventing the abuse of internationally proclaimed human responsible business, in letter and in spirit, human rights. All employees and extended stakeholders are rights; and as it is material to the company currently expected to abide by it. Principle 2: make sure that they are and in future. Operating in India poses a not complicit in human rights abuses. number of unique human rights Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an challenges. cKinetics is committed to anonymous email ID) and the individual will be protected from reporting of any human rights violations repercussions. observed in the course of conducting its business operations. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold As a firm with India and US presence, Our Company Labour Practices is an internal document which ‐ No reported incidents of violations of Labour principles the freedom of association and the eff cKinetics is in compliance with all relevant defines our expectations and commitments regarding ‐ Each employees met with the manager twice to discuss the performance, ective recognition of the right to collec local labor regulations in its respective employment both in our own operations and in those of our concerns and goals tive bargaining operations. partners. Any violation can be reported confidentially and the Training and Development Principle 4: the elimination of all form individual will be protected from repercussions. ‐ Each employee is allowed 1 day per month to attend conferences, seminars s of forced and compulsory labour The prevalence of the informal, and programs for knowledge advancement Principle 5: the effective abolition of c unorganized, sector in India poses a We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly meetings with the ‐ All internally reported complaints and concerns were dealt with on a priority hild labour number of distinct challenges in staff wherein feedback from employees is actively incorporated basis to the employee satisfaction Principle 6: the elimination of discrimi adequately assessing the adherence of by management into the company’s policies and strategies. ‐ 12 internal sessions conducted on different topics as a part of the Friday nation in respect of employment and some of our small suppliers to Principles learning discussions occupation 3‐5. However, we continue to maintain We continually provide opportunities, through training and access vigilance when working with local small to industry conferences, for our workforce to grow intellectually businesses. and professionally. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support As a small operational consulting firm, Thought Leadership in the Sustainability Space details the current Internal Outcomes a precautionary approach to cKinetics has a limited ecological footprint. and past field‐building research and action undertaken by Smart use of resources is an operating principle of cKinetics and focus is on environmental challenges. However, we are actively engaged in cKinetics. reducing consumption. cKinetics has a philosophy of resource conservation which Principle 8: Businesses should managing our resource consumption and includes use of electricity and paper. Dis‐incentive mechanisms include fines from undertake initiatives to promote reducing waste from our operations. Creating Impact in Accelerating Sustainability focuses on our core employees for failing to leave the computer monitor down/ lights turned off. greater environmental responsibility business operations and the environmental/social impact they Reuse of paper made mandatory and recycling is encouraged. Principle 9: Businesses should Our commitment to sustainability is at the generate. encourage the development and very core of our business mission, vision, External Outcomes diffusion of environmentally friendly and operations. cKinetics has made strong Our offices are currently engaged in actively monitoring and  Through the division, Sustainability Outlook, cKinetics reaches 68,000 technologies contributions to sustainability in India tracking our electricity consumption using a suite of metering and people annually informing them on activities and updates related to (see: Thought Leadership in the analytics software. resource conservation. More at www.SustainabilityOutlook.in Sustainability Space) as well creating real  Parivartan Awards 2011 and 2012 recognized 30 pioneering businesses impact through our various business that are shaping the Sustainability agenda in India. More at ventures (see: Creating Impact in www.ParivartanAwards.in Accelerating Sustainability).  Through the Resource Management and Efficiency Program, 15 of India’s largest exporting manufacturers were assisted in improving their resource efficiency. Anti‐ Principle 10: Businesses should work cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and commitments There have been reported incidents of Human rights violations in the company Corruption against corruption in all its forms, Convention against Corruption (UNCAC). regarding anti‐bribery practices both in our own operations and including extortion and bribery in those of our partners. We take an active, zero‐tolerance, stance against bribery and corrupt business Any violation can be reported confidentially (through an practices through diligent monitoring and anonymous email ID) and the individual will be protected from enforcement. repercussions. Page9 Page10 Su ustainab bility att cKinettics: Cre eating Im mpact Commmuniccating Prrogress:: Driving g Sustain nability in Emerrging Ma arkets In itss endeavour to drivee sustainab bility in em merging markets, cKin netics provvides speciaalized operational conssulting andd strategic services w with a focuss on:  Resource Efficiency and Co onservation: Energy, Water, Caarbon, Wasste  Renewwable Enerrgy and Sm mart Infrasttructure  Sustainability Fin nance Our track reco ord as speccialists in leeveraging ccross‐functtional man nagement resources across geoggraphies uniquely po ositions us as a ‘partn ner of choiice’ to desiign and exeecute proffitable business mod dels that ennhance and promotee Sustainab bility. We h help archittect and im mplement ggrowth oriented susttainable soolutions by bringing a deep und derstandingg of sectorr dynamicss across ind dustries. Wee work with:  Indiaan organ nizationss targeting globaal markeets  Interrnationaal busineesses thaat have o operations and ssupply chains in India  Deveelopmen nt Financcial Instiitutions and cataalysts for sustain nability actioons  Invesstors  Clean ntech an nd sustaiinabilityy firms Pro oduct an nd Servicces offerred cKinnetics engaagements aare charactterized by a demonsttrated com mmitment to bring ab bout changge throough: Though ht Leadership and Inssight Creattion Driving IImpact thrrough Leveraaging techn nology Marrket Driven n and incubatin ng Inteerventionss innovation n Tho ought Lea adership a and Insigh ht Creatio on Und der the Market Accesss and Insigght division n of cKinettics, severaal initiativees were undertaken in 2011‐ 12 to generatee insight an nd foster thought leaadership. TThese are: Susttainable Bu usiness Leadership FForum (SBLF) Susttainable Business Leadership FForum (SBLLF) is an n invitation n‐only Indian industry focused market develo opment plaatform whiich equipss organizattions, managers and industry sttakeholders on the ‘how’ of su ustainabilitty throughh a unique programm matic appro oach comp prising of ro ound the yyear proggrams and ‘on‐groun nd industryy oriented’ work. Insttituted by SSustainability Outloo ok, the lead ding information m marketplacee on sustaiinability acction, SBLFF enables a unique exxchange off thought Page111 lead dership, bu usiness kno ow‐how an nd catalyticc tools for eenabling corporate ttransition ttowards susttainable bu usiness praactices. Parivartan Aw wards The Parivartan n Sustainab bility Leadeership Awaards (wwww.ParivarttanAwardss.in), institu uted by Susttainability Outlook, aare a platfo orm to unccover and rrecognize p progressivee corporattes, servicee provviders, andd individuals whose eefforts servve as catalyyst for advvancing susstainabilityy in India. India Carbon O Outlook Laun nched at thhe Clinton Global Inittiative, Inddia Carbon Outllook is an iindependeent informaation markketplace tracking action ns related to the carb bon econo omy as well as their im mpact. It pproactivelyy promotess a data driveen approach to enab ble action bby local, reegional as wwell as global practittioners. Carbbon Outloo ok provides (a) in‐dep pth busineess and pollicy analysiis, (b) updaates on thee market partticipants annd latest trrends on sustainabiliity initiativves, and (c)) expert inpputs on thee GHG emission reduuction and other carb bon abatem ment as well as adap ptation meeasures beiing undertaken in these regioons. Susttainability Outlook Susttainability Outlook is a market access, inssight and collaaboration p platform tracking acttions related towards susttainability iin the Indiaan econommy. It proacctively prommotes dialo ogue and ccollates daata to enab ble action bby local, regional as well as global praactitioners. Sustainab bility Outlo ook aims to o be the brridge for shhaping chan nge in this thought p process and d spur inno ovation. Thhe online aand print editions of Sustainabiility Outllook attem mpt to provvide comprrehensive in‐depth coverage on market p participantts and latesst tren nds on susttainability iinitiatives as also exp pert perspeectives on business aand policy analyses aas they perttain to meaasures imp pacting susstainabilityy in the bussiness operations. The ffollowing th hemes havee been coveered in somee of latest isssues, keep ping in line w with the keyy questions of the day: Moving from Op perating Defenssively to C Capturing Advaantage (O October 2012) Gearin ng India TTowards Sustainability (Seeptemberr 2011) Alignin ng Business with Sustainnability A Across thee Supplyy Chain (M March 201 11) Page12 2 Indicative Wo ork Productts Craccking the Coonundrum: Linking Inveestments (CCapital Floww) to  Landsca ape Paper o on Environmental an nd Social Peerformancee Susttainability D Disclosure Disclosuure and Rep porting (20 012) cKineetics underrtook a research  Operatio onalizing m micro‐grid based disttributed rurral studyy to determ mine Investtor electrificcation projjects: Policcy perspecttives and In nvestmentt and p policy vieww to leveragge stand dardization n of Approacches (2012 2) Environmental and Sociall  Creating g a Green C Collar Worrkforce in In ndia: Buildding Careerrs discloosure and reporting and Indu ustry Capaacity in Envvironmenta al Sustaina ability (2011)  Preparedness of In ndian Publiic Equities for Busineess The sstudy focusssed on creeating Sustaina G) Disclosure and Rep ability (ESG porting (20011) a possitive feedb back loop ffor a  Waste to o Wealth: Landscapee for Wastee to Energyy for virtuoous cycle o of getting mmore Industria al Waste (22011) firms and investors to start moving towards standard dized  Exportin ng Textiles:: March to Sustainab bility discloosure of immpact meassures  Profilling Sustaiinability Pla ans of Lead ding Brand ds and and o outlines the role of policy Retaiilers for theeir Global Textile Sup pply Chain (2011) makeers in creatting the  Previiew of the Coming De ecade: Texxtile Supplyy Chain enabling infrasttructure. Sustaainability P Plans by Brrands and R Retailers (22010) Driv ving Impa act throug gh Marke et Driven Interventtions Susttainability Blueprintin ng and Susstainabilityy Finance teams are ffocused on n identifyinng interven ntions whicch are seed ded in the market neeed and are backed b by a formiddable businness case. The follow wing work streams and produ ucts are being worked based on n this prem mise, which h are generating valu ue for cliennts: Reso ource Man nagement and Efficieency Practtice: Energyy, Water aand Carbon n Managem ment: Our resource m managemeent practicce has been n built upoon supportting manuffacturing units to beccome morre sustainable througgh develop ping mechaanisms for understan nding and m managing ttheir energgy and wateer consum mption. A data driven approach and stand dardized prrocesses diirected at impact creeation, havee allowed p paved the way for grreater savings and sh horter pay‐‐backs Identificationn of focus Creating goals g and business Haandholding to help arreas and hotspots case for resource effficiency im mplement th he improvem ments im mprovements improvem ments annd achieve ttargets •Mapping most reso ource •Asseessing the •Identiify enablerss that will intensivve processess with prepparedness ofo the help ccompany meeet its scope off change mannufacturer tot report goals •Creatingg an estimate of and to improvee •Bring in technoloogy potentiaal reductionns in •Devveloping bussiness providders, capital energy//carbon casee for implem menting providders etc. emission ns and reco ommended solutions •Customizing train ning Benchmmarking to prograams and curriculum industryy best practices Page13 3 Smaart Power ffor Environ nmentallyy and Econo omically‐ssound Development (SPEED) cKin netics has b been suppo orting the SPEED Pro ogram to design and test the potential o of businesss models aand implem mentation plans that delivver electriccity from renewable fuel sourcces in energgy deficien nt regio ons of the developin ng world. The Programm me aims to leverage tthe power of needs o of cell‐towwers in elecctricity‐starrved regionns as an annchor load to create a cleaner powwer infrastrructure thaat would seerve the laarger needss of poor aand vulnnerable peo ople in theese regionss, thus cataalyzing eco onomic and d social develop pment. netics workk is geared at fosterin cKin ng a frameework for eenabling multtiple botto om line asssessment aand financing for thesse projectss. Plan nning instittutional enngagemen nt for impaact disclosu ure: advannce disclosure of imp pact in bussinesses cKinnetics has been workking with in nvestors, wwhich are looking at impact in aaddition to o financial returns, to understand d their natu pact/ sustainability diisclosure. TThese inveestors havee ure of interrest in imp exprressed the for advan ncing deplooyment of the disclosure‐meassurement ssystems byy leveraging existting institu utional frammeworks ssuch as thee Ministry o of Corporaate Affairs, Global Reeporting Initiative, Carb bon Disclossure Projecct, Institute of Charteered Accou untants of India, amo ongst otheers. In this conttext, a Working Grou up was estaablished too answer the followin ng questio ons through h applying an inveestor lens: 1. What steps are n needed to coordinate actions b between existing insttitutions to o increase the prevallence of im mpact disclosure from m businesses in India? 2. When, where, and how should thesee steps be undertakeen to prom mote deployyment of investment capittal lookingg beyond a pure finan ncial return n? The working group, convvened under the Susttainable Businesses Leadership p Forum inncludes cKinetics, GIZ (German D Developmeent Authorrity) and Im mpact Investing Policy Collaborrative (IIPC). The Indian Instiitute of Coorporate Afffairs, undeer the Min nistry of Co orporate Afffairs is thee Policy Lead for the projects. Levveraging T Technolog gy and Inccubating Innovatio on Somme of our reecent initiaatives incluude: Reso ource Consservation TTool commMIT is an aanalytics aand information aggrregation platfform deveeloped to eenable clien nts to buildd insight into their operrations. It h helps build d a view onn the impaact of sustainability rrelated acttions beingg taken. It is designed d to interfaace with exxisting clieent repo orting systeems. Venture Accellerator at ccKinetics cKin netics Accelerator seeeks to inveest‐in and ssupport neew cutting‐‐edge Sustainability ffocused veentures thatt are shapin ng the futuure of resoource conseervation. Engaagement M Models:  In nvestmentts: cKineticcs Acceleraator investts in early sstage ideass and ventures providing strateegic ccapital usuaally when tthe venturre is youngg and the fiirm still addressing m many aspeccts of risk  In n‐situ incu ubation sup pport: Shoould an enttrepreneurr or a venture be locaated in Delhi, cKinetiics AAcceleratorr can proviide space aand facilitiees for operations Page14 4  Entrepreneur‐in‐Residence (EIR): Should an entrepreneur be contemplating an idea in the Sustainability domain, we share our insights with EIRs and work collaboratively to refine the ideas and also can provide initial seed funding. EIRs necessarily need to operate out of our Delhi center for us to engage and support effectively cKinetics Accelerator invests in ventures and ideas emerging from platforms such as the Unreasonable Institute, ISB iDiya, CIIE‐INFUSE at IIM Ahmedabad and others. Page15 www.cKinetics.com INDIA 708 Hemkunt Chambers, 89 Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019 T: +91.11.4050.7277 USA 262 Ventura Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94306 T: +1.650.331.1931 Page16
