Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report This sustainability report describes how the Bostadsbolaget housing company works with sustainable development with regard to environmental, social and financial aspects. There is a description of the major sustainability issues, and the results achieved during the year. The Sustainability Report is part of Bostadsbolaget's Annual Report, and contains references to various pages in that report. The Annual Report in its entirety is available in Swedish at www.bostadsbolaget.se. The environmental management system of Bostadsbolaget is certified in accordance with ISO 14001. This is an international environmental management standard developed by the International Organisation for Standardisation. The Company is also registered with the EMAS, which means that it complies with EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Regulation. These management systems lend excellent support and structure to environmental efforts. In addition, they mean annual external audits of environmental efforts in order to develop and improve the work even more. Bostadsbolaget has signed the UN Global Compact, an initiative to increase businesses’ awareness of, and take active responsibility for, ten internationally recognised principles in the areas of human rights, labour law, and anti-corruption. 2 Content Highlights of 2011 ................................................................................................................ 4 Note from CEO .................................................................................................................... 4 Sustainability ........................................................................................................................ 5 Relations and interaction ............................................................................................... 6 Environmental responsibility ................................................................................................. 9 Community responsibility ................................................................................................... 19 Financial responsibility ....................................................................................................... 27 GRI Index ........................................................................................................................... 32 3 Highlights of 2011 40% of Bostadsbolaget’s executives and directors are women. All of Bostadsbolaget’s new structures are built as low-energy buildings. Since 1999, the Company has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions by 10,000 metric tons. In 2011, construction of the Company’s first completely smoke-free building was commenced. In its cooperation with the City Mission (Stadsmissionen), the Company has tested collection routes through Bostadsbolaget’s housing areas. Bostadsbolaget participated for the third year in a row in the Leve klotet programme at the Gothenburg Culture Festival, and is part of the Festival’s sustainability council, which works to reduce the event’s environmental impact. Bostadsbolaget is an active partner in the construction of the new neighbourhood of Kvillebäcken, which will serve as a model for sustainable development. Bostadsbolaget compensates for the carbon dioxide emissions of its trips by air and car by investing an equivalent amount in environmental initiatives in its business. The services available through the BoVist communication unit were improved. A fundamental idea of this project is that teaching the population how to use BoVist will lead to decreased consumption and greater environmental awareness. Note from CEO Every day, the work of our employees contributes to the development of Gothenburg. We take responsibility for providing housing, work to ensure that our tenants can influence housing issues, and give them the tools to enable them to improve their own quality of life. This is part of the mission we describe in the message from the CEO. It’s a great responsibility, but we’re proud to accept it. In this Sustainability Report, you’ll read about how we contribute to a sustainable society. Bertil Rignäs, CEO 4 Sustainability Bostadsbolaget employs a staff of about 260. About 40,000 residents of Gothenburg live in the Company’s 22 909 apartments, or rent one of the Company’s 1,165 non-residential spaces. Our Company directly or indirectly affects a large number of other groups, such as contractors, organisations, educational premises, and businesses. Our company’s actions thus have a great impact on the environment, society and the economy. This sustainability report relates to the calendar year of 2011, and includes the entire Company. It is issued annually, and this report is the third in a row since 2009. Upon the issuance of this sustainability report, Bostadsbolaget was not involved in any disputes or litigation relating to sustainability issues. Bostadsbolaget subscribes to the principles of the UN Global Compact regarding human rights, labour law issues, the environment and corruption. This means that the Company formally recognises the UN’s ten principles and is obligated to issue an annual report regarding how the Company is working with these issues. Bostadsbolaget’s suppliers, as well as the Company itself, are expected to apply these principles in daily operations. The Company is also a member of CSR Western Sweden (Public & Private Social Responsibility Initiative). The Company has reviewed all its operations, in order to find potential risks of corruption. The review found no evidence that either the Company or its employees acted in violation of the Company’s ethical guidelines. All employees receive continual training to ensure that they are familiar with, and abide by, the ethical guidelines. Internal risk management and internal audits have also been reinforced in order to ensure compliance with laws and regulations. (Read more about risk management and internal audits on pages 18-21 and 54-55 in Bostadsbolaget's Annual Report. Just as the Company has requirements governing the actions of its employees, the Company has formulated ethical guidelines for its suppliers. The municipal housing company of Gothenburg, Bostadsbolaget, is represented in all the neighbourhoods of the city. The Company is a subsidiary of Förvaltnings AB Framtiden, wholly owned by the City of Gothenburg. The business is managed based on the purpose of the owner for its public housing companies and the prioritised objectives of the City of Gothenburg. The Board of Directors and the lay auditors are appointed by the Municipal Council. The CEO administers the business in cooperation with the district managers and heads of the support functions. Issues regarding the sustainability report should be directed to the Bostadsbolaget Director of Information at +46 (0) 31-731 50 00 or by email at info@bostadsbolaget.se. 5 Relations and interaction As a public housing company, Bostadsbolaget is required to work for the benefit of the City of Gothenburg, its tenants and society. The Company must be operated in a sustainable manner, and according to business principles, with good cooperation with the stakeholders. The most important stakeholders have been identified as tenants, owner, and personnel, as these have key role in the survival and success of the Company. In addition to these, there are important interactions with a number of stakeholders that are active in the city. Tenants Contact with the tenants is the Company’s most extensive dialogue, and is carried out through a large number of channels, particularly through everyday meetings between tenants and personnel. Bostadsbolaget works to ensure that our tenants can feel that they are safe and secure, actively participate and influence issues regarding their housing and their housing area. In 2011, the otherwise annual resident survey was reworked, and will return next year. As a result, Bostadsbolaget chose to implement a qualitative resident survey directed to tenants born abroad. The purpose was to identify how the Company’s information and channels are perceived by this target group. (For further information, see page 39 in Bostadsbolaget's Annual Report). Employees Bostadsbolaget’s more than 260 employees are important spokespeople for the Company and act as bearers of its trademark. The Company continuously conducts personal performance review discussions with each employee, and encourages in-service training to improve skills and expertise for individuals, and thereby, for the entire Company. Employee opinions about the Company are measured each year in an anonymous employee survey. In 2011, the work of introducing a new and interactive intranet began, as the present one no longer meets the needs of the Company. The new tool is expected to be in service in 2012. Owner Bostadsbolaget reports information continuously to its parent company, Förvaltnings AB Framtiden. Communication with its owner, the City of Gothenburg, occurs primarily through the parent, which coordinates reporting to the municipality. In order to strengthen the Group, and to achieve as good results as possible, there are 15 coordination teams between the subsidiaries of the Group in various fields. These teams are composed of personnel from the subsidiaries, and include a financial council, an environmental and energy group, personnel group, building group and others. Continuing discussions and collaboration create a consensus on major issues within the Group. During the year, the various housing companies of the Group have closely cooperated in the expansion of the Framtidens Bredband broadband fibre network. 6 Financiers The subsidiaries of the Framtiden group co-ordinate their financing and borrowing through the parent and through their own financial departments. The parent company handles reporting to credit rating agencies, whilst Bostadsbolaget maintains continuous contact with banks regarding flows and interest rate hedging. Beginning in 2012, all financial activities will be coordinated and handled by the parent company. The annual report is an example of the dialogue carried on with the Company’s financiers. The Company has regular meetings with banks, which also arrange seminars and educational programmes in which Bostadsbolaget participates. Tenants’ Association Bostadsbolaget and the Tenants’ Association (Hyresgästföreningen) negotiate on rents each year. The parties also cooperate on a number of projects in various housing areas, and conduct continual negotiations on new construction and renovation projects, management, and tenant empowerment issues. As an example, two cooperation projects to increase tenant participation and empowerment in housing issues were concluded at the end of the year. Contractors and suppliers The relationship between the Company and its contractors and suppliers should be characterised by a business ethics approach. Just as Bostadsbolaget places demands on how its personnel should act, the Company has ethical guidelines for its suppliers. These mean that the suppliers, as well as Bostadsbolaget’s own personnel, should act professionally and show respect for the tenants and housing environments. As a public housing company, Bostadsbolaget complies with the Public Procurement Act. In 2011, for example, a procurement procedure was conducted for a supplier of a new environmental database. Outside consultants If the Company needs additional skill or expertise, or if the capacity of the present workforce is insufficient, outside consultants will be brought in. The involvement of these consultants will vary from project to project, and can range from providing advice to actually doing the job. For example, IT consultants were hired in conjunction with the preparation of the Company’s new environmental database. Unions Bostadsbolaget’s personell are represented by three trade unions: Ledarna, Unionen and Fastighetsanställdas Förbund. The last two are also represented on the board of directors of the Company through employee representatives. The Company and union representatives 7 engage in open communication with each other through regular contacts, such as coordination meetings. Government agencies Bostadsbolaget not only offers good housing, but also works with other entities in creating good housing areas. As one of Gothenburg’s largest public housing companies, Bostadsbolaget maintains regular contacts with most of the government entities in the areas where it maintains a presence. These include municipal district administrations, social services, and the property office, as well as public officials and other agencies and organisations. The Company’s CEO is active in the world class sustainable community development – a government project, which includes the National Board of Building, Planning and Housing, the Swedish Construction Federation and the Swedish Construction Clients Forum. Dialogue for community development In addition to the above-mentioned stakeholders, Bostadsbolaget cooperates with schools, business owners, other landlords, industry associations, and law enforcement within the framework of development projects. Together with tenants and other partners, the Company’s personnel promote comfortable and secure housing areas. The relationship between the Company and the stakeholders is an important part of sustainable community development. Open and continuous dialogue increases our understanding of stakeholder expectations and leads to greater commitment, which in turn, increases the prospects of success for the Company. The stakeholders affect and are affected by the actions of the Company. Monitoring of media coverage Due to the location of its activities, Bostadsbolaget is covered almost exclusively by local media and trade periodicals. Housing environment issues predominate. Media reports greatly affect the public’s view of the Company, which underscores the importance of good relations with all stakeholders. Information channels In order to reach its stakeholders, Bostadsbolaget uses both conventional and digital communication channels. The choice of channel is made based on the target group and subject. Some may prefer written information, while others want a physical meeting. The website is an important tool not only for communicating information, but for conducting a dialogue, as well. The website also enables visitors to search for apartments, find information about housing areas, and read about new construction and other projects being conducted by Bostadsbolaget. Tenants can also make suggestions for improvements through the website. Since the autumn of 2011, Bostadsbolaget is also on Facebook. Other channels 8 include tenants’ magazine, Trivas, which is published four times a year, and meetings of various kinds that take place in the district. Internally, regular meetings are held on the central function and district level. Company-wide meetings and the intranet are important internal channels. Bostadsbolaget constantly works to improve communication with all stakeholders. Environmental responsibility As one of Sweden’s largest public housing companies, Bostadsbolaget has a great opportunity to contribute to a sustainable environment. The size and economic resources of the Company enable it to take long-range actions both in its own work, and with regard to its tenants’ environmental impact. Highlights of 2011  Bostadsbolaget participates in the Bevara och utveckla staden som livsmiljö (preserve and develop the city as a living environment) project to prepare an environmental programme for the City of Gothenburg. The objectives of this project are to fulfil the local environmental objectives, and co-ordinate the city’s environmental efforts.  The Company has taken a number of steps to improve waste sorting. These have included information of the Trivas tenants’ magazine, and the commencement of a project to improve signage.  Employees at the Real Estate Development and Central Purchasing Division have received training in how to simply but effectively include environmental requirements in procurement.  Bostadsbolaget’s tenants will be able to try the Sunfleet carpool model, free of charge, for three months. This gives tenants the opportunity to obtain a car when needed. 2012  The Company will be conducting a survey of lighting of common areas throughout its real estate holdings. This survey will be followed by action plans and the replacement of light sources and control systems.  Bostadsbolaget’s new construction project in Kvillebäcken will continue to 2014. All buildings there will be low-energy buildings, and cooperation with other property owners to create a special environmental image for the area is continuing. 9  The pilot project for individual billing of warm water involved Bostadsbolaget installing water meters in a number of properties in 2011. In 2012, the Company will test and evaluate billing for water as part of the rent payment in selected areas. Focus areas, goals and objectives Bostadsbolaget is working to reduce its impact on climate. In our focus area decisions, we identify the areas in which environmental impact is greatest, and formulate our companywide goals and objectives. Even in areas where the Company has less or indirect environmental impact, we are working with these issues, although setting measurable goals is difficult in those cases. In addition to our stated objective of reducing the Company’s own environmental impact, we place great emphasis on making it easier for our tenants to make wise environmental choices. Bostadsbolaget’s most important environmental aspects 1. Construction and maintenance 2. Energy consumption 3. Waste processing 4. Processing of substances that pose a threat to health 5. Tenants’ environmental impact 6. Heat and cooling pumps 7. Transports and working machinery 8. Procurement of materials and services 9. Water consumption Together with the national environmental objectives and the local environmental objectives of Gothenburg that can be linked to Bostadsbolaget’s operations, the above nine aspects form a foundation for the environmental plan of the Company. In addition to the general environmental plan, the Company’s six districts have included environmental obligations in their local business plans. National environmental Local environmental objectives (subBostadsbolaget’s objectives goals) important environmental aspects Non-toxic environment Less environmental toxins in 1, 4 and 8 children’s everyday environment. Phased-out substances should not be used or emitted in Gothenburg. Good built-up environment The built-up environment in the City 1 to 5 of Gothenburg should contribute to a good living environment in which resources are used in a sustainable manner. 10 Reduced climate impact In 2050, Gothenburg should have a fair 1 and 7 and sustainable level of carbon dioxide emissions. Fresh air Reduce the concentration of particles, 1, 2 and 7 nitrogen oxides, and volatile inorganic hydrocarbons. No eutrophication Reduce phosphorus and nitrogen 2 and 7 emissions in water, and reduce nitrogen oxides to air Natural acidification only Reduce emissions of sulphur dioxides 7 and nitrogen oxides. Environment organisation Bostadsbolaget’s environmental organisation underwent an overhaul in 2011, with the hiring of an environmental strategist to additionally develop its environmental work. The new environmental organisation is continuing its strategic efforts to reduce detrimental environmental impact in various ways. This work is managed by the environmental business plan, which supplements the Company’s general business plan. The environmental business plan is divided into four dimensions:  Ecological sustainability – Bostadsbolaget should work for a reduction of detrimental impact on the Earth’s ecosystem.  Knowledge – There should be a high level of environmental awareness and knowledge, both internally and amongst the tenants.  Consideration – Environmental work is done out of consideration for present and future generations.  Cooperation– Together, we can contribute to a more sustainable society The environmental database serves as the foundation of Bostadsbolaget’s environmental efforts. Here, employees can find the Company’s environmental routines, organisation, responsibility and environmental objectives. All employees should have a sufficient understanding of, and insight into, the Company’s environmental management system, so that they can understand Bostadsbolaget’s environmental policy and contribute to the attainment of the general and detailed environmental objectives. Bostadsbolaget has decided to reinforce environmental information directed to new tenants. A purpose of this is to inform them of environmental features present in new buildings. Bostadsbolaget Environmental council Environmental information Environmental auditors The chairperson of the officers Environmental auditors 11 Environmental Council Environmental information conduct an annual audit of represents the management of officers communicate Bostadsbolaget’s the Company. Responsible for environmental issues environmental work. the environmental internally and promote these management system, and amongst the districts and creates awareness of and central functions. commitment to environmental issues. Examples from the field In the north-west Hisingen district, an agreement was entered into with Renova, a leading Swedish environmental company, in 2010, under which the Company was to receive money for fractions that were sorted and delivered. This was done to motivate the tenants to sort their rubbish. The project resulted in about SEK 120,000 being used to benefit the tenants in 2011 through contributions to various associations and activities in the area. Bostadsbolaget is part of Fair Trade City Gothenburg. During the year, the Company has participated in a survey by the City of Gothenburg of how fair trade products are used in the city. The Company is also assuming responsibility for increasing the number of labelled products in Gothenburg. Environmental impact Water Bostadsbolaget uses municipal water from Gothenburg’s two waterworks, and wastewater purified at the city’s purification plant. The Company uses several methods to prevent water pollution. These include the placement of oil separators at rinsing locations, and the use of a list of chemicals to ensure that only approved products are used. Bostadsbolaget and its tenants together used about 2.59 million m3of water in 2011, about 38.2 per cent of which was warm tap water. Consumption corresponds to 1.73 m3/m2. Although water consumption has increased somewhat in recent years, the Company has a goal of lowering consumption to 1.71 m3/m2 in 2012. In order to reach this goal, Bostadsbolaget installed water meters in a number of buildings in 2011. This is a pilot project that will be evaluated and serve as the basis for a decision regarding individual billing of warm water. Water-conserving toilets and mixers are standard in both new buildings and renovations. Water consumption, see diagram on page 31. 12 Energy Energy consumption consists of two parts: district heating to heat homes, non-residential premises and warm tap water, on one hand, and electricity for common areas and building functions, on the other. Viewed over a ten-year period, district heating consumption has decreased, while electricity for common areas and building functions has increased marginally, even though lighting and electronic systems have been installed in buildings (e.g. lifts and lighting fittings) to increase security. In 1999, Bostadsbolaget started energy-saving initiatives to reduce energy consumption. These initiatives have been successful, thanks to technical installations, improved processes and education. Since then, the Company has reduced carbon dioxide emissions by about 10,000 tonnes, which corresponds to about 15 round the world trips in a Boeing aircraft. All the electricity Bostadsbolaget consumed is hydroelectric, in other word, renewable. Bostadsbolaget’s buildings have an average energy consumption of about 165 kWh/m2. Since 2009, all of Bostadsbolaget’s new buildings are low-energy buildings, and have an energy consumption of 50-60 kWh/m2, including electricity for common areas and building functions. Current government requirements are 110 kWh/m2. The method of production leads to reduced consumption of district heating and household electricity. Current construction projects include Dockhusen in Västra Eriksberg, Prisma in Västra Frölunda and Kvarteret Mandelpotatisen in Kvillebäcken – each with different contractors, but all of them are low-energy buildings. District heating Bostadsbolaget’s housing is heated by district heating, a method of production with both economic and environmental advantages. Nevertheless, the goal is to reduce the use of district heating. Each building’s heating therefore undergoes an in-depth analysis. Buildings from the 1950s to 1970s often are in great need of maintenance, and in connection with a facade replacement, for example, the Company may decide to add more insulation to reduce heating consumption and costs. Bostadsbolaget is also working with effect management, which means that during short periods, the buildings act as heat storage units. Heat recovery is another method of conserving heat. During the year, the Company has renovated existing heat pumps, and heat recovery in the form of ventilation units is used in new buildings. Additional measures that the Company has taken in order to reduce district heat consumption include the introduction of room temperature sensors, which show whether action is needed. Adjustments of heat and ventilation are also done continuously. The reason for all of these is to optimise heat intake to the buildings and reduce consumption. In 2011, the degree day adjusted heating consumption (including warm tap water) increased by four per cent to 166.6 kWh/m2 compared to the previous year. This difference is primarily the result of a misleading degree day correction due to gales, and to a certain extent to a delay in alignment after a replacement of a control unit. Bostadsbolaget, together with its sister companies, will change from degree day corrections to an energy index, which is a method 13 that SABO recommends, and which more accurately reports the effect of methods of controlling heating consumption. District heating consumption, see diagram on page 31. Electricity for common areas and building functions There is an ongoing comprehensive survey of lighting in the common areas of the Company’s buildings in order to identify places where it is possible to change to presence-controlled and low-energy lighting. In addition to a decrease in electricity consumption, this would provide increased security for the tenants. Bostadsbolaget’s electricity consumption consists primarily of electricity for common areas and building functions, but there are currently a few areas where household energy is included in the rent. The Company is now installing individual distributions meters, which are expected to be placed in service in mid2012. An additional conservation measure by Bostadsbolaget is installing only energy-efficient major appliances (a+) in its new buildings. Electricity consumption in 2011 was 19.2 kWh/m2 – a decrease of 0.3 kWh/m2 from the previous year. The Company expects a small increase in 2012 as a result of additional installations, such as fibre optic junction boxes, and the fact that the survey of lighting sources has not yet yielded any results. Electrical consumption, see diagram page 31. Transport and machinery Bostadsbolaget’s own vehicles and machinery comply with the environmental requirements of the City of Gothenburg. When purchasing transport services, the Company imposes clear environmental requirements on its suppliers. While long business trips are primarily to be made by train, the personnel, in the case of shorter trips, are encouraged to bike or use public transportation. Employees can purchase bus and tram tickets on their work mobile phones, and in 2012 the Company will review the possibility of joining the city’s bicycle initiative, Styr & Ställ. In order to encourage the tenants to choose more environmentally-friendly means of transportation, a large number of bicycle parking areas are always included in and around new buildings. The tenants of Bostadsbolaget also have an opportunity to join the Sunfleet carpools at a reduced fee. Waste Both the Company and its tenants create waste, and this impacts the environment in many ways. In 2011, a weight-based fee was introduced in some of Bostadsbolaget’s areas, but since this is not offered in all the areas, it is difficult to measure waste quantity trends over time. The Company continuously works to inform the tenants about the various waste processing choices in the housing areas, and encourages them in many ways to sort their 14 waste. For example, in 2011, tenants in Kyrkbyn were given the opportunity to sort out disposed food, and in a laundry room in Majorna sorting of packaging is being tested. If there are no public waste recovery sites in the area, Bostadsbolaget often offers at-source sorting close to the building. Indoor environment The indoor environment includes everything from choice of materials to ventilation, temperature and acoustics. The adjustment of heat and ventilation is part of the work that the Company is doing in this area. The most important issue, however, is the presence of radon in house foundations and in the ground. Bostadsbolaget is increasingly focussing less on measuring and identifying the presence of radon and more on taking steps to deal with apartments that have excessive readings. Examples of these are improving the ventilation, installing radon suction devices, and sealing a building against the intrusion of radon from the ground. Outdoor environment Many factors described in this report affect the outdoor environment, directly or indirectly. Bostadsbolaget works to create a safe, secure and sustainable housing environment. Since 2007 the Company has systematically reviewed its housing areas to improve the outdoor environment in many ways. In addition to creating an aesthetically pleasing environment, the Company has improved security by more efficiently planned lighting and placement of plants. The environmentally adapted machinery and the low-energy outdoor lighting also contribute to a sustainable outdoor environment. The Company does not use any chemical pesticides, but rather utilises its own compost and organic fertiliser. Bostadsbolaget strives to create an environment that is good for many individuals, and contributes to biological diversity by features such as a diverse selection of plants. Where it is possible, the Company tops its new building with what is known as a green roof. In addition to being aesthetically pleasing, green roofs also contribute to better management of rainwater. Today, there are green roofs on most of the Company’s buildings in Eriksberg. Choice of materials Bostadsbolaget previously chose materials based on a list of undesirable substances and materials. During the past year, a transition was begun to a list of requirements with criteria based on a substance’s properties. Examples of this are that the products must be free from carcinogens, allergens, toxins, mutagens and substances that can interfere with the workings of hormones. It is also important that the Company chooses materials that have long-term sustainability in terms of maintenance, and that these two factors are intertwined. Beginning in 2012, when constructing new buildings, the Company will check that all materials and 15 chemicals are approved from an environmental perspective, and that there should be documentation as to which components are used in the project. Bostadsbolaget is covered by the City of Gothenburg’s municipal agreements, the environmental aspects of which are reviewed by the Upphandlingsbolaget procurement company. In order for a supplier to be considered for a procurement, it must also satisfy the requirements that Bostadsbolaget sets out in its environmental appendix. If suppliers do not satisfy these requirements, they will be asked to supplement their tenders by performing certain acts and/or supplying additional information. In some cases, a supplier has been excluded from the procurement. Emissions and consumption in numbers Carbon dioxide emissions Beginning in 2010, the Group has been preparing carbon dioxide calculations, as this is the Company’s largest impact on climate. These calculations are with the help of emission factors, and accepted standard values. The report is based on ISO 14064 and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, as well as the standards of the Swedish Environmental Management Council for environmental product declarations (EPD). As the values for 2011 were not yet available at the time this sustainability report was prepared, only the 2010 figures are given. Distribution of carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 (%) District heating (99.578) Natural gas (0.278) Property electricity (0.003) Business travel by car (0.141) 16 Carbon dioxide emissions by type of energy 2010 excl. District heating (Tonnes of CO2 ) 80 70 60 Natural gas (70) 50 Electricity, common areas 40 (0.64) 30 Business travel by car (35) 20 10 0 Water consumption (m3/m2) 1,74 1,72 1,7 Goal 2012 (1.71) 1,68 Goal 2011 (1.64) Outcome 2011 (1.73) 1,66 Outcome 2010 (1.72) 1,64 Outcome 2009 (1.70) 1,62 Outcome 2008 (1.68) 1,6 1,58 17 Electricity consumption* (kWh/m2) 22 21,5 21 Goal 2012 (19.6) Goal 2011 (19.2) 20,5 Outcome 2011 (19.2) 20 Outcome 2010 (21.5) 19,5 Outcome 2009 (21.1) 19 Outcome 2008 (21.1) 18,5 18 *Since 2011, only electricity for common areas and building systems are included in this diagram. This accounts for the seeming strong reduction in electricity consumption. All remaining collective electricity will be eliminated and no longer be reported in the future. Energy consumption for heating, district heating* (kWh/m2) 170 165 160 Goal 2012 (159.7) Goal 2011 (146) 155 Outcome 2011 (166.6) 150 Outcome 2010 (160.4) Outcome 2009 (154.7) 145 Outcome 2008 (157.3) 140 135 * Adjustment of consumption according to degree days. Degree day adjustment: In order to be able to compare energy consumption from year to year, and between various companies, we must take into account whether the temperature has been higher or lower than normal. The figures are adjusted for temperature differences with help of the Swedish Meteorology Service (SMHI)’s degree days and normal year. In years for which there are extreme deviations from the normal year, the degree day adjustment can be misleading. 18 Community responsibility A sustainable business includes a great deal more than environmental responsibility. It also means taking community responsibility, showing consideration for employees, and for Gothenburg, in general. Taking responsibility and possessing social awareness are not only good ethics, but make good business sense, as well. Highlights of 2011  Bostadsbolaget works actively with preventive healthcare, and every employee is given the opportunity to use an annual preventive healthcare grant. In 2011, one of every four employees took advantage of the grant. Employees can also exercise one hour a week during their paid working hours.  In November, Bostadsbolaget, together with the SABO trade organisation, arranged an education day on how children see their homes at the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg.  In April, Bostadsbolaget held its Children’s Day in the Heden. About ten sports associations that are active in the Company’s housing areas showed off their activities and talents. There was also face-painting and a circus performance. 2012  In the autumn of 2011 the Company began its 2012 health campaign to get as many as possible to participate in the Göteborgsvarvet running event. The Company is also encouraging employees to participate as supporters.  Bostadsbolaget’s youth panel is planning a Youth Day in 2012.  In 2011, Bostadsbolaget’s began the construction of its first totally smoke-free building. So far, this concept has been a rare one, with only 27 landlords in Sweden offering smoke-free multi-family buildings, according to the Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association. Bostadsbolaget is one of them. Employees By offering a good housing environment, Bostadsbolaget contributes to security and a good quality of life for its residents. This, in turn, engenders pride and instils a sense of responsibility for one’s housing area. By being an attractive employer, Bostadsbolaget contributes to personnel satisfaction, and makes it easier to recruit and retain competent 19 employees. Bostadsbolaget’s social commitment can be divided into the three key areas of environment, ethics and diversity within the Company and its areas of activity. Good advancement opportunities Bostadsbolaget’s intent and ambition is to be a modern, popular employer. By offering good leadership, a flexible work environment, and excellent advancement opportunities, the Company intends to attract, hire and retain competent personnel. Bostadsbolaget is working actively with skills development, and the employees are expected to take an active role in this work. All employees have annual performance review discussions where they can discuss their skills development. The average educational cost per employee in 2011 was SEK 5,932. In 2010, the corresponding cost was SEK 4,934. The Company ensures high-quality continuing leadership by its group-wide leadership programme. Bostadsbolaget works actively with leadership development to ensure a continuing supply of persons with leadership potential. This is done by identifying potential leaders amongst the Company’s employees. This work should be characterised by openness, a stimulating environment, personal development and job satisfaction. Gender equality and diversity Bostadsbolaget’s gender equality efforts are an integrated part of personnel policy, just as personnel policy is an integrated part of the Company’s operations. In the opinion of the Company, a more even gender distribution and increased diversity on all levels and teams increases well-being and makes for a positive climate in the workplace. One objective of these efforts is to better reflect the population structure that exists in Gothenburg. In 2011, a new employee survey was conducted. The results show that, as in previous surveys, Bostadsbolaget’s employees display more motivation than the average for employees in the Group. Reflecting the results at the department and district levels, action and improvement plans should be prepared for these entities. The goal for next year’s Motivated Employee Index is 72, which is two points higher than this year’s 70. There are no involuntary part-time positions or hourly employees at Bostadsbolaget. In order to increase the employees’ sense of participation and to utilise good experiences in an effective manner, the Company began work on a new intranet. Representatives from various teams will take part in preparing and designing the new platform. A healthy community Bostadsbolaget won a health award in 2010 and intends to do so again in 2012. This distinction was awarded based on a strategic effort on health issues with a focus on the varying needs of different groups, such as whether a central function or district can establish its own health goals. 20 Illness-related absenteeism at the Company continues to decrease, which can largely be ascribed to the Company’s initiative to increase awareness of health and preventive care. The Company issues annual health challenges to additionally encourage a healthy lifestyle. In addition, a regular and frequent follow-up of persons with long-term and short-term illnesses was conducted, in order to be able to offer the proper measures at an early stage. During the spring, Bostadsbolaget enlisted the help of Sportcore to create a health programme intended to improve employee health and well-being. The health challenge continued for two months, as team competed against team, and individuals could measure their performance against other individuals. Everyone participated based on his or her own capabilities and personal health goals. Central function and district-wide activities of various types are common within the Company. Individuals concerned will discuss and agree on activities that have some kind of connection to the Company’s activities, at the same time as they contribute to an increased sense of community and group feeling. A safe work environment Bostadsbolaget is covered by the City of Gothenburg’s security policy, which includes employees and temporary personnel, as well as contractors, suppliers and consultants. Based on the City’s policy, the Company has prepared its own programme for safety. The Group also has a group-wide crisis management plan. Work-related accidents are rare at Bostadsbolaget, with three or four work-related injuries reported per year. As part of workplace safety efforts, a risk inventory with protocol is prepared twice a year, followed up by an action plan. Threats and violence are the most common issues in risk inventories, and all personnel who come into contact with our tenants received instruction on these topics in 2011. Learning and participation At Bostadsbolaget, there are a large number of occupations and profession represented, and although personnel turnover is relatively low, the Company needs to market itself in order to attract competent personnel. An example of this is the cooperation of Bostadsbolaget with the Lindholmen Technical Higher Secondary School, its acceptance of young trainees, and its participation in the SABO traineeship programme for academics. In 2011, and especially during the summer, Bostadsbolaget has made major efforts to employ young people in summer positions. A total of 159 positions were filled during the year, compared to 140 in the previous year. Bostadsbolaget is pleased to be able to offer work to young people, and give them the opportunity to try out various occupations in the industry. 21 An opportunity for empowerment Bostadsbolaget’s personnel are represented by three trade unions: Ledarna, Unionen and Fastighetsanställdas Förbund. The last two are also represented on the board of directors of the Company through employee representatives. The Company and union representatives engage in open communication with each other through regular contacts, such as coordination meetings. The provision of information with regard to organisational changes is governed by the Codetermination Act (MBL). In the event of a notice of dismissal, the Employment Promotion Act applies. This did not happen in 2011, nor was Bostadsbolaget involved in any legal disputes regarding working conditions or similar issues during that year. Employees in numbers Age distribution – 24 years (5) 25 34 years (21) 35 44 years (68) 45 54 years (83) 55 years (84) Average age: 46.5 (2011), 47.9 (2010), 47.7 (2009). Illness-related absence (%) 6 5 Average 4 3 Blue-collar employees 2 1 White-collar employees 0 2011 2010 2009 Bostadsbolaget is one of the few real estate companies that have employed cleaning personnel. The illnessrelated absence for this group has decreased from 15.75% (2006) to 5.70% (2011). 22 Number of employees 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 Men 40 20 Women 0 Distribution of men and women on the Board and in Management: 14 men and 9 women. In 2011, ten people ended their employment with Bostadsbolaget, and the same number were hired. Community responsibility A wide-ranging responsibility Bostadsbolaget views relationships, housing and housing environments from a long-term perspective. The Company takes a great deal of community responsibility in its housing areas, and uses its efforts to create attractive communities. Bostadsbolaget is part of the Framtiden group, which has many objectives relating to community responsibility, such as increasing integration amongst the residents of our housing areas. This means taking responsibility to increase security, safety and well-being, with an added focus of children and young people. Young people are our future For several years Bostadsbolaget has been working to become the most child-friendly housing company in Sweden. This initiative is not a short-term project, but rather an approach that should permeate the everyday workings of the Company. One result of this is that the ordinary inspections have been expanded to include a greater focus on children and their safety. Bostadsbolaget feels that when people are empowered and see themselves as part of their housing environment from the time they are children, they will be more responsible and feel better about themselves and their home. That’s why the Company works with various groups of children and young people through projects such as the Hagas kaponjärer group and the Youth Panel, as well as a mentorship programme. The Hagas kaponjärer initiative, which activates young people to contribute to a safer and more enjoyable housing environment, proved to be very successful and appreciated by the 23 end of its first year onward. As a result, Bostadsbolaget decided to continue this initiative for one more school year. The group consists of about 30 children, some of whom have been involved from the beginning, while others joined in the second year. The members have picked up trash and made signs against graffiti, which are still present in many local shop windows. Last autumn, the founder of Hagas kaponjärer won the Förvaltnings AB Framtiden safety award for this initiative. Bostadsbolaget’s youth panel continued in 2011 to act as a sounding board in various development issues. Some of the young people who joined at the panel’s inception in 2010 are still active, while others joined during the second year. The group wants to be represented in all the housing areas, and is working to recruit additional members. The youth panel meets four times a year, as well as having worked with events such as the Gothenburg Culture Festival. Bostadsbolaget arranged activities at the Leve klotet festival venue, such as a debating match on housing and other community issues between eight experienced politicians and young people. In 2011, Bostadsbolaget arranged a mentorship programme with Mentor Sverige, a non-profit organisation that offered young people an adult mentor. Several employees were interested in acting as mentors, but only one match has been made so far. It turned out to be difficult to recruit young people, even though more than four in ten young respondents in the survey done in the Company’s areas expressed interest in having an adult mentor. Working together to create community feeling Another group-wide goal in the area of community responsibility is increasing the attractiveness of local squares and other locations as places to socialise. One way to increase enjoyment and a sense of community in our housing areas is to work together with others. Bostadsbolaget collaborates with a large number of associations and organisations in order to improve the quality of life of the residents. Bostadsbolaget has been one of several partners in building the new local sport field in Biskopsgården, Väderleken, or Camp nou, as it’s now commonly called. The field was opened in the summer, and has quickly become a popular meeting place for residents of the area, both old and young. Bostadsbolaget also took part in the EU project, Tillväxt Biskopsgården, which aims to create a positive image of Biskopsgården for both the residents and the business community. Since 2010 Bostadsbolaget has been collaborating with the Tenants’ Association on projects to increase resident empowerment in Rambergstaden and Västra Frölunda. The purpose was to develop and improve residents’ commitment, security and empowerment in their neighbourhoods, based on their own willingness and resources. The project was concluded in January 2012, and has resulted in greater understanding. In certain cases it has also contributed additional methods and communication pathways. In line with the Group’s goals for housing and empowerment for the elderly, the Company is involved in the Gôrbra sub-project for adapting housing to enable seniors to stay in their own homes longer. This project receives inspiration and funding from the Swedish Institute of Assistive Technology, whilst the participating companies contribute expertise, time and 24 money. Bostadsbolaget focuses on adapting bathrooms, which are important to everyday life, in apartments from the fifties and sixties, where bathrooms are often small. Demand and supply To achieve success, the Company must offer the right housing mix and meet the needs of its customers with the right offer at the right price. Housing needs and demands vary amongst individuals and age groups. Bostadsbolaget wants to be able to offer attractive housing for everyone, regardless of age, background and family structure. Bostadsbolaget works in cooperation with the City of Gothenburg Property Office to obtain social and medical priority for persons who for various reasons find themselves excluded from the normal housing market. As a result of this, 96 apartments were found for them in 2011. With the help of subcontracts, eleven more apartments were rented to NGOs, such as the City Mission. At the end of 2011, a total of 297 apartments were involved in this project. All the housing companies of the Framtiden group are engaged in a joint investment to offer all tenants an open broadband fibre network with an increased number of channels in about a year. For the tenants, this will mean high capacity broadband, lower rates and a greater selection of TV channels. The network can also be used as an infrastructure for government services, which can be expected to gain in importance, in time. In Hammarkullen, the Company, together with the School of Design and Crafts, has produced furniture prototypes based on the preferences and needs of the tenants. This project will be evaluated, and the furniture may become options giving tenants added value. The important dialogue By constantly improving our rental units while interacting with tenants, Bostadsbolaget is not only modernising its own properties, but also contributing to public housing in Sweden. The important dialogue with the tenants results in increased enjoyment, empowerment, and a willingness to take responsibility for one’s housing environment. The districts are continually engaged in discussions with the tenants at general meetings and conferences regarding more specific issues. Bostadsbolaget’s focus on its tenants becomes apparent in these encounters. A clear example of the contribution of the tenants to the development of the project is Klubb Majviken, which was designed based on the preferences of the tenants. The club is part of the Next Step Living Majviken concept that was imitated in the autumn of 2012. This club gives tenants access to services such as a gym, film room, lounge and treatment room, all of which were high on the residents’ wish list. As the usual group-wide annual customer survey was undergoing a change during the year, Bostadsbolaget decided to conduct a qualitative study amongst tenants with a mother tongue other than Swedish. A total of 15 tenants were given in-depth interviews, and responded to questions about how they viewed the information sent out by Bostadsbolaget. The decision to focus on these persons was made because previous surveys showed that this target group was less satisfied than native Swedish tenants. The results showed that this group, as well, is relatively satisfied with the Company’s information, but that certain areas warrant 25 improvement. One widespread view amongst the respondents was that they appreciated the opportunity to speak face to face with the personnel, but this too can be improved. Physical meetings facilitate communication as they can include gestures and clarifications. Respected, safe and secure Bostadsbolaget continually works with safety and security issues. These are two areas that are deemed highly important by both tenants and Bostadsbolaget. Norra Biskopsgården is a worrisome area, but together with other landlords, the district administration, emergency services and the police, Bostadsbolaget has been working to increase security for many years. Examples of initiatives include new meeting places, camera surveillance, and very much improved lighting. The lighting project was one of the entries in the 2011 Social Lighting competition arranged by the Lighting Community International network. The relationship between the Company and its suppliers should be characterised by a business ethics approach. Just as Bostadsbolaget places demands on how its personnel should act, the Company has ethical guidelines for its suppliers. These clarify expectations and requirements for suppliers, and for cooperation between the parties. Just as Bostadsbolaget’s own personnel, suppliers should act professionally and show respect for the tenants and housing environments. 26 Financial responsibility As a public housing company, Bostadsbolaget is fully self-financed. The Company receives no financial support from the City of Gothenburg or city residents. Any profits generated are mostly re-invested in the business. Highlights of 2011  Work continued on the development of a new property system that facilitates the work relating to orders, purchases, inspections and case management.  Bostadsbolaget supports committed leaders for youth activities through leadership grants.  Bostadsbolaget sponsors the Hammarkullen Carnival, a multi-cultural festival that involves all of Gothenburg.  Rivermarket, one of the largest outdoor arts and crafts markets in Sweden has been sponsored by Bostadsbolaget. Cultural initiatives in housing areas are important, and this market is located in northern Älvstranden, where the Company has much of its housing properties. 2012  Work continues on increasing the efficiency of, and improving, systematic opportunities to handle purchases.  The Company’s art council, which stimulates and promotes artistic decoration in conjunction with the development of new areas, will increase its efforts.  The Company will even more clearly communicate ethical guidelines to suppliers and subcontractors to ensure compliance with the United Nations human rights principles and the Company’s own values. Bostadsbolaget has a positive impact on Gothenburg Bostadsbolaget works to achieve long-term sustainable property management. From a financial perspective, this means making business decisions to preserve the long-term value of its properties. Thanks to continual improvement and savings projects, funds can be freed up for increased maintenance and capital expenditures. 27 On 1 January, a new law on public housing companies entered into force. The law imposes new demands on how operations are conducted, such as that these companies should produce a market-level yield. The purpose of the new law is to create a level playing field between municipal housing companies and private landlords. This requires a combination of business thinking and public benefit. At Bostadsbolaget, there’s a desire to take responsibility for the community, and the Company makes sizeable social and ecological investments. As Bostadsbolaget reports the nature, methods and purposes of its initiatives, these do not conflict with business philosophy and methods. The real estate market is competitive, and this requires Bostadsbolaget to adopt a clear profitmaking philosophy. The Company’s personnel should have a business-like approach to everything done, and it is important that everyone focus on long-term profitability. Sustainable housing is an important component of Swedish welfare, and this is where business philosophy is combined with public benefit in a good way. Bostadsbolaget not only wants to develop its buildings, but also its residents, personnel and the general population. As previously mentioned, it is important to manage the Company’s resources in an optimal manner, such as by continually improving routines and processes. It is also important to protect social and ecological aspects. In the same way as Bostadsbolaget’s employees perform their work based on our common values, suppliers are expected to comply with the Company’s business ethics rules. Procurements have various environmental aspects as requirements, and training programmes have been held in the Company regarding environmentally adapted procurement. Resource-efficient management provides Bostadsbolaget with a healthy financial situation and good opportunities for maintenance and improvements. The profits generated are generally re-invested in the business. This improves the Company’s properties in many ways, both now and for future generations. Healthy buildings improve the quality of life of our tenants, and produce attractive housing areas. For many years, Bostadsbolaget has enjoyed a low vacancy rate, which is naturally financially advantageous. A low vacancy rate means few losses and stable finances, with money that can be invested in the business in many ways. Well-run properties and a well-run business mean that the Company will also be viewed as an attractive employer with satisfied employees. This is an additional incentive for our personnel to work in a way that will add value to the Company and its tenants. Examples from the field Bostadsbolaget’s utility costs for electricity, heating and water account for close to half of its operating costs. Good, accurate forecasting and monitoring of these costs are therefore important. As a result of close cooperation between the financial function and energy engineers, precise and efficient routines have been developed, which can monitor consumption down to the building and meter. Thanks to up-to-date information, emergency measures can quickly be implemented, and new energy saving projects can be prioritised where they do most good. You can read more about this on pages 32-33 in Bostadsbolaget's 28 Annual Report. This simple and reliable monitoring has led to more accurate forecasts, which result in more business-like and efficient management. The Group is making large capital expenditures for a broadband fibre network – Framtidens bredband – which will become accessible to all apartments within five years. The purpose behind this investment in our own IT infrastructure is to offer our tenants access to broadband and quality services from several different providers at competitive prices. This will make renting more attractive, and give Bostadsbolaget a competitive edge today and into the future. A great contribution to society Bostadsbolaget’s operations affect society in many ways. One way to measure this is to ascertain how much Bostadsbolaget contributes financially to the public sector. Bostadsbolaget contributes directly and indirectly to the national, county and municipal governments. The largest contributions are the various taxes that the Company and its employees pay. In 2011, the largest categories were: Taxes and subsidies SEK millions Company tax -6 Real estate fees and/or tax -34 General employment tax and social -49 security contributions Paid income tax for employees -27 Energy tax -9 Value Added Tax -19 (outgoing and incoming) Withdrawal tax -11 Interest allowance 1 Total -154 Support to organisations, associations and projects Another form of economic impact is the funding that Bostadsbolaget pays to organisations and associations, as well as to projects it supports. Sponsorship benefits the social and cultural life in our areas, which encourages our tenants to remain, and attracts new tenants. This support is directed toward associations, organisations and non-profit and public benefit events, and is often directed to youth activities. The Company’s sponsorship commitments also mean support to activities that promote a long-term sustainable society. Like Bostadsbolaget, many of these associations give out Good Friend (“Go kompis”) prizes to a member that acted as a good teammate during the year. The purpose of this is to highlight qualities that are not always the ones recognised and appreciated in sport and other recreational activities. In 2011, five young people received the award. 29 In 2011, Bostadsbolaget’s sponsorship benefited the Gothenburg International Film Festival, the City Mission, the Örgryte Sport Association and Kopparberg Gothenburg Football Club. Examples from the field Hisingsbacka FC is one of the largest football associations in Gothenburg. Its goal is to create fun and happiness for all its players and leaders. The club, which is also careful to ensure that girls and boys play football on the same terms, includes 500 players in more than 20 teams. The extensive youth activities, in combination with good objectives and values, are an important reason why Bostadsbolaget supports the club. BK Häcken is a football club in Allsvenskan (the Swedish First Division) that takes a great deal of responsibility in the community life of Hisingen. The club’s core values are Development, Youth and Entertainment, which means they actively and constantly work for the benefit of young people, both on the Club’s teams, and in related activities and events. BK Häcken has one of Sweden’s largest and most successful youth programmes. BK Häcken’s youth activities consist of 45 teams and more than 800 active players. The goal is that players of all ages should have the opportunity to play football and socialise regardless of level. The purpose of the Leve Klotet model is to spread knowledge, commitment and optimism about the future, and to inspire people to adopt a sustainable lifestyle with a focus on climatesmart consumption. The model now lives on in the Gothenburg Culture Festival, with an inspiring and lively festival venue that stresses sustainability. The programme has a young image and offers music, dance, debates, markets, workshops and more. Bostadsbolaget actively runs booths and arranges various activities during the Culture Festival. Thanks to funding from the Swedish Property Federation, and five of the Framtiden Group’s property owners, including Bostadsbolaget, more than 60 lower secondary school students received continuing help with their homework in the autumn semester of 2011 to enable them to raise their grades. Bostadsbolaget is convinced that investing in young people not only benefits the youth, but also the entire housing area. This initiative will continue for three years. 30 Bostadsbolaget cooperates with organisations and associations (distribution %) Culture sponsorship (30) Sport sponsorship (51) Civic sponsorship (19) Bostadsbolaget intends to be an active partner of local associations. The Company’s sponsorship also includes support of activities that promote a long-term sustainable society. In 2011, support totalled SEK 1.1 million. 31 GRI Index Since 2009, Bostadsbolaget has been reporting its efforts toward sustainability in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, according to level C. Much of the content of this report is based on the issues that are internally prioritised. The data and information presented have been gathered in 2011, and the report includes all properties that are owned and managed by Bostadsbolaget. No limitations have been made regarding the organisation’s financial, environmental and social impact. Comparability with the previous years’ sustainability report has not been affected as a result of changes in accounting principles or organisational changes. In cases that require quantitative values regarding sustainability efforts, and where Bostadsbolaget reports these, they are deed to be reported. In cases where the report is more qualitative, this is considered partially reported. Because Bostadsbolaget only conducts its operations in the City of Gothenburg, Sweden, issues dealing with human rights have not been considered relevant. The table below contains all core indicators, as well as those additional indicators that Bostadsbolaget has deemed to be relevant. GRI REFERENCES REPORT REFERENCE 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Message from the CEO Partially 2-3, 25 reported 2. Organisation profile 2.1 Name of organisation Reported 25 2.2 Main products, services and trademarks Reported 25 2.3 Organisational structure Reported 20 2.4 Registered office Reported 25 2.5 Countries where the organisation maintains a presence Reported 25 2.6 Ownership structure Reported 25 2.7 Markets served Reported 25 2.8 Organisation size Reported 25, 61-63 2.9 Important organisational changes during the reporting Not applicable Doesn´t exist period 2.10 Awards won by the organisation during the reporting period Reported 25-31 3. Report profile and scope 3.1 Reporting period Reported 25 3.2 Time of most recent reporting Reported 25 3.3 Reporting cycle Reported 25 3.4 Contact persons Reported 25 3.5 Process for preparing the content of the report Partially 26-27, 30 reported 3.6 Scope of the report Reported 25, 44 3.7 Special limitations of the report Reported 44 3.8 Basic assumptions for the report that can affect Reported 44 comparability 3.10 Explanation for change in previously stated information Not applicable Doesn´t exist 3.11 Significant changes in scope, limitations and methods Not applicable Doesn´t exist of measurement 3.12 GRI index Reported 44-45 32 4. Management, undertakings and commitments 4.1 Company management structure Reported 19 4.2 Position of the chairperson of the board in the organisation Reported 19 4.3 Number of independent, non-managing board members Reported 19 4.4 Possibility of submitting recommendations to the board Reported 19 4.5 Link between remuneration of management and operating Reported Personnel note profit/loss to the board 4.6 Routines for counteracting conflicts of interest on the board Reported 19 4.7 Routines for board qualifications Reported 19 4.8 Principles for financial, community and environmental Partially 19,31 behaviour reported 4.10 Evaluation of board performance Partially 19 reported 4.12 Joining outside declarations, principles, and other initiatives Partially 24-25 reported 4.14 Organisation’s stakeholders Reported 26-27 4.15 Methods of identifying stakeholders Reported 26 4.16 Communication initiatives Partially 26-27 reported 5. Sustainability management and performance indicators EC Financial indicators ECI (C) Direct economic value Partially 43, 61-63 reported EC3 (C) Pensions and other benefit plans Partially Personnel note & reported Pension note EC4 (C) Financial assistance from government entity Reported 43 EEC5 (A) Initial salary is lower than the minimum wage Not applicable Doesn´t exist EC8 (C) Development of community infrastructure and services Reported 35, 38-39 EN Environmental indicators EN3 (C) Direct energy consumption Partially 30-33 reported EN4 (C) Indirect energy consumption Partially 30-33 reported EN5 (A) Energy savings Reported 30-33 EN6 (A) Initiative for energy-efficient products and application Reported 30-33 EN7 (A) Initiative and results of reducing indirect energy Reported 30-33 consumption EN8 (C) Water consumption and water sources Reported 31-32 EN9 (A) Water sources that are significantly impacted by Reported 32 consumption EN11 (C) Activities in areas with rich biological diversity Not applicable Doesn´t exist EN12 (C) Impact on biological diversity Not applicable Doesn´t exist EN16 (C) Direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases Reported 30 EN17 (C) Other relevant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases Partially 30 reported EN18 (A) Initiatives and results relating to reducing emissions of Partially 32 greenhouse gases reported EN19 (C) Emissions of substances that break down ozone Not reported EN20 (C) Emissions of NOX, SOX and other substances Not reported EN21 (C) Emissions to water Not reported EN22 (C) Waste weight and management Not reported EN23 (C) Major spills Not reported EN26 (C) Initiatives and results relating to reducing environmental Reported 30-33 impact of products EN27 (C) Percentage of recycled products Not applicable EN28 (C) Significant fines and sanctions for environmental crimes Reported 30-33 LA Employment terms and conditions 33 LA1(C) Personnel force Reported 36 LA2(C) Number of personnel and personnel turnover Reported 36 LA4(C) Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements Reported 36 LA5(C) Provision of information in connection with organisational Reported 37 changes LA7(C) Work-related accidents and illness Partially 36-37 reported LA8(C) Measures taken to assist employees who are ill Partially 36-37 reported LA10 (C) Number of hours of training/education per employee Not reported LA11 (A) Programmes for skills development Partially 36-37 reported LA12 (A) Percentage of employees with regular performance review Reported 36-37 discussions LA13 (C) Diversity indicator for the board, management and Reported 36-39 employees LA14 (C) Salary ratio between women and men by occupational Not reported category HR Performance indicators for human rights HR1 (C) Investment decisions taking into account human rights Not applicable HR2 (C) Suppliers reviewed regarding human rights Not applicable HR4 (C) Number of cases of discrimination and measures taken Reported 37 HR5 (C) Activities with a possible risk to the right to organise and/or Not applicable Doesn’t exist collective agreements HR6 (C) Activities where child labour may be used and measures Not applicable Doesn’t exist taken HR7 (C) Activities where forced labour may be used and measures Not applicable Doesn’t exist taken SO Indicators with results regarding societal issues SO1 (C) Programmes dealing with the impact of organisations on Reported 38-39 society SO2 (C) Business areas deemed to have risk of, or actual, Reported 25 corruption SO3 (C) Employees who have been taught the organisation’s Reported 25 anti-corruption guidelines SO4 (C) Measures taken in cases of corruption Not reported SO5 (C) Political positions taken and participation in lobbying Reported 25 SO8 (C) Fines or sanctions for violating existing laws and Reported 25 regulations PR. Performance indicators for product responsibility PR1 (C) Phases in the product’s life cycle at which health and safety Partially 33 are evaluated reported PR3 (C) Type of product information and percentage of products Not reported with information requirements PR6 (C) Programmes and adherence to guidelines regarding market Not reported communication PR9 (C) Financial consequences for violations regarding products Reported 25 EXPLANATION ABBREVIATIONS – DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE ACCORDING TO GRI Reported Partially reported Not reported Not applicable ABBREVIATIONS MISCELLANEOUS (C) means a core indicator, (A) means an additional indicator 34 www.bostadsbolaget.se 35
