Our future is bright as long as we maintain our crucial to increasing strong commitment to reforming ourselves and corporate value. raise our ability to execute. We will create a highly independent organization We will devote ourselves to raising that anticipates changes in the business environment. the sophistication of division operations in order to drastically I aim to build an organization that is able to enhance earnings by I believe in transform our businesses. keeping in mind the social value of Sojitz securing and consistently supplying CSR is a management priority. We are a resources to the market. employees. member of global society, so we must contribute to prosperity and quality of life worldwide. We will continue to invest in growth while ensuring even more sophisticated Taking on challenges We will dramatically increase asset efficiency and further and specialized risk strengthen our financial foundation management capabilities. requires change. to increase funding flexibility. The Promise We Deliver Annual Report 2012 For the year ended March 31, 2012 We must continuously improve asset efficiency to accumulate the internal capital resources that will drive I want Sojitz to be bolder steady growth, while constantly strengthening value and more aggressive than ever. chains as we adapt and evolve ahead of our rapidly changing markets and customers. The key to achieving continuous growth is Having a clear vision of the kind of company Sojitz should maintaining stakeholder trust. We need become brings our incredibly talented employees together in to pursue greater achievements to exercising their creativity and working effectively to achieve meet the expectations of all our that vision. stakeholders. Apeople trading company is only as good as the people it employs. Highly specialized teams and are without doubt the key to success in creating a potent earnings foundation. Sojitz advocates the social role of good Enhancing corporate governance to faith. Approaching issues openly and directly and conducting business with ensure a sound management framework integrity and awareness are powerful will drive sustained growth and earn the competitive advantages. trust of stakeholders. Increasing shareholders’ equity and raising return on We will continue to excel as long as we contribute to assets will naturally lower our net debt equity ratio and social and industrial development through creation. broaden our financial foundation, which will enhance funding flexibility. Contents P. 2 Ten Declarations 01 P. 4 This is Sojitz Our beginnings and philosophy P. 6 What we do P. 8 Feature: The Objectives of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 P. 15 Business Strategies P. 16 Ten Declarations 02 P. 18 Machinery Division P. 20 Review of Operations P. 22 Ten Declarations 03 P. 24 Energy & Metal Division P. 26 Review of Operations P. 28 Ten Declarations 04 P. 30 Chemicals Division P. 32 Review of Operations P. 34 Ten Declarations 05 P. 36 Consumer Lifestyle Business Division P. 38 Review of Operations P. 40 Ten Declarations 06 P. 42 Management Foundation P. 44 Directors and Corporate Auditors P. 46 Executive Officers P. 48 Ten Declarations 07 P. 50 Corporate Governance P. 57 Risk Management P. 58 Compliance P. 60 Ten Declarations 08 P. 62 The Sojitz Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility P. 63 Making the Sojitz Group Statement a Reality P. 66 The Sojitz Group’s CSR Priority Themes P. 72 Performance Data P. 76 Organization Organization Chart P. 77 Principal Operating Bases P. 80 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates P. 86 Financial Section P. 87 Financial Summary P. 88 Ten Declarations 09 P. 90 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations P. 104 Consolidated Financial Statements P. 141 Corporate Data P. 142 Ten Declarations 10 Editorial Policy Annual Report 2012 is a key publication that helps stakeholders understand Sojitz. It covers our company/organization from many angles, presenting management strategies, operations, organization and finances while providing an explanation of the Sojitz Group’s CSR initiatives and efforts to achieve sustained growth. Index tabs have been incorporated to make the report easier to navigate. Additional information is available on the Sojitz website at http://www.sojitz.com/en/. Forward-Looking Statements The information in this annual report about future performance (forward-looking statements) is based on information available to management at the time of its disclosure. Accordingly, readers are advised that actual results may differ from forward-looking statements due to a wide variety of factors including, but not limited to, conditions in the Company’s principal overseas and domestic markets, economic conditions, and changes in foreign currency exchange markets. Ten Declarations Under a new management structure, Sojitz is pushing ahead with its Medium-term Management Plan 2014 – Change for Challenge, which ends in March 2015. In the “Ten Declarations” in this report, ten executives including the CEO declare their commitment to achieving the objectives of Medium-term Management Plan 2014. 01 Yoji Sato, President & CEO 06 Hideaki Kato, President, Consumer Lifestyle Business Division 02 Shigeki Dantani, Executive Vice President, Business Group 07 Yutaka Kase, Chairman 03 Toshihiko Kita, President, Machinery Division 08 Shinichi Taniguchi, CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) 04 Masahiro Komiyama, President, Energy & Metal Division 09 Yoshio Mogi, CFO, Senior Managing Executive Officer 05 Satoshi Mizui, President, Chemicals Division 10 Shigeru Nishihara, Executive Officer, Investor Relations Feature: The Objectives of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 New President & CEO Yoji Sato reviews Shine 2011, the previous medium-term management plan, and outlines Medium-term Management Plan 2014 – Change for Challenge. He talks about the quantitative and qualitative targets in the plan, the meanings embodied in the subtitle “Change for Challenge,” and Sojitz’s vision for the future. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 1 Ten Declarations 01 from Yoji Sato, President & CEO “Taking on challenges requires We will meet the targets of Medium–– Management Plan 2014 in pursuit greater achievements.” I became President & CEO in April 2012. My expectations of all our stakeholders. experience has included positions of leadership This is the rationale for Medium-term overseas, in finance and accounting, and in Management Plan 2014 – Change for Challenge, management planning. I also served as CFO which commenced in April 2012. The aim of the from 2005. In my current position, I recognize plan is to increase corporate value under the the great importance of appropriate, rapid theme of implementing reforms in pursuit of decisions and actions based on an accurate growth initiatives. We will dramatically increase understanding of events in a world of escalating asset efficiency through rapid asset replacement change. I am totally committed to putting all of and further strengthen our financial foundation my experience and expertise to work in to increase funding flexibility. Following the three achieving sustained growth and increasing years of Medium-term Management Plan 2014, I corporate value so that Sojitz will prevail in its want Sojitz to be bolder and more aggressive unstable operating environment. than ever. In other words, I want to create a The key to achieving continuous growth is strong company filled with energetic employees, maintaining stakeholder trust. We need to with an environment in which we can achieve pursue greater achievements to meet the what we set out to do. 2 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 change. ––term of The subtitle of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 is Change for Challenge. It adds the notion that in pursuit of greater achievements we will continue to reform ourselves as we strive to live up to new challenges. Taking on challenges requires change. With a firm focus on the rapidly changing environment going forward, we determined the route we will take over the next three years based on meticulous analysis and verification. Our future is bright as long as we maintain our strong commitment to reforming ourselves and raise our ability to execute. Sojitz is united in its commitment to meeting the targets of Medium-term Management Plan 2014. President & CEO Yoji Sato Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 3 > History of Sojitz Two companies that drove Japan’s renaissance after World War II, Nichimen Corporation and Nissho Iwai Corporation, merged to form Sojitz Corporation. As a general trading company that creates new businesses and new value, Sojitz is involved in a broad range of businesses worldwide, including automobiles, plants, energy, mineral resources, chemicals and foodstuff resources. Nissho Company Nissho Iwai Corporation 1902 Suzuki & Co., Ltd. 1968 Nissho Company and Iwai established Sangyo Company merged 2003 Nissho Iwai-Nichimen Holdings Iwai Sangyo Company Corporation established through the 1896 Iwai & Co., Ltd. established transfer of shares by Nichimen Corporation and Nissho Iwai Corporation, which become its subsidiaries 2004 Subsidiaries Nichimen Corporation and Nissho Iwai Corporation merged to form Sojitz Corporation Name of holding company changed to Sojitz Holdings Corporation Nichimen Corporation 2005 Sojitz Holdings Corporation merged with 1892 Japan Cotton Trading Co., Ltd. established subsidiary Sojitz Corporation and company name changed to Sojitz Corporation This is Sojitz Our beginnings 4 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 > Sojitz Group Statement The Sojitz Group produces new sources of wealth by connecting the world’s economies, cultures and people in a spirit of integrity. > Sojitz Group Management Vision • Unrelentingly enhance the Group’s trading company functions, as demanded by clients, by fully grasping and anticipating clients’ diverse needs (Function-oriented trading company) • Take advantage of changes and continuously develop new business fields (Innovating trading company) • Become a company in which each and every employee can work with pride and pursue challenges and explore opportunities to realize his or her own personal goals and ambitions (Open and flexible company) • Seek to harmonize the Group’s corporate activities with the society and the environment by consistently putting the Group’s Statement into practice (Socially contributive company) > Group Slogan Our Group slogan “New way, New value” stands for our commitment to generating “new value” for society unique to Sojitz in our distinctive “new way.” Each and every one of our employees will think freely and generate innovative ideas that leverage our history, human resources, business rights and every other capability, tangible or intangible. Sojitz conducts its operations across a broad range of business fields, and in each of these areas we have extremely knowledgeable specialists. The Sojitz Group slogan encourages these personnel to constantly take on new challenges and practice business in a “new way” on a day-to-day basis in order to create “new value,” thereby enhancing the corporate value of the Company. and philosophy Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 5 > Business Divisions Sojitz takes advantage of its strengths in aggressively promoting business in each of its four business divisions: Machinery, Energy & Metal, Chemicals and Consumer Lifestyle Business. Machinery Division Energy & Metal Division ¥392.2 ¥541.2 billion billion (18.5％) (25.5％) Portion of Portion of Total Assets Total Assets (As of March 31, 2012) (As of March 31, 2012) • Automotive Unit • Infrastructure Project & Industrial Machinery Unit • Marine & Aerospace Unit • Environment & Urban Infrastructure • Energy Unit Development Office • Coal & Nuclear Unit • IT Business Department • Steel & Mineral Resources Unit Chemicals Division Consumer Lifestyle Business Division ¥272.3 ¥409.9 billion billion Portion of (12.8％) Portion of (19.3％) Total Assets Total Assets (As of March 31, 2012) (As of March 31, 2012) • Chemicals Unit • Ecological Materials & Resources Unit • Life Science Business Development Office • Foods Resources Unit (The name of the Chemicals & Functional Materials Division • Agriculture & Forest Resources Unit changed to the Chemicals Division on April 1, 2012.) • Consumer Service & Development Unit Note: Note No te te:: IIn n adddi addition diti diti tion ion on ttoo th the bov he ab above, ove, e, Soj Sojitz itz itz ha ojijit h as ot has o other the her bu her b usi ess businesses, sinessess, co es, es c mpan companies omp an aniie ies an and ad and just dju stme ts, adjustments, tment nts s, w hich which oget og h ttogether ethe her a her ac account cco coun un u t fo ffor or 23.9% 23 2 9% of 3.9 .9% of ttotal ottal assets. al a ts. sset ets. s This is Sojitz What we do 6 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 > Examples of Sojitz’s Business Strengths Sojitz is engaged in a wide range of businesses as a general trading company, and has achieved many impressive results. Below are a few representative examples. Commercial Aircraft Rare Metals Coal Annual Imports to Japan Japanese Market Sh Sharre Shar Sharre of Imports to Japan million tons Sojitz has the top share of the Sojitz has the number-one share of Sojitz ranks among the top general Japanese commercial aircraft market imports of molybdenum and niobium trading companies in importing coal as the sales representative for to Japan and a top-class share of a to Japan, including thermal coal for companies including The Boeing wide array of other metals including power generation and coking coal for Company and Bombardier Inc. tungsten and chrome. steel production. High-Purity Silicon Metals Methanol Share of Imports too Ja Japann Annual Tradingg Volume With the number-one share of million to ons imports to Japan of high-purity Sojitz operates a methanol manufacturing silicon metals, raw materials for and sales company in Indonesia and solar panels, Sojitz is supporting the markets methanol primarily in spread of renewable energy. Asian countries. Industrial Salt Advanced Chemical Fertilizer Grain Trading Sharre of Imp mpororts ortss to Jaapan paan Share in n Thaaillan a d,d, Viieetnam tn m and nam Specialized Port for Grains ra t e Ph th P ilip ppiinnees es Sojitz has a top-class share of the No.1 With a history spanning 40 years and Japanese industrial salt market, and trusted for quality, Sojitz’s in-market Sojitz is expanding grain trading in plans to produce 3 million tons of this production and sales companies have Asia using the port facilities of the product in 2014 as a result of the top share in Thailand, Vietnam and leading Vietnamese flour milling investment in upstream businesses. the Philippines. company as a distribution base. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 7 President & CEO Yoji Sato Feature: The Objectives of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 Sojitz began Medium Medium-term term Management Plan 2014 – Change for Challenge in April 2012 under the theme of implementing reforms in pursuit of growth initiatives. In this feature article, President & CEO Yoji Sato provides an overview of our medium-term management plan and explains future initiatives. 8 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Shine 2011 in Retrospect assets. We expanded interests in resource Visible progress toward the businesses including coal and rare metals. In establishment of a strong earnings non-resource businesses, we augmented our foundation represents a major success. foundation for stable long-term earnings in the independent power producer (IPP) business and Before I begin explaining our strategy for the made upstream investments in rare earths and future, I would like to summarize our previous industrial salt. These and other moves expanded medium-term management plan, Shine 2011 our business foundation. New investments and (year ended March 31, 2010 to year ended loans in the years ended March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012). 2012 totaled ¥126.0 billion, which was less than In the challenging environment after the the ¥150.0 billion we had planned. However, collapse of Lehman Brothers, Shine 2011 these investments were very meaningful in terms targeted establishing a firm footing and of what we added to our business portfolio. improvement in the quality of earnings in order Thus we made visible progress toward the to establish a powerful earnings foundation that management objective at the start of the plan of ensures continuous growth. establishing a strong earnings foundation, which During Shine 2011, a priority initiative was represents a major success. The global thorough risk management to restore operating recession exposed risks embedded in Sojitz’s profitability. We concentrated on rationalizing assets, but we generated favorable results by inventory levels and improving the sophistication honestly assessing these weaknesses and of risk management. We successfully rebuilt the taking steps to confront them. earnings of businesses such as fertilizer and automobiles that were battered by the financial crisis of 2008, and also achieved our target of Current Challenges restoring all operating segments to profitability We need the ability to deal with volatility in the year ended March 31, 2011, one year and uncertainty, and the adaptability to ahead of schedule. find opportunity in change. In addition, Sojitz aggressively made new investments and loans with a focus on We have maintained the net debt equity ratio businesses in which it is strong, and also made (net DER) at 2.1 times and the ratio of risk progress in accumulating quality businesses and assets to shareholders’ equity at 1.0 times, Summary of Results for the Year Ended March 31, 2012 Business activities were solid during the year ended March 31, 2012. However, the reversal of deferred tax assets due to changes in Japan’s tax code resulted in a net loss for the fiscal year. In addition, we prepared for the introduction of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) by aligning the fiscal year-ends of major overseas consolidated subsidiaries with that of the parent company, Sojitz Corporation. As a result of this change, the accounting period ended March 31, 2012 for these consolidated subsidiaries spanned the 15 months from January 1, 2011. ■ Summary of Results ■ Ordinary Income by Business Segment (Billions of yen) Year ended March 31, Year ended March 31, 80 YoY Change (Billions of yen) 2011 (Actual) 2012 (Actual) 62.2 Gross trading proﬁt 192.7 231.6 38.9 60 54.2 12.4 Ordinary income 45.3 62.2 16.9 45.3 9.9 2.0 Net income 16.0 （3.6） （19.6） 40 32.6 Core earnings1 41.9 65.0 23.1 28.7 28.0 20 Total assets 2,117.0 2,120.6 3.6 6.8 9.8 9.0 Net interest-bearing debt 700.6 647.8 （52.8） 6.3 7.8 7.5 0 Shareholders’ equity 2 330.0 305.9 （24.1） 1.5 (0.4) (0.2) Net DER (times) 2.1 2.1 （0.0） (20) Year ended Year ended Reference: Twelve months March 31, 2011 March 31, 2012 ended March 31, 20123 Current ratio 142% 137% （5.0）points (Actual) (Actual) Long-term debt ratio 72% 71% （1.0）point Machinery Energy & Metal Chemicals4 Consumer Lifestyle Business Other 1. Core earnings = Operating income before provision for doubtful receivables + Net interest income + 3. Results for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012, excluding the results of Dividends received + Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates significant overseas consolidated subsidiaries for the period January – 2. Shareholders’ equity = Total net assets – Minority interests March 2011 4. The name of the Chemicals & Functional Materials segment changed to the Chemicals segment on April 1, 2012. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 9 which were the targets of Shine 2011. Overview of Medium-term Management Moreover, the long-term debt ratio and the Plan 2014 current ratio were as planned, so our finances We intend to enhance shareholders’ remain sound. However, even excluding the equity and increase corporate value by impact of factors including tax code changes, implementing reforms in pursuit of return on assets (ROA) was below our target, growth initiatives. and we did not achieve our target for the equity ratio because of factors including the strong Medium-term Management Plan 2014 – Change yen. These results suggest that our current for Challenge has the theme of implementing challenge is increasing our resilience to reforms in pursuit of growth initiatives. changes in the external environment. In pursuit of greater achievements we will However, our operating environment continue to reform ourselves as we strive to live continues to change rapidly. up to new challenges. We aim to increase our Looking at our operating environment going corporate value based on this strong commitment. forward, factors including the financial crisis in The first point in explaining the essential features Europe will slow the economies of developed of the plan is that total assets will basically stay countries, while growth in emerging countries around ¥2.1 trillion as we replace assets companywill drive the global economy. Emerging wide to raise asset quality and efficiency and further countries will increasingly enlarge their share of increase earnings. Naturally, we will continue to global GDP, which we believe will create a more invest in growth areas, allocating capital that diverse, multipolar global economy. Volatility and includes the resources generated through asset uncertainty will inevitably increase as structural replacement, with priority on the business focus change in global markets accelerates. areas we have defined. In addition, we will ensure Given these challenges and operating even more sophisticated and specialized risk environment, we developed the new medium-term management capabilities in order to take on the management plan to make sure we have the challenges of various business activities in a rapidly ability to deal with unforeseen contingencies, and changing operating environment. Policies will the adaptability to find opportunity in change. include establishing Controller Offices in frontline businesses to accurately monitor asset quality in individual businesses. Concurrently, we will strengthen our ability to respond adroitly to progress Framework of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 In pursuit of greater achievements we will continue to reform ourselves as we strive to live up to new challenges. We aim to increase our corporate value based on this strong commitment. Implement reforms in pursuit of growth initiatives Strengthen earnings capacity by improving Continue investing for growth the quality of assets (Strategic allocation to business focus areas) Build up a structure and organization that enables Foster human resources that are able to go the business to be creative, efficient, and highly distance even in a business environment typified capable of managing risk by accelerating globalization Enhance the financial foundation through the accumulation of shareholders’ equity Improving corporate value and pursuing greater achievements 10 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility in our businesses and to changes in the operating included in results for the year ended March 31, environment. We will also remain fully committed to 2012 in preparation for the introduction of IFRS, cultivating exceptional global personnel who can we are targeting growth of 38.4 percent in grow with companies worldwide and succeed ordinary income over the three years ending against keen competition. March 31, 2015. These reforms will support further growth On the balance sheet, we will maintain total initiatives because they will allow us to increase assets at the ¥2.0 trillion level while keeping the corporate value by enhancing our financial net DER at 2.0 times or lower and raising ROA foundation with steady increases in to 2.0 percent or higher. In this way, we plan to shareholders’ equity, which we did not fully raise shareholders’ equity to ¥380.0 billion by achieve in the past. the end of the final fiscal year of the plan. Successful initiatives under the previous mediumterm management plan, Shine 2011, form the Quantitative Targets of Medium-term background for Medium-term Management Plan Management Plan 2014 2014. The automotive business, which returned to Our plan has quantitative targets that solid profitability during Shine 2011, and areas of strength including rare metals, rare earths and we can and must achieve. industrial salt, are core businesses. We will expand We emphasized achievable quantitative distribution channels in these businesses to broaden targets for Medium-term Management Plan our stable earnings foundation. Moreover, 2014 to deal with unpredictable changes in our investments and loans we made in businesses operating environment. including coal, rare metals and IPP during Shine For the year ending March 31, 2013, the initial 2011 will begin contributing fully to earnings. year of Medium-term Management Plan 2014, Another feature of Medium-term Management we forecast ordinary income of ¥50.0 billion and Plan 2014 is that it incorporates plans for net income of ¥20.0 billion. For the year ending extraordinary losses. We have budgeted for March 31, 2015, the final year of the plan, we them based on our asset replacement plan, are targeting ordinary income of ¥75.0 billion which positions us to aggressively replace and net income of ¥45.0 billion. Excluding the assets after considering profitability, potential impact of the 15-month accounting period for and fit with our strengths, even if doing so certain consolidated subsidiaries that was incurs short-term losses. We believe our quantitative targets are achievable. Shareholders and investors have Quantitative Targets of asked many questions about our outlook for Medium-term Management Plan 2014 meeting our targets, to which I reply: we must (Announced May 8, 2012) achieve them. Year ending Year ending Year ending March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 (Billions of yen) (Target) (Target) (Target) Investment and Loan Plan Gross proﬁt 217.0 224.0 231.0 We need to concentrate investment of Ordinary income 50.0 65.0 75.0 resources in business focus areas to Extraordinary income/loss–net （10.0） （5.0） 0.0 further reinforce our strengths. Net income 20.0 33.0 45.0 Next, I would like to cover the investment and loan plan. Total assets 2,050.0 2,085.0 2,120.0 During the three years ending March 31, Net interestbearing debt 680.0 680.0 670.0 2015, we plan to make investments and loans totaling ¥180.0 billion, which will include the Shareholders’ equity 320.0 345.0 380.0 capital generated through asset replacement. New investments and loans will total ¥120.0 Net DER (times) 2.1 2.0 2.0 or lower billion in business focus areas, with additional ROA 1.0% 1.6% 2.0% or higher investments and loans of ¥60.0 billion in existing businesses. We will continue to concentrate Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 11 The second area is businesses in which we aim to expand earnings and adapt to structural shifts. In fertilizer, grain trading, basic petrochemicals and other businesses in which our trading operations are strong, we will leverage our experience and position of leadership to move upstream to make our earnings structure more robust and expand earnings. The third area is businesses in which we anticipate future growth. Here, we will build foundations for new businesses with the aim of monetizing them over the medium and long term. Until now, Sojitz has concentrated investment of resources in areas in which it can leverage its leadership to further reinforce its strengths. Based on meticulous analysis, we have investment in emerging countries in Asia, Africa, redefined these areas as business focus areas South America and elsewhere that are expected in which we can exercise our strengths. to maintain strong economic growth in the future. We intend to participate in the economic growth of these countries by investing in sectors Key Points in Achieving the Targets of with strong demand prospects, including Medium-term Management Plan 2014 infrastructure and resources. Steadily implementing our management Specifically, we have defined three business plan will create an even stronger focus areas for investment. The first is businesses earnings foundation. in which we aim to expand stable earnings. These include coal, IPP, methanol and other current core We formulated Medium-term Management Plan businesses that generate stable earnings and in 2014 over more than six months with meticulous which we expect further growth. We need to grow analysis and review of assets and businesses from in this area, so we will accumulate assets in a company-wide perspective. We looked at the trading and through investment in businesses. kind of company Sojitz should be in three years and in ten years, and determined that we need to Roadmap for Contributions to Earnings Year ending March 31, 2013 Year ending March 31, 2014 Year ending March 31, 2015 Machinery Division > Saudi Arabia: Launch of commercial operation of IPP project in March 2013 > Oman: Launch of commercial operation of IPP project in April 2013 Energy & Metal Division > Growth in earnings from increased production of molybdenum and niobium > From year ending March 31, 2015, share of coal production to reach ten million tons > Launch of stable operations by bioethanol production company in Brazil Chemicals Division > Full-scale operation of Lynas Corporation’s rare earths business planned for year ending March 31, 2014, aimed at providing a stable supply > Industrial salt business in India: launch of commercial operations in 2013 Consumer Lifestyle Business Division > Commencing transfer of lots in industrial park in Vietnam from year ending March 31, 2013 ⇒ Full contribution to earnings expected from year ending March 31, 2014 > Continuing initiatives aimed at securing food resources, including agricultural production businesses in South America 12 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility focus on overall optimization in rebuilding our act as a company if we share the same policies earnings foundation to enable the pursuit of even and direction. Having a clear vision of the kind of greater achievements. company Sojitz should become brings our The plans of each business division therefore incredibly talented employees together in include detailed guidelines for asset replacement, exercising their creativity and working effectively including downsizing or withdrawing from to achieve that vision. If our people are aware of businesses. Rapid asset replacement entails the purpose and guidelines of Medium-term challenges for frontline employees, but steadily Management Plan 2014 and create the implementing our management plan will create an framework for implementing it, achieving its even stronger earnings foundation. targets should be easy. After we announced Medium-term Management Plan 2014, I visited overseas bases and explained it to our regional management team. Overall, the CSR Initiatives for Sustained Growth people I spoke with told me that the challenges We will concentrate on initiatives that and required initiatives were clear and easy to meet the expectations of society, with a understand. On the other hand, I fielded many focus on CSR priority themes. questions about new investments and loans. Naturally, people on the front lines were Sojitz sees CSR as a management priority. I think concerned about funding for new investments and a crucial part of promoting CSR is sufficiently loans outside of business focus areas. I explained recognizing the factors engendering a management that if there is a business in which they want to environment that enables us to do our jobs. invest, they should take the initiative and reallocate Consider our history as a general trading existing assets to generate the required capital company. Responsible for forming part of resources. This approach would provide them with Japan’s industrial structure, Sojitz procured and opportunities to invest in and develop a broad array supplied various resources and goods in order of businesses. In addition, I explained that the efforts to help raise Japan’s standard of living. In the future, of people involved in withdrawing from businesses we must continue with this mission to steadily are as important as the efforts of people involved in procure and share. At the same time, we are a new business development. In other words, each member of global society that is involved in many person must be keenly aware of his or her own role. regions around the world. Just as we aspired to I believe in Sojitz employees. We are able to raise Japan’s standard of living, we must Investment and Loan Plan of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 Description Policies and examples of main businesses Expand existing businesses, and strive to accumulate assets and Businesses aimed at exBusiness focus areas increase business earnings panding stable earnings Examples of businesses: Overseas IPP, coal interests and peripheral businesses, methanol Businesses aimed at Aim to innovate existing business models and strengthen earnings expanding earnings and capacity over the medium to long term adapting to structural shifts Examples of businesses: Lithium, basic petrochemicals, fertilizer, grain trading Construct new business foundations, aimed at monetization with a Businesses in anticipation medium-to-long-term perspective of future growth Examples of businesses: Renewable energy production, infrastructure improvement, iron ore mining development Business focus areas Existing businesses New Additional investments and loans ¥120.0 billion ＋ investments and loans ¥60.0 billion = ¥180.0 billion Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 13 enhancing internal capital resources and using them effectively to increase corporate competitiveness and shareholder value to be a key management priority in our efforts to meet the expectations of shareholders. Under this policy, we plan to pay annual cash dividends of ¥3.00 per share for the year ending March 31, 2013. We maintained annual cash dividends for the year ended March 31, 2012 at the prior-year level of ¥3.00 per share. The net loss for the fiscal year resulted from factors such as the reversal of deferred tax assets due to changes in Japan’s tax code, and did not adversely impact our businesses or require us to draw down cash and cash equivalents. Our earnings foundation is also gaining concentrate on initiatives that contribute to the strength. We therefore emphasized stable dividends. economy and improve the standard of living in the As I mentioned earlier, our future operating other countries where we do business. environment is unclear and uncertain. However, Moreover, various social facilities including energy, even in a rapidly changing environment, Sojitz must communications, transportation systems and be a creative company that continues to provide distribution networks support our business activities. new value to markets and society. We must value these facilities, not take them for Under Medium-term Management Plan 2014, we granted, and work toward achieving the recycling are aiming to raise asset efficiency and further society that is important for us to achieve sustained strengthen our financial foundation to increase growth. In keeping with these beliefs, Sojitz joined funding flexibility and become a company that is the United Nations Global Compact in April 2009. able to take on even greater challenges. Meeting Sojitz has determined four CSR priority themes the targets of the plan is sure to create based on the expectations and concerns of society opportunities for even greater achievements. and importance to Sojitz. We will continue to We plan to continuously reform ourselves in concentrate on activities with a focus on the CSR pursuit of growth initiatives. While I am sure some priority themes, accommodating the opinions and of our shareholders and investors have grown meeting the expectations of society. Moreover, Sojitz impatient with this strategy, I firmly believe it is the sees support for reconstruction following the Great shortest path to growth. East Japan Earthquake as a key task. We are Aiming to increase corporate value, Sojitz will undertaking support activities under the theme of continue to implement reforms as it works toward “working toward a brighter future for the people and achieving the targets of Medium-term Management local community” that is based on the Sojitz Group Plan 2014. I would like to thank our stakeholders; Statement. We will continue contributing to we intend to meet your expectations for growth. reconstruction by deploying Group resources in initiatives that correspond to local needs. August 2012 Increasing Corporate Value Continuously reforming ourselves is the shortest path to growth. Sojitz recognizes that shareholder returns are also crucial to increasing corporate value. Under President & CEO Medium-term Management Plan 2014, our basic Yoji Sato policy is to provide stable, continuous dividends with a consolidated payout ratio of approximately 20 percent. At the same time, we consider 14 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Business Strategies P. 16 Ten Declarations 02 P. 18 Machinery Division P. 20 Review of Operations P. 22 Ten Declarations 03 P. 24 Energy & Metal Division P. 26 Review of Operations P. 28 Ten Declarations 04 P. 30 Chemicals Division P. 32 Review of Operations P. 34 Ten Declarations 05 P. 36 Consumer Lifestyle Business Division P. 38 Review of Operations P. 40 Ten Declarations 06 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 15 Ten Declarations 02 from Shigeki Dantani, Executive Vice President, Business Group “We are totally committed to objectives of our management we can only transform ourselves The design methodology and structure of focus areas in which we will concentrate the Medium-term Management Plan 2014 differ from allocation of resources. previous medium-term management plans. Managing businesses based on the balance Previously, we formulated an income and expense sheet may seem simple, but doing it consistently plan from division business strategies, then is anything but. Because this approach represents decided detailed initiatives for achieving it. a major paradigm shift for us, we must spread Medium-term Management Plan 2014, understanding of the plan’s meaning to all however, is based on the concept that owning employees of our business divisions so that they quality assets will naturally result in higher can routinely conduct business based on quality earnings. We worked from the balance sheet to assets. I will visit business sites to encourage review asset quality and efficiency, and formulated employees to change their way of thinking, while the plan with a view to optimizing assets general managers and division presidents company-wide. We spent more than six months resolutely lead the implementation of our new conducting a fresh analysis of the assets and management approach. businesses of each division. With this analysis as Moreover, we will devote ourselves to raising a foundation, we then determined the business the sophistication of division operations, including 16 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 achieving the plan because through progress.” personnel and risk management, in order to drastically transform our businesses through means including asset replacement and withdrawing from or downsizing businesses. Medium-term Management Plan 2014 clarifies business focus areas as those aimed at expanding stable earnings, those aimed at expanding earnings and adapting to structural shifts, and those that will provide future growth. The success of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 will be crucial in determining our ability to make significant progress in the future. Three years is not much time. We are totally committed to achieving the Executive Vice President, objectives of our management plan because we Business Group can only transform ourselves through progress. Shigeki Dantani Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 17 Machinery Division Summary of Performance under a substantial impact on results, but we continued to Shine 2011 focus on ship-owning, newbuilding and second-hand Under Shine 2011, the Machinery Division focused on ship trading. New initiatives included an investment in a restructuring to restore its earnings foundation in a manufacturer of ballast water treatment systems. In the challenging operating environment amid the global aircraft business, we worked to secure earnings in our recession. As a result, sales and profits exceeded sales representative business and to strengthen our targets in the final year of the plan. operations in the promising growth areas of business In the automotive business, which posted a jets and components. considerable loss in the year ended March 31, 2010 and In the IT business, we acquired shares of former was the main factor in the first operating loss ever for the equity-method affiliate SAKURA Internet Inc. by a Machinery Division, we concentrated on enhancing risk tender offer in March 2011 and made Nissho management with measures including Electronics Corporation a wholly optimization of inventory levels, owned subsidiary in March 2012. meticulous control of gross risk These and other initiatives positioned exposure and hedging of currency risk. the Sojitz Group’s information and Owing to the success of these communication technology (ICT) measures, the automotive business business for further growth. In April restored its earnings foundation to 2011, the Environment & Urban the point where it boosted the Infrastructure Development Office division’s profits in the year ended Hyundai dealer in Thailand was established under the direct March 31, 2012. control of the Machinery Division. It In the overseas independent power producer (IPP) will contribute to the creation of smart city infrastructure business, which stepped up active investment, we through initiatives in four business areas: smart cities, received orders for three large projects in Saudi Arabia and water, renewable energy and transport. Oman. In addition, we received orders for fertilizer plants in Turkmenistan, the Republic of Tatarstan in Russia, and in Strategies of Medium-term Angola (early work), as well as for large-scale steel plants Management Plan 2014 – in China and India. The overseas IPP business promises to Change for Challenge provide stable returns over the long term. In Medium-term Management Plan 2014, we will In the marine business, weak market conditions had carry out further restructuring to build a stable ■ Gross Trading Profit ■ Ordinary Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 80 75.9 15 68.8* 71.0 12.4 56.2 56.1 9.9* 60 10 8.0 40 5 2.0 (4.1) 20 0 0 (5) 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) * Results for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012, excluding the results of significant overseas consolidated subsidiaries for the period January–March 2011 18 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Main Businesses Distribution of Main Subsidiaries • Automotive Unit • Infrastructure Project & Industrial Machinery Unit • Marine & Aerospace Unit • Environment & Urban Infrastructure Development Office / IT Business Department earnings foundation. While improving asset components. Aiming for future growth in the efficiency across the board and aggressively infrastructure improvement business, we plan to reallocating assets, we will steadily make new target transportation systems and other areas that investments and loans for future growth as offer good potential for synergy with our transport planned. In undertaking new investments and business. In the water business, we are already loans, we will focus not just on investment return, making inroads in Africa and will consider but on building a new business model that allows advancing into operation and maintenance, which us to fully leverage our functions and expertise to offer potential for expansion. generate sustained earnings from operation, In the core automotive business, we will use maintenance and other support services after our solid relationships with longstanding partners making the initial investment. in the automotive manufacturing industry in Overseas IPP, renewable energy Japan and overseas to increase production and infrastructure our market share in Russia and improvement are three of the the NIS and Asia, while taking on business focus areas in Mediumthe challenge of managing term Management Plan 2014. In operating companies that will the overseas IPP business, we drive revenues by handling expect the projects in Saudi Arabia vehicles of emerging overseas and Oman to begin contributing to manufacturers. In our traditional earnings in the years ending March 31, IPP project in Saudi Arabia (plant under marine and aircraft businesses, construction) 2014. In addition to obtaining we will quickly reallocate assets these revenues as planned, we aim to receive new and launch initiatives in areas such as biofuels large-scale orders by increasing the number of and environmental equipment sales to build the professional staff with knowledge of finance and foundation for future earnings. In the IT business, the IPP business and strong skills in areas such as Nissho Electronics Corporation will cooperate project organization. In the renewable energy with Group companies Sojitz Systems production business, we are concentrating on solar Corporation and SAKURA Internet Inc. to secure power generation, which features high liquidity and stable earnings by creating an ICT value chain allows Sojitz to apply its strengths in a value chain that leverages the Sojitz Group’s wide-ranging that encompasses the supply of raw materials and networks as a general trading company. ■ Total Assets and ROA ■ Medium-term Management Plan 2014 Gross Profit Targets (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 500 3.0 100 406.8 85.5 378.0 392.2 400 80 71.0 Automotive 2.1 2.0 40.5 300 60 Infrastructure 31.0 Project & 200 40 19.0 Industrial Machinery 1.0 15.0 0.9 Marine & Aerospace 100 0.2 20 10.0 10.0 Other 15.0 16.0 0 0.0 0 10 11 12 13 15 (As of March 31) (Target) (Target) Total assets (left scale) ROA (right scale) (Years ending March 31) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 19 Machinery Division: Review of Operations Automotive Unit Infrastructure Project & Industrial Machinery Unit Businesses Businesses ● Completely built-up (CBU) vehicle export; local ● Power (EPC and equipment supply, investment) vehicle assembly, manufacturing and sales; ● Plants (steel, fertilizer, chemical, energy) wholesale and retail; component and tire exports; ● Industrial machinery and production systems automotive equipment and engineering (surface mounters, bearings, equipment related to the environment and new energy, etc.) Automotive Businesses Power Business Sojitz is expanding its Sojitz participates in power generation projects in automotive business in Vietnam, Mexico, Sri Lanka and other countries. Since fast-growing emerging 2010, we have won three successive orders for large-scale countries where projects to build natural gas-fired power plants: Riyadh continued growth in PP11 (1,720MW) in Saudi Arabia, and Barka 3 (744MW) automobile demand is and Sohar 2 (744MW) in Oman. With these and other expected, such as projects around the world, we are forming power Russia and the NIS, generation assets that are expected to provide steady Headquarters of Hyundai de Puerto Rico earnings. We will continue to actively seek new orders with and the countries of the a focus on regions such as Southeast Asia and the Middle ASEAN region and Latin East. In addition, we will undertake business in engineering, America. In addition to procurement and the brands it currently construction (EPC) and handles, the Automotive equipment supply for Unit will take on the power facilities through tiechallenge of managing ups with optimal partners, operating companies while providing added value that will drive future Construction is proceeding rapidly such as arrangement of at Barka 3, with completion revenues by handling Hyundai dealer in Thailand financing. targeted in April 2013. vehicles of emerging overseas manufacturers through strategic partnerships. Plant Project Business Sales are strong in most of the markets we cover, Sojitz handles large plants, primarily in the steel, driven by worldwide growth in automobile sales. In fertilizer, chemical and energy sectors. Principal markets particular, Russia’s new vehicle market, which grew 39% include China, Asia, Russia and the NIS and Africa. to 2.65 million vehicles in 2011, is expected to maintain In the year ended March 31, 2012, we received orders momentum and reach 3 million vehicles in 2012. To keep for major steel plant projects from Tata Steel in India, pace with this growth, Sojitz will work to further expand Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Corporation in China, and its customer base by introducing a series of new models. in Taiwan. We also won a front-end engineering design At the same time, we will focus on increasing our market contract for a large-scale petrochemical plant in Russia, share through branding activities. and entered into early work agreements for large-scale On the other hand, the operating environment remains fertilizer plants in Angola and Nigeria. Such large-scale unpredictable due to factors including the European debt projects in Africa, and effective resource utilization crisis. In these conditions, Sojitz will further deepen and projects in Russia and Turkmenistan that are currently being executed mainly through our representative office increase the sophistication of its management of risk in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan, will further strengthen the exposure to ensure steady earnings and establish an Sojitz Group’s plant business in growth markets. optimal business portfolio. To ensure stable earnings going forward, Sojitz will also recruit and develop management Industrial Machinery and Bearing Business talent at its key operating companies overseas. In the industrial machinery and bearing business, Sojitz is pursuing earnings expansion with two main growth pillars. In the semiconductor and mounting markets, we are accelerating global expansion primarily through our sales and service bases outside Japan. In the bearing business, we are further expanding into growth markets based on our network of product sales dealers and bearing parts supply chain infrastructure. 20 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Environment & Urban Infrastructure Development Marine & Aerospace Unit Office / IT Business Department Businesses Businesses ● Commercial aircraft sales representative for The ● Environment & Urban Infrastructure Development Boeing Company, Bombardier Inc., etc.; defense Office: Transportation infrastructure, renewable equipment agency and sales; business jets energy, water, smart city-related business ● Newbuilding, second-hand ships, ship chartering, ● IT Business Department: Network and system ship equipment sales; ship owning construction, IT outsourcing, BPO services, data center services (cloud, hosting, housing), smart grid-related business Aerospace Business Environment & Urban Infrastructure Sojitz is the sales representative in Japan for Business Boeing, Bombardier and other major aircraft With the global manufacturers, and has the top domestic share in population now over 7 handling sales of commercial aircraft. We also offer billion, a balance between business jet services throughout Asia, including flight economic growth and the operation services and charter flight sales, in environment is needed in cooperation with Aviation Concepts Inc., a company order to realize in which Sojitz has invested. sustainable societies. 24MW solar power plant in Germany In the year ended Attention is focusing on March 31, 2012, we environmentally friendly infrastructure in considering delivered a total of 23 how to resolve various issues. To address these needs aircraft to major with multiple and diverse approaches, Sojitz established Japanese airlines, the Environment & Urban Infrastructure Development including the first Office in April 2011. This new office seeks to establish state-of-the-art Boeing and manage the infrastructure of a low-carbon, 787 Dreamliner and the recycling-oriented society in order to produce new Boeing 777. We plan to sources of wealth. further grow sales in The office was active in its first year ended March 31, the agency business, 2012, with initiatives including investment in a megaand reinforce our solar power business in Germany. In concert with the presence in growth Japanese government’s package infrastructure export areas such as business strategy, the office is actively cooperating with domestic jets and aircraft parts. Boeing 787 Dreamliner and overseas partners to develop businesses such as solar power and other renewable energy, water, railway Marine Business infrastructure development and transportation The strength of our marine business is its ability to businesses that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, provide one-stop services encompassing maritime and smart city development. and shipbuilding fields from sales of ship equipment and materials to newbuilding, second-hand ships, IT Business Department ship chartering and ship owning. In today’s world, information technology (IT) is vital in In the year ended March 31, 2012, in the shipboth business and in daily life. Companies of all kinds owning business, we sold three ships and use IT to search for new growth potential. Sojitz completed newbuilding of three ships. In the proposes solutions that help corporate clients achieve equipment business, we went beyond trading to new IT-driven growth and provides optimal IT services in carry out proactive business initiatives including cooperation with its subsidiaries Nissho Electronics investment in a ballast water treatment system Corporation, Sojitz Systems Corporation and SAKURA manufacturer. We will continue to replace our own Internet, Inc. ships (assets) to maintain constant returns. In the In the year ended March 31, 2012, SAKURA Internet marine and ship charter brokerage businesses, we opened Japan’s largest environmentally friendly data will broaden our scope and expand sales of related center in Ishikari City, Hokkaido, and Nissho Electronics equipment under the “eco” banner. established a subsidiary in Vietnam. The IT Business Department will pursue rapid growth by providing cloudrelated services primarily via data centers, expanding overseas with a focus on Asia, and increasing its presence in new business areas including smart grids. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 21 Ten Declarations 03 from Toshihiko Kita, President, Machinery Division “We will concentrate resources in models, steadily accumulating quality a step-by-step approach to creating of stable earnings.” Conditions in the Machinery Division’s markets earnings. Building a stable earnings foundation will changed completely following the financial crisis of increase our resilience to changes in the operating 2008, and were challenging from the start of Shine environment and the likelihood of achieving the 2011. During the three years of Shine 2011, the targets of Medium-term Management Plan 2014. division worked diligently to implement structural We will dedicate ourselves to dealing with these reforms through united efforts. We were able to lay issues under Medium-term Management Plan 2014 the cornerstone for growth as a result of committed by rigorously employing selection and focus in efforts that included improving the sophistication of assessing asset quality to build up a potent earnings risk management, rationalizing inventory levels and foundation. Inaction causes assets to deteriorate, reforming our earnings base. Decisive structural while business models with no prospects sap the reform allowed the division to overcome the most vitality of the organization. Embracing a medium-tochallenging conditions since its founding. This gave long-term perspective, we will move forward with us the confidence that will be our biggest strength in asset replacement even for assets and businesses pursuing greater achievements that lie ahead. that are providing a short-term boost to earnings. On the other hand, the major issue currently We will concentrate resources in the business focus facing the division is that it has few sources of stable areas of overseas IPP, renewable energy production 22 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 promising business assets in sources and infrastructure improvement as well as in promising visionary businesses in a division-wide effort to create sources of stable earnings. We intend to continue taking on the challenge of continuous structural reform to build a bright future. A trading company is only as good as the people it employs. In uncertain economic conditions, an organization must be able to reform itself and adapt to change to compete globally. Moreover, highly specialized teams and people are without doubt the key to success in creating a potent earnings foundation. We aim to make the Machinery Division a growth driver for Sojitz by bringing together the capabilities of Group companies and all division Managing Executive Officer employees to steadily accumulate superior assets, President, Machinery Division step by step. Toshihiko Kita Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 23 Energy & Metal Division Summary of Performance under operations. This project is also promising as a new Shine 2011 form of business investment because the operational Under Shine 2011, the Energy & Metal Division expertise we accumulate from running the coal mine made a number of new investments and loans while will allow us to create future opportunities to develop reallocating assets. This approach enabled solid competitive coal mines. results in both earnings and portfolio optimization. Moreover, we succeeded in concluding an During Shine 2011, steady returns from investment in the rare metals business, which has investments conducted before Shine 2011 and profits significant meaning in terms of enhancing profits and from the trading business, supported by growing market position. With this investment, one of our demand in emerging countries, contributed to the largest ever, we acquired a stake in the world’s performance of our division. Even with the impact of leading producer of niobium and also entered into a the global financial crisis that long-term supply agreement. Most occurred just before the start of recently, in the year ended March 31, Shine 2011, net income was 2012, we successfully completed consistently between ¥20 billion the expansion of Worsley Alumina and ¥30 billion. We view this as Refinery and Endako Molybdenum evidence of the division’s stable Mine, and also acquired new earnings foundation. upstream assets of oil and gas Investments in upstream interests and coal including the Codrilla including coal, oil and gas, rare Minerva Coal Mine in Australia Coal Mine. metals and other resources were On the other hand, we conducted carried out as planned. As a result of these asset compression in a total of 10 major businesses investments and loans, some projects have started through sale of shares and interests and withdrawal production, while others have accomplished their over the last three years, including the sale of shares expansion work. Our investment in the Minerva Coal of an Australian coal company in the year ended Joint Venture in Australia is especially noteworthy. March 31, 2010. By reviewing investment objectives Not only did we increase our stake to 96%, and future profitability based on changes in the dramatically boosting our equity share of production market environment, we were able to reallocate from mining interests, we became one of the few assets in a timely and effective manner. This has led trading companies to assume control of coal mine to steady improvement in our earnings portfolio. ■ Gross Trading Profit ■ Ordinary Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60 57.8 40 52.0* 32.6 49.0 41.7 30 28.7 28.0* 27.0 40 37.1 20 12.6 20 10 0 0 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) * Results for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012, excluding the results of significant overseas consolidated subsidiaries for the period January–March 2011 24 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Main Businesses Distribution of Main Subsidiaries • Energy Unit • Coal & Nuclear Unit • Steel & Mineral Resources Unit Strategies of Medium-term business channels. In the iron ore business, we will Management Plan 2014 – focus on developing iron ore mines to establish a Change for Challenge new foundation for earnings in addition to imports Our strategy under Medium-term Management into Japan, our traditional strength. We will Plan 2014 is to improve asset efficiency and concentrate first on the ongoing development of an strengthen the earnings foundation with a focus on Australian iron ore mine in which we own project both investment and trading business. We will stake through our subsidiary. continue to accumulate prime assets and enhance In the energy business, we will strengthen our trading activities while generating steady profits initiatives in the LNG business in response to a shift from our investment portfolio. in energy demand in Japan. We will also pursue Coal is one of our business focus areas, and we plan unconventional shale oil and gas projects in the to further develop it as a core United States. business. In the year ended March 31, In the new energy and 2012, we expanded our equity environment business, we will share of production from coal work to stabilize operations and interests to 7 million tons. That enhance profitability of the figure is expected to increase to industry’s largest bioethanol 10 million tons by March 31, 2015, producer in Brazil. primarily from investments and As we work to build these loans made during Shine 2011. Bioethanol plant of ETH Bioenergia S.A. assets, we will carefully manage For the expansion of our equity our balance sheet with a focus on share of production and trading volume, we will enhancing our risk management capabilities and steadily build our prime assets by drawing on our our ability to optimize asset efficiency. For that networks and business expertise. purpose, the Energy & Metal Division was the first In the rare metals business, the investments in at Sojitz to set up a Controller Office in April 2012. molybdenum and niobium during Shine 2011 will With this new organization, we will work to improve begin contributing fully to earnings in the fiscal year asset quality not only by analyzing the risk of new ending March 31, 2013. While steadily generating projects, but also by consecutively monitoring the returns from these investments, we will continue to profitability, asset efficiency and risk of existing increase earnings through expansion of our trading investments and loans and our trading business. ■ Total Assets and ROA ■ Medium-term Management Plan 2014 Gross Profit Targets (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 600 543.7 541.2 8.0 60 483.4 49.0 51.0 6.0 14.0 400 40 18.0 5.0 Energy 4.9 4.9 4.0 21.0 Coal & Nuclear 200 20 17.0 Steel & Mineral 2.0 Resources 14.0 16.0 0 0.0 0 10 11 12 13 15 (As of March 31) (Target) (Target) Total assets (left scale) ROA (right scale) (Years ending March 31) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 25 Energy & Metal Division: Review of Operations Energy Unit Coal & Nuclear Unit Businesses Businesses ● Oil, natural gas, LNG, light oil, heavy oil and jet fuel ● Coal (thermal coal, PCI coal, coking coal) ● Biofuels (bioethanol, bio-ETBE, etc.) ● Nuclear fuel cycle services and nuclear equipment Oil, Natural Gas and LNG Business Coal Business In the oil and natural Sojitz’s coal business is based on imports for steel gas business, Sojitz is mills, electric power companies and general involved in upstream, industries in Japan. In addition, we acquire overseas midstream and mining interests and conduct offshore trade. As the downstream areas, from leading importer of coal from Russia and Indonesia, investment to trading and we are working to expand sales volume into Japan retail. In the upstream from these countries. We are also focusing on Floating production unit on the sector we have regionally Phoenix Oil Field in U.S. Gulf meeting demand outside Japan through our local balanced sources of of Mexico sales affiliates, such as in China, where demand is earnings, with interests in particularly strong. Our investments in upstream diverse regions including the British North Sea, the U.S. concessions are primarily in Australia and Indonesia. Gulf of Mexico, Qatar, Gabon, Egypt and Brazil. In Sojitz was the first Japanese company to invest in a addition to our existing interests, we are also working coal mining company in Indonesia in the 1980s. In to acquire interests in unconventional shale oil and Australia, we are enhancing our capabilities in mine tight oil in the United States, as well as oil and gas operation by independently operating the Minerva fields in Africa and other emerging regions, by closely Coal Mine, in which we hold a 96% interest. In examining the reserves and development risks. We addition to improving investment income, this will will continue moving to acquire quality interests while allow us to acquire operational expertise, which we reallocating assets. will use to create future In the LNG business, we are participating in largeopportunities to develop scale LNG projects through LNG Japan Corporation, competitive coal mines. including Tangguh LNG in Indonesia and Ras Laffan We are also eyeing LNG in Qatar. While monitoring demand trends in business development in Japan and worldwide, we will consider participation Mongolia, Africa and in LNG projects in North America, Africa and other Russia, with the aim of regions where we expect cost competitiveness as a increasing our trading result of low gas acquisition costs. volume of coking coal. Minerva Coal Mine in Australia Biofuels Business Nuclear Power Business Sojitz conducts a sugar cane-based bioethanol and Since the 1970s, Sojitz has served as the sole crude sugar production business in Brazil. It is one of distributing agent in Japan for France’s Areva NC, the the largest projects in Brazil integrating the cultivation world’s top integrated nuclear fuel cycle company. of sugar cane and the production and sale of We provide a full range of services to Japanese bioethanol and sugar. This business operates in an electric power companies. We also support overseas environmentally friendly manner by using sugar cane reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel. Other operations residue (bagasse) for electric power generation and include the sale of equipment, fuels and materials re-using wastewater from the production process. related to nuclear power plants through a subsidiary. With a total of nine mills operating, including new We will continue to expand the scope of our nuclear mills with modernized facilities that began operating energy-related business in collaboration with the in December 2011, the business aims to achieve a Areva Group. On April 1, 2012, the nuclear energy 5% to 10% share of sugar cane crushing volume in business and coal business were reconfigured as the Brazil by 2021. Coal & Nuclear Unit to leverage organizational synergies and further enhance services to electric power companies. 26 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Steel & Mineral Resources Unit Businesses ● Rare metals (molybdenum, niobium, vanadium, tungsten, etc.) ● Steel products ● Iron ore, iron ore pellets, hot briquetted iron ● Non-ferrous metals (alumina, copper concentrates, ● Industrial minerals (fluorite, zircon, etc.) copper, etc.) ● Silicon metals Ferrous Materials & completed. In the industrial minerals business, we Steel Products Business expanded and enhanced auxiliary raw material supply Sojitz engages in the steel industry, a key industry, by sources and became the first Japanese trading company supplying ferrous materials and trading steel products. to participate in a lime production business in China. With Over the years, Sojitz has built strong relationships these and other activities, we will continue to acquire with Japanese steel mills through the import of iron additional prime interests while reallocating assets. ore, especially as a leader in bringing iron ore from In the steel products business, Sojitz conducts Brazil to the Japanese market. These relationships domestic and overseas sales through Japan’s largest have extended from the iron ore import business to a integrated steel trading company Metal One joint investment partnership in an iron ore pellet Corporation, a joint venture owned 40% by Sojitz and manufacturing business in Brazil. Going forward, we 60% by Mitsubishi Corporation. While maintaining will expand sales of iron ore not only to Japan, but and expanding this sales network, Sojitz will continue also to China and other countries where demand is to build a global value chain by further expanding increasing. Moreover, a feasibility study for an iron ore trading of steel products for the energy industry and mine development project in Western Australia we overseas through stronger collaboration between the acquired in 2007 is now in the final phase. We plan to steel products business and our other businesses. start production as early as 2015, pending final investment approval. Non-Ferrous Metals Business Our auxiliary materials business encompasses mainly Sojitz’s non-ferrous rare metals and other ferroalloys and industrial minerals. metals business We led the industry in investment in the ferroalloys conducts trading of business in the 1990s, and now have mining interests in alumina, copper, zinc seven minerals, including molybdenum, nickel and and other non-ferrous niobium, in widespread locations such as Canada, the metals. We also have Philippines and Brazil. We have thus built a portfolio of upstream investments mining interests that is balanced in terms of both in bauxite, alumina and Worsley Alumina Refinery mineral type and region. The industrial minerals copper interests. In in Australia business is an area of particular, we have a strength for Sojitz. We 9% interest in Worsley Alumina Refinery, a joint maintain a significant venture in Australia with BHP Billiton, the world’s share in the market for largest resource firm. To meet growing demand for titanium materials, alumina, refining capacity at Worsley Alumina has fluorite and other been expanded to 4.6 million tons per year. In 2010, industrial minerals in Sojitz acquired a 25% interest in the Gibraltar Copper Japan and Asia, and we Mine in Canada jointly with Furukawa Co., Ltd. and Araxá Factory of Companhia also supply auxiliary raw Brasileira de Metalurgia e DOWA Metals & Mining Co., Ltd. An expansion Mineração in Brazil project is currently under way, with plans to increase materials used to make refractory products. annual production capacity to 80,000 tons in midDuring the year ended 2013 from the present 50,000 tons. In the copper March 31, 2012, in the mining business, Sojitz is also conducting copper ferroalloys business, an exploration in Chile and Laos and taking steps to expansion project at the secure mining interests in the future. Endako Molybdenum Mine in Canada was Endako Molybdenum Mine in Canada Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 27 Ten Declarations 04 from Masahiro Komiyama, President, Energy & Metal Division “I aim to build an organization that is earnings by keeping in mind the social and consistently supplying resources First and foremost, enhancing shareholders’ will prioritize the allocation of corporate resources to equity under Medium-term Management Plan the business focus areas of coal and iron ore mine 2014 requires that all businesses steadily generate development. In addition, we will make investments earnings. To achieve this, we plan to improve and loans predicated on asset reallocation to acquire asset quality in both trading and investment and selected prime assets in other areas in which we can loan initiatives. Specifically, we will increase further exercise our strengths. earnings from the distribution and trading of In our trading business, we will steadily generate products obtained from prior investments, raise earnings by accurately gauging demand of our overall operating efficiency, and select truly customers and partners, with whom we have built competitive projects to build superior assets strong relationships over our long history. Our focus through reallocation of existing assets. for trading includes steady sales of coal, niobium, Sojitz competes for the top global position in molybdenum and other resources obtained from our various product areas, whether thermal coal or rare investments during Shine 2011. Such trading metals, as a result of years of continuous investment activities will enable us to make our core earnings through which we have reinforced our strengths. even more resilient to fluctuations in market Under Medium-term Management Plan 2014, we conditions and exchange rates. 28 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 able to enhance value of securing to the market.” Securing and steadily supplying resources has important social significance, and I am honored to be part of this business. For the growth of our business, it is essential that we provide even greater value to our suppliers and users. Moreover, developing synergies with other products and other divisions will allow the value created through our business to spread globally. As the President of the Energy & Metal Division, I encourage my staff to think about and clarify the significance and objective of their businesses so that we can build an organization where those thoughts are turned into forward momentum. By doing so, we are sure to achieve Managing Executive Officer the targets of Medium-term Management Plan President, Energy & Metal Division 2014 and to sustain the growth of Sojitz. Masahiro Komiyama Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 29 Chemicals Division Summary of Performance under petrochemical company in South America, Sojitz Shine 2011 will build a structure for providing a stable supply Under Shine 2011, the Chemicals Division of butadiene, demand for which is expected to concentrated on building strong value chains, expand globally. As a leading supplier in the rare making full use of its extensive network and earths business, Sojitz invested in and provided expertise to shore up its earnings foundation. a loan to Lynas Corporation of Australia, which As a result, we generated steady earnings growth will enable us to provide a stable supply of rare driven by solid performance in our methanol, rare earths to the Japanese market for 10 years. These earths, industrial salt, plastics and other businesses investments have expanded our supply sources, despite a rapidly changing external environment. and thus have considerable significance from the This performance was due to our success in meeting standpoint of building our business foundation to growing demand in Asia, including increase overseas trading. China. It also reflects our changing earnings structure and increased Strategies of Mediumoffshore trading, in which we term Management Plan connect overseas suppliers with 2014 – Change for overseas users. Challenge Three business investments for Under Medium-term Management further growth stand out as Plan 2014, the Chemicals Division noteworthy achievements under Industrial salt business in India will accelerate globalization of its Shine 2011 in this division, which business to respond to changes in focuses on the logistics business. One is our markets and customers. By reinforcing areas where investment and participation in a marine we have an advantage, including making upstream chemical project in India that produces industrial business investments, we will build even stronger salt and potash fertilizer. Sojitz plans to sell the value chains and create a robust earnings industrial salt to growth markets in Asia and the foundation. Middle East. In the petrochemical field, we Our priority will be to steadily and quickly invested in a butadiene business in Brazil. Under obtain retur ns from business investments. We a long-term (five and a half years) purchase are currently expanding industrial salt production agreement with Braskem S.A., the largest from our original target of 2 million tons and plan ■ Gross Trading Profit ■ Ordinary Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60 10 9.8 9.0* 8 7.0 41.7 39.0* 6.8 40 36.3 37.0 31.9 6 4 2.9 20 2 0 0 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) * Results for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012, excluding the results of significant overseas consolidated subsidiaries for the period January–March 2011 30 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Main Businesses Distribution of Main Subsidiaries • Chemicals Unit • Ecological Materials & Resources Unit • Life Science Business Development Office to ship 3 million tons in the first half of the year chemical manufacturer, but we plan to collaborate ending March 31, 2014. Based on these with partners such as this company to enter the shipments, we plan to further increase lithium manufacturing business and undertake production to 5 million tons as quickly as other initiatives. In the basic petrochemicals possible to build a strong value chain in which business, we will cooperate with partner Sojitz can deploy its strengths. In Australia, Braskem in the butadiene business and other phase 1 construction of a rare earths areas to commercialize higher-value-added concentration plant has been completed, providing butadiene derivatives such as high-performance Sojitz with a supply of about 3,000 tons annually. resins and synthetic rubber. Phase 2 construction has begun, with completion To support the effective implementation of scheduled in the second half of 2013. Once phase 2 these initiatives, in April 2012 the Chemicals is up and running, we will have Division changed from a productthe infrastructure in place to sell based to a business channeland 9,000 tons of rare earths annually. market-based organization. In This business investment also addition, we established the Life gives us a foothold for possible Science Business Development advancement into other areas Office to develop new businesses. such as rare earths processing The office will incubate future and alloy manufacturing, and even strategic businesses, including production of heavy rare earths. Methanol manufacturing facilities in green chemicals, agrichemicals, Indonesia In Medium-term Management which draw on Sojitz’s strengths in Plan 2014, Sojitz has designated methanol, the fertilizer business in Asia, and life care (support lithium and basic petrochemicals as business for developing health care infrastructure) in focus areas. Methanol is one of our core emerging countries. products. We own Asia’s largest methanol plant in Indonesia, and intend to build a new methanol plant of a similar scale. Lithium is a highly promising business area, with strong growth anticipated in the lithium battery market. We are currently the distributor for a major U.S. lithium ■ Total Assets and ROA ■ Medium-term Management Plan 2014 Gross Profit Targets (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 300 272.3 3.0 50 255.5 259.5 42.0 40 37.0 200 2.1 2.0 30 Chemicals 27.5 24.5 Ecological Materials 20 & Resources 100 0.5 1.0 1.0 Other 10 9.5 11.0 3.0 3.5 0 0.0 0 10 11 12 13 15 (As of March 31) (Target) (Target) Total assets (left scale) ROA (right scale) (Years ending March 31) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 31 Chemicals Division: Review of Operations Chemicals Unit Ecological Materials & Resources Unit Businesses Businesses ● Methanol, solvents, liquid chemicals, high● Rare earths/lithium, aluminum hydroxide, industrial salt, performance resin monomers, butadiene, phenol graphite, cellulose materials, high-performance nonwoven and feedstock for resins and synthetic fibers cloth, raw materials for paint, liquid crystal, display materials, carbon fiber and LED materials Methanol Business Rare Earths Business Methanol is used in a Rare earths are used in a variety of products that wide range of fields as a are becoming increasingly popular with the shift to a chemical raw material in low-carbon society, including automotive exhaust products such as catalysts and high-performance motors for hybrid adhesives, synthetic cars and energy-saving home appliances. With other fibers and highapplications in high-performance products such as performance plastics, mirrorless single-lens reflex cameras and phosphors, and in applications for rare earths have become crucial materials for fuels such as LPG and Japanese industry, and demand is increasing every biodiesel. Fuel year. However, rare earths production is heavily applications are dependent on China, which controls more than 97% expanding rapidly, of the world’s supply. Consequently, the supply of especially in China, rare earths has become a global issue in recent where demand for years, as illustrated by the rare earths panic of 2010. gasoline additives is Sojitz has maintained relationships with rare earths increasing. Also driving Methanol manufacturing facilities suppliers in China for more than 40 years, allowing it demand is a new in Indonesia to provide stable supplies. At the same time, in process for pursuit of new supply sources, Sojitz and Japan Oil, synthesizing olefins, which are basic chemical raw Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) materials, from methanol. jointly invested in and provided a loan to Australian Sojitz has an 85% stake in the Indonesia-based rare earths developer Lynas Corporation Limited. methanol manufacturer PT. Kaltim Methanol Industri Concurrently, Sojitz signed an exclusive long-term (KMI). In addition to offtake from this company, Sojitz procurement contract giving it the right to receive procures methanol from the market and sells it from Lynas a minimum allocation of 8,500 tons (plus primarily to customers in Asia. Located in proximity to or minus 500 tons) per annum of rare earths for growing Asian markets, KMI is highly rated among Japan, which represents 30% of current Japanese customers for its capabilities, including the ability to consumption, over a period of ten years. We are also make deliveries in a short time and in flexible lot putting efforts into sizes. Sojitz is enhancing its presence in the Asian recycling rare earths, market with a combination of KMI’s products and including investing in a externally procured products, and is also using its company in the rare methanol sales and distribution capabilities to expand earths recycling sales of other liquid chemicals. business. By securing Sojitz plans to launch another methanol manufacturer supplies of rare earths following KMI in a region where it can secure competitive with our stable raw materials to meet demand in future growth markets. procurement from China and other countries, resource recycling and other initiatives, we will contribute to the development of the rare earths industry. Lynas Corporation’s rare earths concentration plant (top) and Mount Weld Mine (bottom) in Australia 32 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Life Science Business Development Office Businesses ● Import and export of agrichemical intermediates, raw materials and finished products; export of catalysts; import of high-performance resin monomers; ● Import and export of pharmaceutical intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and pharmaceuticals; planning, development and sales of cosmetics Industrial Salt Business Life Science Business As basic raw The Life Science Business Development Office was materials essential to established in April 2012 to start up new businesses many industries, primarily in the areas of green chemicals, agrichemicals, caustic soda and health care and cosmetics. chlorine produced Green chemicals: With resource depletion and using industrial salt environmental problems caused by population growth have an array of making headlines, attention is focusing on manufacturing applications. Caustic chemical products and plastics from plants, a renewable soda is used in a wide resource. Sojitz is preparing for the advent of a new green range of industries, society by replacing conventional chemicals with biobased including paper and chemicals (green chemicals). pulp, chemical fibers and alumina refining. Agrichemicals: Worldwide food demand is expected to Chlorine is applied in increase dramatically. Given this situation, Sojitz is various chlorine aiming to expand and create agrichemical businesses in derivatives such as Asia, which is experiencing rapid population growth. Salt stocks in India before sodium hypochlorite shipment Health care: In addition to its existing pharmaceuticals used to disinfect tap business, Sojitz is undertaking various peripheral water, PVC resin raw materials and urethane raw businesses that perform services outsourced from materials. The main markets for the industrial salt hospitals to support the creation of better health care Sojitz supplies are the Far East (primarily Japan), environments and communities. China, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East. Strong demand is expected in these markets over the Cosmetics: Low barriers to entry in the cosmetics medium to long term. industry have led to a steady influx of companies from Sojitz handles industrial salt (solar evaporated salt) other sectors, particularly chemical and pharmaceutical produced in India and Australia, and has a leading manufacturers. At the same time, rapid diversification in share among trading companies in the Japanese customer needs has resulted in intense competition. market. Annual production of solar evaporated salt Sojitz Cosmetics Corporation seeks to contribute to fluctuates with the weather, but we have multiple society by developing cosmetics that satisfy customers sources, which enables us to spread the climate risk and by providing sincere service. inherent in procurement and ensure a stable supply Sojitz Cosmetics is not a manufacturer with research to users. facilities and factories. Instead, it differentiates itself with To maintain stable procurement to meet brisk planning and proposal capabilities. The company’s market demand, we invested in new solar evaporation strengths are its ability to utilize the raw material ponds in India in 2011. In addition to doubling the procurement know-how of the Sojitz Group and to volume we handle, this will allow us to apply the leverage synergies with diverse business partners, production, distribution and marketing knowledge we including raw material suppliers and cosmetics have gained in the salt business over many years to manufacturers. Since expand our supply to markets where we anticipate 2010, Sojitz Cosmetics further growth. has been expanding its business scope with initiatives such as direct sales, mainly through the Internet, and entry into overseas markets. Chronorest, a new product of Sojitz Cosmetics Corporation Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 33 Ten Declarations 05 from Satoshi Mizui, President, Chemicals Division “We continue to make internal we boldly shift our focus overseas of steady growth.” Under Medium-term Management Plan 2014, we have built with our partners and customers the Chemicals Division remains responsible for over many years, and the sophisticated supporting Sojitz Group earnings by continuing expertise we have accumulated through our to generate stable earnings. businesses. We are currently investing The Chemicals Division requires internal aggressively in upstream businesses as part of reforms because it needs to remain stable and our efforts to strengthen our value chains. steady. We must continuously improve asset The key to developing our operations is not efficiency to accumulate the internal capital looking overseas from Japan, but understanding resources that will drive steady growth, while global markets with a global mindset. In short, constantly strengthening value chains as we we must truly globalize. adapt and evolve ahead of our rapidly Our major corporate customers in Japan changing markets and customers. are also globalizing, and demand in emerging In Medium-term Management Plan 2014, countries in Asia and elsewhere is certain to we will further enhance areas in which we are expand. To grow, we must have global strong by fully deploying our advantages, networks of customers and partners and including the solid relationships and networks global value chains, and we must handle 34 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 reforms as with the aim globally competitive products. The upstream investments we made in businesses including industrial salt, rare earths and butadiene during Shine 2011 have put us on the right track. In Medium-term Management Plan 2014, we will concentrate on continuing these initiatives while boldly adding personnel overseas. Increasing personnel at overseas operations will further strengthen our global value chains, which in turn will necessitate more personnel overseas. The Chemicals Division will accelerate this cycle to continue building a broadly based global earnings foundation. Managing Executive Officer President, Chemicals Division Satoshi Mizui Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 35 Consumer Lifestyle Business Division Summary of Performance under In our overseas operations, we have also shifted Shine 2011 staff outside of Japan. We reinforced our overseas Under Shine 2011, the Consumer Lifestyle businesses by sending about 20 additional people to Business Division thoroughly analyzed the overseas posts, mainly in emerging countries, efficiency of assets and optimized inventories to including strategic staff responsible for project solidify its footholds. Simultaneously, we made development and other tasks. Moreover, we progress in transforming our earnings structure to assembled a cross-departmental task force targeting create higher added value in line with our basic Africa, Indochina, Brazil and India. By uncovering new policy of “Grow, process, make and then sell.” We business opportunities, the task force established aggressively executed a growth strategy based on footholds for building quality assets in the future. three pillars: shifting from Japanese to overseas markets, shifting from trading to a Strategies of Mediumbusiness investment model, and term Management Plan securing upstream resources in 2014 – Change for the agriculture, forest products Challenge and marine products sectors. A In Medium-term Management Plan strong revenue base is taking 2014, we will maintain the same three shape as a result. directions we pursued in Shine 2011: New business investments shifting from Japanese to overseas included a compound feed Soybeans produced by Sojitz in Argentina markets, shifting from trading to a production business in Vietnam and business development model, and Cambodia; fish farming businesses (a bluefin tuna farm securing upstream resources in the agriculture, forest business in Takashima, Nagasaki Prefecture, and a products and marine products sectors. We will launch a shrimp farm in Indonesia); grain production in Argentina; new business model for business focus areas aimed at a woodchip manufacturing business in Mozambique; enhancing our ability to generate earnings over the and industrial park development businesses in Asia medium-to-long term, while focusing on solidifying our (Vietnam, India and Indonesia). Each of these business foundation by ensuring that existing key businesses is run in cooperation with excellent business projects and projects in which we have invested are partners, with the aim of creating a new business model executed on schedule. At the same time, we will reduce to drive the transformation of our earnings structure. assets and enhance liquidity by promoting withdrawal or ■ Gross Trading Profit ■ Ordinary Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 60 54.5 10 9.0 53.0 51.7 50.6* 7.8 7.5* 46.5 6.3 40 5 (4.1) 20 0 0 (5) 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) (Years ended/ending March 31) (Target) * Results for the 12 months ended March 31, 2012, excluding the results of significant overseas consolidated subsidiaries for the period January–March 2011 36 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Main Businesses Distribution of Main Subsidiaries • Foods Resources Unit • Agriculture & Forest Resources Unit • Consumer Service & Development Unit divestitures in selected business areas through while initiating investments in upstream businesses. By enhanced selection-and-focus initiatives. securing upstream interests in high-quality, upstream In the Foods Resources Unit, we have a 20% stake in compound fertilizer interests such as phosphorus and the port owned by Interflour Vietnam Ltd., one of the potash, we will reinforce the foundation of the fertilizer largest of its kind in the ASEAN region. We will use the business, including existing businesses, and grow port facilities as a base to expand our trading of grain in earnings. As for the agricultural business in Argentina, general and to strengthen operation of the first now in its third year, we will strengthen production and Japanese-owned compound feed production company sales of grains, primarily soybeans, on 11,000 hectares in Vietnam, which we recently established. Commercial of farmland. We will also establish a business model that feed production in Vietnam is growing by about 10% includes expansion of farmland and undertake exports annually as demand for meat increases. With the to Asian countries. population projected to continue In the consumer service area, we increasing, we believe this market has acquired the additional shares of one excellent growth prospects. of the largest food wholesale In the grain origination, storage and companies in Vietnam to make it our export terminal business, which is a subsidiary in March 2012. Our business focus area, we will invest in objective is to build a solid business country elevators and export terminals base on the retail market in Vietnam, in grain-producing countries, enabling which is projected to grow by more us to handle the entire supply chain Flour mill, silos and port facilities of Interflour than 20% annually. In the overseas Vietnam Ltd. from origination to sale. This will construction development business, support our efforts to secure grain resources. delivery of lots is set to begin in the second half of 2012 In the marine products business, we will build a value at the industrial park we developed near Ho Chi Minh chain centered on the domestic bluefin tuna farming City. The park is attracting attention from Japanese business. We are also undertaking shrimp farming manufacturers and other companies planning to set up business in Indonesia. operations in Vietnam. In the Agriculture & Forest Resources Unit, fertilizer is We plan to develop new industrial parks in emerging a business focus area. We will continue to concentrate countries such as India, where construction is scheduled on the manufacture and sale of high-quality compound to begin in 2013. fertilizers, a strong source of earnings for Sojitz in Asia, ■ Total Assets and ROA ■ Medium-term Management Plan 2014 Gross Profit Targets (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 500 5.0 60 54.5 57.0 419.4 409.9 389.3 400 4.0 11.0 13.0 Foods Resources 300 3.0 40 Agriculture & 21.5 19.0 200 2.0 Forest Resources 0.6 Consumer 100 1.0 20 Service & 0.4 0 0 22.0 25.0 Development (0.8) (100) (1.0) 0 10 11 12 13 15 (As of March 31) (Target) (Target) Total assets (left scale) ROA (right scale) (Years ending March 31) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 37 Consumer Lifestyle Business Division: Review of Operations Foods Resources Unit Agriculture & Forest Resources Unit Businesses Businesses ● Grains and feed materials: Trading, domestic trading and ● Agribusiness: Production, sale and import/export sale and overseas production of wheat, corn, soybeans, of advanced chemical fertilizers; agriculture rice, oil and fat, flour, pasture and compound feed; port ● Forest products: Import, offshore trading and sales operation, etc. in Japan of timber, lumber, plywood, building ● Foods resources: Trading, overseas processing, and domestic trading and sale of sugar, coffee, seafood (tuna, materials, woodchips, pulp, etc.; overseas shrimp, processed seafood, etc.), and general food afforestation and woodchip production businesses products; fish farming, etc. Grains and Feed Materials Business Agribusiness Sojitz is investing in In its agribusiness businesses to build a operations, Sojitz is supply chain in the developing business with grains and feed materials a focus on upstream business in the Asian areas of the food supply market, which is chain. Fertilizers are benefiting from rapid essential to agriculture, Interflour Vietnam Ltd. flour mill Soybean farm in Argentina economic growth. In and our high-quality Vietnam, we entered the flour milling business with an compound fertilizer production capacity and sales network, investment in Interflour Vietnam Ltd. (IFV), a leading with manufacturing and sales companies in Thailand, Vietnamese flour milling company. We are also using Vietnam and the Philippines, are among the largest in IFV’s specialized grain port, the ASEAN region’s largest, Southeast Asia. We are also eyeing the acquisition of as a distribution base to expand into the compound feed upstream interests in resources such as nitrogen, production business in partnership with Kyodo Shiryo phosphorus and potassium. In Argentina, we have leased Co., Ltd., a leading Japanese feed producer with original more than 10,000 hectares of farmland for production of technology, in Vietnam, and with New Hope Liuhe Co., soybeans and other crops, strengthening our ability to Ltd., China’s largest feed company, in Cambodia. steadily source produce from the most upstream areas of We are also engaged in more consumer-oriented the supply chain. These business activities will enable Sojitz businesses, including bread production in North America to offer solutions to potential food shortages in the future. and Asia. Forest Products Business Foods Resources Business In the forest products business, Sojitz primarily handles The Sojitz Group’s products such as logs, plywood and paper raw materials. foods resources We are building a stable supply network and strengthening business is divided into our response to the diversification of markets and three major categories: applications. We are also raising the percentage of sugar and coffee, environmentally friendly products that come from marine products, and plantations and certified forests. food distribution. For In log trading, we are taking advantage of our strong Bluefin tuna farming operation at sugar and coffee, we Sojitz Tuna Farm Takashima relationships with leading suppliers to expand imports into plan to focus on the Japan and sales to customers in China, India and other development of project business as well as trading. In emerging countries. Sales of plywood and building materials marine products, we handle domestic imports and sales are handled by Sojitz Building Materials Corporation, a of tuna and shrimp as well as overseas processing. We subsidiary with the top market share for plywood in Japan. also operate fish farming businesses, including bluefin In the paper raw materials business, we are tuna in Takashima, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan and strengthening our woodchip manufacturing business in shrimp in Indonesia, to help ensure the stability of food Vietnam, and applying the knowledge gained from these supply by addressing the rapid surge in global demand operations to develop and tighter fishing restrictions. business in Africa through a In food distribution, we handle overseas processing, woodchip manufacturing imports and sales of general food products in Japan, company we established in mainly through subsidiary Sojitz Foods Corporation, and Mozambique. We also plan support the overseas operations of Japanese food to increase the amount of companies. We also conduct the snack business pulp we handle, mainly for through affiliate Yamazaki-Nabisco Co., Ltd. sale to emerging markets. A plantation site in South Africa for supplying woodchip materials 38 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Consumer Service & Development Unit Businesses ● Consumer goods distribution: Imports of cigarettes; brand sundries including shoes and bags; overseas wholesale, distribution and retail; retail at airports with JALUX ● Textiles: OEM and apparel brand business ● Overseas construction development: Development and operation of overseas industrial parks Consumer Goods Distribution Business We will use this business foundation in Japan to expand In emerging countries, where economic and social our initiatives in the growing market of China, with initiatives conditions are changing with rapid economic growth, the such as enhancing the functions of local subsidiaries. needs of consumers are also diversified. Sojitz is advancing into the wholesale and distribution businesses Overseas Construction Development overseas with a focus on those countries, based on its Business experience in the consumer goods import business in Japanese companies are eager to conduct Japan, the world’s third-largest market. As one such manufacturing overseas, and the demand for Japaneseinitiative, Sojitz and major Japanese food wholesaler affiliated industrial parks overseas is growing. Sojitz is KOKUBU & Co., Ltd. jointly invested in one of Vietnam’s leveraging its cooperative relationships with outstanding largest food wholesalers, Huong Thuy Manufacture business partners, its many years of experience and Service Trading Corporation (HT), which became a expertise and its global network of representatives to consolidated subsidiary of Sojitz. To meet the projected develop industrial parks in Vietnam, Indonesia and India. expansion of food demand in Vietnam and contribute to We handle an array of tasks, from providing basic the modernization of distribution, HT is developing a infrastructure including water and sewage, electric power distribution network, building an information system for and communications to attracting tenant businesses and distribution, and supporting Japanese manufacturers operating and managing industrial parks. expecting to enter the market in Vietnam. Our goal is to Sojitz also provides comprehensive assistance to become the leading general consumer goods wholesaler support companies in setting up transplants, from in Vietnam focused mainly on food products. establishing local subsidiaries to obtaining approvals and hiring workers. In addition, the Sojitz Group has created a competitive business model with services that include distribution support that gives industrial parks logistics functions, plant facility construction, sale of manufacturing equipment, relocation and delivery of raw materials. Food warehouse (left) and delivery truck (right) of Huong Thuy Manufacture Service Trading Corporation Textiles Business In addition to manufacturing private-label apparel for major Long Binh Techno Park in Vietnam specialty retailers, Sojitz has established a solid business foundation through key subsidiaries in the rapidly changing apparel industry in Japan. Sojitz Infinity Inc. conducts the McGREGOR brand apparel business, Sojitz Fashion Co., Ltd. sells VANCET fabric stock, and Daiichibo Co., Ltd. operates a practical clothing McGREGOR CLASSIC brand business based on its distinctive spun yarns. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 39 Ten Declarations 06 from Hideaki Kato, President, Consumer Lifestyle Business Division “We will be a pivotal component by creating a strong organization effectively while evolving rapidly.” Involved in a wide range of areas that are rigorous selection and focus to distinguish intimately connected with food, clothing and shelter, businesses with efficient assets and strong growth the necessities of life, the Consumer Lifestyle potential that we will cultivate. At the same time, we Business Division represents the origin of the general will steadily execute investment and loan projects trading company. In addition to trading individual initiated during Shine 2011 to maintain growth. While products, we are distinguished by the new business operating in a wide range of areas associated with models we form that incorporate value chains from food, clothing and shelter, we will concentrate on upstream to downstream. A core division asset is investing in businesses and accelerating overseas the large number of historical relationships inherited operations to further expand business opportunities. from our predecessors. We are building a powerful We are seeing solid results, including more inquiries earnings structure based on this asset so that the and stronger relationships with our business division can consistently generate stable earnings. partners, especially in China and Asia. We will The progress we made during Shine 2011 laid the therefore further enhance our advantages in these cornerstone for transforming our earnings structure. regions and set our sights on developing business in During Medium-term Management Plan 2014, we will South America, Africa and elsewhere. aggressively promote asset replacement through The keys to successfully carrying out Medium-term 40 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 of Sojitz’s future that executes Management Plan 2014 will be a solid commitment to achieving targets and effective execution during the year ending March 31, 2013, the first year on the plan. We will transform our earnings structure and business venues with a sense of urgency. My mission is to build a strong organization that will resolutely execute the plans we have formulated. I will do so by bringing together the intelligence of individuals in an open environment. While building this highly transparent organization, we will monitor partners and trends in our markets with a front-line perspective to create a highly independent organization that anticipates changes in the business environment. Managing Executive Officer We will continue to take on the challenge of President, Consumer Lifestyle Business Division evolving as a pivotal component of Sojitz’s future. Hideaki Kato Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 41 Management Foundation P. 44 Directors and Corporate Auditors P. 46 Executive Officers P. 48 Ten Declarations 07 P. 50 Corporate Governance P. 57 Risk Management P. 58 Compliance P. 60 Ten Declarations 08 42 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility From left: Toru Nagashima, Yutaka Kase, Yoji Sato, Shigeki Dantani, Yoshio Mogi, Takashi Hara, Yoshikazu Sashida Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 43 Directors and Corporate Auditors (As of June 26, 2012) Representative Director and Chairman Representative Director and Vice Chairman Representative Director, President & CEO Yutaka Kase Takashi Hara Yoji Sato 1970, May Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation 1975, April Joined The Sanwa Bank Ltd. 1973, April Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation 2001, June Executive Officer, Nissho Iwai 2002, January Executive Officer, General Manager, 2003, April Executive Officer Corporation Public Relations Division, UFJ 2004, April Managing Executive Officer, former 2003, April Director, Managing Executive Officer Holdings, Inc. Sojitz Corporation 2004, April Representative Director, Senior Executive Officer, General Manager, 2005, April Director, Managing Executive Managing Executive Officer, former Public Relations Division, UFJ Bank Ltd. Officer, CFO Sojitz Corporation 2003, March Executive Officer, General Manager, 2005, October Director, Managing Executive Officer, 2004, August Representative Director, Executive Kyoto Corporate Banking Office and CFO, Sojitz Corporation Vice President General Manager, Kyoto Branch 2006, April Director, Senior Managing Executive 2005, October Representative Director, Executive 2004, July Executive Officer, General Manager, Officer, CFO Vice President, Sojitz Corporation Human Resources Division 2008, April Representative Director and 2007, April Representative Director, President & 2005, May Managing Executive Officer, General Executive Vice President, Corporate CEO Manager, Human Resources Division Management, and CFO 2012, April Representative Director and 2006, January Managing Executive Officer, The Bank 2012, April Representative Director, President & Chairman of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. CEO 2008, June Managing Director 2009, May Senior Managing Director 2010, May Deputy President 2012, June Representative Director and Vice Chairman, Sojitz Corporation Representative Director Representative Director, CFO, Senior Managing Director Executive Vice President, Business Group Executive Officer, Finance & Accounting, Risk Management Yoshikazu Sashida* Shigeki Dantani 1963, April Joined Nisshin Spinning Co., Ltd. 1971, April Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation Yoshio Mogi 1994, June Director General Manager, Human 2005, March General Manager, Non-Ferrous 1975, April Joined Nichimen Company, Limited Resources Division Metals Department, former Sojitz 2004, April General Manager, Risk Management 1999, June Executive Director, General Corporation Department, former Sojitz Manager, Human Resources 2006, January Executive Officer, and General Corporation Division, and General Manager, Manager, Non-Ferrous Metals 2005, October General Manager, Risk Management Business Planning Office Department, Sojitz Corporation Department, Sojitz Corporation 2000, June Representative Director, President 2006, April President & CEO for Asia 2006, April Executive Officer 2006, June Director, Chairman 2007, January President & CEO for Asia & Oceania 2008, April Managing Executive Officer 2009, April Director, Chairman, Nisshinbo 2008, April Managing Executive Officer 2012, April Senior Managing Executive Officer, Holdings Inc. 2010, May President, Energy & Metal Division CFO 2009, June Advisor, Nisshinbo Holdings Inc. 2011, April Senior Managing Executive Officer 2012, June Representative Director, CFO, Senior Director, Sojitz Corporation Managing Executive Officer, Finance 2012, June Counselor Nisshinbo Holdings Inc. 2012, April Executive Vice President, Business & Accounting, Risk Management Group 2012, June Representative Director and Executive Vice President, Business Group Note: The phrase “former Sojitz Corporation” refers to the operating company that was established in 2004 (see page 4 for details). 44 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Director Corporate Auditor Corporate Auditor Toru Nagashima* Takashi Tsukada Jun Matsumoto 1965, April Joined Teijin Limited 1975, April Joined Nichimen Company, Limited 1972, April Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation 1999, June Corporate Officer 2004, April Executive Officer and CFO for the 2002, June Executive Officer, Nissho Iwai 2000, April CESHO (Chief Environment, Safety Americas, former Sojitz Corporation, Corporation and Health Officer), and General and CFO, Sojitz Corporation of 2002, December President for Europe and Africa Manager of Functional Fibers America 2004, April Managing Executive Officer, Business Group 2005, October Executive Officer and CFO for the President, Foods Division, former 2000, June Director, Member of the Board Americas, Sojitz Corporation, and Sojitz Corporation CFO, Sojitz Corporation of America 2001, April CMO (Chief Marketing Officer), and 2005, April President & CEO for the Americas General Manager of Corporate 2007, April Executive Vice President and Representative Director, Sojitz Pla-Net 2005, October Managing Executive Officer, Strategy & Planning Office President & CEO for the Americas, Corporation 2001, June Managing Director, Member of the Sojitz Corporation Board 2009, June Full-time Corporate Auditor, Sojitz Corporation 2009, April Managing Executive Officer, 2001, November President & COO Business Promotion and Asset 2002, June President & CEO Management 2008, June Chairman of the Board 2011, April Advisor 2009, June Director, Sojitz Corporation 2012, June Full-time Corporate Auditor Corporate Auditor Corporate Auditor Corporate Auditor Kazuhiko Tokita** Yukio Machida** Mitsuaki Yuasa** 1972, April Joined The Sanwa Bank, Ltd. 1969, April Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District 1970, March Joined Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co. 2000, May Executive Officer, General Manager, Public Prosecutors’ Office 1987, September Representative Partner, Minato Audit Hibiya Branch 2002, June Director-General, Public Security Corporation 2000, June Executive Officer, Advisor, Head of Intelligence Agency 2000, April Representative Partner, Century Ota Retail Company 2004, January Superintending Prosecutor, Sendai Showa & Co. 2001, April Executive Officer, General Manager, High Public Prosecutors’ Office 2000, May Executive Director Compliance Department 2004, December Deputy Prosecutor-General, Supreme 2001, July Executive Director, ShinNihon & Co. 2002, January Director & Executive Officer, General Public Prosecutors’ Office 2003, September Representative Partner, KPMG AZSA Manager, Compliance Department, 2005, September Attorney at Law, Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar & Co. Head of Intellectual Property Office, Association UFJ Bank Ltd. 2006, July Started “Mitsuaki Yuasa CPA Office” Joined Nishimura & Partners 2002, June Representative Director, President, 2007, April Lecturer, Graduate School of Lecturer, Criminal Law and Procedure, Business and Faculty of Commerce, Mobit Co., Ltd. Nihon University School of Law Doshisha University 2005, June Representative Director, President & 2006, June Outside Director, CEO, UFJ Capital Co., Ltd. 2008, June Outside Auditor, Yodogawa Steel Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. Works, Ltd. 2005, October Representative Director, President & 2006, July Corporate Auditor, Asahi Mutual Life CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Capital Co., Ltd. 2008, November Outside Director, World Co., Ltd. Insurance Co. 2007, July Chairman, Japan Venture Capital 2009, June Corporate Auditor, Sojitz Corporation 2008, June Corporate Auditor, Sojitz Corporation Association 2010, April Lecturer, Graduate School of 2008, August Outside Corporate Auditor, ASKUL Commerce, Doshisha University 2008, June Representative Director, Chairman, Corporation Mitsubishi UFJ Capital Co., Ltd. 2009, June Full-time Corporate Auditor, Sojitz Corporation * Mr. Yoshikazu Sashida and Mr. Toru Nagashima satisfy the requirements to be outside directors as stipulated in the Companies Act of Japan. ** Mr. Kazuhiko Tokita, Mr. Yukio Machida and Mr. Mitsuaki Yuasa satisfy the requirements to be outside corporate auditors as stipulated in the Companies Act of Japan. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 45 Executive Officers (As of June 26, 2012) Executive Vice President Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Joji Suzuki Shinichi Taniguchi Tetsuya Konoda Masahiro Komiyama President & CEO for Europe, CCO CIO President, Energy & Metal Division Russia & NIS Risk Management Planning, Internal Control Administration, Managing Director, Sojitz Europe plc Risk Management 1, IT Planning Managing Director, Sojitz UK plc Risk Management 2, Legal Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Tatsunobu Sako Shinichi Teranishi Satoshi Mizui Kazuhiko Kawasaki President & CEO for the Middle East President & CEO for the Americas President, Chemicals Division President & CEO for China & Africa President, Sojitz Corporation of America Chairman, Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., and Sojitz Canada Corporation Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Sojitz (Dalian) Co., Ltd. Sojitz (Tianjin) Co., Ltd., Sojitz (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Sojitz (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd., Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd. General Manager, Beijing (Liaison) Office Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Hiroshi Matsumura Junichi Hamatsuka Toshihiko Kita Hideaki Kato Senior Vice President, Energy & Metal Finance, Forex & Securities, Structured President, Machinery Division President, Consumer Lifestyle Business Division Finance, Corporate Accounting, Asset Division Senior General Manager, Management Coal & Nuclear Unit Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Takashi Ikeda Masao Goto Masayuki Hanai Shigeru Ohno President & CEO for Asia & Oceania Executive Vice President for China Human Resources & General Affairs, Senior Vice President, Managing Director, Sojitz Asia Pte. Ltd. President, Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Public Relations Energy & Metal Division General Manager, Singapore Branch General Manager, Nanjing Office Senior General Manager, Steel & Mineral Resources Unit General Manager, Suzhou Office 46 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Takeshi Yoshimura Masashi Shinohara Tsutomu Tanaka Shigeru Nishihara Senior Vice President, Machinery Senior Vice President, Energy & Metal Senior Vice President, Chemicals Corporate Planning, Regional Division Division Division Coordination & Administration, Senior General Manager, Infrastructure Senior General Manager, Energy Unit Senior General Manager, Chemicals Unit Logistics & Insurance, Investor Relations Project & Industrial Machinery Unit President, Sojitz Pla-Net Corporation Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Yoshizumi Kurata Masato Takei Yukio Matsuki Masahiko Nishimura Senior Vice President, Machinery Senior Vice President, Consumer Executive Vice President for China Secretariat Division Lifestyle Business Division President, Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd. General Manager, Secretariat Senior General Manager, Automotive Senior General Manager, Agriculture & General Manager, Xi’an Office Department Unit Forest Resources Unit Executive Officer Executive Officer Hideto Maruta Yoshihiro Tamura Senior Vice President, Machinery Senior Vice President, Chemicals Division Division General Manager, Planning & Senior General Manager, Ecological Administration Office Materials & Resources Unit Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 47 Ten Declarations 07 from Yutaka Kase, Chairman “We continue to build a sound framework with an unwavering being a trusted company that has I became Chairman of the Board of Directors in perspective to the Board of Directors. They April 2012. Sojitz separates management and give their opinions and advice as actively as execution, so my responsibility as Chairman is internal directors, or more so. However, we supervising the Board of Directors. I am not directly must go beyond these initiatives, and work involved in business execution, which allows me to ceaselessly to ensure an even more concentrate objectively on medium-to-long-term sophisticated governance framework. growth with a stakeholder-driven viewpoint as I Going forward, our key word for governance is focus on the control and supervision of overall clearly going to be “global.” Sojitz’s activities in business execution. emerging countries and elsewhere will broaden as This separation of management and its business overseas accelerates. We are execution is part of Sojitz’s ongoing, currently concentrating on reinforcing the risk continuous efforts to enhance corporate management and supervisory functions at governance, which also include appointing overseas bases and businesses, but we need to outside directors and establishing various be even more proactive. Under Medium-term committees. Outside directors have been Management Plan 2014, Sojitz is further particularly effective in providing an external emphasizing the improvement of risk management 48 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 management commitment to integrity.” and the operating efficiency of each division. My role in controlling and supervising business execution involves accurately verifying the ability to execute policies designed to enhance asset quality, which will support our ability to achieve the targets of Medium-term Management Plan 2014. Integrity and trust have been important to Sojitz since its establishment. We place the highest priority on earning the trust of stakeholders. Enhancing corporate governance to ensure a sound management framework will drive sustained growth and gain the trust of stakeholders. This is the best way to increase shareholder value. I will approach management with unwavering Chairman commitment to these beliefs. Yutaka Kase Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 49 Corporate Governance Basic Corporate Governance Policy stakeholders. As a company, Sojitz is working to enhance Companies have many objectives, including securing corporate governance while identifying and applying profit and enhancing corporate value. Continuing to concepts, approaches, and initiatives that will allow it to promote the ceaseless strengthening of corporate continue producing new sources of wealth. governance is essential for establishing a foundation that enables continuous achievement of corporate objectives Corporate Governance Framework and creates a corporation that stakeholders, including Sojitz employs an executive officer system that shareholders, customers, business partners and separates management decision-making and business employees, continue to trust. The Sojitz Group is execution to clarify authority and responsibility and composed of a diverse array of business types, business expedite business execution. The term of directors and functions, countries, regions, people and other features. For executive officers has been set at one year so that the that reason, and to further strengthen its competitiveness Sojitz Group can respond quickly and appropriately to as a global corporation, it is particularly important for the its rapidly changing operating environment. Sojitz Group to continuously study more effective styles of Sojitz is a company with a board of corporate auditors corporate governance for the Group as a whole. who are independent from directors and audit their Based on this view, the Sojitz Group is executing business performance. In addition, Sojitz appoints outside various policies on behalf of shareholders and all other directors to give management an external perspective and stakeholders to clarify management responsibility and further strengthen supervision of execution of duties. The accountability and establish a highly transparent Company also has a Nomination Committee and management structure. To date, the Sojitz Group has Remuneration Committee, which are consultative promoted initiatives including a system of internal control, organizations for the Board of Directors and are chaired by efficient decision-making, the creation of mechanisms for outside directors of the Company. handling execution and supervision, development of the audit function and enhancement of information disclosure. Board of Directors These efforts are never complete, because the Sojitz As the Company’s chief decision-making organization, Group must work to constantly raise the sophistication of the Board of Directors debates and resolves basic its governance structure. Under the Sojitz Group policies and important matters. It consists of seven Statement, “The Sojitz Group produces new sources of directors, including two outside directors, and is striving wealth by connecting the world’s economies, cultures and to add greater efficiency and depth to discussions and people in a spirit of integrity,” the Sojitz Group aims to expedite decision-making. In principle, the Board of provide outstanding value from the perspective of all Directors convenes at least once each month, and ■ Corporate Governance Framework Shareholders (General Shareholders’ Meeting) Appoint, Dismiss (Cooperation) Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Chairman Accounting Corporate Directors Deliberation and Advisory Bodies Auditors Audits Report on Business Execution Auditors Suggest Representative Nomination Report Directors Director and Chairman Committee Outside Corporate Auditors Accounting Outside Directors Remuneration Table Motions for Important Proposals Audits Committee Report President & CEO Audit Department Executive Directors Internal Audits Finance & Investment Management Committee Chairman Deliberation Council Appoint, Supervise Managing Executive Presidents of Report Officers Responsible for Internal Committees Corporate Departments Business Divisions Table Motions for Execution Executive Officers of Major Business Corporate Departments Business Divisions Overseas, Domestic Bases 50 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility holds ad hoc meetings if crucial matters arise. attend Management Committee meetings as To improve management oversight and further the observers. In principle, the Management Committee separation of management and execution, the position meets twice a month. of Chairman of the Board is filled by the Chairman of the Sojitz established the Finance & Investment Deliberation Company, not by the President & CEO, who is the head Council because investments and loans are among the of business execution. Sojitz Group’s business activities with the most significant impact on management. Currently chaired by the CFO, Board of Corporate Auditors Senior Managing Executive Officer, Finance & Accounting, The Board of Corporate Auditors consists of five Risk Management, the council consists of executive members, three of whom are outside corporate directors, the heads of corporate departments and other auditors. In addition, three of the corporate auditors on members. In principle, it meets twice a month to the Board are full-time auditors. Independent from the expeditiously and accurately discuss and decide important Board of Directors, the corporate auditors audit the issues concerning investments and loans. Before being business performance of directors. debated by the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council, issues are discussed by the risk management Nomination Committee departments and, in some cases, by head office corporate The Nomination Committee is chaired by Toru departments, which examine issues in ways including Nagashima, an outside director. It discusses and measuring and visualizing risk. proposes standards and methods for selecting director ■ Finance & Investment Deliberation Council and executive officer candidates, and considers Decision-making Process candidate proposals. Proposal Consideration Finance & Investment Remuneration Committee Department Making Proposal The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Yoshikazu Deliberation Execution Proposal Sashida, an outside director. It discusses and proposes results AApplication Decision Secretariat Deliberation Council remuneration levels and various systems of evaluation and With the Risk Management Planning remuneration of directors and executive officers. Department, Risk Management Department 1 and Risk Management Department 2 serving as the secretariat, departments with various Other Management and Execution Systems functions deliberate the contents of proposals. Sojitz established the Management Committee as an organization that oversees business execution. Moreover, Sojitz has established and operates the Chaired by the President & CEO, it includes executive following three internal committees under the President directors and the heads of business divisions and & CEO to promote the execution of matters that should corporate departments. Corporate auditors also be handled on a company-wide basis. ■ Evolution of Sojitz’s Corporate Governance (Years ended March 31) Separation of Ensuring Management and Enhancement of Supervision Management Adequacy Measures to Address Company-wide Management Issues Execution and Audit Functions and Transparency President & CEO convenes 1 outside 3 outside Nomination Remuneration Internal Control Compliance Committee CSR Promotion Committee Finance & and chairs Board meetings director corporate Committee Committee Committee Security Trade Control Subcommittee Environment Committee Investment 2006 auditors Information Security Committee Deliberation Council Chairman convenes and Compliance Committee CSR Committee chairs Board meetings 2007 2 outside directors 2008 Establishment of 2009 position of vice chairman 2010 2011 2012 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 51 Corporate Governance • Internal Control Committee Group’s efforts to enhance corporate governance. The The President & CEO chairs the Internal Control Company appointed two outside directors: Mr. Yoshikazu Committee, which monitors progress in implementing Sashida, Counselor of Nisshinbo Holdings Inc., and Mr. internal control systems for financial reporting and Toru Nagashima, Chairman of the Board of Teijin Limited. formulates related policies. Neither Nisshinbo Holdings Inc. nor Teijin Limited is a major transaction partner of the Sojitz Group. For this and • Compliance Committee other reasons, the Company determined that the The CCO, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Legal appointments maintained independence. Each outside chairs the Compliance Committee, which studies and director chairs either the Nomination Committee or the makes decisions on basic policies regarding compliance. Remuneration Committee to ensure fair, transparent compensation and appointment of directors. In addition, • CSR Committee the outside directors provide the Board of Directors with The Executive Officer, Public Relations chairs the CSR appropriate advice from an objective perspective. Committee, which studies and formulates basic policies and measures concerning the promotion of the Sojitz Name Yoshikazu Sashida Toru Nagashima Group’s CSR activities. Position Counselor, Nisshinbo Chairman of the Board, Holdings Inc. Teijin Limited Function of Outside Directors and Reason for Sojitz determined that the candidates had Reason for Appointment appointment successively held important posts in the business The appointment of outside directors to provide an world and are able to provide advice relevant to the external perspective on management and further Sojitz Group’s businesses drawn from their broad management knowledge and deep insight. strengthen supervision of execution is a part of the Sojitz (As of July 1, 2012) Message from Outside Director “ I will actively make suggestions from an objective standpoint to help make Sojitz an even stronger company. y. ” Yoshikazu Promoting Management That Balances the Interests of Sashida Stakeholders Outside Director As an outside director, I express my frank opinions at Board of Directors’ meetings. In doing so, I focus on accurately understanding the issues facing Sojitz and offering suggestions and advice from an objective standpoint. One near-term challenge for Sojitz is to become a stronger company in terms of financial position, profitability and future potential as global competition intensifies. From the perspective of shareholders, increasing the Company’s market capitalization is also becoming a key issue. Sojitz has set clear policies to address these issues in Medium-term Management Plan 2014. On the other hand, the global economy is likely to become even more uncertain over the next three years, so I think that in Board of Directors resolutions our focus should be on how to think about and manage risk in order to make appropriate decisions. Part of Sojitz’s mission should be to contribute to the revitalization of the global economy. Publicly traded companies are a vital part of a capitalist society, and must be managed in a way that balances the interests of their stakeholders. Enhancing corporate governance is essential for Sojitz to meet this obligation. I want to make use of my knowledge from serving in corporate management and as an outside director and auditor of other companies to fulfill my function as an outside director of Sojitz. 52 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Strengthening Corporate Governance Major Board and Committee Meetings Under Shine 2011, the medium-term management Major board and committee meetings convened plan that ended in March 2012, the Sojitz Group set during the year ended March 31, 2012 were as follows. the goals of establishing a strong earnings foundation Boards and Committees Times Convened that ensures sustained growth and developing globally Board of Directors 14 competent human resources, and has worked to Board of Corporate Auditors 15 raise the level of corporate governance as a global Management Committee 23 corporation. As Sojitz steps up its overseas expansion, Nomination Committee 4 it has emphasized policies to strengthen corporate Remuneration Committee 1 governance to respond appropriately to such issues Finance & Investment Deliberation Council 27 as compliance, cash management, and optimal levels Internal Control Committee 4 of inventory at Group companies overseas. Compliance Committee 4 Going forward, Sojitz will create a balance sheetCSR Committee 4 focused management structure, revise the management system and strengthen its overseas Officer Remuneration and operations to implement reforms in pursuit of growth Determination Policy initiatives, which is the theme of Medium-term Remuneration of directors is based on the Company’s Management Plan 2014. Sojitz will also build a strong overall performance and is decided by the Board of corporate structure that enables it to go the distance Directors following deliberation by the Remuneration even in a business environment typified by Committee. Remuneration of corporate auditors is accelerating globalization. deliberated and decided by the Board of Corporate Auditors. However, remuneration for directors and Message from Outside Director “My role is to support change at Sojitz for sound, sustained growth.” Toru Focusing on the Four Elements of Speed, Transparency, Nagashima Outside Director Fairness and Accountability Why do companies exist? In essence, they exist to contribute to society, and their objective is to grow soundly and sustainably. I believe that four elements are essential to achieving that purpose: management speed, transparency, fairness and accountability. Strong corporate governance is a key to practicing that kind of management. Another key is to have objective views from outside the company that consider the interests of stakeholders without being bound by past practices. That is what I see as the role of outside directors. Based on that thinking, I try to take the initiative in giving advice and suggestions in Board of Directors meetings. The business of a trading company is outside my area of expertise, so I ask direct questions from various angles, with particular emphasis on the Company’s approach to risk and verification of past examples. At Sojitz, selection and focus initiatives informed by reflections on the past have clarified the Company’s direction for the future, including its earnings portfolio. The action plan for moving in that direction is Medium-term Management Plan 2014. Accordingly, I will check its effectiveness and progress from the standpoint of shareholders. Further development of human resources will be one key to Sojitz’s ability to grow soundly and sustainably. I want to support change at Sojitz to make it a company where employees can grow while continuing to challenge themselves. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 53 Corporate Governance corporate auditors is within the limits set by the Votes For and Against Proposals resolutions of the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Sojitz aims to hold open Ordinary General Meeting on the maximum amount of remuneration. Shareholders’ Meetings. The Notice of Convocation is Moreover, the Company has entered into agreements sent three weeks prior to the Ordinary General with the outside directors, Mr. Yoshikazu Sashida and Mr. Shareholders’ Meeting. The date of the meeting is Toru Nagashima, and the outside corporate auditors, Mr. selected so that as many shareholders as possible may Kazuhiko Tokita, Mr. Yukio Machida and Mr. Mitsuaki attend and participate. Messages to shareholders from Yuasa, whereby their liability is limited to the greater of director and corporate auditor candidates are also ¥10 million or the amount provided for in Article 425, posted on the Sojitz corporate website. Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act of Japan. Since the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting in June 2005, we have used mobile phone and Internet ■ Officer Remuneration voting in addition to voting by mail so that shareholders Year ended March 31, Year ended March 31, who are unable to attend can exercise their voting rights. 2011 2012 Moreover, since the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Amount Amount Category Recipients (Millions of yen) Recipients (Millions of yen) Meeting in June 2006, we have used an electronic Directors 7 343 7 413 voting platform for institutional investors so that (Outside directors, institutional investors with material voting rights may included in above) （2） （24） （2） （24） exercise those rights. In addition, Sojitz provides video Corporate Auditors 5 131 5 131 (Outside corporate auditors, of the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting via its included in above) （3） （57） （3） （58） website after the meeting has ended with the objective Resolutions of the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting on the of fair information disclosure. Maximum Amount of Remuneration At the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 26, 1. Directors: Resolution at the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 27, 2007 (excluding outside directors) ¥550 2012, voting rights exercised in writing and via the Internet million annually (does not include employee remuneration for directors who are also Sojitz employees) represented shares held by 59,241 shareholders, of which (Outside directors) ¥50 million annually 1,192 shareholders including 20 directors, corporate 2. Corporate auditors: Resolution at the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting on June 27, 2007 ¥150 million annually auditors and executive officers attended the meeting, and accounted for 64.01% of total voting rights. Independent Officer ■ Number of Shareholders in Attendance and Pursuant to a partial revision to the Securities Listing Voting Rights Regulations implemented in December 2009 (Rule 436Shareholders who can exercise voting rights 184,534 2), listed companies are required to secure an Total voting rights 12,499,471 independent officer in order to protect general Shareholders who exercised voting rights 59,241 shareholders. An independent officer is an outside Voting rights exercised 8,001,079 director or corporate auditor who is unlikely to have a Percentage of voting rights exercised 64.01% conflict of interest with general shareholders. An independent officer is expected to protect general ■ Voting on Resolutions by Voting Card or Internet shareholders of listed companies by providing necessary Matters for Resolution For Against Abstained opinions at Board of Directors and other meetings to Proposal No. 1 ensure their interests are taken into consideration in Dividends from Surplus (Year-End Dividends for the 9th Fiscal Year) 7,276,235 116,735 8,093 decisions related to the execution of duties. The Proposal No. 2 Company designated Mr. Yukio Machida, one of its Partial Amendments to the outside corporate auditors, as independent officer. Articles of Incorporation 7,308,787 85,059 7,074 Proposal No. 3 Name Yukio Machida Election of Seven Directors Yutaka Kase 7,135,207 258,628 7,074 Position Lawyer, Nishimura & Asahi Takashi Hara 7,237,271 156,564 7,074 Reason for After working mainly as a public prosecutor on criminal Yoji Sato 7,136,724 257,110 7,074 designation as cases for over 30 years and having held an important Shigeki Dantani 7,259,341 134,494 7,074 independent post at the Public Prosecutors Office, Mr. Machida now Yoshio Mogi 7,259,497 134,338 7,074 officer monitors the management of Sojitz as an outside corporate auditor of the Company. Sojitz determined that Yoshikazu Sashida 7,124,017 269,818 7,074 he is suitable for the position of independent officer Toru Nagashima 7,127,498 266,337 7,074 because he maintains independence as an outside Proposal No. 4 corporate auditor by offering accurate advice and Election of Two Corporate Auditors proposals in and outside of Board of Directors meetings Jun Matsumoto 6,991,613 402,464 7,074 from an independent standpoint and with an objective Yukio Machida 6,998,672 395,406 7,074 view, and carries out all the responsibilities of that Note: The voting rights exercised prior to the date of the meeting satisfied the position appropriately. requirements for adoption of all proposals, and therefore the number of voting rights of approval, disapproval or abstention of shareholders present (As of June 26, 2012) on the date of the meeting has not been included in the calculation. 54 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Basic Policy for Information Disclosure management are included in the internal Company To ensure highly transparent management and remain newsletter, and explanations about investor relations are accountable to all stakeholders, it is essential that Sojitz part of the training for new employees and employees promptly, accurately, and fairly discloses important from overseas. corporate information and information that facilitates ■ Summary of IR Activities understanding of its business activities from the For individual ・ Webcasts of Ordinary General Shareholders’ perspective of stakeholders. Sojitz discloses information shareholders Meetings on Company website via stock exchanges in a timely manner in accordance and investors ・ Regional briefings for individual shareholders, with provisions for publicly listed companies, and uses and webcasts of these briefings ・ Briefings for individual investors in regions media organizations and the Company website to provide throughout Japan information to as many stakeholders as possible. For analysts ・ Briefings twice a year at the time of full-year and institutional and first-half earnings announcements. Web investors conferences for the firstand third-quarter Initiatives to Incorporate the Views of earnings announcements. Webcasts of all Shareholders and Investors in Management these events on the Company’s website. ・ One-on-one meetings Sojitz emphasizes active communication with all ・ Regular one-on-one meetings with shareholders investors and shareholders because it recognizes the and investors in the United States, Europe and Asia importance of listening attentively to their opinions and ・ Meetings after the full-year and first-half incorporating their views in management. earnings announcements to explain proposals to individuals in charge of voting and To communicate with individual shareholders and exchange views on voting guidelines investors, Sojitz holds an informal discussion session IR materials and ・ Notice of the Ordinary General Shareholders’ after the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting, and website content Meeting provides webcasts of Ordinary General Shareholders’ ・ Report of voting results ・ Securities report (quarterly)* Meetings on the Company website. In addition, Sojitz ・ Corporate governance report* held two briefings as additional opportunities to facilitate ・ Timely disclosure materials ・ Summary of financial results dialogue with shareholders. The August 2011 briefing in ・ Briefing session presentation materials Nagoya had 388 attendees and the February 2012 ・ Annual report ・ Shareholder newsletter* briefing in Fukuoka had 157 attendees. Furthermore, ・ Content for individual shareholders and Sojitz held briefings for individual investors in cooperation investors (updated at least once a month) *Japanese only with securities companies. Other ・ Surveys of shareholders and investors through To communicate with analysts and institutional various media investors, Sojitz holds regular briefings at the time of quarterly earnings announcements (web conferences for Internal Control Systems the first and third quarter announcements), and Sojitz has been working to implement and maintain proactively convenes one-on-one meetings. During the internal control systems including regulations, year ended March 31, 2012, about 200 people attended organizations and systems. The Company set the each briefing, and approximately 150 one-on-one following basic policies regarding the establishment of meetings were held. “Systems for Ensuring Appropriate Execution of For overseas shareholders and investors, Sojitz Business Operations,” which were formally adopted by conducted meetings twice each in the United States, the Board of Directors at a meeting in May 2006. Europe and Asia, in addition to actively providing (Partially revised in April 2008) information on the Company website. 1. Systems to Ensure Compliance by Directors and Employees Sojitz has also established a structure for gathering the 2. Systems for Retention and Management of Information opinions of investors and reflecting them in the relating to the Execution of Directors’ Duties Company’s management. Weekly analysis reports are 3. Regulations and Other Systems regarding Management prepared on the content of meetings with investors and of Loss Risks analysts, and the votes for and against proposals are 4. Systems to Ensure Efficiency in Execution of Directors’ analyzed after the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Duties Meeting and the voting trend is reported to the 5. Systems to Ensure Proper and Ethical Business Management Committee. In addition, Sojitz collects the Operations in the Sojitz Group comments of shareholders by conducting surveys in 6. Systems regarding Employees Assisting Corporate shareholder newsletters, at briefings and through other Auditors and Their Independence from Directors media. In the year ended March 31, 2012, a total of 530 7. Systems for Reports to Corporate Auditors by Directors and Employees, Other Systems for Reports to surveys were collected at shareholder briefings and Corporate Auditors 3,514 via shareholder newsletters. For employees, the 8. Other Systems to Ensure Efficient Auditing by the details of financial results and a message from Corporate Auditors Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 55 Corporate Governance Sojitz establishes, improves and implements overall audits by exchanging information to ensure their efforts are internal control systems with inspections of and complementary and efficient. improvements to legal compliance systems led by the Compliance Committee inspections of and improvements to Audits by Corporate Auditors risk management led by the Risk Management Planning Corporate auditors attend important meetings of the Department, and promotion of “Assessment of Internal Board of Directors, Management Committee, Finance & Controls Regarding Financial Reporting” under the Financial Investment Deliberation Council, and other managerial Instruments and Exchange Act, led by the Internal Control organizations in accordance with auditing plans, Committee, which was established in November 2005. assignments, and other auditing standards set by the Board Corporate auditors attend Board of Directors, of Corporate Auditors. In addition, the corporate auditors Management Committee, Internal Control Committee and oversee and inspect the operations of the Sojitz Group by other meetings, and consult with people such as those conducting audits using means such as interviewing directors responsible for internal controls in various areas to review the and other members of senior management regarding establishment and implementation of internal controls. business execution, inspecting important documents relevant Furthermore, corporate auditors monitor the overall internal to major business decisions, and obtaining business reports control systems of the Company and provide advice on and other information from subsidiaries. more efficient operations of the systems through exchange of information when necessary with the accounting auditors Accounting Audits and other organizations involved in internal controls such In accordance with the Companies Act of Japan, which as the Internal Control Administration Department and the requires accounting audits, and the Financial Instruments Audit Department. and Exchange Law, which requires auditing of financial To maintain and earn higher social credibility, Sojitz statements, quarterly reviews, and internal controls, Sojitz recognizes that ensuring appropriate financial reporting is has appointed the independent auditing firm KPMG AZSA one of its most important goals. Accordingly, by a resolution LLC. The accounting auditors explain their auditing plan to of the Board of Directors in April 2008 the Company enacted the corporate auditors and periodically report on the status the following basic policies in accordance with the “Internal of the audits they are conducting. The accounting auditors Control Reporting System” as prescribed in Article 24-4-4 of share information with corporate auditors to enhance the the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act: Basic Principle effectiveness of accounting audits. for Ensuring Appropriate Financial Reporting; Establishment Internal Audits of Systems and Procedures for Ensuring Appropriate Internal audits of the Company are conducted by the Financial Reporting; Use of IT for Internal Controls over Audit Department. Based on auditing plans approved by the Financial Reporting; and Implementation of “Assessment Board of Directors at the beginning of each fiscal year, audits and Reporting of Internal Controls over Financial Reporting” cover business departments, corporate departments, Pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. consolidated subsidiaries and major overseas affiliates. In the year ended March 31, 2012, management executives The Audit Department verifies and evaluates the status of once again evaluated the Sojitz Group’s internal control system internal management risks by monitoring the effectiveness of for financial reporting and concluded that it is effective. department functions with particular emphasis on ■ Main Initiatives Aimed at Strengthening the compliance, reliability of financial reporting, risk management Internal Control System and inventory control. It reports its findings to the President November Internal Control Committee, chaired by the President & CEO, & CEO and provides audited departments with plans to 2005 is established improve effectiveness. To speed amelioration of problems ・ Decides the Sojitz Group’s internal control policies and improvement of points raised during audits, audited and monitors progress in establishing internal controls ・ Executes initiatives to focus the attention of Group departments are required to submit reports on the status of executives and employees on the internal controls in general amelioration and improvements three months and six May 2006 The Board of Directors adopts a resolution regarding the months after the audit, and follow-up audits are conducted Company’s basic policy for establishing a system to ensure proper and ethical business operations (an internal control to confirm progress. Information gleaned from this series of system) (Partially revised in April 2008) activities is shared with the corporate auditors with the aim April 2008 The Board of Directors adopts a resolution regarding of improving the effectiveness of audits. the Company’s basic policy to ensure appropriate financial reporting Moreover, the Sojitz Group has introduced a system under which business departments and Group companies conduct self inspection to promote swift discovery of Audit Structure problems and operating efficiency, preclude losses, and Corporate auditors, accounting auditors, and the Audit enhance awareness of risk management. Department enhance the effectiveness of their respective 56 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Risk Management Basic Risk Management Policies Planning Department is in charge of the planning and As a general trading company, the Sojitz Group is establishment of overall rules, systems and risk management engaged in a diverse, globally dispersed range of policy and measuring risk. Risk Management Department 1 businesses. Due to the nature of its businesses the Group is and Risk Management Department 2 are in charge of exposed to a variety of risks. examining individual business proposals and monitoring In compliance with its Basic Code of Corporate Risk business investments. This structure facilitates fast and Management, the Sojitz Group defines and categorizes risk, meticulous operations. and manages it according to the nature of each risk. In April 2012, Sojitz established Controller offices in Quantifiable risks such as market risk, business investment certain business departments as part of its efforts to build a risk, credit risk and country risk are quantified and managed structure and organization that can conduct business with a based on a calculation of risk assets. Nonquantifiable risks high level of risk management. The objective is to promote such as legal risk, compliance risk, environmental risk, strong and sophisticated risk management capabilities in financing risk, disaster risk and system risk are managed in business departments while increasing the speed of risk the same manner as quantifiable risks, with the status of the management. risk and other issues reported to management based on the Risk Management Policy and Plan formulated by the Business Investment Proposals executive officer responsible for managing that risk. Deliberation of business investment proposals takes place in the Finance & Investment Deliberation Council Risk Measurement and Control chaired by the CFO, Senior Managing Executive Officer, The aims of risk measurement are to 1) control Finance & Accounting, Risk Management. In order to numerically quantified risk so that it is within the scope of the visualize risks and facilitate deliberation, this council has strength of the Company (its shareholders’ equity), and 2) established rules such as requiring single-page documents maximize earnings in line with the level of risk exposure. In covering downside scenarios as well as expected other words, the Sojitz Group manages risk with a focus on scenarios. The general managers of Risk Management both acceptability and profitability. Department 1 and Risk Management Department 2, not The Sojitz Group’s objective for risk control has been to the relevant business division, explain proposals to ensure manage risk assets so that they total less than shareholders’ objective evaluation of risk. equity. We maintained the ratio of risk assets to shareholders’ equity at 1.0 times in the year ended March 31, Risk Management Training 2012. We are currently promoting risk control with this Simply establishing rules is not sufficient to build a risk objective under Medium-term Management Plan 2014. For management system. Rather, the system must permeate the new investments, we have set business focus areas and will work of all employees who run it. In order to spread prioritize allocation of resources to these areas to awareness of risk management to employees, the risk accumulate quality businesses and assets. On the other management departments provide training for groups of hand, the Sojitz Group has a policy of steadily replacing employees prior to their promotion to management positions underperforming risk assets to build a quality, resilient and for managers at Group companies. Training entails the balance sheet. This policy involves withdrawing from use of case studies of actual situations to learn from the businesses with low profitability and revising the existing mistakes of the past. More than 1,000 employees have portfolio. taken this training course. In addition, employees from Risk for all projects is quantified quarterly and reported to business departments are assigned to the Risk the Board of Directors and the Management Committee, Management Department for fixed periods, and employees and each business unit receives results of analysis of the from Group companies are also accepted as trainees in the change in risk assets for application in day-to-day risk Risk Management Department for fixed periods according to management activities. need. These human resource exchanges help to further spread awareness of risk management issues. Note: Please refer to pages 98 to 102, “7. Business and Other Risks” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations” for information on each risk category. Improving Information Capabilities In the current volatile economic environment, Sojitz is Risk Management System promoting measures to strengthen internal communication Sojitz continues to strengthen and increase the of information regarding anticipated changes. Particularly in sophistication of its risk management while enhancing and management of country risk, we are strengthening expanding its risk management system. We reviewed the monitoring and predictive management by conducting local system to further enhance the awareness and practice of fact-finding studies on economic conditions, political risk management in operations throughout the entire Group, systems and other such matters, and periodically issuing and now carry out risk management in a three-department internal investigative reports. In addition, we have begun structure consisting of the Risk Management Planning sharing expertise within the Company by cooperating with Department, Risk Management Department 1, and Risk relevant departments to systematically summarize the points Management Department 2. The Risk Management to keep in mind when doing business in each country. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 57 Compliance Basic Approach to Compliance promote the establishment of frameworks for each Companies must not concern themselves with the operating base and company. They also promote pursuit of profit alone; rather, they must work to develop educational activities and training, including for locally their businesses while conducting themselves in hired employees. Moreover, Sojitz has set up five regional accordance with social norms, and endeavor to make a compliance committees that run committee meetings contribution to society. Sojitz believes that thorough and carry out local compliance activities overseas. In compliance is essential to living up to these addition, Sojitz promotes a shared awareness of requirements. We are focusing on instilling and compliance and regular exchange of views on future establishing a compliance mindset among employees policies through various channels, such as meetings while making a Company-wide effort to support between the CCO and the presidents of each division teamwork through daily communication among and consolidated Group companies and conferences employees. However, there are no shortcuts to among the compliance officers of domestic consolidated establishing compliance. The Sojitz Group is therefore Group companies. increasing its focus on meticulous compliance through Moreover, to help prevent or rapidly detect violations of sound and steady reinforcement of policies. compliance regulations, Sojitz has a hotline (reporting The Sojitz Group has established the Sojitz Group system) that provides access to the CCO and outside Compliance Program, which lays out procedures to ensure legal counsel; a consultation desk where Compliance thorough compliance. The Group has also prepared the Committee Secretariat members can be contacted; and Sojitz Group Code of Conduct and Ethics, which provides the multi-lingual Sojitz Ethics Hotline, which is available Group-wide compliance conduct guidelines. 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. All Sojitz Group employees are informed about these systems. Establishment of the Compliance Framework The Compliance Committee, chaired by the Chief Initiatives for Thorough Compliance Compliance Officer (CCO), is at the core of activities to Publicizing and Establishing the Compliance ensure adherence to laws, regulations, and corporate ethics, Mindset in cooperation with the head office, consolidated Group The Sojitz Group conducts a variety of training companies, overseas sites and other parts of the Group. programs such as e-learning and compliance training, Compliance supervisors and assistants have been mainly using case studies for Group employees to assigned in Sojitz’s domestic and overseas operating deepen their understanding of the Sojitz Group bases and consolidated Group companies in order to Compliance Program and the Sojitz Group Code of ■ Compliance Framework Board of Directors Management Committee President & CEO Compliance Committee Head Office Chair Business Divisions Corporate Departments • Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Compliance President of each supervisor division Executive officer Committee Members Compliance General Manager of Planning assistant & Administration Office • Senior Managing Executive Officer, • Executive Officer, Corporate General manager Finance & Accounting and Risk Planning Compliance supervisor General manager Consolidated Group Companies Management in each department • Executive Officer, Human • Managing Executive Officer, Resources & General Affairs Compliance Committee of Each Company Internal Control Administration Compliance supervisor President & CEO Secretariat Overseas Regions Compliance assistant Administrative division • Legal Department (Compliance Administration Section) member or other Compliance Committee of Each Region Subcommittees • Security Trade Control • Information Security Compliance supervisor Regional president & CEO Subcommittee Chairman: Subcommittee Chairman: Senior Managing Executive Officer, Managing Executive Officer, Regional administration Compliance assistant organization Finance & Accounting, Risk IT Planning Management Compliance supervisor at Reporting each company Company president Guidance 58 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Conduct and Ethics. In the year ended March 31, 2012, office departments, 49 overseas sites including we revised the case examples to enhance their subsidiaries, and 112 Group companies in Japan and functionality in ways such as adding more specific cases, overseas. Sojitz reviews and revises the list of inspection and distributed them to all Group employees. items every year based on the results of past inspections The Sojitz Group includes many operating bases to flexibly respond to the rapidly changing environment. outside Japan, and therefore actively enhances Sojitz analyzes inspection results item by item and shares understanding and practice of compliance not only in the findings across the Group to help prevent similar Japan but at the global level. The Code of Conduct and cases of noncompliance. Ethics has been translated into 23 languages, including No serious cases of noncompliance have been Japanese and English, to enable all Group employees in reported in the comprehensive inspection results up Japan and overseas to share the same compliance to now. However, Sojitz is working on improvements mindset. In addition, the Sojitz Group takes measures to such as revising inspection methods with the relevant ensure a consistent level of understanding, such as departments to make inspections more effective. In conducting classroom training at overseas Group addition, Sojitz plans to establish measures to prevent companies that do not have an IT environment. noncompliance based on the previously mentioned case studies. Enhancement of Anticorruption Measures In recent years, the United States has tightened regulations against corrupt practices such as improper giving of gifts to public officials and bribery, but the level of standards demanded for prevention of corruption is increasing globally. Therefore, the Sojitz Group recognizes The Sojitz Group Code of Conduct and Ethics that it must step up efforts to further raise its anticorruption measures to a uniformly high level worldwide. Comprehensive Compliance Inspections Based on this awareness, in December 2011 the Sojitz Sojitz regularly conducts comprehensive inspections at Group launched a full-time team in the Legal Department the head office, overseas sites, and major Group to strengthen anticorruption measures. companies in Japan and overseas to double check for noncompliance in the workplace. In the year ended March 31, 2012, inspections were conducted at 57 head ■ The Sojitz Group Compliance Hotlines Discloser Sojitz Compliance Committee Group executives or CCO Hotline employees Chair (CCO) Legal Counsel Hotline Legal Including contract, Counsel temporary and part-time Secretariat employees Compliance Consultation Investigation and coordination Disclosure and feedback Related internal departments Request for communication and investigation Report Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 59 Ten Declarations 08 from Shinichi Taniguchi, CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) “We must take a consistently honest and direct approach to I believe that Sojitz’s compliance system and compliance inspections have steadily decreased mechanisms and its execution of policy each year, which indicates to me that our efforts initiatives are second to none. Exemplifying the so far are producing sound results. At the same evolution of the Sojitz Group Compliance time, we need to further raise the level of our Program, we have translated the Sojitz Group compliance from an objective point of view to Code of Conduct and Ethics (Revised Edition) meet increasing demands to implement into 23 languages and shared it with all Group coordinated initiatives with business partners in employees, while phasing in a common global supply chain, CSR and the designation of hotline and conducting effective training Authorized Economic Operators. In other words, programs that employ e-learning. my aim is continuous development, with all Thorough compliance requires that we employees diligently enhancing their own maintain a systematic framework and spread awareness and sharing it with business and embed awareness of compliance. partners. Moreover, I intend to further enhance Compliance cases reported in the course of overall Group awareness of compliance by operations and items requiring improvement that continuing the exchange and discussion of are uncovered by our annual comprehensive perceived issues between people responsible at 60 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 thorough, compliance.” Group companies and in sales departments in the coming fiscal year. Medium-term Management Plan 2014 defines self-reform as our most important challenge, but we can only achieve this reform with more thorough compliance. Sojitz advocates the social role of good faith. Approaching issues openly and directly and conducting business with awareness of compliance are powerful competitive advantages. We cannot achieve continuous development by eliminating compliance violations within the Sojitz Group alone. We must take compliance to the next level, making it more thorough by including CCO Senior Managing Executive Officer our business partners in our ongoing programs. Risk Management Planning, Risk Management 1, Risk Management 2, Legal Shinichi Taniguchi Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 61 The Sojitz Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility P. 63 Making the Sojitz Group Statement a Reality The Sojitz Group’s CSR Priority Themes P. 66 Promotion of CSR Supply Chain Management P. 67 Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to Preventing Climate Change P. 68 Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to the Advance of Developing and Emerging Countries P. 70 Establishment of Personnel Systems and Workplace Environments That Enable All Employees to Flourish Reporting Period and Scope of Coverage for “The Sojitz Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility” (pages 63-71) Reporting Period: The period for performance data is the year ended March 31, 2012 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012), although descriptions of some activities and projects and some data may be the most recent available. Scope of Coverage: Sojitz Corporation and some Sojitz Group companies Reference Guidelines: GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1 More detailed information about our CSR initiatives and the latest information following the issue of this report are available in the “Corporate Social Responsibility” section of the Sojitz corporate website. (http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/index.html) 62 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Making the Sojitz Group Statement a Reality As a member of society, the Sojitz Group aims to continue creating the “new sources of wealth” set forth in the Sojitz Group Statement. This means contributing to raising living standards for people around the world while respecting diverse cultures and values, which we believe will also lead to harmony with society and the environment. Basic Approach to CSR System to Promote CSR The Sojitz Group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) We promote CSR on a Group-wide basis. The CSR is the activities we undertake to make the Sojitz Group Committee is at the center of these initiatives. The Statement a reality. We consider CSR to be a committee is under direct control of the President & CEO management issue of vital importance, so we have and chaired by the executive officer responsible for public established the Sojitz Group CSR Policy based on the relations. It deliberates key CSR issues and reports directly Sojitz Group Statement and are ceaselessly working to the Management Committee. toward that goal. Initiatives to Promote CSR Awareness We implement various initiatives to ensure that all Group Sojitz Group Statement employees work proactively and sincerely to meet the The Sojitz Group produces new sources of expectations of society. wealth by connecting the world’s economies, cultures and people in a spirit of integrity. Sojitz Group CSR Seminars To promote CSR awareness among all Group Sojitz Group CSR Policy employees, we hold seminars with guest specialists and experts who offer outside views and insight. We held the We will strive to do business in harmony with first seminar in 2009, and in the year ended March 31, 2012 society and the environment, consistently two seminars were held with the themes described below. honoring the Sojitz Group Statement. Fourth “Supply chain CSR of general trading companies – Aiming for seminar business with high sustainability” (Approx 70 participants) ● The Sojitz Group’s Basic Approach to CSR Fifth “Further business potential in developing and emerging seminar countries – Why Sumitomo Chemical’s Base of the Economic Pyramid (BOP) business succeeded, and lessons for the Making the Sojitz Group Statement a Reality Sojitz Group” (Approx 80 participants) CSR E-Learning Sojitz Group business activities In November 2011, we conducted a CSR e-learning program and questionnaire survey to raise awareness of Corporate governance structure supporting business activities the Sojitz Group’s CSR approach and initiatives, and to gather employee opinions for future improvement. This Practice of CSR by everyone time we targeted employees of Sojitz Corporation, but we at the Sojitz Group plan to expand the program to cover the entire Group and conduct it regularly. The Sojitz Group’s CSR Priority Themes We have identified four issues that we should ● Promotion of CSR Supply Chain Management .... P. 66 focus on as CSR priority themes by correlating ● Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to stakeholder expectations with issues important Preventing Climate Change ............................................... P. 67 to the Sojitz Group. This report centers on these CSR priority themes. For more details and the ● Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to the latest information, please see the “Corporate Advance of Developing and Emerging Countries ... P. 68 Social Responsibility” section of the Sojitz website. ● Establishment of Personnel Systems and (http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/index.html) Workplace Environments That Enable All Employees to Flourish...................................................... P. 70 Notes: 1. The above CSR priority themes are subject to revision to reflect changes in social and/or other conditions surrounding the Sojitz Group. 2. In addition to the above four priority themes, we report on our initiatives to support the reconstruction of the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami because we regard them as extremely urgent and important. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 63 Participation in the United Nations Contributing to the Global Society Global Compact Education Support Project in Tanzania The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) calls for The Sojitz Group carries out social contribution activities in businesses to work toward achieving sustainable growth cooperation with local communities in Africa under the theme by exercising responsible and creative leadership, and of education, which is vital to the well-being of humanity. encourages corporate initiatives. Sojitz endorsed and In the village of Maliza in northern Tanzania, Sojitz is began participating in the UNGC in April 2009 and has collaborating with the international non-governmental been putting its Ten Principles into practice. organization Plan Japan* on an education support project. Phase 2 of the project is currently under way, and includes ● The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles the construction of water wells and the supply of Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the gardening and poultry farming equipment and materials. Rights protection of internationally proclaimed Sojitz is also providing support for the construction of a human rights; and kindergarten and related facilities in the village of Mahina Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Kati. In addition, we conduct awareness-raising activities human rights abuses. and training in pre-school education for teachers and Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition community leaders to contribute to the sound physical of the right to collective bargaining; and mental growth of children. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and * Plan Japan is a member compulsory labour; of Plan, an international NGO that provides Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and assistance for community development involving Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect children in 50 developing of employment and occupation. countries. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Children attend a class (Photo environmental responsibility; and courtesy of Plan Japan) Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Comments from the Local Community AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption “My younger brothers can use the new school facilities Corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. next year, and they’re really looking forward to it.” (Annet, age 12) Participation in Supply Chain Section Committee “Until now, we didn’t even have classrooms or desks. This Sojitz is a member of the Supply Chain Section project will improve the children’s learning environment.” Committee of the Global Compact Japan Network, which (Ms. Tryphonia, Head Teacher of Nyangulugulu Primary School) consists of about 30 companies. Committee members “Community residents participated in the project discuss case studies and their own examples and meetings, which is important for maintaining prepare written recommendations concerning CSR in transparency. I would like this approach to be used in supply chains. We incorporate the knowledge and other projects, too.” (Mr. Katinde, resident of Mahina Kati village) information we gain through committee activities into the Sojitz Group’s CSR initiatives. Human Rights Initiatives The Sojitz Group Code of Conduct and Ethics provides Reports on the Sojitz Corporate Website clear standards on appropriate working conditions and ● Initiatives to Promote CSR Awareness environment, prohibition of child labor and forced labor, and For details, please refer to the following URL: other issues. It has been prepared in 23 languages to http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/approach/infiltration.html promote understanding and implementation throughout the Sojitz Group. We also conduct a related e-learning program ● Basic Approach to Social Contribution Activities ● Global Activities for Social Contribution with the aim of enhancing compliance with the code. ● Social Contribution Activities To promote CSR in supply chains, we conduct ● Sojitz Foundation questionnaires and on-site surveys of key suppliers, and ● Nagaoka Zen Training Center promote initiatives on matters such as human rights issues. For details, please refer to the following URL: For more details on CSR initiatives in supply chains, please see http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/contribute/index.html page 66. 64 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Support for Reconstruction after the Great ¥70,000 per person per month to qualifying students for up East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami to four years each. A total of ¥500 million has been set aside The Sojitz Group offers its deepest sympathy to those to assist a total of 150 or more students. In the first year who suffered from the devastation of the Great East Japan (ended March 31, 2012), the scholarship was granted to 52 Earthquake and Tsunami. We are doing our best to provide students. support for the earliest recovery of the affected regions. Volunteer Support System Basic Approach Sojitz has introduced the following programs to back Since the earthquake, the Sojitz Group has been executives and employees who volunteer in reconstruction supporting reconstruction based on the Sojitz Group support activities. These support programs have also been Statement. We recognize that reconstruction support is an adopted at 15 Sojitz Group companies. important task in addition to the four CSR Priority Themes 1) Granting of volunteer leave Up to 5 days per year explained on page 63. Under the theme of “Working 2) Subsidies for volunteering in the ¥6,000 per night for toward a brighter future for the people and local disaster region accommodation, up to 10 community,” we plan to continue leveraging our full array nights per year of resources to support reconstruction. Volunteer Tours to the Disaster Region Supporting Reconstruction through Our Business In October 2011, Sojitz began arranging volunteer tours to Activities Iwate Prefecture for executives and employees of the Sojitz SOFCO Seafoods Inc. Resumes Operation in Group in order to facilitate their participation in volunteer Kamaishi City activities. Eight bus tours Group company SOFCO Seafoods Inc., which had a were organized in the second processing plant in the town of Otsuchi, Iwate Prefecture, half of the year ended March suffered extensive damage from the disaster and was 31, 2012, with a total of 70 forced to suspend operations. However, the company participants who engaged in decided to rebuild the plant to support the recovery of the reconstruction support work marine products industry, which is the main industry in the such as debris removal, coastal area, and to secure jobs for its employees. The house cleaning and the Sojitz Group employees remove company built a new plant in Unosumaicho, Kamaishi City restoration of farms. debris in the disaster area. with support from the city and Iwate Prefecture, and resumed operations in March 2012. The plant is also Comments from Volunteers playing the role of a new community that reconnects about “I wasn’t sure what I could do, but I learned that even my small 100 employees who were effort could help the local people smile and think positively.” Nana Kawauchi, Sojitz Corporation separated by the disaster. (Volunteered from April to June 2011) SOFCO Seafoods aims to “Many elderly people in temporary housing said they wanted quickly restore business someone to talk to, and I felt that it would still be a while operations centered on the before they could get back to their regular lives.” production of flaked salmon, Yoko Kaburagi, Sojitz Logistics Corporation one of its main products. New processing plant of (Volunteered in November 2011) SOFCO Seafoods Inc. “I came upon a launching ceremony at a local shipyard and sensed Solar Power Business Feasibility Study in some hope while feeling despair in the face of the devastation.” Takashi Sugiura, Sojitz Corporation Minamisoma City, Fukushima Prefecture (Volunteered in November 2011) Taisei Corporation, Sojitz Corporation and Toshiba Corporation were awarded a contract by the Ministry of the Environment to conduct a feasibility study for constructing a 20MW solar power plant in Minamisoma City. Through this project, we aim to contribute to reconstruction in a way that Reports on the Sojitz Corporate Website counters global warming. ● The Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami Reconstruction/Monetary Donations Other Support Activities ● Sojitz Reconstruction and Education Fund Sojitz Reconstruction and Education Fund ● Vehicle Donation to Support Recovery Efforts Sojitz has set up a fund to assist university students who For details, please refer to the following URL: are having financial difficulty because of the disaster. Starting http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/contribute/shinsai.html in 2011 for five years, the fund grants scholarships of Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 65 The Sojitz Group’s CSR Priority Themes Promotion of CSR Supply Chain Management Obje Ob Objectives O b jejectctiv j e ct t iv iives v es es o off Pl P anne Planned lan an a ne nedd Inn it iti t ve tive i a ti IInitiatives t ia iati vess ● Sp S Spre Spread, preead d, in iinstill inst ad, stilililll an a and nd pr nst promote rom omot p the he So otte th Sojitz Soji tz G tz jijitz ro GrouppC r up CSRSRRA cttio ion Gu Action Guidelines id idel elin elin G ines ines orr S s ffor upp uppl uppl up Supplyply ply Ch hai ins s ains Chains ● En Enhance Enha hanc hanc nce c communication e co mmun omm un unic uni ic icat atio ati ion wi tio with hs with upp uppl uppl up suppliers plie plie iers iers Basic Approach On-site Surveys of Suppliers The Sojitz Group conducts a broad range of businesses In the year ended March 31, 2012, we sent our staff to through its global supply chains, and sees promotion of CSR four suppliers in China to conduct on-site reviews and in the supply chains as an important issue. In April 2010, communicate face-to-face. Such on-site surveys are we formulated the Sojitz Group CSR Action Guidelines for conducted to consolidate mutual understanding. Supply Chains based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We share the concept of the A Supplier’s View guidelines with our suppliers in order to do business Today, CSR initiatives are essential to business together in harmony with society and the environment. growth. For example, improvement of working conditions stabilizes employment for companies as members of global society. Moreover, Pinghu Sojitz Group CSR Action Guidelines for Xinchengda Garments emphasizes dialogue with Supply Chains (Excerpt) stakeholders in promoting CSR activities. Working 1. We shall respect the human rights of employees, and never treat toward ongoing improvement in awareness through employees in an inhumane manner. dialogue with both employees and 2. We shall prevent forced labor, child labor and unfair low-wage labor. business partners is conducive to 3. We shall not practice discrimination in hiring and employment. long-term mutual benefits. 4. We shall respect the rights of employees to organize for smooth negotiation between labor and management. Tao Xue Qin (right) 5. We shall strive to provide employees with a safe, sanitary and Vice President healthy work environment. Pinghu Xinchengda Garments Co., Ltd. 6. In the course of conducting business activities, we shall duly consider the need to conserve ecosystems as well as local and global environments, and strive to prevent the occurrence of any environmental pollution. Future Initiatives 7. We shall observe all relevant laws and regulations, ensure fair transactions and prevent corruption. We will continue to expand and deepen the scope of our 8. We shall ensure the quality and safety of products and services. questionnaires and on-site surveys of key suppliers. We will 9. We shall disclose information regarding the above items in a timely also enhance collaboration with all of our stakeholders to and appropriate manner. achieve the steady spread and routine promotion of CSR initiatives in accordance with the CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains at all business sites in Japan and overseas. Main Initiatives and Progress in the Year Ended March 31, 2012 Expanding and Deepening Communication with Key Suppliers In 2012, Sojitz Corporation, core Group operating Reports on the Sojitz Corporate Website companies in Japan and our five overseas regions ● Inculcation of CSR Action Guidelines for Supply conducted questionnaires of key suppliers on their CSR Chains ● Supplier Surveys initiatives. The number of companies surveyed, including ● Visits to Suppliers second-tier suppliers, was increased to 214 from 56 ● Sojitz Group CSR Seminars companies in the previous fiscal year. At the same time, For details, please refer to the following URL: we disclosed our own status to suppliers with the aim of http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/approach/supply.html deepening communication. 66 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to Preventing Climate Change O b je Ob ject ives ctt iv Objectives es o off Pl P an annene Planned nedd Inn it itia iati ia IInitiatives tive ti ves ve s ● P Pr Promotion om omot ot otioion i o n of e io nv nvir environment ir irononme on me n a e nt and nd rrenewable enew en ew a b le w ab ee nerg ne energy g y bu businesses rg si e ss s i ne sses ess ● Focu Focus Fo cu c s on s ma smart r c a rt itt y bu city si e ss s i ne business s Basic Approach behavioral changes among Huis Ten Bosch employees Given the search for global sustainable growth, Sojitz is and visitors to reduce the amount of electricity they use helping to prevent global climate change by developing and making power supply and demand forecasts for the environment and renewable energy businesses on a entire theme park. The aim is to formulate a model that company-wide basis. optimizes the power supply and demand balance. Ultimately, this model will be considered for use in other Main Initiatives and Progress in the regions of Japan and in other countries. Year Ended March 31, 2012 While contributing to the development of a low-carbon Contributing to the Advancement of society and creation of social systems that maintain an Next-Generation Technologies optimal balance between power supply and demand, the Sojitz is cooperating with Sojitz Research Institute, Ltd., project will support the region’s industrial development Sojitz Kyushu Corporation and companies in Nagasaki through trials based on various scenarios tailored to prefecture in conducting verification of next-generation regional lifestyles and by furthering collaboration with technologies using a smart grid (next-generation electricity businesses in Nagasaki prefecture. transmission network) at Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki Prefecture. This project was selected as a NextFuture Initiatives Generation Energy Technology Verification Project by the Sojitz will continue to emphasize initiatives in the New Energy Promotion Council. Its purpose is to environment business that contribute to preventing climate construct and systematize the operation of smart cities to change, a global issue. Businesses such as renewable reduce electric power consumption and increase the energy and infrastructure improvement are also among the region’s electricity self-sufficiency using renewable energy. business focus areas of the Medium-term Management During the three-year trial period from April 2011 to Plan 2014 – Change for Challenge, in which Sojitz will March 2014, systems incorporating information and prioritize allocation of resources. communication technologies (ICT) such as smart meters (next-generation power meters) and motion sensors will be installed at Huis Ten Bosch in addition to the existing solar Reports on the Sojitz Corporate Website power generation facilities and cogeneration systems. The ● Bioethanol Business in Brazil project also involves developing services that promote ● Solar-power Related Business For details, please refer to the following URL: http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/divisions/p01.html ● Initiatives in Biodiversity For details, please refer to the following URL: http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/divisions/p04.html ● Environmental Policy ● Environmental Management ● Initiatives in Our Offices For details, please refer to the following URL: http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/environment/index.html Solar panels installed at Huis Ten Bosch Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 67 The Sojitz Group’s CSR Priority Themes Promotion of Businesses That Contribute to the Advance of Developing and Emerging Countries Objectives of Planned Initiatives ● Take advantage of our comprehensive strengths as a general trading company to establish economic and social infrastructure ● Promote environmental protection and improvement in developing and emerging countries Basic Approach In order to meet expanding demand for meat in Vietnam, Addressing Social Issues through Business which is intensified by population growth, Sojitz will A variety of issues, including food and energy supply, support successful, effective swine farming by supplying environmental protection and the establishment of compound feed that utilizes reputable technologies. economic and social infrastructure, must be addressed Sojitz has also entered the feed business in Cambodia and resolved in order to achieve development and by acquiring 10% of the shares of Sichuan New Hope growth in developing and emerging countries.* Sojitz Agribusiness (Cambodia) Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of the conducts businesses in various fields that help to resolve largest Chinese livestock and feed manufacturing social issues. company, New Hope Liuhe Co. Ltd. * Developing and emerging countries as defined by the International Furthermore, Sojitz is leveraging its feed business value Monetary Fund. chain by supplying cost-competitive feed materials to the Mekong River region Main Initiatives and Progress in the (mainly to Cambodia Year Ended March 31, 2012 and Vietnam) via Cai Establishment of a Compound Feed Business in Mep Agriculture Port, Southeast Asia ASEAN’s largest grain In Vietnam, Sojitz established Kyodo Sojitz Feed transshipment facilities Company Limited (KSF) in a consortium with one of the owned by Sojitz’s leading Japanese manufacturers of compound feed for subsidiary Interflour swine, Kyodo Shiryo Co., Ltd., and commenced Vietnam Ltd. Port facilities of Interflour Vietnam Ltd. construction of a new feed mill. This is the first time for a Japanese company to enter the compound feed Establishment of Industrial Parks in manufacturing and trading business in Vietnam. KSF will Emerging Countries deploy original technology and know-how to manufacture In many cases, emerging countries in Asia do not have compound feed with a blend of various ingredients that is sufficient industrial infrastructure, which limits industrial optimal for raising healthy livestock with high-quality meat. development. Sojitz is establishing industrial infrastructure ■ Compound Feed Companies in Southeast Asia Sichuan New Hope Agribusiness Vietnam (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Kyodo Sojitz Feed (Invested in July 2011) Cambodia Company Limited (Invested in October 2011) Central Ho Chi Minh City Phnom Penh Long An Province Cai Mep Agriculture Port Ho Chi Minh City KSF’s primary target sales area 68 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility ■ Industrial Parks in Asia Loteco Industrial Park Established in Vietnam in 1996 Sojitz-Motherson Industrial Park Start of construction planned in India in spring 2013 Long Duc Industrial Park Started construction in Vietnam in February 2012 Greenland International Industrial Center Start of construction in Indonesia in 2008 by developing industrial parks, which contributes to the infrastructure completion and commencement of tenant promotion of local industry and employment expansion production planned in summer 2014. while supporting the advance of overseas companies into emerging countries. Future Initiatives For example, Sojitz is developing the Greenland Population growth has made increasing food International Industrial Center (GIIC) in Indonesia. We production a global issue. Sojitz is therefore moving expanded our original development plan by 300 hectares aggressively to produce fertilizers, which are essential to as a result of rapid economic growth in Indonesia, and efficient, sustainable agriculture. For example, in the intend to increase the area of the industrial park to a total Republic of Tatarstan, Russia, we are cooperating in the of 1,300 hectares. The lots are sold to Japanese and other construction of a large fertilizer plant. The plant will use foreign companies, particularly those in rapidly growing technology for recovering CO 2 generated in production manufacturing industries such as motorcycle and processes to raise production efficiency. automobile components, consumer electronics and In addition, Sojitz focuses on sustainability by consumer nondurables. We also provide various transplant conducting afforestation activities in conjunction with assistance services while constructing production bases its woodchip processing business. For many years, for ongoing economic development in the ASEAN region. Sojitz has been distributing free seedlings to farmers and students in Vietnam, then purchasing the mature trees as raw materials for processing in our four local woodchip plants. This activity contributes to development of local communities by reviving degraded land and educating students about the environment. Moreover, in Mozambique, Sojitz plans to perform business activities connected with tree-planting through its new woodchip processing plant. Artist’s conception of GIIC In Vietnam, Sojitz developed the Loteco Industrial Park (Loteco) in Dong Nai Province in 1996, and is now operating it. We also invested in Long Duc Investment Co., Ltd., with the aim of developing the Long Duc Industrial Park located in the same province as Loteco. The company started Reports on the Sojitz Corporate Website development in February 2012 and plans to complete ● Contributing to Industrial Development in the infrastructure in summer 2013, at which time tenants can Republic of Tatarstan start production. ● Contributing to the Development of Local Sojitz will develop the Sojitz-Motherson Industrial Park Communities through Tree-Planting Activities (SMIP) on the outskirts of Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India For details, please refer to the following URL: through a joint venture with the Motherson Group. http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/divisions/p02.html Construction is scheduled to start in spring 2013, with Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 69 The Sojitz Group’s CSR Priority Themes Establishment of Personnel Systems and Workplace Environments That Enable All Employees to Flourish Objectives Ob b je ctt iv ives i v es sooff Pl P an ned Planned anne ne n it d In itiia i a ti iati Initiatives tive ves ve s ● Responding Re Respsppon ding ding ndi o gl globalization g tto ob aliz bal izat ati liz ion an ion a and tio d dive diversity nd diive itty rsit ers ● Deeveelo Developing lopi p ng lopi ga and nd rod d iintroducing nttroduci du cing ng ec ffec eff ti g effective ecti e systems tive ve syysste tems and d measures mss and easu sures su mea es that th hat a enable re na abl en ble em e employees oyyee ploy e pl eess ullly to ffully tililize tili ti utilize ly u he e ttheir heirr ttalents heir alen allen entsts The Sojitz Group’s Approach to Short-term Overseas Trainee Dispatch System Human Resources In addition to its language training, MBA and other The Sojitz Group understands that its growth and study abroad programs, Sojitz launched a program in the development depend on its employees. Accordingly, we are year ended March 31, 2012 that allows all young enhancing our personnel and employee development systems employees to gain practical experience overseas for one to make Sojitz a rewarding company to work for, as well as to six months while they are in their early years in the a company that creates fulfilling workplace environments Company. The goals of this program include helping that support a diversity of people and work styles. employees to develop a global perspective, understand different cultures and overseas market trends, build a A Rewarding Company network of contacts, and learn about overseas corporate Enhancing the Personnel System governance systems. Sojitz wants self-driven people who will create a more affluent society by combining four strengths and three Job Rotation and Internal Recruiting Systems qualities to improve the organizational capabilities of the Sojitz employs a job rotation system so that employees Sojitz Group. We are focusing on programs to develop can acquire broad knowledge and experience from a and enhance our talent and on making Sojitz a company medium-to-long-term perspective, which enables a higher that employees find rewarding as well as one where they level of independent action and a more dynamic can grow and flourish. workplace. In addition, we use an internal recruiting system introduced in the year ended March 31, 2006 to Guidance and help employees shape and achieve their own career plans. Developing the Employees Sojitz Needs growth through on-the-job training Three qualities Fulfilling Workplace Environments Pass on qualities and skills to subordinates Promoting Work-Life Balance Grow by teaching and learning Management qualities Globally minded Entrepreneurship Sojitz has various support systems to enable Awareness of other cultures Ability to make innovative Proficient leadership, and trends, and the ability ideas a reality through employees to balance work with child and nursing care. the ability to motivate others, to generate innovative ideas discussion with others and the ability to innovate Child care systems include extended child care leave, a and colleagues system of shortened work hours for employees raising Career path children, a program to support employees returning to Four strengths Job rotation work after child care leave, and a subsidy program for Knowledge Imagination Implementation Human skills skills the use of babysitters. The number of male employees using these programs is also increasing, and Sojitz has received the Kurumin mark from the Ministry of Health, Diverse Training Programs Labour and Welfare for its support in raising the next Sojitz has a full menu of training programs to help generation of children. employees efficiently acquire the skills necessary to meet Sojitz also offers a range of nursing care programs the demands of a constantly changing business that increase the number of family care leave days, environment. At the same time, we provide opportunities reduce working hours for caregivers, allow employees to for employees to reflect on their growth and consider their take leave for family care multiple times, and re-hire future career paths. To respond to the globalization of our employees who leave the Company to care for family business, we give particular priority to training young head members. In addition, we have introduced a nursing office employees and overseas executive candidates. 70 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility care consultation hotline and a remote nursing care risk management training as head office employees, support program. These systems help to create fulfilling including a part of the introductory training curriculum for working environments. new head office employees. Additionally, the head office also accepts trainees from Group companies; these and Promoting Diversity other measures help to develop our talent and create To enable female employees to more fully utilize their networks throughout the Sojitz Group. capabilities, Sojitz initiated comprehensive training for women in the year ended March 31, 2010, and has Future Initiatives conducted it five times as of March 31, 2012. In response Responding to globalization and diversity is also a key to the age of full-fledged globalization, the Sojitz head theme in the Medium-Term Management Plan 2014 – office also started hiring non-Japanese graduates from Change for Challenge, which started in the year ending overseas as well as Japanese universities. March 31, 2013. We will proactively develop and introduce Sojitz has established a new company to promote effective systems and measures that enable all Sojitz employment of people with disabilities. In the year ending Group employees to fully utilize their talents regardless of March 31, 2013, we characteristics such as race, nationality, gender or age. plan to apply for certification of this Comments from Employees company as a Short-term Overseas Trainee Dispatch System special subsidiary Tetsuo Moriyama, IT Planning Section 1, IT Planning Division under the Act on “On the front lines of the Middle East and Africa business, I was Employment able to provide support from the standpoint of information technology (IT) and acquire practical experience that would have Promotion of been hard to get if I had just stayed in Tokyo. The local business Persons with environment, culture and way of thinking are quite different, so Disabilities. Comprehensive training for women solving each IT-related problem took a lot of work, but I hope to use this experience in my approach on the job. ” Extending the Human Resource Strategies Global Next Leaders Development (GNLD) Program to Global and Group Companies Antonio Laforgia, Sojitz Europe plc, Milan Branch “The GNLD was a really good and exciting experience for me. I Global Strategy personally acquired more knowledge of the company. However, Sojitz conducts a Global Next Leaders Development in order to improve the process, more round tables should be Program (GNLD) in Tokyo, where intensive training is organized. A real change can only happen if people make an provided in subjects necessary for future leaders. The effort to engage in real brainstorming and are invited to discuss.” program also provides an opportunity for dialogue with Feng Gao, Sojitz (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. head office employees. In the first GNLD, 15 local “I was lucky to be a member of the first GNLD. In the eight-day employees from 11 countries came to the head office in program and two days of on-the-job-training, I not only acquired knowledge from teachers, but I and my 14 colleagues also Tokyo to receive this training. The Sojitz Group is also strengthened our communication and mutual understanding. I steadily implementing initiatives to fast track development was moved by the passion and motivation in the program and and promotion of overseas executives. These initiatives believe such spirit will encourage all of us to continue pursuing include formulation of individual career development challenging new targets in our future careers.” plans and a system of training at the head office. Furthermore, we are accelerating global human resource development in Japan and overseas. Such initiatives include expansion of training to improve the English communication A communications training session of the skills of head office Reports on the Sojitz Corporate Website Global Next Leaders Development Program staff. ● Diverse Training Programs ● Promoting Work-Life Balance ● Various Systems Group Strategy ● Labor-Management Relations In addition to cross-Group training for executives and For details, please refer to the following URL: managers of Sojitz Group companies, regular employees http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/employee/index.html of Group companies receive the same basic training and Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 71 Performance Data For the Year Ended March 31, 2012 ● Gross Trading Profit ● Ordinary Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 300 150 277.7 Gross Trading Profit 235.6 + 20.2 ％ 231.6 101.5 200 192.7 100 178.2 62.2 100 50 45.3 33.6 Ordinary Income 13.7 + 37.3 ％ 0 08 09 10 (Years ended March 31) 11 12 0 08 09 10 11 (Years ended March 31) 12 ● Total Assets ● Net Interest-bearing Debt Net DER and Net DER 2.1 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Times) 3,000 1,000 5.0 918.9 times 2,669.4 865.3 2,313.0 800 4.0 2,160.9 2,117.0 2,120.6 737.8 700.6 2,000 647.8 600 3.0 2.7 Dividends per Share 2.1 2.1 2.1 400 2.0 ¥3.00 1,000 1.9 200 1.0 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (As of March 31) (As of March 31) Net interest-bearing debt (left scale) Net DER (right scale) Key Factors in Financial Results In the economic environment in the year ended March 31, subsidiaries with the fiscal year-end of the parent company, 2012, Europe’s protracted debt crisis triggered an economic Sojitz Corporation. As a result, the accounting period of these slowdown in the euro zone, while the pace of growth weakened consolidated subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2012 in some emerging countries that had been driving the global spans a 15-month period. Consequently, ordinary income for economy. However, the Sojitz Group’s businesses generally the year ended March 31, 2012 increased 37.3% year-on-year posted steady growth. The main factors driving earnings growth to ¥62.2 billion (using the twelve-month period excluding the in each business division were as follows. effect of the change in fiscal year-end, ordinary income • Machinery Division: Increased sales volume at overseas increased 19.6% year-on-year). automotive operating subsidiaries, growth in plant exports, etc. However, net loss was ¥3.6 billion because of a reversal of • Energy & Metal Division: Higher prices and increased production deferred tax assets. volumes for oil and coal, etc. Shareholders’ equity as of March 31, 2012 decreased ¥24.1 • Chemicals Division: Increases in chemical and plastics trading volumes and prices in Asia, etc. billion from a year earlier to ¥305.9 billion, but net interest• Consumer Lifestyle Business Division: Growth in trading volume bearing debt decreased ¥52.8 billion to ¥647.8 billion. The net of livestock feed ingredients, restructuring of low-profit businesses, etc. debt equity ratio therefore was unchanged at 2.1 times as In the year ended March 31, 2012, the Sojitz Group aligned the Sojitz continued to maintain a sound financial position. various fiscal year-ends of its major overseas consolidated 72 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility ● Net Income (Loss) ● ROA and ROE ● Free Cash Flow (Billions of yen) (%) (%) (Billions of yen) 70 15.0 6.0 150 62.7 13.0 135.6 60 50 10.0 4.0 100 86.5 40 2.4 4.8 4.7 48.0 49.3 30 5.0 2.0 50 2.6 19.0 20 16.0 0.4 0.8 0.7 (0.2) (33.3) 8.8 0 0 10 0 (3.6) (1.1) 0 (10) (5.0) (2.0) (50) 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) ROE (left scale) ROA (right scale) ● Shareholders’ Equity 1 and ● Risk Assets and Ratio of Risk ● Dividends per Share 2 and Equity Ratio Assets to Shareholders’ Equity Payout Ratio (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Times) (Yen) (%) 600 20.0 400 380.0 3.0 10.0 40.0 35.7 35.6 17.8 350.0 476.0 16.3 320.0 8.00 15.6 310.0 300.0 8.0 13.8 14.4 15.0 300 30.0 400 2.0 352.4 319.0 330.0 6.0 5.50 305.9 23.5 10.0 200 20.0 4.0 15.7 200 1.0 3.00 3.00 1.1 1.0 2.50 5.0 100 0.8 0.9 0.9 10.0 2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (As of March 31) (As of March 31) (Years ended March 31) Shareholders’ equity (left scale) Risk assets (left scale) Dividends per share (left scale) Equity ratio (right scale) Ratio of risk assets to shareholders’ Payout ratio (right scale) equity (right scale) 1. Shareholdersʼ equity = Total net 2. Calculated based on annual dividends assets – Minority interests applicable to common shares issued and outstanding as of March 31 Sojitz Corporation’s Ratings ● Segment Ordinary Income (As of March 31, 2012) (Billions of yen) 80 Issuer Senior Name of Rating Agency Credit Unsecured Short-term 62.2 Ratings Ratings Debt Ratings 60 45.3 Japan Credit Rating 40 BBB BBB J-2 Agency, Ltd. (JCR) 13.7 20 Moody’s Investors Service Baa3 — — 0 Rating and Investment BBB — a-2 (20) Information, Inc. (R&I) 10 11 12 (Years ended March 31) Machinery Energy & Metal Chemicals Standard & Poor’s (S&P) BBBBBB — Consumer Lifestyle Business Other Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 73 Environmental and Social Data ● Environmental Data Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended March 31, 2010 March 31, 2011 March 31, 2012 Electricity consumption (thousand kWh)1 3,044 3,031 2,265 CO2 emissions (t-CO2)1, 2, 3 1,143 1,140 847 Total office floor area (thousand m2)1 26.7 29.8 28.9 CO2 emissions per m (t) 2 1 42.9 38.2 29.3 CO2 emissions from distribution (t-CO2) 4 10,000 10,400 9,510 Waste generated (t) 5 308 327 328 Waste recycled (t) 5 254 249 276 Amount of final disposal (t) 5 54 78 52 Recycling rate (%) 5 82 76 84 Notes: 1. Scope of data: Head office, Osaka Office, Hokkaido Branch, Tohoku Branch and Nagoya Branch of Sojitz Corporation 2. Electricity is converted into CO2 emissions based on coefficients announced annually by the Federation of Electric Power Companies. The figure for the year ended March 31, 2012 uses the CO2 emissions coefficient for the year ended March 31, 2011. 3. CO2 emissions including all emissions of the Osaka Office building (owned by Sojitz Corporation) were 1,694 t-CO2 in the year ended March 31, 2011 and 1,502 t-CO2 in the year ended March 31, 2012. 4. As per the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, CO2 emissions from distribution in Japan for which Sojitz is considered to be the cargo owner 5. Scope of data: Head office and Osaka Office of Sojitz Corporation ● Social Data Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended March 31, 2010 March 31, 2011 March 31, 2012 Total employees taking child care leave 11 10 15 (Male) 3 2 2 (Female) 8 8 13 Percentage of annual paid holidays taken (%) 39 41 45.5 Percentage of disabled employees (%) 2.0 1.8 2.0 Total employees1 2,295 2,254 2,256 (Male) 1,843 1,815 1,806 (Female) 452 439 450 Average employee age 1 41.1 41.4 41.5 (Male) 41.3 41.2 41.9 (Female) 40.1 39.6 39.9 Average years of employee service (%) 14.1 14.6 14.6 (Male) 14.3 14.8 14.8 (Female) 14.0 14.3 13.6 Turnover rate (%) 5.7 2.6 5.1 Total new graduates hired 91 56 54 (Male) 66 39 34 (Female) 25 17 20 Employees using open job posting system2 14 20 9 Employees union membership rate (%) 64 64 63 Persons receiving training (cumulative total) approx. 2,700 approx. 9,500 approx. 8,000 Hours of training approx. 37,000 approx. 33,000 approx. 33,000 Average hours of training per employee 2 approx. 16 approx. 15 approx. 15 Employees using volunteer support system – – 83 Employees taking leave to volunteer – – 17 Supplier questionnaires conducted 3 – 56 214 Notes: 1. Includes full-time contract employees 2. “Employees” excludes directors, executive officers, corporate auditors and employees retired as of March 31. 3. Please refer to page 66, “Promotion of CSR Supply Chain Management” for details regarding the number of supplier questionnaires conducted. 74 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Investor Information ● Monthly Share Price Range and Trading Volume (Yen) (Millions of shares) 300 600 200 400 100 200 0 0 April April April March 2009 2010 2011 2012 Share price, Monthly high/low (left scale) Trading volume (right scale) ● Composition of Shareholders (By number of shares) ● Major Shareholders (As of March 31, 2012) (%) Number of Shares % of Shares Name Held (Thousands) Outstanding 0 20 40 60 80 100 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 167,421 13.38 3.30 0.03 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 58,500 4.68 March, 31 Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. 24,473 1.96 19.73 4.88 44.70 27.36 2010 State Street Bank and Trust Company 505225 18,192 1.45 3.17 0.03 SSBT OD05 OMNIBUS ACCOUNT‒TREATY CLIENTS 16,008 1.28 March, 31 19.80 4.81 44.47 27.72 Mellon Bank, N.A. as Agent for its 2011 Client Mellon Omnibus US Pension 15,569 1.24 2.21 0.03 Nomura Singapore Limited Customer Segregated A/C FJ-1309 11,490 0.92 March, 31 23.30 4.84 43.81 25.81 Juniper 10,489 0.84 2012 State Street Bank West Pension Fund Clients Exempt 9,738 0.78 Securities companies Financial institutions Corporations State Street Bank and Individuals and others Foreign corporations and individuals Trust Company 505103 8,665 0.69 Treasury stock ● Price/Earnings Ratio1 (PER) ● Price/Book Ratio2 (PBR) ● Dividend Yield (Times) (Times) (%) 30.0 1.0 5.0 4.70 25.64 0.86 0.8 4.0 0.64 20.0 0.61 0.6 0.63 3.0 2.42 2.03 0.4 0.46 2.0 1.81 13.00 10.0 6.53 0.2 1.0 1.38 7.64 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 1. Price/Earnings Ratio = Closing stock price at 2. Price/Book Value Ratio = Closing stock price fiscal year-end/Fully diluted net income per share at fiscal year-end/Net assets per share Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 75 Organization Organization Chart (As of April 1, 2012) General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditor’s Office Nomination Committee Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Chairman Machinery Division President & CEO Management Committee • Planning & Administration Office Internal Audit Dept. • Environment & Urban Infrastructure Development Office • IT Business Dept. Automotive Unit • Automotive Dept. 1 • Automotive Dept. 2 Risk Management Planning Dept. • Automotive Dept. 3 Infrastructure Project & Industrial Machinery Unit • Power Project Dept. • Plant Project Dept. Risk Management Dept. 1 • Industrial Machinery & Bearing Dept. Marine & Aerospace Unit Risk Management Dept. 2 • Aerospace Dept. • Marine Business Dept. Legal Dept. Energy & Metal Division Internal Control Administration Dept. • Planning & Administration Office IT Planning Dept. • Controller Office Energy Unit Finance Dept. • Energy Development Dept. • Energy Trading Dept. • LNG Dept. Coal & Nuclear Unit Forex & Securities Dept. • Coal Dept. • Nuclear Energy Dept. Steel & Mineral Resources Unit Structured Finance Dept. • Steel Business Dept. • Ferroalloys Dept. • Industrial Minerals Dept. • Non-Ferrous & Precious Metals Dept. Corporate Accounting Dept. Asset Management Dept. Chemicals Division Human Resources & General Affairs Dept. • Planning & Administration Office • Life Science Business Development Office Chemicals Unit Public Relations Dept. • Basic Chemicals Dept. • Speciality Chemicals Dept. Ecological Materials & Resources Unit Corporate Planning Dept. • Chemical Resources Dept. • Advanced Materials Dept. • Osaka Businss Dept. Regional Coordination & Administration Dept. Consumer Lifestyle Business Division Investor Relations Office • Planning & Administration Office Logistics & Insurance Dept. Foods Resources Unit • Quality Assurance Office • Grain & Feed Material Dept. • Foodstuffs Dept. Secretariat Dept. Agriculture & Forest Resources Unit • Agribusiness Dept. • Forest Products Dept. Consumer Service & Development Unit • Consumer Goods Distribution Business Dept. • Textile Business Dept. • Overseas Construction Development Sect. 76 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Principal Operating Bases (As of July 1, 2012) ■ Group Company ■ Branch ■ Office JAPAN CHINA Sapporo ■ Sojitz Corporation, Hokkaido Branch Beijing ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd. Sendai ■ Sojitz Corporation, Tohoku Branch ■ Sojitz Corporation, Beijing Office Nagoya ■ Sojitz Corporation, Nagoya Branch Chongqing ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., Chongqing Office Fukuoka ■ Sojitz Kyushu Corporation Dalian ■ Sojitz (Dalian) Co., Ltd. ■ Sojitz Corporation, Kyushu Branch Guangzhou ■ Sojitz (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Nagasaki ■ Sojitz Kyushu Corporation, Nagasaki Branch Harbin ■ Sojitz (Dalian) Co., Ltd., Harbin Office Naha ■ Sojitz Kyushu Corporation, Naha Branch Hong Kong ■ Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd. Kunming ■ Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd., Kunming Office Nanjing ■ Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Nanjing Office Qingdao ■ Sojitz (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. Shanghai ■ Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shenzhen ■ Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd., Shenzhen Office Suzhou ■ Sojitz (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Suzhou Office Tianjin ■ Sojitz (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Wuhan ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., Wuhan Office Xi’an ■ Sojitz (China) Co., Ltd., Xi’an Office Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 77 Principal Operating Bases ASIA & OCEANIA Vietnam Australia Hanoi ■ Sojitz Vietnam Company Ltd., Hanoi Branch Melbourne ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd., Melbourne Branch Ho Chi Minh ■ Sojitz Vietnam Company Ltd. Perth ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd., Perth Branch Sydney ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd. THE AMERICAS India Argentina Mumbai ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Mumbai Branch Buenos Aires ■ Sojitz Argentina S.A. New Delhi ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd. Brazil Pune ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Pune Office Rio de Janeiro ■ Sojitz do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro Branch Chennai ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Chennai Branch Sao Paulo ■ Sojitz do Brasil S.A. Kolkata ■ Sojitz India Private Ltd., Kolkata Branch Canada Indonesia Toronto ■ Sojitz Canada Corporation, Toronto Office Jakarta ■ PT. Sojitz Indonesia Vancouver ■ Sojitz Canada Corporation ■ Sojitz Corporation, Jakarta Liaison Office Mexico Korea Mexico City ■ Sojitz Mexicana S.A. de C.V. Kwangyang ■ Sojitz Korea Corporation, Kwangyang Office Peru Pohang ■ Sojitz Korea Corporation, Pohang Office Lima ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Lima Office Seoul ■ Sojitz Korea Corporation U.S.A. Malaysia Houston ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Houston Branch Kuala Lumpur ■ Sojitz (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. New York ■ Sojitz Corporation of America ■ Sojitz Corporation, Kuala Lumpur Branch Portland ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Portland Branch Myanmar Seattle ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Seattle Branch Yangon ■ Sojitz Corporation, Yangon Branch Washington, D.C. ■ Sojitz Corporation of America, Washington New Zealand Branch Venezuela Auckland ■ Sojitz New Zealand Ltd. Pakistan Caracas ■ Sojitz Venezuela C.A. Karachi ■ Sojitz Corporation, Karachi Branch EUROPE, RUSSIA & NIS Lahore ■ Sojitz Corporation, Karachi Branch, Lahore Liaison Office Czech Republic Papua New Guinea Prague ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Prague Office Port Moresby ■ Sojitz Australia Ltd., Port Moresby Office France Philippines Paris ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Paris Branch Manila ■ Sojitz Philippines Corporation Germany Singapore Dusseldorf ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Dusseldorf Branch ■ Sojitz Asia Pte. Ltd. Hamburg ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Hamburg Office ■ Sojitz Corporation, Singapore Branch Hungary Sri Lanka Budapest ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Budapest Office Colombo ■ Sojitz Corporation, Colombo Liaison Office Italy Taiwan Milan ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Milan Branch Taipei ■ Sojitz Taiwan Corporation Poland Thailand Warsaw ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Warsaw Office Bangkok ■ Sojitz (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 78 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Russia Saudi Arabia Irkutsk ■ Sojitz Corporation, Moscow Liaison Office, Al-Khobar ■ Sojitz Corporation, Al-Khobar Liaison Office Irkutsk Office Jeddah ■ Sojitz Corporation, Jeddah Branch Khabarovsk ■ Sojitz Corporation, Khabarovsk Liaison Office ■ Sojitz Corporation, Al-Khobar Liaison Office, Moscow ■ Sojitz LLC Jeddah Office ■ Sojitz Corporation, Moscow Liaison Office South Africa Saint-Petersburg ■ Sojitz Corporation, Saint-Petersburg Liaison Johannesburg ■ Sojitz Corporation, Johannesburg Branch Office U.A.E. Spain Dubai ■ Sojitz Middle East FZE Madrid ■ Sojitz Europe plc, Madrid Branch ■ Sojitz Corporation, MEA Office Turkey Yemen Istanbul ■ Sojitz UK plc, Istanbul Branch Sanaa ■ Sojitz Corporation, Sanaa Liaison Office U.K. London ■ Sojitz Europe plc ■ Sojitz UK plc Ukraine Kyiv ■ Sojitz Corporation, Kyiv Representative Office MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA Algeria Algiers ■ Sojitz Corporation, Alger Liaison Office Angola Luanda ■ Sojitz Corporation, Luanda Liaison Office Egypt Cairo ■ Sojitz Corporation, Cairo Liaison Office Iran Tehran ■ Sojitz Corporation Iran Ltd. Iraq Baghdad ■ Sojitz Corporation, Baghdad Liaison Office Libya Tripoli ■ Sojitz Corporation, Tripoli Liaison Office Morocco Casablanca ■ Sojitz Corporation, Casablanca Liaison Office Nigeria Abuja ■ Sojitz Global Trading Nigeria Ltd., Abuja Office Lagos ■ Sojitz Global Trading Nigeria Ltd. Oman Muscat ■ Sojitz Corporation, Muscat Liaison Office Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 79 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of July 1, 2012) MACHINERY DIVISION Group Country Company Ownership Main Business JAPAN Nissho Electronics Corporation 100.00% Providing leading-edge IT solutions and services Nissin Gas Engineering Ltd. 30.00% Sale of LPG reliquefaction equipment, heat exchangers for LPG ships, and repair services SAKURA Internet Inc. 40.29% Internet-related services Sendzimir Japan, Ltd. 45.00% Design and technical guidance for all types of rolling machines and auxiliary equipment Sojitz Aerospace Corporation 100.00% Import/export and Japanese sales of aerospace-related equipment, components and materials Sojitz Automotive & Engineering, Inc. 100.00% Trading of tires, automotive components, and automotive equipment supporting overseas transplants Sojitz Machinery Corporation 100.00% Machinery general trading company Sojitz Marine & Engineering Corporation 100.00% Sale, purchase and charter brokerage of new and used vessels, ship operation management, Japanese sales and import/export of marine-related equipment and materials Sojitz Systems Corporation 100.00% SI, ASP, network security and international IT business CHINA Changshu Showa Bearing Components Co., Ltd. 33.30% Manufacture of lathing rings used in the production of bearings Hubei Qianchao Precision Components Co., Ltd. 25.00% Manufacture of rollers and needles used in the production of bearings Kunshan NSK Co., Ltd. 15.00% Manufacture and sale of bearings Shaoxing Asahi Bearing Co., Ltd. 20.00% Manufacture of lathing rings used in the production of bearings Sojitz Machinery (Shanghai) Corporation 100.00% Machinery general trading company Tangshan Caofeidian Sojitz Starway Composite 61.00% Manufacturing of steel reinforced plastic pipe for drains Pipe Co., Ltd. Zhejiang Asahi Bearing Co., Ltd. 20.00% Manufacture of lathing rings used in the production of bearings Zhejiang FRT Bearing Co., Ltd. 25.00% Manufacture of lathing rings used in the production of bearings Hong Kong First Technology China Ltd. 100.00% Sale and service of Fuji Machine surface-mounting machines and semiconductor-related equipment ASIA & OCEANIA India NMTronics India Pvt. Ltd. 100.00% Sale and service of Fuji Machine surface-mounted technology (SMT) equipment Malaysia Fuji Smt (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 25.80% Service of Fuji Machine surface-mounting machines Philippines Asian Transmission Corporation 5.29% Assembly and sale of automobile transmission engines Fuji Machine Philippines Inc. 86.00% Sale and service of Fuji Machine surface-mounted technology (SMT) equipment Mitsubishi Motors Philippines Corporation 49.00% Import, assembly and sale of Mitsubishi automobiles Singapore Fuji Machine Asia Pte. Ltd. 86.00% Sale and service of Fuji Machine surface-mounted technology (SMT) equipment Howa Machinery Singapore Pte. Ltd. 39.00% Import and sale of industrial machinery and after-sales service Sri Lanka Asia Power (Private) Limited 48.50% Power generation business Thailand AAPICO Hitech Public Company Limited 15.75% Automotive stamping parts design & manufacturing; die & jig design & manufacturing; automotive plastic injection molding & forging parts manufacturing; car dealership; other automotive parts design, manufacturing and sale Autrans (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 73.75% Agency transport operations for automobile parts Hyundai Motor (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 70.00% Import and sale of Hyundai automobiles THE AMERICAS Argentina Hyundai Motor Argentina S.A. 34.00% Import and sale of Hyundai automobiles Brazil Fuji do Brasil Maquinas Industriais Ltda. 60.00% Sale and service of Fuji Machine surface-mounted technology (SMT) equipment Guatemala Central Motriz, S.A. 28.00% Import and sale of automobiles 80 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Group Country Company Ownership Main Business Mexico NAI Azteca S.A. de C.V. 100.00% Investment in power generation projects NM Power Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 100.00% Investment in power generation projects Puerto Rico Sojitz de Puerto Rico Corporation 100.00% Import and distribution of Hyundai automobiles in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands U.S.A. Autrans Corporation 100.00% Provider of sub-assemblies and Just-in-Time delivery services for the automotive industries Plastic Trim International, Inc. 45.99% Manufacturing and sales of automotive plastic trim components Sojitz Aerospace America Corporation 100.00% Sale of aerospace-related equipment, components and materials Sojitz Printer Corporation 85.10% Sale of printers Weatherford Motors, Inc. 100.00% Franchised BMW automobile dealership Venezuela Autrans de Venezuela 100.00% Import and modularization of Mitsubishi and Hyundai assembly components MMC Automotriz, S.A. 92.31% Import and assembly of Mitsubishi and Hyundai automobiles EUROPE, RUSSIA & NIS France Kyowa Synchro Technology Europe S.A.S. 51.00% Sale of synchronizers for manual transmission in Europe Russia Subaru Motor LLC 89.00% Import and exclusive distribution of Subaru automobiles in Russia Ukraine Subaru Ukraine LLC 100.00% Import and exclusive distribution of Subaru automobiles in Ukraine U.K. Solar Mixdorf Ltd. 100.00% Investment in solar power generation projects MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA U.A.E. Blue Horizon Power International Limited 100.00% Investment in power generation projects ENERGY & METAL DIVISION Group Country Company Ownership Main Business JAPAN CoalinQ Corporation 100.00% Operation of an online site for coal users (e-trade and information services) e-Energy Corporation 100.00% Sale of nuclear fuel and equipment Japan-Brazil Niobium Corporation 25.00% Investment and management of Niobium producing company LNG Japan Corporation 50.00% LNG business and related investments Metal One Corporation 40.00% Integrated steel trading company Nissho Koyu Co., Ltd. 49.07% Sale of petroleum products Nissho Petroleum Gas Corporation 22.50% Import and sale of LPG, LNG and petroleum products Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. 25.00% Development of oil and gas fields Sojitz Energy Corporation 97.08% Sale of petroleum products Sojitz Ject Corporation 100.00% International and domestic trade and sale of coke, carbon materials, petroleum products, and LPG Sojitz Sawada Power Co., Ltd. 98.15% Thermal power generation in Sadogashima Tokyo Yuso Co., Ltd. 100.00% Tank storage operations for petroleum and chemical products Vermitech Corporation 100.00% Processing and sale of vermiculite firings Volclay Japan Co., Ltd. 50.00% Import and sale of bentonite produced in the U.S. and China CHINA Sunlime Limited 43.77% Investment in lime producing company ASIA & OCEANIA Australia Japan Alumina Associates (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 50.00% Investment in Worsley alumina refinery Sojitz Coal Resources Pty. Ltd. 100.00% Investment in coal mines (Jellinbah East, Coppabella, Minerva, Vermont and other projects) Sojitz Energy Australia Pty. Ltd. 100.00% Development of oil and gas Sojitz Moolarben Resources, Pty. Ltd. 100.00% Investment in Moolarben coal mine Sojitz Resources (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 100.00% Investment in Worsley alumina refinery Philippines Coral Bay Nickel Corporation 18.00% Nickel mining Singapore Sojitz Offshore Project Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Investment in FPSO and FSO, and handling of equipment related to oil and gas production Sojitz Petroleum Co., (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Sale of oil and petroleum products Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 81 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates Group Country Company Ownership Main Business THE AMERICAS Brazil Albacora Japao Petroleo Limitada 50.00% Development of oil and gas fields (Albacora oil field) ETH Investimentos S.A. 18.91% Investment in sugar, ethanol and electricity production Canada Cariboo Copper Corporation 50.00% Investment in Gibraltar copper molybdenum mine in Canada (12.5%) Sojitz Moly Resources, Inc. 100.00% Investment in Endako molybdenum mine in Canada (25%) Sojitz Tungsten Resources, Inc. 100.00% Investment in Portuguese tungsten mining company Beralt Tin & Wolfram (Portugal) S.A. (100%) U.S.A. Sojitz Energy Venture, Inc. 100.00% Oil and gas development Sojitz Noble Alloys Corporation 100.00% Investment in Strategic Minerals Corporation (vanadium producer) Strategic Minerals Corporation 25.00% Production and sale of vanadium Trans World Prospect Corporation 28.57% Investment in bentonite mining operation EUROPE, RUSSIA & NIS Portugal Sojitz Beralt Tin & Wolfram (Portugal) S.A. 100.00% Portuguese tungsten mining company U.K. Sojitz Energy Project Ltd. 100.00% Oil and gas development Sojitz Etame Ltd. 100.00% Investment in Gabon Etame oil fields Sojitz Oil & Gas (Egypt) Ltd. 100.00% Oil and gas development CHEMICALS DIVISION Group Country Company Ownership Main Business JAPAN Atsugi Plastics Co., Ltd. 20.00% Manufacture and sale of plastic packing for foods Cosmic Farm Co., Ltd. 30.00% Cultivation and sale of enoki mushrooms Hokko Chemical Co., Ltd. 90.00% Manufacture, processing and sale of paint and ink thinners Japan Niigata Chemical Co., Ltd. 33.50% Production and distribution of sodium chlorate, aqueous solution Mitsumoto Chemicals Co., Ltd. 98.82% Coloring and compounding of plastic resins NI Chemical Corporation 100.00% Warehousing (chemical tanks) business, import/export shipping service Nichipac Co., Ltd. 98.15% Manufacture and sale of processed paper products, such as paper bags and wrapping paper, as well as plastic bags and other plastic products OJK Corporation 35.01% Manufacture and sale of plastic sheets Pla Matels Corporation 46.56% Sale of plastic raw materials, products, and processing equipment Santoku Co., Ltd. 19.25% Manufacture and sale of alloys and compounds for permanent magnets and battery materials Sojitz Cosmetics Corporation 100.00% Development, product planning and sale of cosmetics Sojitz Pla-Net Corporation 100.00% Domestic and international trading of plastics and related products Sojitz Pla-Net Holdings, Inc. 100.00% Holding company: plastic business Sojitz Technoplas Corporation 100.00% Coloring and compounding of plastic resins Solpit Industries, Ltd. 35.55% Research and development of soluble polyimide polymer Taiyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. 80.07% Manufacture and sale of vinyl chloride film CHINA Asahi Kasei (Suzhou) Plastics Compound Co., Ltd. 49.00% Coloring and compounding of plastic resins Hebei Rixin Chemical Co., Ltd. 19.50% Manufacture and sale of barium and strontium compounds Japan Super Engineering Plastics (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 49.00% Coloring and compounding of plastic resins Richao Engineering Plastics (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 49.00% Coloring and compounding of plastic resins Sojitz Plastic (Shenzhen) Ltd. 100.00% Sale of plastic resin materials and molding machines Suzhou Maruai Semiconductor Package Co., Ltd. 30.00% Development, manufacture and sale of products with plastic sheeting conductive coatings Takagi Auto Parts (Foshan) Co., Ltd. 34.00% Manufacture of automobile plastic components Yantai Sandie Plastic Products Co., Ltd. 71.43% Manufacture of various types of polyethylene household bags Hong Kong Furukawa Circuit Foil (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. 25.00% Manufacture and sale of copper foils Sojitz Plastics (China) Ltd. 100.00% Sale of plastic resin materials and molding machines Supreme Development Co., Ltd. 33.34% Processing of plastic films 82 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Group Country Company Ownership Main Business ASIA & OCEANIA Indonesia PT. Kaltim Methanol Industri 85.00% Manufacture and sale of methanol PT. Moriuchi Indonesia 20.00% Manufacture of industrial fabrics Korea Sojitz Agro Corporation 100.00% Sales promotion support of agrochemical products Taiwan Daigin Chemical Co., Ltd. 15.00% Manufacture and sale of thinner, paint and solvent Furukawa Circuit Foil Taiwan Corporation 15.15% Manufacture of copper foils Thailand Thai GCI Resitop Co., Ltd. 39.79% Manufacture and sale of various industrial phenol resins Vietnam Sojitz Chemical Distribution Service Co., Ltd. 100.00% Inventory-based operations using proprietary storage tanks THE AMERICAS Canada American Biaxis Inc. 49.00% Manufacture of biaxially oriented polyamide (BOPA) film U.S.A. Cymetech Corporation 100.00% Manufacture and sale of dicyclopentadiene (DCPD) Metton America, Inc. 85.11% Manufacture and sale of Metton® resins Sepro Membranes Inc. 50.00% Manufacture of membranes for filtration Sojitz Plastics America Inc. 100.00% Sale of nylon film and plastic resins EUROPE, RUSSIA & NIS Finland Biaxis Oy, Ltd. 49.00% Manufacture of biaxially oriented polyamide (BOPA) films CONSUMER LIFESTYLE BUSINESS DIVISION Group Country Company Ownership Main Business JAPAN Daiichibo Co., Ltd. 100.00% Manufacture and sale of textiles, real estate leasing, storage distribution, shopping center management Fuji Nihon Seito Corporation 32.07% Manufacture, refining, processing and sale of sugar Hanshin Silo Co., Ltd. 35.00% Grain warehousing JALUX Inc. 22.00% Logistics and service provision in the in-flight, airport retail, lifestyle-related, and customer service business fields N.I.F. Co., Ltd. 20.00% Sale of food specifically made for vending machines Nissho Iwai Paper & Pulp Corporation 33.56% Sales of pulp & recycle paper, and paper & paperboard products Quy Nhon Plantation Company 39.00% Afforestation; manufacture and sale of woodchips Sanyo Food Co., Ltd. 20.00% Manufacture and sale of frozen foods; food wholesale SOFCO Seafoods Inc. 100.00% Production and sale of processed and side dish seafood Sojitz Building Materials Corporation 100.00% Trading company specializing in sale of construction materials, lumber and residential-related equipment, building interior finish works Sojitz Fashion Co., Ltd. 100.00% Processing and sale of fabrics Sojitz Foods Corporation 100.00% Sale of sugar, farmed marine products, raw ingredients for feed, wheat flour and other foodstuffs Sojitz General Merchandise Corporation 100.00% Import/export and domestic wholesale of footwear, furniture, miscellaneous goods and various materials Sojitz Infinity Inc. 100.00% Manufacture and sale of apparel Sojitz Logitech Co., Ltd. 99.67% Cargo-handling contract work, product storage and management operations Sojitz Promotion Co., Ltd. 100.00% Wholesale and retail of tobacco products Sojitz Tuna Farm Takashima Co., Ltd. 100.00% Tuna farming Sojitz Yoshimoto Ringyo Co., Ltd. 100.00% Joint sales of imported and locally produced products Takahata Co., Ltd. 100.00% Manufacture of sewn products Yamazaki-Nabisco Co., Ltd. 20.00% Manufacture, sale and import/export of biscuits, snacks, candy and chocolate products Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 83 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates Group Country Company Ownership Main Business CHINA A-Fontane Holdings Limited 15.00% Retail of products for home Beijing Sanyuan Sojitz Foods & Logistics Co., Ltd. 49.00% Foodstuff logistics Dalian Global Food Corporation 51.00% Tuna processing Da Longmian Textile (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 25.00% Cotton mill, cotton and quilt processing, production and sale of sleepwear, inspection of all types of textile products Heilongjiang Beidahuang Potato Flake Co., Ltd. 25.00% Processing and sale of potato flakes Liaoning Northern Foods Co., Ltd. 40.00% Sorting and processing of wild and cultivated vegetables Qingdao Sojitz-Cherry Garments Co., Ltd. 25.00% Manufacture of jeans Qingdao Sojitz-Jifa Garments Ltd. 50.00% Manufacture and sale of shirts Sichuan Food Co., Ltd. 49.00% Sale of everyday food items Sojitz Fashion (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 100.00% Processing and wholesale of fabrics in China Sojitz Textile (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 100.00% Manufacture and sale of sewn products Hong Kong Sojitz Now Apparel Ltd. 100.00% Garment agent and trader ASIA & OCEANIA Australia Green Triangle Plantation Forest Company of 29.00% Afforestation; manufacture and sale of woodchips Australia Pty. Ltd. Malaysia Sojitz Forest Products (EM) Sdn. Bhd. 100.00% Sale of timber products and plywood New Zealand Tachikawa Forest Products (NZ) Ltd. 30.87% Saw milling Philippines Atlas Fertilizer Corporation 100.00% Manufacture and sale of fertilizers, sale of imported fertilizer products Thailand N.I.M. Co., Ltd. 70.60% Warehousing (chemical tanks) business SNB Agriproducts Ltd. 29.00% Extraction of rice bran oil, sale of pure and defatted rice bran oil Vietnam Huong Thuy Manufacture Service Trading Corporation 51.00% Wholesale of foodstuffs Interflour Vietnam Ltd. 20.00% Flour milling, port silo operations Japan Vietnam Fertilizer Company 75.00% Manufacture and sale of fertilizers Kyodo Sojitz Feed Company Limited 51.00% Feed production VIJACHIP Cai Lan Corporation 51.00% Afforestation; manufacture and sale of woodchips VIJACHIP Corporation 60.03% Afforestation; manufacture and sale of woodchips VIJACHIP Vung Ang Corporation 60.00% Afforestation; manufacture and sale of woodchips THE AMERICAS U.S.A. Masami Foods, Inc. 21.08% Meat processing and packing Specialty Grains, Inc. 49.00% Contract cultivation of specialty corn and soybeans for export Argentine Sojitz Buenas Tierras del Sur S.A. 100.00% Agricultural development MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA Mozambique Sojitz Maputo Cellulose, Limitada 100.00% Manufacture and sale of woodchips 84 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility OTHER Group Country Company Ownership Main Business JAPAN Akita New Urban-Center Building Co., Ltd. 100.00% Ownership, leasing and management of A·LIVE shopping centers based in Akita Prefecture Shobu Project 100.00% Ownership, leasing and management of Mallage Shobu shopping center Sojitz Commerce Development Corporation 100.00% Ownership, leasing and management of Mallage Saga shopping center Sojitz General Property Management Corporation 100.00% Condominium and office building management, real estate agency services Sojitz Insurance Agency Corporation 100.00% Accident insurance and life insurance agency services Sojitz Logistics Corporation 100.00% Logistics service business: land, sea and air cargo handling, and international nonvessel operating common carrier (NVOCC) transportation Sojitz Realnet Corporation 100.00% Consignment sales of newly constructed condominiums, sale of residential products, construction contracting for sales centers and model showrooms, real estate and logistics consulting Sojitz Research Institute, Ltd. 100.00% Research and consulting Sojitz Shared Service Corporation 100.00% Shared services and consulting regarding HR, accounting and finance; and temporary staffing and referral services Sojitz Tourist Corporation 100.00% Travel agency Yamagata Newcity Development Co., Ltd. 100.00% Ownership, leasing and management of Kajoh Central Building (Yamagata Prefecture) CHINA Hong Kong Sojitz Insurance Brokers (HK) Ltd. 100.00% Insurance broker EUROPE, RUSSIA & NIS Netherlands Sojitz Aircraft Leasing B.V. 100.00% Aircraft operating lease Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 85 Financial Section P. 87 Financial Summary P. 88 Ten Declarations 09 P. 90 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations P. 104 Consolidated Balance Sheets P. 106 Consolidated Statements of Operations P. 107 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income P. 108 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets P. 111 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows P. 112 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements P. 140 Independent Auditor’s Report 86 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Financial Summary For the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 Operating Results: Net sales (Total trading transactions) .......... ¥4,494,237 ¥4,014,640 ¥3,844,418 ¥5,166,183 ¥5,771,029 $54,807,769 Gross trading profit ........................ 231,566 192,725 178,203 235,618 277,732 2,823,976 Operating income .......................... 64,522 37,520 16,129 52,007 92,364 786,854 Ordinary income ............................ 62,228 45,316 13,703 33,637 101,480 758,878 Net income (loss) ........................... (3,650) 15,982 8,794 19,001 62,694 (44,512) Core earnings (Note 2) ................... 64,950 41,891 14,424 48,347 110,727 792,073 Net cash provided by operating activities ..................... 91,601 67,863 107,223 103,729 35,408 1,117,085 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ...................... (42,287) (19,903) 28,439 (17,198) (68,723) (515,695) Net cash used in financing activities ...................... (36,377) (72,054) (102,597) (5,958) (53,724) (443,622) Free cash flow ............................... 49,314 47,960 135,662 86,531 (33,315) 601,390 Balance Sheet Data (As of March 31): Total assets ................................... ¥2,120,597 ¥2,116,961 ¥2,160,919 ¥2,312,958 ¥2,669,352 $25,860,938 Net assets ..................................... 330,471 355,511 377,404 355,503 520,328 4,030,134 Interest-bearing debt ...................... 1,090,543 1,116,303 1,193,518 1,286,960 1,299,086 13,299,305 Net interest-bearing debt ................ 647,836 700,608 737,790 865,330 918,890 7,900,439 U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Per Share Data: Net income (loss) ........................... ¥ (2.92) ¥ 12.77 ¥ 7.08 ¥ 15.39 ¥ 51.98 $(0.04) Net assets ..................................... 244.52 263.79 281.69 256.17 383.46 2.98 Dividends (Note 3) ......................... 3.00 3.00 2.50 5.50 8.00 0.04 Ratios: ROA (%).......................................... (0.2) 0.7 0.4 0.8 2.4 ROE (%) .......................................... (1.1) 4.7 2.6 4.8 13.0 Equity ratio (%)................................ 14.4 15.6 16.3 13.8 17.8 Net debt equity ratio (DER) (times)... 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.7 1.9 Consolidated payout ratio (%) (Notes 3 and 4)........................... — 23.5 35.6 35.7 15.7 Notes: 1. The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations of Japanese yen at the approximate exchange rate at March 31, 2012 of ¥82=$1. 2. Core earnings = Operating income before provision for doubtful receivables + Net interest income + Dividends received + Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. 3. The amounts represent the annual dividends per share on common stock of Sojitz Corporation, and presented consolidated payout ratio is calculated based on the number of shares as of March 31. 4. Consolidated payout ratio is not presented in FY2012 due to the net loss. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 87 Ten Declarations 09 from Yoshio Mogi, CFO Senior Managing Executive Officer “Achieving the targets of our plan Sojitz, allowing us to take on even more attractive initiatives.” Advantages and challenges. Shareholders plan, I am therefore emphasizing shareholders’ and investors often bring up these topics when I equity of ¥380.0 billion and return on assets of speak with them. Among our advantages are 2 percent or higher. Increasing shareholders’ the many business in which we are strong, our equity and raising ROA will naturally lower our strength in emerging countries and our wellnet debt equity ratio and broaden our financial developed risk management. But we also face foundation, which will enhance funding flexibility. challenges, which basically boil down to I am confident that once we complete Mediumunsatisfactory profitability and shareholders’ term Management Plan 2014 we will be in a equity. strong position to aggressively expand our We will take on these challenges under businesses. Medium-term Management Plan 2014. We will A key point in executing Medium-term hold assets constant while raising profitability to Management Plan 2014 is deciding what kind of enhance shareholders’ equity, which will assets we should own. In a rapidly changing increase corporate value. That is the overall aim environment, we need to reallocate assets of the plan. Among the targets for the year decisively and quickly after considering issues ending March 2015, the final fiscal year of the such as profitability, liquidity and potential. We 88 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 will transform larger and decided to establish Controller offices to help each division raise sophistication and speed in areas including risk management, balance sheet management and cash flow-based project management. We established the first one in the Energy & Metal Division in April 2012, and plan to introduce Controller offices in the other divisions as well. As CFO, I am responsible for procuring advantageous funding for our business operations. I am totally committed to achieving the targets of Medium-term Management Plan 2014 through every means possible because that is the key to fulfilling my responsibility. It will CFO Senior Managing Executive Officer also transform Sojitz, allowing us to take on Finance & Accounting, Risk Management even larger and more attractive initiatives. Yoshio Mogi Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 89 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 1. Overview 2. Business Results The year ended March 31, 2012 began with a The Sojitz Group has adopted a uniform fiscal yeargradual recovery in the global economy driven by end for major overseas consolidated subsidiaries that emerging countries. Subsequently, however, Europe’s formerly had a fiscal year-end different from that of the protracted debt crisis triggered an economic slowdown parent company, Sojitz Corporation, in order to facilitate in the euro zone. Growth also slowed in other timely performance management and prompt execution developed countries as they refrained from fiscal of management initiatives and division-based strategies stimulus measures and relied solely on monetary policy. on a Group-wide basis. Factors including reduced exports to Europe and a Accordingly, effective from the year ended March 31, decrease in capital inflows from developed countries 2012, 47 consolidated subsidiaries have changed their also blunted growth in some emerging countries that fiscal year-end to March 31. The Group has also had been driving the global economy. These events led adopted a policy of including the 36 other consolidated to a global economic slowdown. subsidiaries with fiscal year-ends other than March 31 in Slowing growth overseas, the strong yen and flooding consolidated reporting on a pro forma basis, assuming in Thailand weighed on the Japanese economy as it a March 31 fiscal year-end. steadily recovered from the downturn following the As a result of this change, the accounting period ended Great East Japan Earthquake. Since January 2012, March 31, 2012 for these 83 consolidated subsidiaries however, domestic economic sentiment has been spans the 15 months from January 1, 2011. Net sales, improving gradually, largely in response to progress in gross trading profit, operating income, ordinary income, adapting to the strong yen. income before income taxes and minority interests, and The U.S. economy continued to recover moderately net income consequently increased ¥171,984 million, as consumer spending benefited from an extension of ¥16,663 million, ¥6,545 million, ¥8,049 million, ¥7,837 tax cuts. Employment conditions also improved, but million, and ¥6,209 million, respectively, compared to continued weakness in the U.S. housing market and what they would have been if the accounting period for sharply rising crude oil and gasoline prices cast doubt these subsidiaries had been the twelve months from on the prospects for a full-fledged economic recovery. January 1 to December 31, 2011. The economies of emerging countries slowed, largely The following is an analysis of the Sojitz Group’s due to a decline in exports to Europe. Countries such business performance for the year ended March 31, 2012. as China and India, however, maintained relatively solid growth because of increased domestic demand. Many emerging countries have shifted to monetary easing to stimulate economic growth despite the persistence in some regions of inflationary factors such as rising commodity prices and wage increases. ● Consolidated Net Sales ● Consolidated Ordinary Income ● Consolidated Net Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 6,000 5,771.0 150 70 62.7 5,166.2 60 4,494.2 50 4,014.6 101.5 4,000 3,844.4 100 40 30 62.2 19.0 20 16.0 2,000 50 45.3 33.6 8.8 10 (3.6) 13.7 0 0 0 (10) 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 90 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility (1) Net Sales higher gross trading profit, which was partially offset by Consolidated net sales increased 11.9% year on year the increase in SG&A expenses. to ¥4,494,237 million. Compared with the year ended March 31, 2011, export sales in the year ended March (5) Ordinary Income 31, 2012 increased 18.3%, largely due to growth in Despite a reduction in equity in the earnings of plant-related sales. Imports decreased 1.4%, largely unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, most notably reflecting a decline in aircraft-related sales. Domestic a bioethanol producer, consolidated ordinary income sales grew 15.7%, driven largely by growth in energyincreased ¥16,912 million year on year to ¥62,228 and metal-related sales. Offshore sales rose 16.0%, million because of the increase in operating income. largely as a result of growth in chemical-, plasticand automobile-related sales. (6) Extraordinary Gains (Losses) By segment, consolidated net sales decreased 6.9% Extraordinary losses totaled ¥774 million, including year on year in the Other segment but grew year on gain on sale of investment securities of ¥9,468 million, year in all other segments, increasing 6.7% in the gain on sale and disposal of properties and equipment Machinery Division, 3.6% in the Energy & Metal Division, of ¥2,393 million, impairment loss of ¥6,101 million, loss 12.3% in the Chemicals & Functional Materials Division, and provision for loss on dissolution of subsidiaries and and 22.2% in the Consumer Lifestyle Business Division. affiliates of ¥2,648 million and loss on devaluation of investment securities of ¥2,640 million. (2) Gross Trading Profit Gross trading profit increased ¥38,841 million year on (7) Net Income (Loss) year to ¥231,566 million. The increase was largely Consolidated income before income taxes and attributable to growth in overseas automobile trading minority interests was ¥61,454 million. After deduction volume in the Machinery Division and increased oil and of income taxes of ¥18,482 million and deferred income coal prices and production in the Energy & Metal Division. taxes of ¥43,822 million, which included a reversal of deferred tax assets in response to changes in Japan’s (3) Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) tax code, consolidated net loss before minority interests Expenses was ¥850 million. After deduction of minority interests of SG&A expenses increased ¥11,839 million year on ¥2,800 million, consolidated net loss was ¥3,650 year to ¥167,044 million for reasons including higher million, compared with consolidated net income of non-personnel and personnel expenses. ¥15,982 million for the previous fiscal year. (4) Operating Income Consolidated operating income increased ¥27,002 million year on year to ¥64,522 million as a result of ● Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (Years ended March 31) (Millions of yen) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Directors’ remuneration and salaries for employees ...... ¥ 60,573 ¥ 59,979 ¥ 56,827 ¥ 56,308 ¥ 59,313 Employees’ retirement and severance benefits ............. 2,725 3,449 3,591 4,212 3,892 Welfare ......................................................................... 10,355 9,987 10,816 9,984 11,100 Travelling expenses ....................................................... 9,933 9,423 6,514 6,552 7,303 Rent ............................................................................. 13,004 13,639 12,729 11,748 12,233 Legal and professional fees........................................... 16,548 16,144 11,547 11,079 11,352 Depreciation ................................................................. 7,726 5,920 5,505 5,475 6,381 Provision for doubtful receivables .................................. 4,015 5,389 5,429 620 1,101 Amortization of goodwill ................................................ 4,939 5,324 5,181 5,139 5,581 Other ............................................................................ 55,550 54,357 43,935 44,088 48,788 Total.............................................................................. ¥185,368 ¥183,611 ¥162,074 ¥155,205 ¥167,044 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 91 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 3. Segment Information building an information and communication technology (ICT) value chain from system development to sales, Results by segment are as follows. construction, repair and operation of IT equipment Effective the year ended March 31, 2012, Sojitz changed through alliances and cooperation among affiliates and its business segments, reclassifying part of its commercial subsidiaries. Moreover, expanding the data center property development operations from the Consumer business is one of our growth strategies in ICT, and Lifestyle Business Division to the Other segment. subsidiary Nissho Electronics Corporation, our core ICT company, established a data center in Osaka. (1) Machinery In the marine business, Sojitz is improving profitability Net sales increased 6.7% year on year to ¥1,030,555 by replacing assets in the ship-owning business. We are million because of robust sales by the automotive also concentrating on developing environmental areas business in Europe and Latin America and growth in as a new source of earnings. For example, we invested plant exports. Net income increased ¥4,694 million year in a U.S. manufacturer of treatment systems that on year to ¥8,086 million. comply with ballast water treatment regulations for The Great East Japan Earthquake and flooding in ships, and are working to build a strong sales network Thailand had little impact on the Sojitz Group’s automotive in Asia. business. Results for the year ended March 31, 2012 In the commercial aircraft business, we delivered a improved substantially because increased demand for total of 23 aircraft including the first B787s to Japanese automobiles, especially in emerging countries, supported airlines as the import and sales consultant to The Boeing strong growth in most markets that Sojitz serves. Sojitz Company of the United States. Also, we delivered four will continue to strengthen the business in rapidly growing aircraft to civilian customers as the sales agent for the emerging country markets. commuter planes produced by Bombardier Inc. of Canada. In the infrastructure project and industrial machinery business, we successfully won orders for large-scale (2) Energy & Metal projects in emerging countries, including a steel plant in Net sales increased 3.6% year on year to ¥1,050,725 India for a major Indian steelmaker, an engineering million, largely as a result of higher prices and contract for a fertilizer plant in Angola, and additional production volumes for oil and coal. Net income equipment for the world’s largest aluminum refinery in increased ¥813 million year on year to ¥27,275 million the United Arab Emirates. In addition, Sojitz conducted as an extraordinary gain on the sale of shares of various environmental initiatives such as entering the overseas operating companies offset a decrease in mega-solar power generation business in Germany and equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and beginning sales of a ceiling crane power supply system affiliates, most notably a bioethanol producer. using lithium-ion capacitors manufactured by Advanced Highlights in the upstream oil and gas businesses Capacitor Technologies Inc. included robust oil production at Phoenix Field in the In the information technology (IT) business, we are U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which commenced in the fiscal ● Net Sales by Segment ● Net Income (Loss) by Segment (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 5,000 50 (3.6) 4,494.2 16.0 4,014.6 4,000 3,844.4 8.8 25 3,000 0 Segment 2,000 Machinery (25) Energy & Metal 1,000 Chemicals & Functional Materials Consumer Lifestyle Business 0 (50) Other (Including reconciliations) 10 11 12 10 11 12 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 92 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility year ended March 31, 2011, and success in additional strategic products, such as industrial salt, rare earths oilfield development in Qatar. We expect to increase our and methanol. All of these strategic products are basic share of production volume by expanding existing raw materials, and we therefore expect business to interests, and will respond to the global energy demand grow in tandem with global economic development. behind the persistently high price of crude oil. In the chemicals business, we signed a long-term In coal and non-ferrous metals, we are enhancing our purchase agreement for butadiene with Braskem S.A., operating foundation and ensuring stable supplies of the largest petrochemical company in South America. resources by both acquiring resources and expanding Demand is expected to increase for butadiene as a raw the trading business through upstream interests. For material for synthetic rubber used in tires. Demand for a example, we began expanding a copper mine in stable supply of lithium as a material in lithium-ion Canada, discovered a new copper deposit in Chile, and batteries is rising as the popularity of electric cars acquired PCI coal interests in Australia to supply raw increases. To address this demand, we signed a material to steelmakers. Emphasizing environmentally memorandum of understanding with Talison Lithium conscious businesses, we leveraged 40 years of Limited of Australia to supply and jointly market lithium experience in clean coal technology in initiating an in Japan, with plans to initiate production in the fiscal investigation of technologies for reducing the year ending March 31, 2016. These and other initiatives environmental impact of Mongolia’s abundant low-rank strengthened our distribution value chains for strategic coal through effective use. products for which we expect increased future demand. In ferrous materials & steel products, Sojitz added to In functional materials, Sojitz signed a strategic its resource interests by acquiring shares of Brazil-based alliance with Myriant Corporation of the United States to Companhia Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineração create a manufacturing and marketing partnership that (CBMM), a leading global producer of niobium, a rare gives Sojitz exclusive Asian marketing rights for metal indispensable to the production of high-grade Myriant’s biobased succinic acid, a plant-based raw steel, and expanded existing rare metal interests as part material for plastics. Moreover, subsidiary Sojitz of its strategy of building a framework for stable supply Cosmetics Corporation made progress in developing its of rare metals. Similarly, we are building a framework for own cosmetics brands by creating and initiating sales of stable supply of iron ore by buying iron ore and Chronorest, a high-added value cosmetics brand, in developing iron mines. In addition, we strengthened collaboration with Kanebo Cosmillion, Ltd. Sojitz cooperation with affiliate Metal One to build a solid base Cosmetics will focus on developing appealing new for a steel business integrated from raw materials to brands in the future. finished product sales. In new energy & environmental business, expansion (4) Consumer Lifestyle Business proceeded steadily at ETH Bioenergia S.A., our Net sales grew 22.2% year on year to ¥1,679,783 bioethanol production company in Brazil, as we million, largely because of higher cigarette prices and completed a nine-plant production framework. ETH has trading volume and growth in trading volume of integrated bioethanol and sugar production and biomass livestock feed ingredients. Net income, however, power starting from sugar cane cultivation. In addition, declined ¥634 million to ¥1,720 million, largely reflecting Sojitz is the leading importer to Japan of high-purity reduced earnings at overseas fertilizer subsidiaries. silicon metals, which are key raw materials in solar panels. In food resources, Sojitz acted to ensure stable We will leverage this strength in our initiatives to supply supplies of food and meet rising demand for meat by raw materials to the solar power generation business. becoming the first Japanese company involved in the compound livestock feed business in Vietnam and (3) Chemicals & Functional Materials Cambodia. We will use affiliate Interflour Vietnam Ltd.’s Net sales rose 12.3% year on year to ¥687,891 specialized grain port, now the largest of its kind in the million, largely due to increases in chemicals and ASEAN region, to supply competitive feed materials. We plastics trading volumes and prices in Asia. Net income also contributed to reconstruction in Japan. Initiatives increased ¥3,041 million year on year to ¥5,753 million. included rebuilding and restarting production at our The Group’s business model for the Chemicals & processed seafood business, which was damaged by Functional Materials segment focuses on distribution. the Great East Japan Earthquake. We work to increase earnings by investing in upstream In forest products, Sojitz has diversified woodchips businesses to build a distribution value chain that sources for supplying paper manufacturers in countries ranges from the supply of raw materials to sales for where demand is expected to increase. Sojitz Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 93 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations complemented its woodchip and afforestation businesses Japan, 102 overseas) were affiliated companies in Vietnam by launching a business in Mozambique that accounted for under the equity method. manufactures woodchips as a raw material for paper. Companies included in the scope of consolidation In real estate development, we specialize in the that reported net income included 201 consolidated condominium sales business in metropolitan Tokyo. subsidiaries, or 62.2% of the total (208 consolidated Overseas, we are developing industrial parks in Vietnam subsidiaries, or 65.0%, in the previous fiscal year), and and India, where many Japanese and other companies 108 equity-method affiliates, or 77.7% of the total (120 are considering establishing transplants. equity-method affiliates, or 77.4%, in the previous fiscal In consumer services, we are expanding the retail year). On an overall basis, 66.9% (69.1% in the previous presence of the new McGREGOR CLASSIC brand while fiscal year) reported net income for the year ended enhancing our lineup of shoes, bags and other March 31, 2012. The operating performance of products. We also stepped up initiatives in emerging companies included in the scope of consolidation is countries by increasing our stake in a leading food presented in the table below. wholesaler in Vietnam to make it a consolidated subsidiary. In the airport retail business, we continued to 5. Financial Position increase the corporate value of affiliate JALUX Inc. (1) Consolidated Balance Sheets (5) Other 1) Assets Net sales decreased 6.9% year on year to ¥45,283 At March 31, 2012, total assets were ¥2,120,597 million. Net loss decreased ¥6,092 million compared million, an increase of ¥3,636 million from the end of the with the previous fiscal year to ¥636 million, largely previous fiscal year. because restructuring charges recognized in the year Current assets increased ¥31,522 million from a year ended March 31, 2011 did not recur. earlier to ¥1,298,152 million. Factors included a ¥27,435 million increase in inventories, mainly as a result of higher 4. Earnings of Group Companies tobacco and automobile inventories compared with the previous fiscal year end. As of March 31, 2012, the Sojitz Group comprised Total investments and long-term receivables 462 companies, a decrease of 13 companies compared decreased ¥6,820 from a year earlier to ¥441,977 million, with the end of the previous fiscal year. Of this number, mainly because investment securities decreased ¥8,377 323 companies (90 in Japan, 233 overseas) were million due to changes in foreign exchange rates and consolidated subsidiaries, and 139 companies (37 in stock prices. ● Earnings of Group Companies (Year ended March 31, 2012) Profitable Unprofitable Total Number of Net income Number of Net loss Number of Net income companies (Billions of yen) companies (Billions of yen) companies (Billions of yen) Consolidated subsidiaries Domestic ............................................ 53 9.2 37 (5.8) 90 3.4 Overseas ............................................ 148 49.1 85 (8.6) 233 40.5 Total.................................................... 201 58.3 122 (14.4) 323 43.9 % of total ............................................ 62.2% — 37.8% — 100.0% — Companies accounted for by the equity method Domestic ............................................ 33 10.8 4 (0.0) 37 10.8 Overseas ............................................ 75 6.5 27 (6.1) 102 0.4 Total.................................................... 108 17.3 31 (6.1) 139 11.2 % of total ............................................ 77.7% — 22.3% — 100.0% — Total Domestic ............................................ 86 20.0 41 (5.8) 127 14.2 Overseas ............................................ 223 55.6 112 (14.7) 335 40.9 Total.................................................... 309 75.6 153 (20.5) 462 55.1 % of total ............................................ 66.9% — 33.1% — 100.0% — 94 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Property and equipment increased ¥17,486 million Accumulated other comprehensive income decreased from a year earlier to ¥233,261 million, mainly due to ¥16,461 million, mainly because foreign currency capital expenditures by operating companies. translation adjustments reduced accumulated other Other non-current assets decreased to ¥147,207 comprehensive income by an additional ¥9,703 million million from a year earlier mainly due to a ¥30,439 million compared with a year earlier and net unrealized gains on decrease in deferred tax assets resulting from changes in available-for-sale securities decreased because of Japan’s tax code. fluctuations in stock prices. As a result, total net assets including minority interests in net income at March 31, 2) Liabilities 2012 decreased ¥25,040 million from a year earlier to At March 31, 2012, total liabilities were ¥1,790,126 ¥330,471 million. million, an increase of ¥28,676 million from a year earlier. Current liabilities increased ¥56,878 million from a (2) Cash Flow year earlier to ¥947,423 million. The primary factor was 1) Cash Flows from Operating Activities an increase in trade notes and trade accounts payable Net cash provided by operating activities increased that was largely due to increased purchases associated ¥23,738 million year on year to ¥91,601 million. In the with lumberand automobile-related sales and the year ended March 31, 2012, cash provided by income effect from the close of the fiscal year on a bank holiday. before income taxes and minority interests and an Total non-current liabilities decreased ¥28,202 million increase in trade payables exceeded increases in trade from a year earlier to ¥842,703 million, mainly due to receivables and inventories that used cash. redemption of bonds. Interest-bearing debt decreased ¥25,760 million from 2) Cash Flows from Investing Activities a year earlier to ¥1,090,543 million. Net interest-bearing Net cash used in investing activities increased debt, calculated as total interest-bearing debt less cash ¥22,384 million year on year to ¥42,287 million. Cash and deposits, decreased ¥52,772 million from a year provided by net decrease in marketable securities and earlier to ¥647,836 million, resulting in a net debt equity proceeds from sale of property and equipment including ratio (net DER) of 2.1 times at March 31, 2012. aircraft and ships only partially offset the use of cash for purchase of property and equipment, which included 3) Net Assets investments in interests. Owner’s equity decreased to ¥464,027 million, largely because the net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 3) Free Cash Flow 2012, dividend payments and other factors reduced As a result of the above, free cash flow for the year retained earnings by ¥7,653 million from a year earlier. ended March 31, 2012 totaled ¥49,314 million. ● ROA and ROE ● Equity Ratio ● Net Interest-bearing Debt and Net DER (%) (%) (Billions of yen) (Times) 15.0 6.0 20.0 1,000 5.0 13.0 17.8 918.9 865.3 16.3 15.6 800 737.8 4.0 10.0 4.0 15.0 700.6 14.4 647.8 13.8 2.4 600 3.0 2.7 4.8 4.7 10.0 5.0 2.0 2.6 2.1 2.1 2.1 400 2.0 1.9 0.8 0.4 0.7 (0.2) 0 0 5.0 200 1.0 (1.1) (5.0) (2.0) 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (Years ended March 31) (As of March 31) (As of March 31) ROE (left scale) ROA (right scale) Net interest-bearing debt (left scale) Net DER (right scale) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 95 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 4) Cash Flows from Financing Activities liabilities and the appropriate recording of revenues Net cash used in financing activities decreased ¥35,677 and expenses for the reporting period used in the million year on year to ¥36,377 million. In the year ended preparation of the consolidated financial statements are March 31, 2012, the use of cash for repayment of longbased on estimates and assumptions as determined by term debt and redemption of bonds exceeded proceeds the Company’s management. The Company constantly from long-term debt and issuance of bonds. reviews and verifies estimates and assumptions relating As a result of the above, cash and cash equivalents to the evaluation of receivables, investments and at the end of the fiscal year, including the effect of inventories, fixed assets, recognition of revenue, exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents income taxes, deferred tax assets, Group business increased ¥12,013 million from a year earlier to reorganization, and restructuring costs including those ¥427,274 million. for affiliated companies, retirement and severance benefits, contingent liabilities, and other items. (3) Liquidity and Funding Estimates, assumptions and decisions made by the In the year ended March 31, 2012, the final year of Company are based on historical performance and the Shine 2011 medium-term management plan, the other factors that are deemed most relevant to the Sojitz Group continued with its fundamental policy of situation. In the event that insufficient facts exist to maintaining and improving the stability of its funding enable the Company to make an objective decision structure. Specific measures included maintaining the regarding the accounting for assets and liabilities and target long-term debt ratio to create a stable funding income and expenses, the Company bases its structure while ensuring a stable financial base by decisions on estimates and assumptions. Accordingly, maintaining sufficient liquidity to accommodate changes differing assumptions and changes in conditions may in economic and financial conditions. Consequently, as cause estimates and actual results to differ. of March 31, 2012 the current ratio was 137% and the The following are significant accounting policies adopted long-term debt ratio was 71%. by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unsecured bonds are one method Sojitz uses to procure long-term funding. Sojitz issued a total of ¥40.0 (1) Evaluation of Receivables billion in unsecured bonds during the year ended March The Company provides for probable losses arising 31, 2012, consisting of a ¥10.0 billion issue in June from uncollectible notes and accounts receivable and 2011, a ¥20.0 billion issue in September 2011 and a loans receivable by maintaining an allowance for ¥10.0 billion issue in March 2012. Sojitz will continue to doubtful receivables based on past credit loss base future decisions to issue bonds on interest rates, experience over the preceding three years. For doubtful market trends, appropriate timing and cost. receivables, the Company records an allowance after Sojitz also ensures flexible access to capital and evaluating the probability of recovery, considering the supplemental liquidity through a ¥100.0 billion estimated realization value of collateral and amounts to commitment line and a multi-currency commitment line be recovered by guarantees. equivalent to US$300 million. In order to accurately assess the allowance for doubtful receivables, the Company periodically verifies 6. Summary of Significant each customer’s financial position, credit rating, Accounting Policies conditions for collection of receivables, changes in payment terms and conditions, economic trends in the The consolidated financial statements of the industry, conditions in the region in which the customer Company and its subsidiaries are prepared in operates, and all other relevant information. conformity with accounting principles generally The Company’s management believes that the accepted in Japan. The reported amounts relating to Company maintains sufficient and adequate allowances assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent for doubtful receivables. ● Cash Flow (Years ended March 31) (Millions of yen) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net cash provided by operating activities ......................... ¥ 35,408 ¥103,729 ¥ 107,223 ¥ 67,863 ¥ 91,601 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ............ (68,723) (17,198) 28,439 (19,903) (42,287) Net cash used in financing activities................................. (53,724) (5,958) (102,597) (72,054) (36,377) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ............ 373,884 414,420 454,262 415,261 427,274 Free cash flow ................................................................. (33,315) 86,531 135,662 47,960 49,314 96 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility (2) Evaluation of Investment Securities (3) Evaluation of Inventories The Company maintains a significant level of Inventories held for sale in the ordinary course of investments that are classified according to the purpose business are stated on the balance sheets at the lower for which they are held, with valuation subject to a of acquisition cost or net selling value that reflects any variety of assumptions. Available-for-sale securities with decline in profitability. Moreover, inventories held for available market values are stated at fair value based on trading purposes are stated on the balance sheets at market prices as of the balance sheet date with the market price, and any gain or loss arising from unrealized valuation gains and losses, net of tax, revaluation of inventories for trading purposes is included in net assets in the consolidated balance presented in net sales. sheets. The Company recognizes devaluation losses on The market value of real estate for sale is valued on investment securities whose values have declined by at an individual property basis by selecting the most least 50% of their book value. In cases in which the appropriate value from among sales price, appraisal values have declined 30% to 50%, and where amount, official announced value, and appraised value conditions remain substantially unchanged from the for inheritance tax purposes, taking into consideration previous fiscal year, the Company’s management various conditions at the time of appraisal. In the event evaluates the probability of recovery, and recognizes conditions are unchanged, this value is carried forward devaluation losses except when the value is deemed to to the following fiscal year. be recoverable. Available-for-sale securities with no readily available (4) Depreciation and Valuation of Property, fair market value are valued at cost using the movingEquipment and Intangible Assets average method. The Company assesses these The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries securities by comparing its equity in the net asset value principally depreciate property and equipment other of the issuer with the book value of the investment. In than leased assets by the declining-balance method, the event the Company’s equity in the net asset value of and depreciate intangible assets other than leased the issuer has declined by at least 50% of the book assets by the straight-line method based on the value, the Company’s management assesses the estimated useful lives of the respective assets according probability of recovery considering each situation, such to the Corporate Tax Law. However, buildings acquired as venture investments or temporary declines due to after April 1, 1998 are depreciated by the straight-line initial losses in the start-up of companies, and method. Leased assets in finance lease transactions recognizes devaluation losses except when the value is without transfer of ownership are depreciated using the deemed to be recoverable. Furthermore, in the event straight-line method based on the assumption that the the Company’s equity in the net asset value of the useful life is equal to the lease term and the residual issuer has declined to less than 50% of the book value, value is equal to zero. The accounting treatment of the and there is no probability of recovery, the Company Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries for recognizes the impairment loss. In the case of bonds, finance lease transactions without transfer of ownership the amortized cost method is applied on an individual that commenced prior to April 1, 2008 is similar to that basis and a loss recognized for the estimated nonused for ordinary rental transactions. Investment redeemable portion based on credit risk. properties are depreciated mainly using the straight-line In the non-consolidated financial statements, the method, with useful lives principally calculated Company prepares for any future investment losses in according to the Corporate Tax Law. connection with marketable securities of related Certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries and companies by maintaining an investment loss allowance equity-method affiliates revalue commercial-use land for estimated losses calculated on an individual basis pursuant to “Law Concerning Revaluation of Land” (Law according to prescribed criteria after considering such No. 34 enforced on March 31, 1998). The related factors as the financial position and business value of unrealized gains or losses are recorded as land the issuer. revaluation difference in net assets in the consolidated In recognizing devaluation losses on investment balance sheets. The revaluation method primarily securities and in deciding the investment loss follows the “Guidelines for Enforcement Regulations of allowance, the Company’s management reaches a the Law Concerning Revaluation of Land (Ordinance decision after considering not only the financial position No. 119 enforced on March 31, 1998).” Article 2-3 of the issuer but also specific factors pertaining to the provides for reasonable adjustments to the value of land industry, location and region of the issuer. recorded in the land tax registry as prescribed in Article Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 97 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations 341-10 of the Local Tax Law. Article 2-5 provides for (7) Directors’ and Corporate Auditors’ the calculation of appraised value. Retirement Benefits Impairment losses of the Company and its domestic Certain domestic subsidiaries recognize retirement consolidated subsidiaries are determined by comparing benefits for directors and executive officers based on the carrying amount of assets or an asset group with internal regulations to provide for expected retirement their undiscounted estimated future cash flows. If the benefits for directors and corporate auditors as of the undiscounted estimated future cash flows are less than balance sheet date, based on “Auditing Treatment Relating the carrying amount, the difference between the higher to Reserve Defined under the Special Tax Measurement of either net selling price or present value of future Law, Reserve Defined under the Special Law and Reserve projected cash flows and the carrying amount is for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits” recognized as an impairment loss. Accumulated (Auditing and Assurance Practice Committee Report No. 42 impairment losses are deducted directly from the issued by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public corresponding assets. Accountants on April 13, 2007). (5) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 7. Business and Other Risks Where temporary differences exist between the amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and (1) Business Risks the bases of such assets and liabilities as measured by tax As a general trading company, Sojitz is engaged in a laws, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded taking wide range of businesses globally, including buying, into account the tax loss carryforwards in accordance with selling, importing, and exporting goods, manufacturing tax-effect accounting standards. and selling products, providing services, and planning The Company evaluates the probability of realization and coordinating projects, in Japan and overseas. The of the benefits of those deferred tax assets based on Group also invests in various sectors and conducts future taxable income estimates and tax planning. A financing activities. These operations are inherently valuation allowance is established to reduce certain exposed to various risks. The Group defines and deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary classifies risks and manages them in accord with their differences and net operating loss carryforwards where nature. For quantifiable risks (market risks, credit risk, it is more likely to be unable to realize the benefits of business investment risk, and country risk), the Group those deferred tax assets as a result of rigorous conducts comprehensive risk management, measuring assessment by the Company’s management. risks and monitoring them based on risk asset scores Although the Company’s management believes that derived from risk measurements. Although the Group is the realization of deferred tax assets, less amount of strengthening and upgrading its risk management to deal valuation allowance, is probable, the valuation with various risks, it cannot completely avoid these risks. allowance may change depending on changes of estimates for future taxable income. 1) Risk of changes in the macroeconomic environment As a general trading company with global operations, (6) Employees’ Retirement and Sojitz operates a wide range of businesses in Japan Severance Benefits and overseas, including Machinery, Energy & Metal, Employees’ retirement and severance benefits are Chemicals and Consumer Lifestyle Business. The accrued based on the present value of projected benefit Group’s earnings are influenced by political and obligations attributed to employee services rendered by economic conditions in Japan and other countries and the end of the year and the fair value of the pension the overall global economy. A global or regional plan assets at fiscal year-end. economic slowdown can adversely affect the Group’s The Company has adopted a “Defined Contribution operating performance and/or financial condition. Pension Plan” with a “Lump-sum Payment Plan” or a “Prepaid Retirement Allowance Plan” as its retirement and 2) Market risks severance benefit scheme. Domestic consolidated The Group is exposed to market risks, including subsidiaries maintain employees’ welfare pension fund exchange rate risk associated with transactions plans and lump-sum payment plans as defined fund plans denominated in foreign currencies in connection with for the most part. Some consolidated subsidiaries have international trade or business investments; interest rate established a retirement allowance trust. Some foreign fluctuation risk associated with debt financing and consolidated subsidiaries also have defined benefit plans. 98 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility portfolio investment; commodity price fluctuation risk (c) Commodity price risk associated with purchase and sale agreements and As a general trading company, the Group deals in a commodity inventories incidental to operating activities; wide range of commodities in its various businesses. It is and market price fluctuation risk associated with consequently exposed to the risk of commodity price holding listed securities and other such assets. The fluctuations. For market-traded commodities, the Group Group pursues a basic policy of minimizing these manages exposures and controls losses by setting (long market risks through such means as matching assets and short) position limits and stop-loss levels for each of and liabilities (e.g., long and short commodity its organizational units. The Group also imposes and exposures) and hedging with forward exchange enforces stop-loss rules (i.e., organizational units must contracts, commodity futures/forward contracts, and promptly liquidate losing positions and are prohibited from interest rate swaps. initiating new trades for the remainder of the fiscal year if unit losses, including valuation losses, exceed the stop(a) Currency risk loss level). Even with these controls, however, there is no The Group engages in import and export assurance that the Group can completely avoid transactions, and offshore transactions, denominated in commodity price risk. The Group’s operating performance foreign currencies as a principal business activity. and/or financial condition could be adversely affected by Whereas the revenues and expenditures associated unanticipated market movements. The Group also with such transactions are mainly paid in foreign monitors commodity inventories by business unit on a currencies, the Group’s consolidated reporting currency monthly basis to control inventory levels. is the Japanese yen. The Group is therefore exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the yen’s value against foreign (d) Listed securities price risk currencies, and hedges its foreign currency exposure The Group has large holdings of marketable securities. with forward exchange contracts to prevent or limit For listed shares in particular, the Group periodically losses stemming from this currency risk. Even with such reviews its portfolio. Nonetheless, a major decline in the hedging, however, there is no assurance that the Group stock market could impair the Group’s investment can completely avoid currency risk. The Group’s portfolio and, in turn, adversely affect the Group’s operating performance and/or financial condition could operating performance and/or financial condition. be adversely affected by unanticipated market movements. Additionally, the Group’s dividend income 3) Credit risk from overseas Group companies and the profits and The Group assumes credit risk by extending credit to losses of overseas consolidated subsidiaries and many domestic and foreign customers through a variety equity-method affiliates are largely denominated in of commercial transactions. The Group mitigates such foreign currencies. Their conversion into yen entails credit risk by objectively assigning credit ratings to the currency risk. The Group also owns many foreign customers to which it extends credit based on an subsidiaries and operating companies. When these 11-grade rating scale. The Group also controls credit companies’ financial statements are converted into yen, risk by setting rating-based credit limits on a customerexchange rate movements could impair the Group’s net by-customer basis and enforcing the credit limits thus assets through the foreign currency translation set. The Group also employs other safeguards (e.g., adjustment account. collateral and guarantees) as warranted by the customer’s creditworthiness. Additionally, the Group has (b) Interest rate risk a system for assessing receivables in which it screens The Group’s finances include credit terms for trade and the customers to which it has extended trade credit to other receivables, purchases of investment securities, identify those that meet certain criteria. It then and expenditures for property and equipment that are reassesses the selected customers’ creditworthiness primarily funded with loans from financial institutions and and the status of the Group’s claims against these bond issues. Sharp increases in interest rates that raise customers. Through this approach, the Group is funding costs could affect income and expenses endeavoring to more rigorously ascertain credit risk and associated with assets and liabilities on the balance estimate provisions to allowance for doubtful accounts sheets, which could adversely affect the Group’s for individual receivables. For credit risk associated with operating performance and/or financial condition. deferred payments, loans, and credit guarantees, the Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 99 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations Group periodically assesses whether profitability is early stage and minimize losses on divestiture or commensurate with credit risk on a case-by-case basis. liquidation, the Group sets exit conditions and acts For transactions that do not generate riskdecisively to opportunely exit investments that have commensurate returns, the Group takes steps to failed to generate risk-commensurate returns. improve profitability or limit credit risk. Even with such procedures for screening prospective However, even with such credit management investments and monitoring existing investments, the procedures, there is no assurance that the Group can Group cannot completely avoid the risk that investment completely avoid credit risk. If, for example, receivables returns will fall short of expectations or the risk that are rendered uncollectible by a customer’s bankruptcy, businesses will fail to perform according to plan. the Group’s operating performance and/or financial Moreover, the Group could incur losses when exiting condition could be adversely affected. business ventures or may be precluded from exiting business ventures as intended due to circumstances 4) Business investment risk such as relationships with partners in the ventures. The Group invests in a wide range of businesses as Such events could adversely affect the Group’s one of its principal business activities. In doing so, it operating performance and/or financial condition. assumes the risk of fluctuations in the value of these investments. Additionally, because many business 5) Country risk investments are illiquid, the Group also faces the risk of To minimize losses that may result from country risk, being unable to recoup its investment as profitably as the Group recognizes that it must avoid concentrated initially anticipated. exposure to any single country or region. In conducting With the aim of preventing and limiting losses from business in countries that pose substantial country risk, business investments, the Group has established the Group generally hedges against country risk on a standards for rigorously prescreening prospective transaction-by-transaction basis through such means business investments and monitoring and withdrawing as purchasing trade insurance. from investments. In managing country risk, the Group assigns countryIn screening prospective investments, the Group risk ratings to individual countries and regions and sets analyzes business plans, including cash flow net exposure (gross exposure less trade insurance projections, and rigorously assesses the businesses’ coverage and/or other country-risk hedges) limits based prospects. It has also established procedures, including on the country’s size and assigned rating. The Group an IRR (internal rate of return) hurdle rate screen, to limits its net exposure to individual countries to no more enable it to identify investments with the potential to than the net exposure limit. However, even with these generate returns commensurate with risk. risk controls and hedges, the Group cannot completely Once the Group has invested in a business venture, it eliminate the risk that businesses will fail to perform closely monitors the business through such means as according to plan or the risk of losses due to changes in periodic reassessment of the business’s prospects to political, economic, regulatory and societal conditions in minimize losses through early identification of problems. the countries in which the Group conducts business To identify problems with business investments at an activities or countries in which the Group’s customers ● Country Risk Exposure (Year ended March 31, 2012) (Billions of yen) Operating Cash and Other Country Substantial Investments Loans Guarantees receivables deposits, etc. assets risk country risk Thailand......................................................... 1.4 0.0 0.0 24.3 10.2 6.0 41.9 46.6 Malaysia ........................................................ 0.7 0.0 0.0 4.1 0.3 1.2 6.3 4.9 Indonesia ....................................................... 3.2 0.1 0.0 9.0 4.6 17.0 33.9 42.3 Philippines ..................................................... 12.9 0.5 0.0 11.5 0.8 1.4 27.1 21.1 China (including Hong Kong) ......................... 11.0 0.9 0.6 38.6 7.0 5.0 63.1 61.4 (China only) .......................................... 9.7 0.4 0.5 28.7 5.1 1.5 45.9 51.1 (Hong Kong only) ................................. 1.3 0.5 0.1 9.9 1.9 3.5 17.2 10.3 Brazil ............................................................. 9.6 0.5 0.2 8.8 2.9 8.3 30.3 49.3 Venezuela ...................................................... 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.3 7.1 11.4 30.8 30.9 Argentina ....................................................... 0.5 0.0 0.0 3.7 0.0 1.9 6.1 3.2 Russia ........................................................... 0.3 0.0 0.0 19.8 4.7 0.4 25.2 26.5 Total .............................................................. 39.6 2.0 0.8 132.1 37.6 52.6 264.7 286.2 100 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility are located. In the event of such losses, the Group’s business activities. Additionally, the Group’s operating operating performance and/or financial condition could performance and/or financial condition could be be adversely affected. adversely affected by major statutory or regulatory revisions or application of an unanticipated 6) Impairment risk interpretation of existing laws or regulations. The Group is exposed to the risk of impairment of the value of its non-current assets, including real estate 10) Litigation risk holdings and other property, equipment, goodwill and Litigation or other legal proceedings, such as mining rights, as well as its leased assets. The Group arbitration, may be initiated in Japan or overseas uses asset impairment accounting and recognizes against the Group or certain of its assets in connection necessary impairment losses at the end of the fiscal with the Group’s business activities. As of March 31, year in which they are identified. If assets subject to 2012, the Group was not involved in any litigation, asset impairment accounting decline materially in value arbitration, or other legal proceedings with the potential due to a decline in their prices, recognition of necessary to have a material impact on its operating performance impairment losses could adversely affect the Group’s or financial condition. operating performance and/or financial condition. 11) Information system and information security risks 7) Financing risk The Group has prescribed regulations and established The Group largely funds its operations by issuing oversight entities, mainly internal committees, to bonds and borrowing funds from financial institutions. appropriately protect and manage information assets. Accordingly, in the event of a disruption of the financial The Group also has implemented safeguards, such as system or financial and capital markets, or a major installation of duplicate hardware, against failure of key downgrade of the Group’s credit rating by a rating information systems and network infrastructure. agency, the Group’s operating performance and/or Additionally, the Group is endeavoring to strengthen its financial condition could be adversely affected by safeguards against information leaks through such means funding constraints and/or increased financing costs. as installing firewalls to prevent unauthorized access by outsiders, implementing antivirus measures, and utilizing 8) Environmental risk encryption technologies. The Group regards environmental preservation as one While the Group is working to strengthen overall of the most important management considerations. The information security and prevent system failures, it Group has prescribed environmental policies and is cannot completely eliminate the risk of important proactively addressing environmental problems through information assets, including personal information, such means as complying with environmental laws and being leaked or damaged by an unknown computer regulations and assessing the environmental impact of virus or unauthorized access to its computer systems. prospective investments and loans and development Nor can the Group eliminate the risk of its information projects. Despite such measures, the Group’s business and communication systems being rendered inoperable activities could still pollute the environment. In such an by an unforeseeable natural disaster or system failure. event, the Group could incur costs due to project In such an event, the Group’s operating performance suspension, environmental remediation and purification, and/or financial condition could be adversely affected, and/or litigation. depending on the extent of the damage. 9) Compliance risk 12) Natural disaster risk The Group’s diverse business activities are subject to The Group could be directly or indirectly affected in a broad range of laws and regulations, including the event of an earthquake, flood, storm, or other corporation laws, tax laws, antitrust laws, foreign natural disaster that damages offices or other facilities exchange laws and other trade-related laws, and or injures employees and their family members. The various industry-specific laws, including chemical Group has prepared disaster response manuals, regulations. To ensure compliance with these laws and conducts disaster response drills, and has established regulations, the Group has formulated a compliance an employee safety confirmation system and a business program, established compliance committees, and continuity plan, but it cannot completely avoid the risk promotes rigorous regulatory compliance on a Groupof damage from natural disasters. The Group’s wide basis. However, such measures cannot completely operating performance and/or financial condition could eliminate the compliance risk entailed by the Group’s be adversely affected by natural disasters. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 101 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations (2) Risks Related to the Medium-term (2) Medium-to-Long-term Business Strategy Management Plan 2014 and Targeted Performance Indicators As noted in “8. Group Management Policy” below, the On April 1, 2012, the Sojitz Group initiated its Group has formulated Medium-term Management Plan Medium-term Management Plan 2014 – Change for 2014 for the period ending March 31, 2015 (April 1, 2012 Challenge – under the theme of “Implement reforms in to March 31, 2015). Despite the Group’s efforts, there is pursuit of growth initiatives” to increase corporate value. no assurance that all the targets of Medium-term The “Change for Challenge” subtitle summarizes the Management Plan 2014 will be achieved. Initiatives meaning of “In pursuit of greater achievements we will directed at achieving the targets may not progress as continue to transform ourselves in order to meet new planned or may not be as successful as anticipated. challenges. We aim to increase our corporate value based on this strong commitment.” 8. Group Management Policy (1) Fundamental Policy Implement Reforms in Pursuit of Sojitz is committed to increasing corporate value by Growth Initiatives realizing the Sojitz Group Statement and its • Strengthen earnings capacity by improving the Management Vision of the company it aspires to quality of assets become and the common principles it embraces. • Continue investing for growth (Strategic allocation to business focus areas) • Build up a structure and organization that Sojitz Group Statement enables its business to be creative, efficient, and highly capable of managing risk The Sojitz Group produces new sources of wealth by connecting the world’s economies, • Foster human resources that are able to go the distance even in a business environment typified cultures and people in a spirit of integrity. by accelerating globalization Sojitz Group Slogan Enhance the financial foundation through the accumulation of shareholders’ equity Sojitz Group Management Vision Improving corporate value and pursuing ♦ Unrelentingly enhance the Group’s trading greater achievements company functions, as demanded by clients, by fully grasping and anticipating clients’ diverse needs (Function-oriented trading company) The quantitative targets of Medium-term Management ♦ Take advantage of changes and continuously Plan 2014 are as follows. develop new business fields (Innovating trading company) Performance Indicator Target ♦ Become a company in which each and every Net debt equity ratio (DER) 2.0 times or lower employee can work with pride and pursue Return on assets (ROA) 2.0% or higher challenges and explore opportunities to realize his or her own personal goals and ambitions (Open and flexible company) Sojitz considers the stable, continuous payment of dividends one of the most important management ♦ Seek to harmonize the Group’s corporate issues. An equally important issue is the need to activities with the society and the environment by consistently putting the Group’s statement enhance competitiveness and shareholder value by into practice (Socially contributive company) increasing internal capital reserves and using them effectively. Therefore, our basic policy is a consolidated payout ratio of approximately 20%. Another crucial policy for achieving our quantitative targets is raising asset quality and efficiency. Rather than simply increasing assets, we will raise asset 102 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility efficiency by replacing assets on a Group-wide basis 9. Basic Policy on Dividends with the objective of increasing earnings. Specifically, we will re-evaluate our rationale for each business and Sojitz considers the stable, continuous payment of asset. We will then successively replace those without a dividends to shareholders one of the most important strong rationale and those with a weak connection to management issues. An equally important issue is the our traditional businesses. At the same time, we will need to enhance competitiveness and shareholder prioritize the allocation of the resources we acquire value by increasing internal capital reserves and using through this replacement process by concentrating them effectively. Our basic policy under Medium-term investment in business focus areas. Management Plan 2014 is a consolidated payout ratio Medium-term Management Plan 2014 specifies the of approximately 20%. following business focus areas in which we plan to The Sojitz’s Group’s businesses are making steady make investments and loans totaling ¥180 billion, with progress as planned despite the net loss for the year emphasis on emerging countries in Asia, Africa, South ended March 31, 2012, which was the result of factors America and elsewhere. such as the reversal of deferred tax assets due to changes in Japan’s tax code. Sojitz decided to pay a year-end cash dividend of ¥1.50 per share for the year ended March 31, 2012 after ■ Businesses aimed at expanding stable earnings considering factors including results for the fiscal year, shareholders’ equity and requirements for funding • Expand existing businesses, and strive to investments in growth. Year-end dividends paid totaled accumulate assets and increase business earnings ¥1,877 million. Including the interim dividend of ¥1.50 per share paid on December 2, 2011, cash dividends per • Examples of businesses: Overseas IPP, coal interests and peripheral businesses, methanol share for the year ended March 31, 2012 totaled ¥3.00 per share, and dividends paid totaled ¥3,753 million. ■ Businesses aimed at expanding earnings Sojitz’s Articles of Incorporation permit the payment and adapting to structural shifts of interim cash dividends by the resolution of the Board • Aim to innovate existing business models and of Directors as stipulated by Article 454, Paragraph 5 of strengthen earnings capacity over the medium the Companies Act of Japan. As a result, Sojitz’s basic to long term policy is to pay dividends twice annually, with the interim • Examples of businesses: Lithium, basic dividend being approved by resolution of the Board of petrochemicals, fertilizer, grain trading Directors and the year-end dividend being approved by the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting. ■ Businesses in anticipation of future growth • Construct new business foundations, aimed at monetization with a medium-to-long-term perspective • Examples of businesses: Renewable energy production, infrastructure improvement, iron ore mining development New investments and loans in business focus areas: ¥120 billion + Additional investments and loans in existing businesses: ¥60 billion = ¥180 billion Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 103 Consolidated Balance Sheets Sojitz Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2012 and 2011 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) ASSETS 2012 2011 2012 Current Assets: Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 4 and 13)...................................................... ¥ 427,274 ¥ 415,261 $ 5,210,659 Time deposits (Notes 4 and 13) ....................................................................... 16,033 4,728 195,524 Short-term investments (Notes 3 and 13) .......................................................... 697 1,313 8,500 Receivables (Notes 4, 13 and 16): Trade notes and trade accounts ................................................................... 481,299 469,669 5,869,500 Loans ...................................................................................................... 1,322 3,931 16,122 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ...................................................... 13,755 13,800 167,744 Allowance for doubtful receivables ................................................................ (5,584) (7,348) (68,098) Inventories (Note 4) ........................................................................................ 270,645 243,210 3,300,549 Advance payments to suppliers ...................................................................... 38,756 54,770 472,634 Deferred tax assets (Note 8) ............................................................................ 4,578 15,403 55,829 Other current assets (Note 4)........................................................................... 49,377 51,893 602,159 Total current assets ................................................................................. 1,298,152 1,266,630 15,831,122 Investments and Long-term Receivables: Investment securities (Notes 3, 4 and 13) .......................................................... 107,339 115,716 1,309,012 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (Note 13) ....... 228,315 236,025 2,784,329 Long-term loans, receivables and other (Notes 4 and 13) ..................................... 121,611 122,821 1,483,061 Investment properties (Notes 4 and 19) ............................................................. 31,935 33,994 389,451 Allowance for doubtful receivables (Note 13) ...................................................... (47,223) (59,759) (575,890) Total investments and long-term receivables ............................................... 441,977 448,797 5,389,963 Property and Equipment, at Cost (Notes 4, 5 and 19): Land ........................................................................................................... 53,430 55,114 651,585 Buildings and structures ................................................................................. 116,084 111,538 1,415,659 Equipment, fixtures and others ........................................................................ 190,462 179,187 2,322,707 Construction in progress ................................................................................ 26,170 19,177 319,146 Accumulated depreciation .............................................................................. (152,885) (149,241) (1,864,451) Net property and equipment .................................................................... 233,261 215,775 2,844,646 Other Non-current Assets: Goodwill ...................................................................................................... 44,613 51,475 544,061 Deferred tax assets (Note 8) ............................................................................ 22,443 52,882 273,695 Other intangible assets and deferred charges (Note 4) ......................................... 80,151 81,402 977,451 Total other non-current assets ................................................................... 147,207 185,759 1,795,207 Total ..................................................................................................... ¥2,120,597 ¥2,116,961 $25,860,938 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 104 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2012 2011 2012 Current Liabilities: Short-term debt, principally unsecured (Notes 4, 6 and 13) .................................. ¥ 117,698 ¥ 116,929 $ 1,435,341 Commercial paper (Notes 6 and 13) ................................................................. 2,000 2,000 24,390 Current portion of long-term debt (Notes 4, 6 and 13) ......................................... 199,826 190,727 2,436,902 Payables (Notes 4, 13 and 16): Trade notes and trade accounts .................................................................. 451,786 407,926 5,509,586 Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ....................................................... 10,013 7,059 122,110 Accrued expenses ........................................................................................ 12,147 10,083 148,134 Income taxes payable (Note 13) ....................................................................... 8,851 6,591 107,939 Advances received from customers .................................................................. 44,776 55,266 546,049 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 8) .......................................................................... 88 146 1,073 Other current liabilities (Note 4) ........................................................................ 100,238 93,818 1,222,415 Total current liabilities ............................................................................... 947,423 890,545 11,553,939 Non-current Liabilities: Long-term debt, less current portion (Notes 4, 6 and 13) ..................................... 771,018 806,646 9,402,658 Employees’ retirement and severance benefits (Note 7) ....................................... 14,232 13,136 173,561 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 8) .......................................................................... 21,294 19,783 259,683 Directors’ and corporate auditors’ retirement benefits ......................................... 649 834 7,915 Other non-current liabilities (Note 4) .................................................................. 35,510 30,506 433,048 Total non-current liabilities ........................................................................ 842,703 870,905 10,276,865 Total liabilities ......................................................................................... 1,790,126 1,761,450 21,830,804 Contingent liabilities (Note 15) Net Assets (Note 9) Owners’ Equity: Common stock ......................................................................................... 160,340 160,340 1,955,366 Common stock at March 31, 2012 Authorized—2,500,000,000 and 1,349,000,000 shares at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively Issued—1,251,499,501 shares Capital surplus ...................................................................................................... 152,160 152,160 1,855,610 Retained earnings ................................................................................................ 151,706 159,359 1,850,073 Treasury stock: 475,587 shares and 416,962 shares at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively ............................................................................. (179) (170) (2,183) Total owners’ equity........................................................................................... 464,027 471,689 5,658,866 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax: Net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities ................................................ 7,626 12,310 93,000 Net deferred gain on derivatives under hedge accounting ..................................... 936 3,022 11,415 Land revaluation difference (Note 22) ..................................................................... (2,121) (2,302) (25,866) Foreign currency translation adjustments .............................................................. (163,687) (153,984) (1,996,183) Minimum pension liability adjustment (Note 18)...................................................... (875) (706) (10,671) Total accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax ............................... (158,121) (141,660) (1,928,305) Minority Interests in Net Income ....................................................................... 24,565 25,482 299,573 Total net assets .................................................................................................. 330,471 355,511 4,030,134 Total .................................................................................................................. ¥2,120,597 ¥2,116,961 $25,860,938 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 105 Consolidated Statements of Operations Sojitz Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2012 2011 2012 Net Sales (Total Trading Transactions) ........................................................... ¥4,494,237 ¥4,014,640 $54,807,769 Cost of sales ................................................................................................... 4,262,671 3,821,915 51,983,793 Gross Trading Profit ..................................................................................... 231,566 192,725 2,823,976 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (Note 10) ................................. 167,044 155,205 2,037,122 Operating Income ......................................................................................... 64,522 37,520 786,854 Other Income (Expenses): Interest income ............................................................................................. 5,994 4,309 73,098 Interest expense ............................................................................................ (24,217) (23,936) (295,330) Dividends ..................................................................................................... 4,978 4,081 60,707 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates .............................. 12,566 19,297 153,244 Foreign exchange loss.................................................................................... (146) (2,848) (1,780) Other, net .................................................................................................... (1,469) 6,893 (17,915) Total ........................................................................................................ (2,294) 7,796 (27,976) Ordinary Income............................................................................................ 62,228 45,316 758,878 Extraordinary Gains (Losses) (Note 11) ........................................................... (774) (6,004) (9,439) Income before Income Taxes and Minority Interests ..................................... 61,454 39,312 749,439 Income Taxes (Note 8): Current ........................................................................................................ (18,482) (11,400) (225,390) Deferred....................................................................................................... (43,822) (9,103) (534,415) Total ........................................................................................................ (62,304) (20,503) (759,805) Net Income (Loss) before Minority Interests .................................................. (850) 18,809 (10,366) Minority interests .............................................................................................. (2,800) (2,827) (34,146) Net Income (Loss) ........................................................................................ ¥ (3,650) ¥ 15,982 $ (44,512) U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Net income (loss) per share — basic ................................................................... ¥(2.92) ¥12.77 $(0.04) Net income per share — diluted*1 ....................................................................... — 12.77 — Cash dividends per share*2 ................................................................................ 3.00 3.00 0.04 *1. Net income per share of FY2012 is not presented due to the net loss. *2. The amounts represent the annual dividends per share on common stock of the Company. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 106 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Sojitz Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2012 2011 2012 Net Income (Loss) before Minority Interests .................................................. ¥ (850) ¥ 18,809 $ (10,366) Other Comprehensive Income (Note 12) Net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities ........................................... (2,803) (1,558) (34,183) Net deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting ............................ (1,900) 1,165 (23,171) Land revaluation difference.............................................................................. 77 — 939 Foreign currency translation adjustments ........................................................... (1,302) (26,545) (15,878) Minimum pension liability adjustment ................................................................ (185) 129 (2,256) Other comprehensive income from investments accounted for under the equity method ............................................................................. (10,660) (8,654) (130,000) Total other comprehensive income .................................................................. ¥(16,773) ¥(35,463) $(204,549) Comprehensive Income ................................................................................ ¥(17,623) ¥(16,654) $(214,915) Comprehensive income attributable to shareholders of Sojitz Group ...................... (20,212) (18,318) (246,488) Comprehensive income attributable to minority interests ...................................... 2,589 1,664 31,573 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 107 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Sojitz Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Millions of yen Owners’ Equity Common Capital Retained Treasury Total owners’ Year ended March 31, 2012 stock surplus earnings stock equity Balance at April 1, 2011 ........................... ¥160,340 ¥152,160 ¥159,359 ¥(170) ¥471,689 Changes of items during the fiscal year Cash dividends ..................................... (3,753) (3,753) Net loss ............................................... (3,650) (3,650) Decrease in land revaluation difference.. (103) (103) Effect of changes in the scope of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................................... (147) (147) Purchase of treasury stock .................... (9) (9) Effect of changes in equity interest of affiliates ........................................ 0 0 Net changes of items other than owners’ equity ................................. Total changes during the year ............... — — (7,653) (9) (7,662) Balance at March 31, 2012 ...................... ¥160,340 ¥152,160 ¥151,706 ¥(179) ¥464,027 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net unrealized Net deferred gains (losses) on gain (loss) on Land Foreign currency Minimum Total accumulated available-for-sale derivatives under revaluation translation pension liability other comprehensive Minority securities hedge accounting difference adjustments adjustment income Interests Total net assets Balance at April 1, 2011 ........................... ¥12,310 ¥ 3,022 ¥(2,302) ¥(153,984) ¥(706) ¥(141,660) ¥25,482 ¥355,511 Changes of items during the fiscal year Cash dividends ..................................... (3,753) Net loss ................................................ (3,650) Decrease in land revaluation difference.. (103) Effect of changes in the scope of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................................... (147) Purchase of treasury stock .................... (9) Effect of changes in equity interest of affiliates ........................................ 0 Net changes of items other than owners’ equity ................................. (4,684) (2,086) 181 (9,703) (169) (16,461) (917) (17,378) Total changes during the year ............... (4,684) (2,086) 181 (9,703) (169) (16,461) (917) (25,040) Balance at March 31, 2012 ...................... ¥ 7,626 ¥ 936 ¥(2,121) ¥(163,687) ¥(875) ¥(158,121) ¥24,565 ¥330,471 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 108 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Owners’ Equity Common Capital Retained Treasury Total owners’ Year ended March 31, 2012 stock surplus earnings stock equity Balance at April 1, 2011 ........................... $1,955,366 $1,855,610 $1,943,402 $(2,073) $5,752,305 Changes of items during the fiscal year Cash dividends ..................................... (45,768) (45,768) Net loss ............................................... (44,512) (44,512) Decrease in land revaluation difference.. (1,256) (1,256) Effect of changes in the scope of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................................... (1,793) (1,793) Purchase of treasury stock .................... (110) (110) Effect of changes in equity interest of affiliates ........................................ 0 0 Net changes of items other than owners’ equity ................................. Total changes during the year ............... — — (93,329) (110) (93,439) Balance at March 31, 2012 ...................... $1,955,366 $1,855,610 $1,850,073 $(2,183) $5,658,866 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net unrealized Net deferred gains (losses) on gain (loss) on Land Foreign currency Minimum Total accumulated available-for-sale derivatives under revaluation translation pension liability other comprehensive Minority securities hedge accounting difference adjustments adjustment income Interests Total net assets Balance at April 1, 2011 ........................... $150,122 $ 36,854 $(28,073) $(1,877,854) $ (8,610) $(1,727,561) $310,756 $4,335,500 Changes of items during the fiscal year Cash dividends ..................................... (45,768) Net loss ................................................ (44,512) Decrease in land revaluation difference.. (1,256) Effect of changes in the scope of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................................... (1,793) Purchase of treasury stock .................... (110) Effect of changes in equity interest of affiliates ......................................... 0 Net changes of items other than owners’ equity .................................. (57,122) (25,439) 2,207 (118,329) (2,061) (200,744) (11,183) (211,927) Total changes during the year ............... (57,122) (25,439) 2,207 (118,329) (2,061) (200,744) (11,183) (305,366) Balance at March 31, 2012 ...................... $ 93,000 $ 11,415 $(25,866) $(1,996,183) $(10,671) $(1,928,305) $299,573 $4,030,134 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 109 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Millions of yen Owners’ Equity Common Capital Retained Treasury Total owners’ Year ended March 31, 2011 stock surplus earnings stock equity Balance at April 1, 2010 ........................... ¥160,340 ¥152,160 ¥146,489 ¥(169) ¥458,820 Changes of items during the fiscal year Cash dividends ..................................... (1,877) (1,877) Net income .......................................... 15,982 15,982 Increase in land revaluation difference ... 247 247 Effect of changes in the scope of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................................... (936) (936) Effect of changes in accounting policy for overseas affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................... (1,343) (1,343) Purchase of treasury stock .................... (2) (2) Reclassification of minimum pension liability adjustment ............................. 797 797 Effect of changes in equity interest of affiliates ........................................ 1 1 Net changes of items other than owners’ equity ................................. Total changes during the year ............... — — 12,870 (1) 12,869 Balance at March 31, 2011 ...................... ¥160,340 ¥152,160 ¥159,359 ¥(170) ¥471,689 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net unrealized Net deferred gains (losses) on gain (loss) on Land Foreign currency Minimum Total accumulated available-for-sale derivatives under revaluation translation pension liability other comprehensive Minority securities hedge accounting difference adjustments adjustment income Interests Total net assets Balance at April 1, 2010 ........................... ¥14,845 ¥2,358 ¥(2,055) ¥(121,551) ¥ — ¥(106,403) ¥24,987 ¥377,404 Changes of items during the fiscal year Cash dividends ..................................... (1,877) Net income ........................................... 15,982 Increase in land revaluation difference ... 247 Effect of changes in the scope of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................................... (936) Effect of changes in accounting policy for overseas affiliates accounted for under the equity method ................... (1,343) Purchase of treasury stock .................... (2) Reclassification of minimum pension liability adjustment ............................. 797 Effect of changes in equity interest of affiliates ......................................... 1 Net changes of items other than owners’ equity .................................. (2,535) 664 (247) (32,433) (706) (35,257) 495 (34,762) Total changes during the year ............... (2,535) 664 (247) (32,433) (706) (35,257) 495 (21,893) Balance at March 31, 2011 ...................... ¥12,310 ¥3,022 ¥(2,302) ¥(153,984) ¥(706) ¥(141,660) ¥25,482 ¥355,511 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 110 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Sojitz Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen (Note 1) 2012 2011 2012 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Income before income taxes and minority interests .................................................. ¥ 61,454 ¥ 39,312 $ 749,439 Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes and minority interests to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization ............................................................................... 33,290 24,096 405,976 Impairment loss..................................................................................................... 6,101 9,687 74,402 Loss on devaluation of securities ........................................................................... 2,640 801 32,195 Amortization of goodwill ....................................................................................... 4,999 4,548 60,963 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful receivables ...................................... (15,162) 1,620 (184,902) Increase in employees’ retirement and severance benefits..................................... 1,130 902 13,780 Interest and dividend income ................................................................................ (10,972) (8,390) (133,805) Interest expense ................................................................................................... 24,217 23,936 295,330 Foreign exchange loss, net ................................................................................... 445 3,908 5,427 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ............................. (12,566) (19,298) (153,244) Gain on sale of investment securities .................................................................... (9,287) (755) (113,256) Gain on sale and disposal of property and equipment .......................................... (2,393) (4,387) (29,183) Gain on subsequent acquisitions ........................................................................... (194) (10,307) (2,366) Increase in trade receivables ................................................................................ (19,910) (30,329) (242,805) Increase in inventories .......................................................................................... (25,495) (6,998) (310,915) Increase in trade payables .................................................................................... 47,571 52,368 580,134 Other, net (Note 21) ............................................................................................... 27,277 8,792 332,647 ¥ 113,145 ¥ 89,506 $ 1,379,817 Interest and dividends received ............................................................................. 18,933 13,173 230,890 Interest paid ......................................................................................................... (23,884) (24,014) (291,268) Income taxes paid ................................................................................................ (16,593) (10,802) (202,354) Net cash provided by operating activities ....................................................... ¥ 91,601 ¥ 67,863 $ 1,117,085 Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Net decrease (increase) in time deposits.................................................................... (11,048) 5,592 (134,732) Net decrease (increase) in marketable securities ....................................................... 624 (345) 7,610 Purchase of property and equipment ....................................................................... (35,745) (27,253) (435,915) Proceeds from sale of property and equipment ........................................................ 13,419 6,655 163,647 Purchase of intangible assets .................................................................................... (8,698) (21,196) (106,073) Payments for purchase of investment securities ....................................................... (10,025) (20,647) (122,256) Proceeds from sale/redemption of investment securities .......................................... 19,403 14,229 236,622 Decrease in short-term loans receivable, net ............................................................ 3,745 3,050 45,671 Increase of long-term loans receivable ...................................................................... (13,548) (4,482) (165,220) Collection of long-term loans receivable ................................................................... 1,490 11,174 18,171 Net increase (decrease) from purchase of consolidated subsidiaries (Note 21)........... (2,341) 2,552 (28,549) Net decrease from sale of consolidated subsidiaries (Note 21) .................................. (707) (461) (8,622) Other, net (Note 21) ................................................................................................... 1,144 11,229 13,951 Net cash used in investing activities ............................................................... ¥ (42,287) ¥ (19,903) $ (515,695) Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term debt ................................................................ 3,432 (49,686) 41,853 Net decrease in commercial paper ............................................................................ — (8,000) — Proceeds from long-term debt ................................................................................. 128,062 167,048 1,561,732 Repayment of long-term debt ................................................................................... (133,647) (155,603) (1,629,841) Proceeds from issuance of bonds ............................................................................ 39,801 19,900 485,378 Redemption of bonds .............................................................................................. (67,720) (41,048) (825,854) Proceeds from issuance of common stock to minority shareholders ......................... 67 464 817 Purchase of treasury stock ....................................................................................... (9) (2) (110) Dividends paid .......................................................................................................... (3,753) (1,877) (45,768) Dividends paid to minority shareholders ................................................................... (1,417) (1,925) (17,280) Other, net .................................................................................................................. (1,193) (1,325) (14,549) Net cash used in financing activities ............................................................... ¥ (36,377) ¥ (72,054) $ (443,622) Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents ............................... (924) (14,471) (11,268) Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents ................................................ 12,013 (38,565) 146,500 Effect of Change in Scope of Consolidation ................................................................. — (436) — Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Year ............................................. 415,261 454,262 5,064,159 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Year ...................................................... ¥ 427,274 ¥ 415,261 $ 5,210,659 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 111 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Sojitz Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1 BASIS OF PRESENTING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Sojitz format which is familiar to readers outside Japan, and certain Corporation (the “Company”) and consolidated subsidiaries are amounts of the prior year financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth in the reclassified to conform to the presentation of the financial Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and its statements for the year ended March 31, 2012. related accounting regulations and in conformity with accounting For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), accompanying consolidated financial statements are also which are different in certain respects as to the application and presented in United States dollars by translating Japanese yen disclosure requirements from International Financial Reporting amounts at the exchange rate of ¥82 to U.S.$1, the approximate Standards. rate of exchange at the end of March 31, 2012. Such The accounts of overseas subsidiaries are prepared based on translations should not be construed as representations that the International Financial Reporting Standards or accounting Japanese yen amounts could be converted into United States principles generally accepted in the United States of America dollars at the above or any other rate. (“U.S. GAAP”), with specific required adjustments. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have Additional information been reclassified and translated into English from the “Accounting Standard for Accounting Changes and Error consolidated financial statements of the Company prepared in Corrections” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (“ASBJ”) accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the appropriate Statement No. 24 issued on December 4, 2009) and “Guidance Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as required by on Accounting Standard for Accounting Changes and Error the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan. Some Corrections” (ASBJ Guidance No. 24 issued on December 4, supplementary information included in the statutory Japanese 2009) have been adopted for the accounting changes and the consolidated financial statements is not presented in the prior year error corrections made after the beginning of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. financial year ended March 31, 2012. Certain reclassifications and modifications have been made to present the accompanying consolidated financial statements in a 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principles of consolidation January 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012, and compared to the The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of financial statements prepared for the year from January 1, 2011 the Company and its 323 (320 for the year ended March 31, to December 31, 2011, there has been an increase in net sales 2011) significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries. All significant of ¥171,984 million, gross trading profit of ¥16,663 million, intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated. operating income of ¥6,545 million, ordinary income of ¥8,049 Investments in 139 (155 for the year ended March 31, 2011) million, income before income taxes and minority interests of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, with minor exceptions, ¥7,837 million and net income of ¥6,209 million. are accounted for by use of the equity method. Total other comprehensive income has increased by ¥13,671 Goodwill, and negative goodwill recognized through business million due to a ¥12,426 million increase of foreign currency combinations undertaken before April 1, 2010, which is the translation adjustments. difference between the book value of the Company’s investment The effect on the segmentation information is stated in Note 20. in the consolidated subsidiaries and in the above unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, and its equity in net assets, is being Cash equivalents amortized over a period of 5 to 20 years using the straight-line The Company considers time deposits and highly liquid method. investments that are readily convertible into cash with a maturity The accounts of the subsidiaries that have a fiscal year end of three months or less at the time of acquisition to be cash within three months prior to March 31 have been included in equivalents. the consolidated financial statements based on their fiscal year, with reasonable adjustments to conform to the accounts as of Foreign currency translation March 31. Current and non-current receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are translated at current rates prevailing at (Change in financial year end of the consolidated the balance sheet date and the resulting exchange gains or subsidiaries) losses are recognized in earnings. From the year ended March 31, 2012, reporting dates of the Translations of foreign consolidated subsidiaries’ financial main subsidiaries, which had adopted different reporting statements are made at the year-end rate for balance sheet dates from the Company, have been conformed to that of the items, except for net assets, which is translated at historical Company for the sake of timely performance management rates, and at the annual average rate for items in the and prompt implementation of management policies and consolidated statements of operations. Resulting translation divisional strategies within the consolidated group. adjustments are reflected in the consolidated financial Accordingly, the reporting dates of the 47 consolidated statements as foreign currency translation adjustments under subsidiaries have been changed to March 31, and the 36 accumulated other comprehensive income in a separate subsidiaries, which have a different reporting date, have been component of net assets. consolidated using provisional financial statements at the consolidated reporting date. Allowance for doubtful receivables As a result, the current financial statements of the 83 The allowance for doubtful receivables is stated in an amount consolidated subsidiaries are prepared for the 15 months from sufficient to cover probable losses on collection of receivables 112 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility outstanding based on estimates of individually uncollectible “Equipment, fixtures and others” are mainly 2-60 years and 2-40 amounts. General reserve for other receivables is calculated years, respectively. based on the past credit losses experience. Intangible assets (other than leased assets) Inventories Intangible assets are principally depreciated using the straightInventories held for sale in the ordinary course of business are line method. Internal use software is included in intangible assets principally stated at the lower of cost using the specificand is amortized using the straight-line method over the identification method or on a moving-average basis, or net estimated useful life of 5 years. Some consolidated subsidiaries selling value. Foreign subsidiaries state inventories at the lower amortize mining rights using the production output method. of specific-identified cost or market. Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at the market Leased assets price. Leased assets in finance lease transactions without transfer of ownership are depreciated using the straight-line method based Capitalization of interest costs on the assumption that the useful life is equal to the lease term Interest costs on certain real estate under construction are and the residual value is equal to zero. The Company and its capitalized until sales are realized to enable better matching of domestic consolidated subsidiaries account for the lease revenue and costs. transactions that commenced prior to April 1, 2008 and do not transfer ownership of the leased property to the lessee as Short-term investments and investment securities operating lease transactions. Short-term investments and investment securities are classified as either (a) securities held for trading purposes (hereinafter Investment properties referred to as “trading securities”), (b) debt securities intended to Investment properties are principally depreciated using the be held to maturity (hereinafter referred to as “held-to-maturity straight-line method. debt securities”) or (c) securities other than the above (hereinafter The estimated useful lives of “Buildings and structures” and referred to as “available-for-sale securities”). “Equipment, fixtures and others” for investment are mainly 4-50 Trading securities, held-to-maturity debt securities and years and 10 years, respectively. available-for-sale securities are stated in the following manner: (1) Trading securities’ gains and losses realized on sales and Employees’ retirement and severance benefits unrealized gains and losses from market value fluctuations The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries provide for are recognized as gains or losses in the period of the employees’ retirement benefits based on the present value of change. projected benefit obligations attributable to employee services (2) Held-to-maturity debt securities are stated at amortized rendered by the end of the year and the fair value of the pension cost. plan assets at the end of the fiscal years. (3) Available-for-sale securities with available fair market values are stated at fair value. Net unrealized gains and Directors’ and corporate auditors’ retirement benefits losses on available-for-sale securities are stated, net of The provision for expected payment of directors’ and corporate tax, in net assets on the balance sheet. Available-for-sale auditors’ retirement benefits of certain consolidated subsidiaries securities with no readily available fair market value are is recognized based on internal regulations. stated at cost using the moving-average method. (4) Certain write-downs of securities are recognized in Net sales (total trading transactions) and earnings when the securities have substantial losses and gross trading profit are not expected to recover such losses in the near future. As general trading companies, the Company and certain of its Investments in a limited partnership for investment or a consolidated subsidiaries act either as principal or agent in similar partnership (that can be considered as securities in trading transactions. Net sales represent the sales volume of all accordance with Article 2, Paragraph 2 of the Financial those transactions in which the companies participate, whether Instruments and Exchange Law) are stated at their net as principal or agent. Gross trading profit consists of the gross equity value on the most recent financial statements that margin (sales less cost of sales) on transactions in which the are available on the settlement report day as specified in companies act as principal and commissions on transactions in the partnership agreement. which the companies serve as agent. Short-term investments with a maturity of three months or less at the time of acquisition are included in cash and cash Impairment loss equivalents. The amount as of March 31, 2012 was ¥600 million The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries review their (U.S. $7,317 thousand). property, equipment and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the Deferred charges carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be All costs incurred in connection with the issuance of new shares recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized if the and disposal of treasury stock are amortized over 3 years using carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds the sum of the straight-line method. Bond issue expenses are amortized the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the using the straight-line method over the period through continued use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset redemption. group. The impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its Property and equipment (other than leased assets) recoverable amount, which is the higher of the discounted cash Property and equipment are principally depreciated using the flows from the continued use and eventual disposition of the declining-balance method, except that the buildings acquired after asset or the net selling price at disposition. March 31, 1998 are depreciated using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of “Buildings and structures” and Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 113 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Income taxes Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries state estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences derivative financial instruments at fair value and recognize between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and changes in fair value as gains or losses unless derivative financial liabilities, and tax losses that can be carried forward, and are instruments are used for hedging purposes. measured using the enacted tax rate that will be in effect when If derivative financial instruments are used as hedges and the differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The meet certain hedging criteria, the Company and its consolidated Company and some domestic subsidiaries apply the subsidiaries defer recognition of gains or losses resulting from consolidated tax return reporting system. changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments until the related losses or gains on the hedged items are realized. Net income per share If interest rate swap contracts are used as hedges and meet The computation of net income per share is based on the certain hedging criteria, the net amount to be paid or received weighted average number of shares of common stock under the interest rate swap contract is added to or deducted outstanding in each period. Diluted net income per share is from the interest on the assets or liabilities for which the swap based on the weighted average number of shares of common contract was executed. stock outstanding plus any potentially dilutive securities. 3 SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT SECURITIES Information regarding each category of securities classified as trading and available-for-sale with available fair market values at March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Millions of yen March 31, 2012 Cost Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Book value Securities classified as: Available-for-sale with available fair market values: Equity securities............................................................................... ¥63,421 ¥15,271 ¥(8,896) ¥69,796 Debt securities Foreign bonds.............................................................................. 0 76 — 76 Other ............................................................................................... 496 3 (22) 477 Total .................................................................................................... ¥63,917 ¥15,350 ¥(8,918) ¥70,349 Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Cost Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Book value Securities classified as: Available-for-sale with available fair market values: Equity securities............................................................................... $773,427 $186,232 $(108,488) $851,171 Debt securities Foreign bonds.............................................................................. 0 927 — 927 Other ............................................................................................... 6,049 36 (268) 5,817 Total .................................................................................................... $779,476 $187,195 $(108,756) $857,915 In addition to the securities listed above, the Company and consolidated subsidiaries hold trading securities of ¥697 million (U.S.$8,500 thousand) which are equal to their fair value, as of March 31, 2012. The net holding losses on trading securities included in earnings for the year ended March 31, 2012 amounted to ¥105 million (U.S.$1,280 thousand). The Company and consolidated subsidiaries hold no securities held to maturity at March 31, 2012. Total proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2012 amounted to ¥1,107 million (U.S.$13,500 thousand) and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥580 million (U.S.$7,073 thousand) and ¥1 million (U.S.$12 thousand), respectively. Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Cost Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Book value Securities classified as: Available-for-sale with available fair market values: Equity securities............................................................................... ¥65,439 ¥17,232 ¥(7,520) ¥75,151 Debt securities Government bonds ...................................................................... 10 1 — 11 Foreign bonds.............................................................................. 88 494 — 582 Other ............................................................................................... 1,005 22 (20) 1,007 Total .................................................................................................... ¥66,542 ¥17,749 ¥(7,540) ¥76,751 In addition to the securities listed above, the Company and consolidated subsidiaries hold trading securities of ¥810 million which are equal to their fair value, as of March 31, 2011. The net holding gains on trading securities included in earnings for the year ended March 31, 2011 amounted to ¥94 million. The Company and consolidated subsidiaries hold no securities held to maturity at March 31, 2011. Total proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities in the year ended March 31, 2011 amounted to ¥1,821 million and the related gains and losses amounted to ¥956 million and ¥36 million, respectively. 114 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Investment securities without fair market value at March 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Securities: Equity securities .................................................................................................................. ¥33,401 ¥33,984 $407,329 Corporate bonds ................................................................................................................. 0 268 0 Domestic bonds .................................................................................................................. 1 1 12 Partnership .......................................................................................................................... 1,051 1,809 12,817 4 PLEDGED ASSETS At March 31, 2012, the following assets are pledged as collateral for short-term debt, trade notes, accounts payable and other current liabilities of ¥4,095 million (U.S.$49,939 thousand), long-term debt and other non-current liabilities of ¥41,447 million (U.S.$505,451 thousand) and transactions and other guarantees: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Cash equivalents and time deposits ......................................................................................... ¥ 1,315 ¥ 2,586 $ 16,037 Trade notes and trade accounts receivable ............................................................................. 69 502 841 Investment securities ................................................................................................................ 40,410 40,491 492,805 Inventories ............................................................................................................................... — 21,837 — Other current assets ................................................................................................................ — 71 — Investment properties ............................................................................................................... 2,630 2,731 32,073 Property and equipment, less accumulated depreciation ........................................................ 48,179 39,671 587,549 Other intangible assets and deferred charges .......................................................................... 20 30 244 Total .................................................................................................................................... ¥92,623 ¥107,919 $1,129,549 Also pledged are the shares of consolidated subsidiaries amounting to ¥19,891 million (U.S.$242,573 thousand) that are eliminated in consolidation as of March 31, 2012. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 115 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 5 IMPAIRMENT LOSS The impairment of property, equipment, and intangible assets resulted primarily from significant decline of profitability of properties. Regional breakdown of impairment losses for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Kanto region in Japan Business properties, corporate assets, and other assets Land ................................................................................................................................. ¥ — ¥ 110 $ — Buildings and structures.................................................................................................... — 402 — Equipment, fixtures and others.......................................................................................... — 140 — Investment properties ....................................................................................................... 1,045 — 12,744 Other intangible assets and deferred charges ................................................................... 3,083 — 37,598 Chubu region in Japan Idle properties and business properties Land ................................................................................................................................. — 421 — Equipment, fixtures and others.......................................................................................... — 8 — Kinki region in Japan Business properties Land ................................................................................................................................. — 1,052 — Buildings and structures.................................................................................................... 258 515 3,146 Equipment, fixtures and others.......................................................................................... 14 9 171 Tohoku region in Japan Business properties Land ................................................................................................................................. 171 — 2,085 Buildings and structures.................................................................................................... 2 — 24 United States of America Business properties Other intangible assets and deferred charges ................................................................... — 1,712 — Australia Business properties Buildings and structures.................................................................................................... 1,034 1,251 12,610 Other intangible assets and deferred charges ................................................................... — 3,552 — Netherlands Business properties Equipment, fixtures and others.......................................................................................... 138 — 1,683 Other Idle properties and business properties Equipment, fixtures and others.......................................................................................... 151 515 1,841 Other intangible assets and deferred charges ................................................................... 205 — 2,500 Total ..................................................................................................................................... ¥6,101 ¥9,687 $74,402 Impairment loss was recorded at the amount by which the carrying amount of each asset exceeded its estimated fair value based on real estate appraisal standards or future cash flows from ongoing utilization and subsequent disposition of the asset discounted at 3.3% for the year ended March 31, 2012 and at 3.4% for the year ended March 31, 2011. Impairment loss on property, equipment, and intangible assets is recorded as an extraordinary loss. 116 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility 6 SHORT-TERM DEBT AND LONG-TERM DEBT A summary of short-term debt at March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Short-term loans are principally from financial institutions. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Short-term loans at the average interest rate of 2.62% (2.66% in FY2011) .............................. ¥117,698 ¥116,929 $1,435,341 Commercial paper at the average interest rate of 0.25% (0.30% in FY2011) ............................ 2,000 2,000 24,390 A summary of long-term debt at March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 2.38% bonds due 2011 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. ¥ — ¥ 20,000 $ — 2.39% bonds due 2012 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. — 20,000 — 2.16% bonds due 2012 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 10,000 121,951 1.79% bonds due 2012 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 15,000 15,000 182,927 1.90% bonds due 2013 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 10,000 121,951 1.87% bonds due 2011 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. — 20,000 — 2.19% bonds due 2013 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 10,000 121,951 2.00% bonds due 2012 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 10,000 121,951 1.03% bonds due 2013 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 10,000 121,951 0.91% bonds due 2015 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 10,000 121,951 1.01% bonds due 2016 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 — 121,951 0.60% bonds due 2014 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 — 121,951 0.90% bonds due 2016 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 — 121,951 0.72% bonds due 2015 payable in Japanese yen .................................................................. 10,000 — 121,951 3.35% bonds due 2012 payable in Japanese yen (*) .............................................................. — 7,720 — Long-term loans, principally from commercial and trust banks and insurance companies, maturing through 2029 at the average interest rate of 1.90% ............................................. 762,761 766,062 9,301,964 Long-term loans, from governmental financial institutions, principally Japan Bank for International Cooperation, maturing through 2026 at an average interest rate of 1.98% ...... 92,020 87,235 1,122,196 Other long-term indebtedness, maturing through 2031 at an average interest rate of 3.35% ....... 1,063 1,356 12,963 Total................................................................................................................................... ¥ 970,844 ¥ 997,373 $11,839,560 Less current portion ............................................................................................................... (199,826) (190,727) (2,436,902) Total................................................................................................................................... ¥ 771,018 ¥ 806,646 $ 9,402,658 * The bond issued by Shobu Project was repaid on June 30, 2011 as advanced redemption. The aggregate annual amounts of long-term debt maturing in the years ending March 31, 2013 to 2018 and thereafter, are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 ......................................................................................................................... ¥199,826 $ 2,436,902 2014 ......................................................................................................................... 245,036 2,988,244 2015 ......................................................................................................................... 181,250 2,210,366 2016 ......................................................................................................................... 144,929 1,767,427 2017 ......................................................................................................................... 138,499 1,689,012 2018 and thereafter...................................................................................................... 61,304 747,609 Total ...................................................................................................................... ¥970,844 $11,839,560 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 117 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Commitment Line Agreements) The Company and a part of its subsidiaries enter into the following commitment line agreements for the purpose of securing a flexible measure for raising funds and ensuring liquidity: (a) ¥100,000 million (U.S.$1,219,512 thousand) of commitment line agreement No outstanding loans based on this contract (b) Multi Currency U.S. $ 300,000 thousands of commitment line agreement Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Maximum loan amount ............................................................................................................. ¥24,600 — $300,000 Used portion of the commitment line...................................................................................... (1,066) — (13,000) Balance .................................................................................................................................... ¥23,534 — $287,000 7 EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT AND SEVERANCE BENEFITS The Company has defined contribution pension plans, prepaid retirement allowance plans and lump-sum payment plans. Certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have defined benefit plans, i.e., tax-qualified pension plans and lump-sum payment plans, covering substantially all employees who are entitled to lump-sum or annuity payments, the amounts of which are determined by reference to their basic rate of pay, length of service and the conditions under which termination occurs. Some foreign consolidated subsidiaries also have defined benefit plans. Some consolidated subsidiaries have established a retirement allowance trust. The liability of employees’ retirement benefits at March 31, 2012 and 2011 consists of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Retirement benefit obligation ................................................................................................... ¥(19,228) ¥(18,440) $(234,488) Plan assets at fair value ........................................................................................................... 4,284 4,830 52,244 Unfunded retirement benefit obligation .................................................................................... (14,944) (13,610) (182,244) Unamortized net retirement benefit obligation at transition ...................................................... — 11 — Unrecognized actuarial loss ..................................................................................................... 992 758 12,098 Unrecognized prior service cost .............................................................................................. (72) (125) (878) Net retirement benefit obligation .............................................................................................. (14,024) (12,966) (171,024) Prepaid pension cost .............................................................................................................. 208 170 2,537 Employees’ retirement and severance benefits......................................................................... ¥(14,232) ¥(13,136) $(173,561) The components of net periodic pension costs for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Service cost ............................................................................................................................. ¥2,448 ¥2,587 $29,854 Interest cost ............................................................................................................................. 467 395 5,695 Other costs .............................................................................................................................. 1,265 1,116 15,427 Expected return on plan assets ............................................................................................... (138) (254) (1,683) Amortization of net retirement benefit obligation at transition.................................................... 11 12 134 Amortization of actuarial losses ............................................................................................... 405 689 4,939 Amortization of prior service cost ............................................................................................ (40) (40) (488) Total ........................................................................................................................................ ¥4,418 ¥4,505 $53,878 The basis of calculation of benefit obligations for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 2011 Allocation of payment of expected retirement benefits ................................................... Straight-line method Straight-line method Discount rate .................................................................................................................. mainly 1.5-2.3% mainly 1.4-2.3% Expected rate of return on plan assets .......................................................................... mainly 2.0-3.5% mainly 2.0-3.5% Amortization of prior service cost ................................................................................... mainly 5 or 9 years mainly 5 or 9 years Amortization of actuarial losses ..................................................................................... mainly 5 or 10 years mainly 5 or 10 years Amortization of net retirement benefit obligation at transition ........................................ mainly 10 years mainly 10 years 118 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility 8 INCOME TAXES As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, the major components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Deferred tax assets: Allowance for doubtful receivables ....................................................................................... ¥ 11,394 ¥ 14,791 $ 138,951 Employees’ retirement and severance benefits .................................................................... 4,374 4,835 53,341 Net operating loss carryforwards .......................................................................................... 115,234 246,297 1,405,293 Losses on revaluation of securities ....................................................................................... 25,108 28,124 306,195 Loss from merger ................................................................................................................. 1,054 1,201 12,854 Depreciation ......................................................................................................................... 20,543 2,515 250,524 Other ................................................................................................................................... 24,831 31,193 302,817 Total deferred tax assets....................................................................................................... 202,538 328,956 2,469,975 Valuation allowance .............................................................................................................. (153,981) (239,067) (1,877,817) Offset to deferred tax liabilities .............................................................................................. (21,536) (21,604) (262,634) Total deferred tax assets, net ............................................................................................ 27,021 68,285 329,524 Deferred tax liabilities: Profit from merger ............................................................................................................... 4,419 5,106 53,890 Depreciation ........................................................................................................................ 23,929 23,883 291,817 Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities .................................................................. 1,411 2,730 17,207 Land revaluation difference (Note 22) ................................................................................... 697 774 8,500 Other ................................................................................................................................... 12,462 9,040 151,976 Total deferred tax liabilities ................................................................................................... 42,918 41,533 523,390 Offset to deferred tax assets ............................................................................................... (21,536) (21,604) (262,634) Total deferred tax liabilities, net ........................................................................................ 21,382 19,929 260,756 Net deferred tax assets ................................................................................................... ¥ 5,639 ¥ 48,356 $ 68,768 As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, the amounts of the net deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in the following accounts in the consolidated balance sheet. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Deferred tax assets—current ................................................................................................... ¥ 4,578 ¥15,403 $ 55,829 Deferred tax assets—non-current ........................................................................................... 22,443 52,882 273,695 Deferred tax liabilities—current ................................................................................................ 88 146 1,073 Deferred tax liabilities—non-current ......................................................................................... 21,294 19,783 259,683 Japanese domestic companies are subject to taxes on income, which consist of national corporate tax, local inhabitant tax and enterprise tax. A reconciliation between the statutory tax rate of 41.0% and the effective rates of income taxes reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 2011 Statutory tax rate............................................................................................................................................. 41.0% 41.0% Valuation allowance ..................................................................................................................................... 43.1 45.9 Effect of taxation in dividends ...................................................................................................................... 17.6 35.9 Effect of equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ..................................................... (8.0) (19.1) Difference of tax rates for foreign subsidiaries ............................................................................................. (11.4) (11.8) Undistributed earnings of tax-haven subsidiaries ........................................................................................ 3.5 3.5 Effect of tax rate reduction ........................................................................................................................ 3.5 — Foreign exchange adjustment for capital reduction of foreign subsidiaries .................................................. — (25.0) Unrecognized tax effect accounting of subsidiaries and affiliates................................................................ (0.0) (25.4) Other—net .................................................................................................................................................. 12.1 7.2 Effective tax rate .......................................................................................................................................... 101.4% 52.2% Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 119 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Adjustment of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to the change in the corporate tax rates) Following the promulgation on December 2, 2011, of the “Act for Partial Revision of the Income Tax Act, etc., for the Purpose of Creating a Taxation System Responding to Changes in Economic and Social Structures” (Act No. 114 of 2011) and “Act on Special Measures for Securing Financial Resources Necessary to Implement Measures for Resources Necessary to Implement Measures for Reconstruction following the Great East Japan Earthquake” (Act No. 117 of 2011), effective from fiscal years beginning on and after April 1, 2012, the corporate tax rate has changed. Along with this reform, the effective statutory tax rate used to measure deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities will be as follows for temporary differences which are expected to be realized: During the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015 — 38.01% During the period after April 1, 2015 — 35.64% The effect of this change was to decrease deferred tax assets by ¥1,836 million (U.S.$22,390 thousand) and increase income taxes — deferred by ¥2,137 million (U.S.$26,061 thousand) and net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities by ¥301 million (U.S.$3,671 thousand). 9 NET ASSETS The Companies Act of Japan provides that: (a) The entire amount paid for new shares may be credited to the stated capital, with the provision that, by resolution of the Board of Directors, up to one-half of such amount paid for new shares may be credited to additional paid-in capital, which is included in capital surplus, and (b) An amount equal to 10% of cash appropriations of retained earnings shall be set aside as additional paid-in capital or legal earnings reserve until the total of such reserve and additional paid-in capital equals 25% of the stated capital. Additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve may be used to eliminate or reduce a deficit, if any, or be capitalized by resolution at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. All additional paid-in capital and all legal earnings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus and retained earnings, respectively, which are potentially available for dividends. Additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve are included in capital surplus and retained earnings, respectively. The maximum amount that the Company can distribute as dividends is calculated based on the non-consolidated financial statements of the Company in accordance with Japanese laws and regulations. The Company paid interim cash dividends amounting to ¥1,877 million (U.S.$22,890 thousand) in accordance with the resolution at the Board of Directors meeting held on November 1, 2011. At the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company on June 26, 2012, the shareholders approved year-end dividends amounting to ¥1,877 million (U.S.$22,890 thousand). Such appropriations have not been accrued in the consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2012. Such appropriations are recognized in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders. 120 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility 10 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Details of “Selling, General and Administrative Expenses” in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Directors’ remuneration and salaries for employees ................................................................. ¥ 59,313 ¥ 56,308 $ 723,329 Employees’ retirement and severance benefits ........................................................................ 3,892 4,212 47,463 Welfare .................................................................................................................................... 11,100 9,984 135,366 Travelling expenses .................................................................................................................. 7,303 6,552 89,061 Rent ........................................................................................................................................ 12,233 11,748 149,183 Legal and professional fees ...................................................................................................... 11,352 11,079 138,439 Depreciation ............................................................................................................................ 6,381 5,475 77,817 Provision for doubtful receivables ............................................................................................. 1,101 620 13,427 Amortization of goodwill .......................................................................................................... 5,581 5,139 68,061 Other ........................................................................................................................................ 48,788 44,088 594,976 Total .................................................................................................................................... ¥167,044 ¥155,205 $2,037,122 11 EXTRAORDINARY GAINS (LOSSES) Classification of extraordinary gains (losses) is in accordance with Japanese GAAP. The following are the components of extraordinary gains (losses): Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Gain on sale of investment securities ....................................................................................... ¥ 9,468 ¥ 1,454 $115,463 Loss on devaluation of investment securities ........................................................................... (2,640) (801) (32,195) Gain on sale and disposal of properties and equipment .......................................................... 2,393 4,387 29,183 Loss on sale of investment properties .................................................................................... (19) (386) (232) Loss and provision for loss on dissolution of subsidiaries and affiliates..................................... (2,648) (4,856) (32,293) Restructuring losses ................................................................................................................ — (5,097) — Dilution losses from changes in equity interest ........................................................................ (182) (787) (2,220) Gain on reversal of allowance for doubtful receivables ............................................................. — 1,273 — Gain on bad debt recovered..................................................................................................... — 57 — Impairment loss (Note 5) .......................................................................................................... (6,101) (9,687) (74,402) Retirement benefit cost ............................................................................................................ (99) — (1,207) Bargain purchase gain ........................................................................................................... 1,208 404 14,732 Gain on subsequent acquisitions ........................................................................................... 194 10,307 2,366 Loss on adjustment for changes of accounting standard for asset retirement obligations ....... — (961) — Losses from natural disaster .................................................................................................. — (1,311) — Losses from lawsuit and others ................................................................................................ (2,348) — (28,634) Extraordinary gains (losses), net ........................................................................................... ¥ (774) ¥ (6,004) $ (9,439) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 121 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 12 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The following shows a breakdown of both reclassification adjustment to profit or loss and income tax effect in relation to the other comprehensive income included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2012 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities Gain (loss) arising during the year ........................................................................................................... ¥ (5,407) $ (65,939) Reclassification adjustments .................................................................................................................. 1,403 17,110 Amount before income tax effect ........................................................................................................ (4,004) (48,829) Income tax effect................................................................................................................................ 1,201 14,646 Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities................................................................ (2,803) (34,183) Net deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting Gain (loss) arising during the year ........................................................................................................... 116 1,415 Reclassification adjustments .................................................................................................................. (2,660) (32,439) Amount before income tax effect ........................................................................................................ (2,544) (31,024) Income tax effect................................................................................................................................ 644 7,853 Net deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting .......................................................... (1,900) (23,171) Land revaluation difference Income tax effect................................................................................................................................ 77 939 Land revaluation difference ................................................................................................................. 77 939 Foreign currency translation adjustments Gain (loss) arising during the year ........................................................................................................... (2,025) (24,695) Reclassification adjustments .................................................................................................................. 723 8,817 Foreign currency translation adjustments ............................................................................................ (1,302) (15,878) Minimum pension liability adjustment Gain (loss) arising during the year ........................................................................................................... (331) (4,037) Reclassification adjustments .................................................................................................................. 33 403 Amount before income tax effect ........................................................................................................ (298) (3,634) Income tax effect................................................................................................................................ 113 1,378 Minimum pension liability adjustment .................................................................................................. (185) (2,256) Other comprehensive income (loss) from investments accounted for under the equity method Gain (loss) arising during the year ........................................................................................................... (10,663) (130,037) Reclassification adjustments .................................................................................................................. 3 37 Other comprehensive income from investments accounted for under the equity method .................... (10,660) (130,000) Total other comprehensive income.................................................................................................. ¥(16,773) $(204,549) 122 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility 13 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (1) Status of Financial Instruments Held by the Company As a general trading company, the Group is engaged in a wide range of businesses globally, including buying, selling, importing and exporting goods, manufacturing and selling products, providing services, planning and coordinating projects, making investments in various sectors and conducting financial activities in Japan and overseas. In order to carry out these businesses, the Group has set a target long-term debt ratio and raised funds, not only through indirect financing from financial institutions, but also through direct financing by securitization as well as the issuance of bonds and commercial paper. In this manner, the Group aims to maintain and improve the stability of its funding structure. Furthermore, the Group is exposed to market risks, including foreign exchange risk associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies in connection with international trade or business investments; interest rate risk associated with debt financing and portfolio investment; commodity price risk associated with purchase and sales agreements and commodity inventories incidental to sales activities; and market price risk associated with ownership of listed securities and other such assets. To hedge and minimize these risks, the Group utilizes derivatives such as forward exchange contracts, commodity futures, forward commodity contracts, and interest rate swaps. (2) Fair Value of Financial Instruments Information on book value and fair value of financial instruments and derivative instruments at March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Book value Fair value Differences Book value Fair value Differences Assets Cash and cash equivalents .................................... ¥ 427,274 ¥ 427,274 ¥ — $ 5,210,659 $ 5,210,659 $ — Time deposits ........................................................ 16,033 16,033 — 195,524 195,524 — Trade notes and trade accounts receivable (*1) ........ 490,709 5,984,256 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (3,150) (38,415) Trade notes and trade accounts, net .................. 487,559 487,259 (300) 5,945,841 5,942,183 (3,658) Short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable) (*1) ............ 1,529 18,646 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (504) (6,146) Short-term loans receivable, net ......................... 1,025 1,025 — 12,500 12,500 — Short-term investments and investment securities Trading securities ............................................... 697 697 — 8,500 8,500 — Available-for-sale securities................................. 70,349 70,349 — 857,915 857,915 — Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (*3) ....... 9,304 6,497 (2,807) 113,463 79,232 (34,231) Long-term loans receivable (including current portion) (*1) .. 26,553 323,818 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (291) (3,549) Long-term loans receivable, net.......................... 26,262 24,020 (2,242) 320,269 292,927 (27,342) Doubtful receivables (*1,4) ........................................ 68,165 831,280 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (43,661) (532,451) Doubtful receivables, net .................................... 24,504 24,504 — 298,829 298,829 — Total....................................................................... ¥1,063,007 ¥1,057,658 ¥ 5,349 $12,963,500 $12,898,269 $ 65,231 Liabilities Short-term debt (principally unsecured) .................. ¥ 117,698 ¥ 117,698 ¥ — $ 1,435,341 $ 1,435,341 $ — Commercial paper ................................................ 2,000 2,000 — 24,390 24,390 — Payables ................................................................ 461,799 461,771 (28) 5,631,696 5,631,354 (342) Income taxes payable ............................................ 8,851 8,851 — 107,939 107,939 — Long-term debt (including current portion) .............. 970,844 989,865 19,021 11,839,560 12,071,524 231,964 Total....................................................................... ¥1,561,192 ¥1,580,185 ¥18,993 $19,038,926 $19,270,548 $231,622 Derivatives (*5) ............................................................ ¥ (5,640) ¥ (5,640) ¥ — $ (68,780) $ (68,780) $ — *1. The presented amounts include receivables due from unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. *2. Trade notes and trade accounts receivable, short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivables), long-term loans receivable (including current portion) and doubtful receivables are stated net of individual allowance for doubtful receivables. *3. Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates without available fair market value amounting to ¥199,791 million (U.S.$2,436,476 thousand) are not included. *4. Doubtful receivables are included in long-term loans, receivables and other on the consolidated balance sheets. The amount of long-term loans, receivables and other excluding bad debts amounting to ¥41,463 million (U.S.$505,646 thousand) is not presented above. *5. Derivatives are stated at the net amount of receivables and payables arising from derivative transactions. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 123 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Book value Fair value Differences Assets Cash and cash equivalents .................................... ¥ 415,261 ¥ 415,261 ¥ — Time deposits ........................................................ 4,728 4,728 — Trade notes and trade accounts receivable (*1) ........ 478,881 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (4,593) Trade notes and trade accounts, net .................. 474,288 474,032 (256) Short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable) (*1) ............ 1,795 1,795 — Short-term investments and investment securities Trading securities ............................................... 810 810 — Available-for-sale securities................................. 76,751 76,751 — Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (*3) ....... 11,880 8,826 (3,054) Long-term loans receivable (including current portion) (*1).. 20,094 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (1,748) Long-term loans receivable, net.......................... 18,346 17,987 (359) Doubtful receivables (*1,4) ........................................ 79,972 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) ................. (54,195) Doubtful receivables, net .................................... 25,777 25,777 — Total....................................................................... ¥1,029,636 ¥1,025,967 ¥ (3,669) Liabilities Short-term debt (principally unsecured) .................. ¥ 116,929 ¥ 116,929 ¥ — Commercial paper ................................................ 2,000 2,000 — Payables ................................................................ 414,985 414,967 (18) Income taxes payable ............................................ 6,591 6,591 — Long-term debt (including current portion) .............. 997,373 1,018,247 20,874 Total....................................................................... ¥1,537,878 ¥1,558,734 ¥20,856 Derivatives (*5) ............................................................ ¥ 1,982 ¥ 1,982 ¥ — *1. The presented amounts include receivables due from unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. *2. Trade notes and trade accounts receivable, long-term loans receivable (including current portion) and doubtful receivables are stated net of individual allowance for doubtful receivables. *3. Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates without available fair market value amounting to ¥208,861 million are not included. *4. Doubtful receivables are included in long-term loans, receivables and other on the consolidated balance sheets. The amount of long-term loans, receivables and other excluding bad debts amounting to ¥35,678 million is not presented above. *5. Derivatives are stated at the net amount of receivables and payables arising from derivative transactions. The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair value of each class of instruments. Cash and cash equivalents, time deposits and short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable): The estimated fair values of cash and cash equivalents, time deposits and short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable) approximate their book value due to the relatively short maturities of these instruments. Trade notes and trade accounts receivable and long-term loans receivable (including current portion): The fair values of trade notes and trade accounts receivable and long-term loans receivable (including current portion) are measured at the amount discounted at the assumed corporate discount rate separately set for each classification of assets. Forward exchange contracted amounts that are assigned to associated assets are reflected on those presented in the balance sheet, and therefore, fair values of forward exchange contracts are included in the fair value of the receivables. Short-term investments and investment securities: The fair values of short-term investments and investment securities are measured at quoted market prices. Investment securities without fair market value are not included in above. These are presented in Note 3. Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates: The fair values of investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates are estimated using quoted market prices. Doubtful receivables: The allowance for doubtful receivables is stated in an amount sufficient to cover probable losses on collection of receivables outstanding based on estimates of individually collectible amounts through collaterals and guarantees. Therefore, the fair value of doubtful receivables approximates the balance of doubtful receivables, net of allowance for doubtful receivables, in the balance sheet as of the fiscal year end. Short-term debt (principally unsecured), commercial paper and income taxes payable: The estimated fair value of short-term debt (principally unsecured), commercial paper and income taxes payable approximate their book value due to the relatively short maturities of these instruments. Payables: The fair values of payables are measured at the amount to be paid at maturity discounted at the assumed corporate discount rate separately set for each classification of liabilities. Forward exchange contracted amounts assigned to associated liabilities are reflected on those presented in the balance sheet, and therefore, fair values of forward exchange contracts are included in the fair value of the payables. 124 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Long-term debt (including current portion): The fair values of bonds issued by the Company are based on the market price. The fair values of other long-term debt (including current portion) are estimated by discounted cash flow analysis, using rates currently available for similar types of borrowings with similar terms and remaining maturities. As to long-term debt with variable interest rates, interest rate swaps that qualify for hedge accounting and meet specific matching criteria are not remeasured at market value and the fair value of such interest rate swaps is included in that of long-term debt. Hence, fair value of such debts is measured at the amount discounted by the rates available for similar types of borrowings with similar terms. Derivative instruments: The fair values of derivative instruments are estimated using the valuation methodology set forth in Note 14. Planned redemption amounts for monetary assets and short-term investment and investment securities with maturity dates at March 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Millions of yen Due after one year Due after Due in one year through five five years through Due after ten March 31, 2012 or less years ten years years Cash and cash equivalents ............................................................ ¥427,274 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Time deposits ................................................................................. 16,033 — — — Trade notes and trade accounts (*1, 2) .............................................. 485,471 2,088 — — Short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable) (*1, 2) ...... 1,025 — — — Short-term investments and investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturity dates ........................... 600 465 — 0 Long-term loans receivable (including current portion) (*1, 2) ............. 4,138 7,157 14,957 10 Doubtful receivables (*1, 2) ................................................................ 6,254 1,609 1,808 3,221 Total ............................................................................................. ¥940,795 ¥11,319 ¥16,765 ¥3,231 Thousands of U.S. dollars Due after one year Due after Due in one year through five five years through Due after ten March 31, 2012 or less years ten years years Cash and cash equivalents ............................................................ $ 5,210,659 $ — $ — $ — Time deposits ................................................................................. 195,524 — — — Trade notes and trade accounts (*1, 2) .............................................. 5,920,378 25,463 — — Short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable) (*1, 2) ...... 12,500 — — — Short-term investments and investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturity dates ........................... 7,317 5,671 — 0 Long-term loans receivable (including current portion) (*1, 2) ............. 50,464 87,281 182,402 122 Doubtful receivables (*1, 2) ................................................................ 76,268 19,622 22,049 39,280 Total ............................................................................................. $11,473,110 $138,037 $204,451 $39,402 *1. The presented amounts include receivables due from unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. *2. The amounts of trade notes and trade accounts receivable, short-term loans receivable, long-term loans receivable (including current portion) and doubtful receivables for which collection dates cannot be estimated are ¥3,150 million (U.S.$38,415 thousand), ¥505 million (U.S.$6,159 thousand), ¥291 million (U.S.$3,549 thousand), and ¥55,272 million (U.S.$674,029 thousand), respectively, and are not included above. Millions of yen Due after one year Due after Due in one year through five five years through Due after ten March 31, 2011 or less years ten years years Cash and cash equivalents ............................................................ ¥415,261 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Time deposits ................................................................................. 4,728 — — — Trade notes and trade accounts (*1, 2) .............................................. 472,050 2,238 — — Short-term loans receivable (excluding current portion of long-term loans receivable) (*1) ......... 1,795 — — — Short-term investments and investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturity dates ........................... 552 523 466 0 Long-term loans receivable (including current portion) (*1, 2) ............. 5,670 4,928 5,153 2,513 Doubtful receivables (*1, 2) ................................................................ 3,381 892 385 259 Total ............................................................................................. ¥903,437 ¥8,581 ¥6,004 ¥2,772 *1. The presented amounts include receivables due from unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. *2. The amounts of trade notes and trade accounts receivable, long-term loans receivable (including current portion) and doubtful receivables for which collection dates cannot be estimated are ¥4,593 million, ¥1,830 million, and ¥75,055 million, respectively, and are not included above. Planned repayment amounts after the balance sheet date for long-term debt are explained in Note 6. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 125 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 14 DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS In order to avoid adverse effects of fluctuations of the market risk Hedging instruments: associated with financial activities and commodity trading activities, Currency-related contracts: Foreign exchange contracts, non-deliverable forward the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries enter into foreign exchange contracts, currency swap contracts and exchange contracts, currency options, swaps and various types of currency exchange contracts, currency swap contracts and currency option contracts interest rates, bonds, equity and commodity-related forwards, futures Interest rate-related contracts: Interest rate swap contracts and option (cap) and options. The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries utilize contracts these derivative transactions to reduce the risk inherent in their assets Commodity-related contracts: Future contracts, forward contracts and option and liabilities and hedge effectively so that these transactions are not contracts likely to have a major impact on the performance of the Company and Hedged items: its consolidated subsidiaries. Currency-related contracts: Foreign currency receivables and debts and securities In accordance with the Company’s internal regulations on derivative and foreign currency forecasted contracts Interest rate-related contracts: Interest on financial assets and liabilities transactions, the Finance Division of the Company is responsible for Commodity-related contracts: Commodity trading contracts and commodity managing market and credit risks of these transactions, and this forecasted contracts division manages position limits, credit limits and status of derivative The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate transactions. the fair value of each derivative transaction: For the purpose of minimizing credit risk exposure, the Company Forward exchange contracts: The estimated fair value amounts of forward and its consolidated subsidiaries select financial institutions as exchange contracts were determined using the counterparties, which are considered reliable by internationally forward exchange rate at the end of fiscal year. acknowledged rating agencies. The Company and each consolidated Non-deliverable forward exchange contracts, currency option contracts, currency swap contracts, interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap contracts: subsidiary’s accounting sections also confirm the outstanding The estimated fair value amounts were determined positions and fair values with counterparties. The results of these using quotes obtained from financial institutions. procedures are reported to the Company’s audit section. The Commodity futures trading: The estimated fair value amounts of future contracts Company and its consolidated subsidiaries evaluate hedge were determined using market information on the effectiveness quarterly by comparing the cumulative changes in cash Tokyo Commodity Exchange or Tokyo Grain Exchange flows or the changes in fair value of hedged items and the or other exchanges. corresponding changes in the derivative instruments. Commodity forwards trading: The estimated fair value amounts of forward The following summarizes hedging derivative financial instruments contracts were determined using the value calculated by quotations available to the public or used and items hedged: from major transaction partners. Commodity option contracts: The estimated fair value amounts of forward contracts were determined using the value calculated by major transaction partners. The following summarizes market value information as of March 31, 2012 on derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has not been applied. Currency related Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Unrealized Unrealized March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value gains (losses) Contract value Fair value gains (losses) Forward exchange contracts: Selling: U.S. dollars ............................................................... ¥ 53,444 ¥(1,583) ¥(1,583) $ 651,756 $(19,304) $(19,304) Russian ruble ............................................................. 232 (21) (21) 2,829 (256) (256) U.S. dollars (Buying U.K. pounds) ............................. 12,264 (218) (218) 149,561 (2,659) (2,659) Australian dollars ...................................................... 29,418 (1,223) (1,223) 358,756 (14,914) (14,914) Canadian dollars ....................................................... 7,668 (727) (727) 93,512 (8,866) (8,866) Euros ......................................................................... 4,667 (226) (226) 56,915 (2,756) (2,756) U.K. pounds .............................................................. 42 (3) (3) 512 (37) (37) Euro (Buying U.K. pounds) ........................................ 3,106 (13) (13) 37,878 (159) (159) Other ......................................................................... 5,024 35 35 61,269 427 427 Total ....................................................................... ¥115,865 ¥(3,979) ¥(3,979) $1,412,988 $(48,524) $(48,524) Buying: U.S. dollars ................................................................ ¥ 25,643 ¥ 178 ¥ 178 $ 312,720 $ 2,171 $ 2,171 U.S. dollars (Selling Russian rubles) ........................... 7,780 (191) (191) 94,878 (2,329) (2,329) U.S. dollars (Selling Thai bahts).................................. 6,395 91 91 77,988 1,110 1,110 U.K. pounds .............................................................. 2,699 (24) (24) 32,915 (293) (293) Euros ......................................................................... 3,841 1 1 46,841 12 12 Canadian dollars ........................................................ 145 1 1 1,768 12 12 Other ......................................................................... 4,506 19 19 54,951 232 232 Total ...................................................................... ¥ 51,009 ¥ 75 ¥ 75 $ 622,061 $ 915 $ 915 Non-deliverable forward exchange contracts: Selling: Chinese yuan ........................................................... ¥ 123 ¥ (8) ¥ (8) $ 1,500 $ (98) $ (98) Other ......................................................................... 83 0 0 1,012 0 0 Total ...................................................................... ¥ 206 ¥ (8) ¥ (8) $ 2,512 $ (98) $ (98) 126 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Commodity related Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Unrealized Unrealized March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value gains (losses) Contract value Fair value gains (losses) Futures trading: Metals: Selling ........................................................................ ¥16,931 ¥ 578 ¥ 578 $206,476 $ 7,049 $ 7,049 Buying ...................................................................... 3,220 (84) (84) 39,268 (1,024) (1,024) Oils: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 5,688 ¥(499) ¥(499) $ 69,365 $(6,086) $(6,086) Buying ...................................................................... 3,608 353 353 44,000 4,305 4,305 Foods: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 136 ¥ 0 ¥ 0 $ 1,659 $ 0 $ 0 Buying ...................................................................... 1,498 84 84 18,269 1,024 1,024 Total: Selling ........................................................................ ¥22,755 ¥ 79 ¥ 79 $277,500 $ 963 $ 963 Buying ...................................................................... 8,326 353 353 101,537 4,305 4,305 Forwards trading: Metals: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 3,879 ¥ (41) ¥ (41) $ 47,305 $ (500) $ (500) Buying ...................................................................... 35,713 (556) (556) 435,524 (6,781) (6,781) Oils: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 1,608 ¥ 58 ¥ 58 $ 19,610 $ 707 $ 707 Buying ...................................................................... 2,202 (57) (57) 26,854 (695) (695) Total: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 5,487 ¥ 17 ¥ 17 $ 66,915 $ 207 $ 207 Buying ...................................................................... 37,915 (613) (613) 462,378 (7,476) (7,476) Commodity options contracts: Oils: Buying Put (Contract) ........................................................ ¥ 204 ¥ — ¥ — $ 2,488 $ — $ — (Option) ........................................................... 2 (2) (2) 24 (24) (24) Total: Buying ...................................................................... ¥ 204 ¥ (2) ¥ (2) $ 2,488 $ (24) $ (24) The following summarizes market value information as of March 31, 2012 of derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has been applied. Currency related The way of hedge accounting; allocation method, which is explained below Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value* Contract value Fair value* Forward exchange contracts: Selling: U.S. dollars ................................................................................. ¥1,836 ¥— $22,390 $— Other ........................................................................................... 512 — 6,244 — Total ......................................................................................... ¥2,348 ¥— $28,634 $— Buying: U.S. dollars .................................................................................. ¥1,870 ¥— $22,805 $— Other ........................................................................................... 355 — 4,329 — Total ........................................................................................ ¥2,225 ¥— $27,134 $— * Short-term and long-term receivables and payables covered by forward exchange contracts are translated at the contract rates. Any differences between the foreign exchange contract rates and historical rates resulting from the translation of receivables and payables are recognized as income or expense over the lives of the related contracts. The estimation method for the fair value of “Trade notes and trade accounts receivable and long-term loans receivable” and “Payables” is explained in Note 13. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 127 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The way of hedge accounting; deferral hedge accounting Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value Contract value Fair value Forward exchange contracts: Selling: U.S. dollars (Buying Australian dollars) ......................................... ¥ 5,234 ¥ 427 $ 63,829 $ 5,207 Australian dollars ........................................................................ 6,725 12 82,012 147 U.S. dollars ................................................................................. 33,335 (869) 406,525 (10,598) Other ........................................................................................... 9,655 (234) 117,744 (2,854) Total ......................................................................................... ¥54,949 ¥(664) $670,110 $ (8,098) Buying: U.S. dollars .................................................................................. ¥13,433 ¥ 232 $163,817 $ 2,829 U.S. dollars (Selling Russian rubles) ............................................. 17,305 (780) 211,036 (9,512) Euros ........................................................................................... 4,156 147 50,683 1,793 Other ........................................................................................... 1,110 20 13,537 244 Total ......................................................................................... ¥36,004 ¥(381) $439,073 $ (4,646) Interest rate related The way of hedge accounting; deferral hedge accounting Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value Contract value Fair value Interest rate swap agreements: Receipt—Variable rate/Payment—Fixed rate ................................... ¥ 3,386 ¥(294) $ 41,293 $(3,585) Total............................................................................................. ¥ 3,386 ¥(294) $ 41,293 $(3,585) The way of hedge accounting; special method, which is explained in Note 13 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value* Contract value Fair value* Interest rate swap agreements: Receipt—Variable rate/Payment—Fixed rate ................................... ¥170,311 ¥ — $2,076,963 $ — Total............................................................................................. ¥170,311 ¥ — $2,076,963 $ — * As for the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, to which the special method is applied, please refer to the methodology used for the fair value of long-term debt, including current portion in Note 13. Commodity related The way of hedge accounting; deferral hedge accounting Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2012 Contract value Fair value Contract value Fair value Futures trading: Metals: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥4,099 ¥ 156 $49,988 $ 1,903 Buying ........................................................................................ 4,135 (98) 50,427 (1,195) Foods: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥2,429 ¥ (59) $29,622 $ (720) Buying ........................................................................................ 1,313 30 16,012 366 Total: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥6,528 ¥ 97 $79,610 $ 1,183 Buying ........................................................................................ 5,448 (68) 66,439 (829) Forwards trading: Metals: Buying ........................................................................................ ¥ 774 ¥ (9) $ 9,439 $ (110) Oils: Selling .......................................................................................... ¥5,680 ¥(242) $69,268 $(2,951) Total: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥5,680 ¥(242) $69,268 $(2,951) Buying ........................................................................................ 774 (9) 9,439 (110) Commodity option contract Oils: Buying Put (Contract) .......................................................................... ¥ 129 ¥ 0 $ 1,573 $ 0 (Option) ............................................................................. 2 (1) 24 (12) Total: Buying ........................................................................................ ¥ 129 ¥ (1) $ 1,573 $ (12) 128 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility The following summarizes market value information as of March 31, 2011 on derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has not been applied. Currency related Millions of yen Unrealized March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value gains (losses) Forward exchange contracts: Selling: U.S. dollars ............................................................... ¥ 73,620 ¥(103) ¥(103) Russian rubles ........................................................... 5,129 80 80 U.S. dollars (Buying U.K. pounds) ............................. 10,392 (53) (53) Australian dollars ...................................................... 3,821 (228) (228) Canadian dollars ....................................................... 5,616 (165) (165) Euros ......................................................................... 4,299 (244) (244) U.K. pounds .............................................................. 1,208 (16) (16) Euro (Buying U.K. pounds) ........................................ 4,795 42 42 Other ......................................................................... 6,854 29 29 Total ....................................................................... ¥115,734 ¥(658) ¥(658) Buying: U.S. dollars ................................................................ ¥ 22,239 ¥ (24) ¥ (24) U.S. dollars (Selling Russian rubles) ........................... 7,792 (40) (40) U.K. pounds .............................................................. 4,741 171 171 Euros ......................................................................... 953 14 14 Canadian dollars ........................................................ 134 7 7 Other ......................................................................... 6,129 (61) (61) Total ...................................................................... ¥ 41,988 ¥ 67 ¥ 67 Non-deliverable forward exchange contracts: Selling: Brazilian reals............................................................. ¥ 791 ¥ (70) ¥ (70) Other ......................................................................... 9 0 0 Total ....................................................................... ¥ 800 ¥ (70) ¥ (70) Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 129 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Commodity related Millions of yen Unrealized March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value gains (losses) Futures trading: Metals: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 9,234 ¥(248) ¥(248) Buying ...................................................................... 2,687 13 13 Oils: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 2,772 ¥(183) ¥(183) Buying ...................................................................... 1,582 87 87 Foods: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 1,978 ¥ (11) ¥ (11) Buying ...................................................................... 527 8 8 Total: Selling ........................................................................ ¥13,984 ¥(442) ¥(442) Buying ...................................................................... 4,796 108 108 Forwards trading: Metals: Selling ........................................................................ ¥11,210 ¥(283) ¥(283) Buying ...................................................................... 25,786 678 678 Oils: Selling ........................................................................ ¥ 2,853 ¥(140) ¥(140) Buying ...................................................................... 3,593 179 179 Total: Selling ........................................................................ ¥14,063 ¥(423) ¥(423) Buying ...................................................................... 29,379 857 857 Commodity options contracts: Metals: Buying Put (Contract) ....................................................... ¥ 110 ¥ — ¥ — (Option) .......................................................... 9 (9) (9) Oils: Buying Put (Contract) ....................................................... ¥ 306 ¥ — ¥ — (Option) .......................................................... 4 (3) (3) Total: Buying ...................................................................... ¥ 416 ¥ (12) ¥ (12) The following summarizes market value information as of March 31, 2011 of derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has been applied. Currency related The way of hedge accounting; allocation method, which is explained below Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value* Forward exchange contracts: Selling: Australian dollars .......................................................................... ¥ 9,331 ¥— U.S. dollars ................................................................................... 6,405 — Other ............................................................................................. 823 — Total ........................................................................................... ¥16,559 ¥— Buying: U.S. dollars .................................................................................... ¥ 4,684 ¥— Other ............................................................................................. 440 — Total .......................................................................................... ¥ 5,124 ¥— * Short-term and long-term receivables and payables covered by forward exchange contracts are translated at the contract rates. Any differences between the foreign exchange forward contract rates and the historical rates resulting from the translation of receivables and payables are recognized as income or expense over the lives of the related contracts. The estimation method for the fair value of “Trade notes and trade accounts receivable and long-term loans receivable” and “Payables” is explained in Note 13. 130 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility The way of hedge accounting; deferral hedge accounting Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value Forward exchange contracts: Selling: U.S. dollars (Buying Australian dollars) ........................................... ¥ 9,569 ¥1,357 U.S. dollars ................................................................................... 4,099 171 Other ............................................................................................. 601 (23) Total ........................................................................................... ¥14,269 ¥1,505 Buying: U.S. dollars .................................................................................... ¥15,995 ¥ 61 Yen (Selling U.S. dollars) ................................................................ 6,828 488 Euro ............................................................................................... 5,276 205 Other ............................................................................................. 1,613 (42) Total .......................................................................................... ¥29,712 ¥ 712 Interest rate related The way of hedge accounting; deferral hedge accounting Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value Interest rate swap agreements: Receipt—Variable rate/Payment—Fixed rate .................................... ¥2,150 ¥(155) Total ......................................................................................... ¥2,150 ¥(155) The way of hedge accounting; the special method, which is explained in Note 13 Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value* Interest rate swap agreements: Receipt—Variable rate/Payment—Fixed rate .................................... ¥251,663 ¥— Total ......................................................................................... ¥251,663 ¥— * As for the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, to which the special method is applied, please refer to the methodology used for the fair value of long-term debt, including current portion in Note 13. Commodity related The way of hedge accounting; deferral hedge accounting Millions of yen March 31, 2011 Contract value Fair value Futures trading: Metals: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥2,695 ¥ 4 Buying.......................................................................................... 4,851 (255) Foods: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥4,106 ¥ 220 Buying ........................................................................................... 977 (2) Total: Selling ......................................................................................... ¥6,801 ¥ 224 Buying ........................................................................................... 5,828 (257) Forwards trading: Oils: Selling ............................................................................................ ¥3,153 ¥ 587 Total: Selling ............................................................................................ ¥3,153 ¥ 587 Commodity option contracts Oils: Selling Call (Contract) ............................................................................ ¥1,393 ¥ — (Option) ............................................................................... (97) (97) Buying Put (Contract) ............................................................................ ¥1,432 ¥ — (Option) ............................................................................... (99) 39 Total: Selling .......................................................................................... ¥1,393 ¥ (97) Buying ........................................................................................... 1,432 39 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 131 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 15 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities at March 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 For notes discounted and endorsed ....................................................................................... ¥21,586 ¥21,247 $263,244 For guarantees of indebtedness to: Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates ............................................................................ 22,201 23,309 270,744 Others ................................................................................................................................. 15,719 17,030 191,695 Total ................................................................................................................................. ¥37,920 ¥40,339 $462,439 16 TRADE NOTES In the case the balance sheet date is a bank holiday, trade notes maturing on the balance sheet date are settled on the following business day, and accounted for accordingly. The effects of the settlements on April 2, 2012 instead of March 31, 2012 included the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2012 Notes receivable increased by ................................................................................................................... ¥9,704 $118,341 Notes payable increased by ...................................................................................................................... 7,702 93,927 17 LEASES Regarding finance lease transactions without transfer of ownership, the Company and domestic consolidated subsidiaries apply the accounting treatment similar to that used for sales transactions, except for the transactions that commenced prior to April 1, 2008. Information about finance lease transactions that are not capitalized and accounted for in the same manner as operating lease transactions at March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows. Non-capitalized finance leases, as lessee: Millions of yen Assumed Accumulated Accumulated March 31, 2012 purchase cost depreciation impairment loss Book value Equipment and fixtures ................................................................... ¥ 523 ¥ 392 ¥41 ¥ 90 Other ............................................................................................... 1,189 997 52 140 Total ............................................................................................. ¥1,712 ¥1,389 ¥93 ¥230 Thousands of U.S. dollars Assumed Accumulated Accumulated March 31, 2012 purchase cost depreciation impairment loss Book value Equipment and fixtures .................................................................... $ 6,378 $ 4,780 $ 500 $1,098 Other ............................................................................................... 14,500 12,159 634 1,707 Total ............................................................................................. $20,878 $16,939 $1,134 $2,805 Millions of yen Assumed Accumulated Accumulated March 31, 2011 purchase cost depreciation impairment loss Book value Equipment and fixtures ................................................................... ¥1,045 ¥ 825 ¥40 ¥180 Other ............................................................................................... 1,872 1,433 52 387 Total ............................................................................................. ¥2,917 ¥2,258 ¥92 ¥567 As lessee under non-capitalized finance leases, the amount of future minimum lease payments is ¥236 million (U.S.$2,878 thousand) at March 31, 2012, of which ¥120 million (U.S.$1,463 thousand) is due within one year. And the amount of annual lease payments is ¥279 million (U.S.$3,402 thousand) for the year ended March 31, 2012. Finance leases, as lessor: The Company had no finance lease transactions as lessor at March 31, 2012 and 2011. As lessor under sub-leases on finance lease transactions, the amount of future minimum lease payments received is ¥2 million (U.S.$24 thousand) at March 31, 2012, of which ¥2 million (U.S.$24 thousand) is due within one year. The Company had no annual lease payments received for the year ended March 31, 2012. 132 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Operating leases, as lessee: As lessee under noncancelable operating leases, the amount of future minimum lease payments is ¥16,691 million (U.S.$203,549 thousand) at March 31, 2012, of which ¥6,406 million (U.S.$78,122 thousand) is due within one year. Operating leases, as lessor: As lessor under operating leases, the amount of future minimum lease payments to be received is ¥12,931 million (U.S.$157,695 thousand) at March 31, 2012, of which ¥2,144 million (U.S.$26,146 thousand) is due within one year. 18 MINIMUM PENSION LIABILITY ADJUSTMENT In the event the balance of pension assets is less than the pension liabilities for companies adopting generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) included in the scope of consolidation, an adjustment was made to net assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP Accounting Standards Codification 715 issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. 19 INVESTMENT AND RENTAL PROPERTIES The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries own rental office buildings, rental commercial facilities and others. Information about book value and fair value of investment and rental properties as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows; Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Book value Changes Book value Fair value Book value Changes Book value Fair value at March 31, during at March 31, at March 31, at March 31, during at March 31, at March 31, March 31, 2012 2011 the year 2012 2012 2011 the year 2012 2012 Office building................ ¥35,435 ¥(2,271) ¥33,164 ¥31,100 $432,134 $(27,696) $404,438 $379,268 Commercial facility......... 14,235 (544) 13,691 11,565 173,598 (6,634) 166,964 141,037 Others ........................... 6,775 (663) 6,112 6,218 82,622 (8,085) 74,537 75,829 Total .............................. ¥56,445 ¥(3,478) ¥52,967 ¥48,883 $688,354 $(42,415) $645,939 $596,134 Millions of yen Book value Changes Book value Fair value at March 31, during at March 31, at March 31, March 31, 2011 2010 the year 2011 2011 Office building................ ¥42,152 ¥ (6,717) ¥35,435 ¥34,074 Commercial facility......... 17,532 (3,297) 14,235 12,031 Condominium ................ 12,862 (12,862) — — Others ........................... 7,262 (487) 6,775 6,785 Total .............................. ¥79,808 ¥(23,363) ¥56,445 ¥52,890 Fair values at March 31, 2012 and 2011 are measured by the Company based on the appraisal report prepared by external real estate appraisers as well as on the “Real Estate Appraisal Standards.” However, if no material change has, from the time of acquisition, occurred in certain values (current market prices or appraised values) or indices, the fair values are determined by adjusting such appraised values and indices. Profit and loss on investment and rental properties in the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows; Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Rent Rent Other gains Rent Rent Other gains Year ended March 31, 2012 income expenses Net or losses income expenses Net or losses Office building................ ¥2,182 ¥(1,522) ¥ 660 ¥(668) $26,609 $(18,560) $ 8,049 $(8,146) Commercial facility......... 1,469 (839) 630 107 17,915 (10,232) 7,683 1,305 Others ........................... 430 (321) 109 (14) 5,244 (3,915) 1,329 (171) Total .............................. ¥4,081 ¥(2,682) ¥1,399 ¥(575) $49,768 $(32,707) $17,061 $(7,012) Millions of yen Rent Rent Other gains Year ended March 31, 2011 income expenses Net or losses Office building................ ¥2,412 ¥(1,741) ¥ 671 ¥ 104 Commercial facility......... 1,406 (989) 417 (1,178) Condominium ................ 656 (457) 199 (509) Others ........................... 453 (265) 188 (169) Total .............................. ¥4,927 ¥(3,452) ¥1,475 ¥(1,752) Rent income is accounted for as net sales or other income. Rent expenses represent expenses corresponding to rent income (e.g. depreciation, repair and maintenance fees, insurance, taxes, and others) and accounted for as cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses, or other expenses. Other gains and losses include penalty income, gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property and equipment, loss on sale of investment properties, and impairment loss. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 133 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 20 SEGMENT INFORMATION For the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 1. Description of reportable segments Reportable segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the Board of Directors meeting in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. We are an integrated trading company engaged in a wide range of business activities on a global basis. Headquarters includes business sections that handle merchandising, trading, product manufacturing, services, project planning and management, investment and finance. Consequently, the Company’s reportable segments consist of the following four business groups based on those business sections; Machinery, Energy & Metal, Chemicals & Functional Materials, and Consumer Lifestyle Business. 2. Methods of measurement for the amounts of sales, profit (loss), assets, liabilities and other items for each reportable segment The accounting policies of each reportable segment are basically consistent with those stated in Note 2. “SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” Transfers between segments are determined at market price or at arm’s length price. 3. Information about sales, profit (loss), assets, liabilities and other items is as follows. Millions of yen 2012 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Year ended March 31, 2012 Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Reconciliations Consolidated Sales: Sales to external customers .......... ¥1,030,555 ¥1,050,725 ¥687,891 ¥1,679,783 ¥4,448,954 ¥ 45,283 ¥4,494,237 ¥ — ¥4,494,237 Intersegment sales or transfers ..... 2,486 1,384 5,347 3,975 13,192 4,122 17,314 (17,314) — Total .......................................... ¥1,033,041 ¥1,052,109 ¥693,238 ¥1,683,758 ¥4,462,146 ¥ 49,405 ¥4,511,551 ¥ (17,314) ¥4,494,237 Segment profit (loss) ......................... 8,086 27,275 5,753 1,720 42,834 (636) 42,198 (45,848) (3,650) Segment assets ................................ 392,172 541,152 272,269 409,866 1,615,459 240,448 1,855,907 264,690 2,120,597 Other: Depreciation ................................... 6,757 15,878 2,753 2,439 27,827 5,289 33,116 174 33,290 Amortization of goodwill .................. 1,344 822 1,448 1,370 4,984 15 4,999 — 4,999 Interest income ............................... 945 2,565 317 678 4,505 1,724 6,229 (235) 5,994 Interest expense ............................. 6,108 9,916 3,643 5,762 25,429 (977) 24,452 (235) 24,217 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates............... 2,778 7,765 854 1,556 12,953 (391) 12,562 4 12,566 Extraordinary gains (losses) ............. 3,612 4,445 (221) (5,316) 2,520 (1,198) 1,322 (2,096) (774) Gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property and equipment.............. 1,608 363 (211) (168) 1,592 801 2,393 — 2,393 Gain on sale of investment securities .................................... 2,932 5,708 133 443 9,216 252 9,468 — 9,468 Impairment loss ............................ 259 1,176 10 3,287 4,732 1,369 6,101 — 6,101 Loss on devaluation of investment securities .................................... 361 132 9 18 520 24 544 2,096 2,640 Loss and provision for loss on dissolution of subsidiaries and affiliates................................ 1,517 56 116 120 1,809 839 2,648 — 2,648 Income taxes .................................. 6,422 9,988 3,589 (464) 19,535 (1,403) 18,132 44,172 62,304 Investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for by the equity method ............... 21,161 163,455 10,593 17,672 212,881 5,213 218,094 (434) 217,660 Increase in property, equipment and intangible assets ......................... ¥ 15,721 ¥ 22,168 ¥ 750 ¥ 2,456 ¥ 41,095 ¥ 3,349 ¥ 44,444 ¥ — ¥ 44,444 134 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Thousands of U.S. dollars 2012 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Year ended March 31, 2012 Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Reconciliations Consolidated Sales: Sales to external customers .......... $12,567,744 $12,813,720 $8,388,915 $20,485,158 $54,255,537 $ 552,232 $54,807,769 $ — $54,807,769 Intersegment sales or transfers ..... 30,317 16,878 65,207 48,476 160,878 50,268 211,146 (211,146) — Total .......................................... $12,598,061 $12,830,598 $8,454,122 $20,533,634 $54,416,415 $ 602,500 $55,018,915 $ (211,146) $54,807,769 Segment profit (loss) ......................... 98,610 332,622 70,159 20,975 522,366 (7,756) 514,610 (559,122) (44,512) Segment assets ................................ 4,782,585 6,599,415 3,320,354 4,998,365 19,700,719 2,932,292 22,633,011 3,227,927 25,860,938 Other: Depreciation ................................... 82,402 193,634 33,573 29,745 339,354 64,500 403,854 2,122 405,976 Amortization of goodwill .................. 16,390 10,024 17,659 16,707 60,780 183 60,963 — 60,963 Interest income ............................... 11,524 31,280 3,866 8,269 54,939 21,025 75,964 (2,866) 73,098 Interest expense ............................. 74,488 120,927 44,427 70,268 310,110 (11,914) 298,196 (2,866) 295,330 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates............... 33,878 94,695 10,415 18,975 157,963 (4,768) 153,195 49 153,244 Extraordinary gains (losses) ............. 44,049 54,207 (2,695) (64,829) 30,732 (14,610) 16,122 (25,561) (9,439) Gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property and equipment.............. 19,610 4,427 (2,573) (2,049) 19,415 9,768 29,183 — 29,183 Gain on sale of investment securities .................................... 35,756 69,610 1,622 5,402 112,390 3,073 115,463 — 115,463 Impairment loss ............................ 3,159 14,341 122 40,085 57,707 16,695 74,402 — 74,402 Loss on devaluation of investment securities .................................... 4,402 1,610 110 219 6,341 293 6,634 25,561 32,195 Loss and provision for loss on dissolution of subsidiaries and affiliates................................ 18,500 683 1,415 1,463 22,061 10,232 32,293 — 32,293 Income taxes .................................. 78,317 121,805 43,768 (5,658) 238,232 (17,110) 221,122 538,683 759,805 Investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for by the equity method ............... 258,061 1,993,354 129,183 215,512 2,596,110 63,573 2,659,683 (5,293) 2,654,390 Increase in property, equipment and intangible assets ......................... $ 191,720 $ 270,341 $ 9,146 $ 29,952 $ 501,159 $ 40,841 $ 542,000 $ — $ 542,000 Notes 1. “Other” segment includes the following eight business groups; Functional service, Domestic regional corporation, Logistics & Insurance service, Venture capital, Aircraft leasing business, Investment business (e.g. real estate investments, etc.), Real estate rental business, Commercial facility development business. 2. Reconciliations of segment loss of ¥45,848 million (U.S.$559,122 thousand) include the difference between actual income tax expenses and those allocated to respective reportable segments based upon the Company’s policy, which amounted to -¥44,172 million (-U.S.$538,683 thousand), and unallocated loss on devaluation of investment securities -¥2,096 million (-U.S.$25,561 thousand) and unallocated dividend income, etc. ¥420 million (U.S.$5,122 thousand). Reconciliations of segment assets of ¥264,690 million (U.S.$3,227,927 thousand) consist of elimination of intersegment balances -¥47,542 million (-U.S.$579,780 thousand) and unallocated amounts of ¥312,232 million (U.S.$3,807,707 thousand) comprising the headquarters’ surplus funds and investment securities. Reconciliations of other items, such as depreciation expenses, interest income, interest expenses, and equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates mainly represent eliminations of intersegment transactions. 3. Segment profit (loss) is reconciled to net income in the consolidated statements of operations. (Changes in segmentation method) A part of the commercial facility development business, which was originally grouped into “Consumer Lifestyle Business”, has been categorized into “Other” due to business restructuring to reinforce the investment management system and function. This change has been applied to the segment information for the financial year ended March 31, 2011. (Changes in financial year-end of the consolidated subsidiaries) From the year ended March 31, 2012, reporting dates of the main subsidiaries, which had adopted different reporting dates from the Company, have been conformed to that of the Company for the sake of timely performance management and prompt implementation of management policies and divisional strategies within the consolidated group. Accordingly, the reporting dates of the 47 consolidated subsidiaries have been changed to March 31, and the 36 subsidiaries, which have a different reporting date, have been consolidated using provisional financial statements at the consolidated reporting date. As a result, in comparison to the financial statements prepared for the original period, there has been a sales increase of ¥49,917 million (U.S.$608,743 thousand) in Machinery, ¥22,857 million (U.S.$278,744 thousand) in Energy & Metal, ¥50,199 million (U.S.$612,183 thousand) in Chemicals & Functional Materials, ¥48,160 million (U.S.$587,317 thousand) in Consumer Lifestyle Business and ¥851 million (U.S.$10,378 thousand) in Other, in addition to a segment profit increase of ¥1,320 million (U.S.$16,098 thousand) in Machinery, ¥4,109 million (U.S.$50,110 thousand) in Energy & Metal, ¥600 million (U.S.$7,317 thousand) in Chemicals & Functional Materials, ¥247 million (U.S.$3,012 thousand) in Consumer Lifestyle Business and ¥209 million (U.S.$2,549 thousand) in Other, and a decrease of ¥276 million (U.S.$3,366 thousand) in the reconciliation. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 135 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The following is segment information for the year ended March 31, 2011, that has been reclassified to conform to the presentation based on the current segmentation. Millions of yen 2011 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Year ended March 31, 2011 Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Reconciliations Consolidated Sales: Sales to external customers .......... ¥965,412 ¥1,013,982 ¥612,511 ¥1,374,113 ¥3,966,018 ¥ 48,622 ¥4,014,640 ¥ — ¥4,014,640 Intersegment sales or transfers ..... 3,331 1,493 3,980 5,115 13,919 3,866 17,785 (17,785) — Total .......................................... ¥968,743 ¥1,015,475 ¥616,491 ¥1,379,228 ¥3,979,937 ¥ 52,488 ¥4,032,425 ¥ (17,785) ¥4,014,640 Segment profit (loss) ......................... 3,392 26,462 2,712 2,354 34,920 (6,728) 28,192 (12,210) 15,982 Segment assets ................................ 378,028 543,668 259,529 389,326 1,570,551 295,662 1,866,213 250,748 2,116,961 Other: Depreciation ................................... 4,123 9,502 2,649 2,666 18,940 4,982 23,922 174 24,096 Amortization of goodwill .................. 906 827 1,448 1,358 4,539 9 4,548 — 4,548 Interest income ............................... 1,244 1,587 201 512 3,544 1,226 4,770 (461) 4,309 Interest expense ............................. 5,806 9,081 3,303 5,601 23,791 606 24,397 (461) 23,936 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates............... 2,741 15,207 1,128 1,171 20,247 (949) 19,298 (1) 19,297 Extraordinary gains (losses) ............. 2,511 3,627 (482) (3,282) 2,374 (8,380) (6,006) 2 (6,004) Gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property and equipment.............. 1,968 2,172 (45) (122) 3,973 414 4,387 — 4,387 Gain on subsequent acquisitions .. 1,065 9,242 — — 10,307 — 10,307 — 10,307 Impairment loss ............................ 41 6,469 83 604 7,197 2,490 9,687 — 9,687 Loss and provision for loss on dissolution of subsidiaries and affiliates................................ 1,038 506 308 2,438 4,290 566 4,856 — 4,856 Restructuring losses ..................... — — — — — 5,097 5,097 — 5,097 Income taxes .................................. 849 5,832 3,266 (1,242) 8,705 (770) 7,935 12,568 20,503 Investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for by the equity method ............... 24,584 171,628 11,239 16,279 223,730 6,301 230,031 (436) 229,595 Increase in property, equipment and intangible assets ......................... ¥ 8,283 ¥ 33,743 ¥ 658 ¥ 2,380 ¥ 45,064 ¥ 3,385 ¥ 48,449 ¥ — ¥ 48,449 Notes 1. “Other” segment includes the following eight business groups; Functional service, Domestic regional corporation, Logistics & Insurance service, Venture capital, Aircraft leasing business, Investment business (e.g. real estate investments, etc.), Real estate rental business, Commercial facility development business. 2. Reconciliations of segment loss of ¥12,210 million include the difference between actual income tax expenses and those allocated to respective reportable segments based upon the Company’s policy, which amounted to -¥12,568 million, and unallocated dividend income, etc. ¥429 million. Reconciliations of segment assets of ¥250,748 million consist of elimination of intersegment balances -¥46,887 million and unallocated amounts of ¥297,635 million comprising the headquarters’ surplus funds and investment securities. Reconciliations of other items, such as depreciation expenses, interest income, interest expenses, and equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates mainly represent eliminations of intersegment transactions. 3. Segment profit (loss) is reconciled to net income in the consolidated statements of operations. 4. Information about geographical areas (1) Sales Millions of yen 2012 Japan Americas Europe Asia/Oceania Other Total ¥2,979,203 ¥229,306 ¥210,513 ¥928,521 ¥146,694 ¥4,494,237 Note: Sales are classified in countries or regions based on location of customers. Thousands of U.S. dollars 2012 Japan Americas Europe Asia/Oceania Other Total $36,331,744 $2,796,415 $2,567,232 $11,323,427 $1,788,951 $54,807,769 Millions of yen 2011 Japan Americas Europe Asia/Oceania Other Total ¥2,717,527 ¥176,263 ¥137,278 ¥834,067 ¥149,505 ¥4,014,640 Note: Sales are classified in countries or regions based on location of customers. (2) Property and equipment Millions of yen 2012 Japan Americas Europe Asia/Oceania Other Total ¥95,577 ¥40,554 ¥32,190 ¥51,654 ¥13,286 ¥233,261 136 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Thousands of U.S. dollars 2012 Japan Americas Europe Asia/Oceania Other Total $1,165,573 $494,561 $392,561 $629,927 $162,024 $2,844,646 Millions of yen 2011 Japan Americas Europe Asia/Oceania Other Total ¥98,989 ¥27,542 ¥32,502 ¥49,309 ¥7,433 ¥215,775 5. Information about major customers Millions of yen 2012 Name of customer Sales Related segment name TS Network Co., Ltd. ¥722,273 Consumer Lifestyle Business Thousands of U.S. dollars 2012 Name of customer Sales Related segment name TS Network Co., Ltd. $8,808,207 Consumer Lifestyle Business Millions of yen 2011 Name of customer Sales Related segment name TS Network Co., Ltd. ¥518,482 Consumer Lifestyle Business 6. Information of goodwill by reportable segment Millions of yen 2012 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Elimination/ Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Corporate Consolidated Goodwill Amortization of goodwill ......... ¥ 1,885 ¥ 825 ¥ 1,448 ¥ 1,409 ¥ 5,567 ¥14 ¥ 5,581 ¥ — ¥ 5,581 Goodwill at March 31, 2012 ... 13,936 6,465 14,342 11,290 46,033 47 46,080 (1,467) 44,613 Negative goodwill Amortization of negative goodwill ... 541 2 — 39 582 — 582 — 582 Negative goodwill at March 31, 2012 .. 989 4 — 474 1,467 — 1,467 (1,467) — Notes 1. “Other” segment includes the following eight business groups; Functional service, Domestic regional corporation, Logistics & Insurance service, Venture capital, Aircraft leasing business, Investment business (e.g. real estate investments, etc.), Real estate rental business, Commercial facility development business. 2. Negative goodwill incurred from business combinations before April 1, 2010 is offset against Goodwill in the consolidated balance sheets. Thousands of U.S. dollars 2012 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Elimination/ Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Corporate Consolidated Goodwill Amortization of goodwill ......... $ 22,988 $10,061 $ 17,659 $ 17,182 $ 67,890 $171 $ 68,061 $ — $ 68,061 Goodwill at March 31, 2012 ... 169,951 78,841 174,902 137,684 561,378 573 561,951 (17,890) 544,061 Negative goodwill Amortization of negative goodwill ... 6,598 24 — 476 7,098 — 7,098 — 7,098 Negative goodwill at March 31, 2012 .. 12,061 49 — 5,780 17,890 — 17,890 (17,890) — Millions of yen 2011 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Elimination/ Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Corporate Consolidated Goodwill Amortization of goodwill.......... ¥ 1,456 ¥ 829 ¥ 1,448 ¥ 1,398 ¥ 5,131 ¥ 9 ¥ 5,140 ¥ — ¥ 5,140 Goodwill at March 31, 2011 ... 15,727 7,223 15,790 14,732 53,472 53 53,525 (2,050) 51,475 Negative goodwill Amortization of negative goodwill ... 550 2 — 40 592 — 592 — 592 Negative goodwill at March 31, 2011 .. 1,530 6 — 514 2,050 — 2,050 (2,050) — Notes 1. “Other” segment includes the following eight business groups; Functional service, Domestic regional corporation, Logistics & Insurance service, Venture capital, Aircraft leasing business, Investment business (e.g. real estate investments, etc.), Real estate rental business, Commercial facility development business. 2. Negative goodwill incurred from business combinations before April 1, 2010 is offset against Goodwill in the consolidated balance sheets. Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 137 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7. Information about bargain purchase gain The Company executed capital increase and additional investment in its consolidated subsidiaries and the resulting gain is recognized in earnings. Millions of yen 2012 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Elimination/ Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Corporate Consolidated Bargain purchase gain ............. ¥1,208 — — — ¥1,208 — ¥1,208 — ¥1,208 Note: “Other” segment includes the following eight business groups; Functional service, Domestic regional corporation, Logistics & Insurance service, Venture capital, Aircraft leasing business, Investment business (e.g. real estate investments, etc.), Real estate rental business, Commercial facility development business. Thousands of U.S. dollars 2012 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Elimination/ Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Corporate Consolidated Bargain purchase gain ............. $14,732 — — — $14,732 — $14,732 — $14,732 Millions of yen 2011 Reportable segments Chemicals & Consumer Functional Lifestyle Elimination/ Machinery Energy & Metal Materials Business Total Other Total Corporate Consolidated Bargain purchase gain ............. ¥279 — — — ¥279 ¥125 ¥404 — ¥404 Note: “Other” segment includes the following eight business groups; Functional service, Domestic regional corporation, Logistics & Insurance service, Venture capital, Aircraft leasing business, Investment business (e.g. real estate investments, etc.), Real estate rental business, Commercial facility development business. 21 ADDITIONAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION (1) Cash flow from acquisition and sale of consolidated subsidiaries The following are the amounts of assets and liabilities of newly consolidated subsidiaries at the time of acquisition for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the acquisition cost of those companies and the amounts of net revenue from (expenditure for) acquisition. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Current assets .......................................................................................................................... ¥ 5,305 ¥ 5,799 $ 64,695 Non-current assets................................................................................................................... 7,457 6,392 90,939 Goodwill recognized on consolidation ..................................................................................... 924 1,917 11,268 Current liabilities ....................................................................................................................... (1,958) (4,630) (23,878) Long-term liabilities .................................................................................................................. (6,753) (5,537) (82,354) Minority interests ...................................................................................................................... (1,580) (2,302) (19,268) Acquisition cost ....................................................................................................................... 3,395 1,639 41,402 Cash and cash equivalents of acquired companies ................................................................. (1,054) (4,191) (12,853) Net expenditure (revenue)......................................................................................................... ¥ 2,341 ¥(2,552) $ 28,549 The following are the amounts of assets and liabilities of subsidiaries excluded from the consolidation scope at the time the Company sold investment securities in consolidated subsidiaries, for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 2012 2011 2012 Current assets ................ ¥4,449 ¥1,361 $54,256 Current liabilities ............. ¥6,877 ¥1,174 $83,866 Non-current assets.......... 2,025 2,790 24,695 Non-current liabilities ....... 704 1,825 8,585 Total ................................ ¥6,474 ¥4,151 $78,951 Total ................................ ¥7,581 ¥2,999 $92,451 (2) “Other, net” of cash flows from operating activities “Other, net” of cash flows from operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2012, primarily consists of income resulting from a decrease in bankruptcy claims, which amounted to ¥13,195 million (U.S.$160,915 thousand). (3) “Other, net” of cash flows from investing activities “Other, net” of cash flows from investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2011, primarily consists of proceeds from the sales of investment property, which amounts to ¥18,810 million. 138 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility 22 LAND REVALUATION DIFFERENCE A certain domestic subsidiary and equity method affiliate revalued land for business in accordance with the Law Concerning Revaluation of Land on March 31, 2002. With respect to the evaluation difference, amounts equivalent to taxes related to the evaluation difference were presented as “Deferred tax liabilities on land revaluation difference” (See Note 8). The difference between the previous book value and the revalued amount, net of the deferred tax liabilities was presented as “Land revaluation difference” in net assets. • Method of revaluation: Calculations were made in accordance with the Law Concerning Revaluation of Land. • Date of revaluation: March 31, 2002 • The difference between the market value as of March 31, 2012 and the book value of land after revaluation: ¥1,110 million (U.S.$13,537 thousand). 23 RELATED PARTY INFORMATION (1) Related party transactions There are no significant transactions with any related party in the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. (2) Financial summary of significant affiliates of the Company A financial summary of Metal One Corporation and ETH Investimentos S.A., which are significant affiliates of the Company, for the years ended or as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, is as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2012 2011 2012 Current assets ...................................................................................................................... ¥ 944,748 ¥ 834,131 $11,521,317 Non-current assets ................................................................................................................ 628,102 627,157 7,659,780 Current liabilities .................................................................................................................... 803,660 688,457 9,800,732 Non-current liabilities ............................................................................................................. 406,073 360,888 4,952,110 Net assets ............................................................................................................................. 363,117 411,943 4,428,256 Net sales ............................................................................................................................... 2,543,999 2,570,255 31,024,378 Income before income taxes and minority interests ............................................................... (10,081) 40,715 (122,939) Net income (loss) ................................................................................................................... ¥ (9,455) ¥ 31,542 $ (115,305) 24 STOCK OPTIONS The stock options outstanding at March 31, 2012 are as follows: Entity name: Sakura Internet Co., Ltd. Persons granted: 2 directors, 3 corporate auditors, 77 employees Number of options granted: 376 common shares of Sakura Internet Co., Ltd. Date of grant: August 31, 2006 Vesting conditions: Stock options are vested to persons in a position of director, corporate auditor or employee of Sakura Internet Co., Ltd. at the time of exercise, unless the retirement is caused by an expiration of the term of director, reaching retirement age or other valid reasons. Required service period: From August 31, 2006 to June 27, 2008 Exercise period: From June 28, 2008 to June 27, 2011 Exercise price per share: ¥291,394 (U.S.$3,553.59) Fair value price at grant date: ¥185,399 (U.S.$2,260.96) The numbers of stock options outstanding for Sakura Internet Co., Ltd. are as follows: At March 31, 2011 Granted Forfeited Vested At March 31, 2012 Non-vested — — — — — At March 31, 2011 Granted Forfeited Vested At March 31, 2012 Vested 316 — — 316 — Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 139 Independent Auditor’s Report 140 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 The Objectives of The Sojitz Group’s Management Medium-term Business Strategies Corporate Social Performance Data Organization Financial Section Foundation Management Plan 2014 Responsibility Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2012) Company Name Sojitz Corporation Number of Branches & Offices Domestic 7 Overseas 91 Established April 1, 2003 Number of Subsidiaries & Domestic 133 Capitalization 160,339 million yen Affiliates Overseas 356 President & CEO Yoji Sato Number of Employees Non-consolidated 2,256 (As of April 1, 2012) Consolidated 17,039 Head Office 1-1, Uchisaiwaicho 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100 8691, Japan TEL: +813 68715000 FAX: +813 6871 2430 (Relocated on July 17, 2012) Sojitz Corporation Website http://www.sojitz.com/en/index.html ● Investor Relations Section http://www.sojitz.com/en/ir/index.html ● Corporate Social Responsibility Section http://www.sojitz.com/en/csr/index.html Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 141 Ten Declarations 10 from Shigeru Nishihara, Executive Officer, Investor Relations “We are determined to reform major progress as a creative trading Next year will be the tenth year since the merger disseminated the vision and other aspects of the that created Sojitz. What road should Sojitz take in plan, including balance-sheet-based management its second decade? and division management, and we have made Looking ahead at the operating environment for progress in changing our mindset. We must steadily the coming 10 years, the global economy will implement policies one by one to achieve the become more complex and will change with objectives of the plan; for example, we must share increasing rapidity. Naturally, the capabilities and even more, accelerate decision-making, strengthen roles required of trading companies will also change. the capabilities of our international organization, and In this milieu, we cannot take advantage of our raise the sophistication of risk management. strengths and unique characteristics if we simply Sojitz will creatively and continuously generate continue to do business as usual. In the worst case, new added value to demonstrate its reason for our very reason for existence may fade, so we need existence into the future. We will continue to excel as to change now. Medium-term Management Plan long as we contribute to social and industrial 2014 is our strategy for change. development through creation. I am confident that Discussions during the process of formulating Sojitz will strongly differentiate itself over the coming Medium-term Management Plan 2014 have already 10 years by achieving the targets of Medium-term 142 Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 ourselves to make company.” Management Plan 2014 with the objectives of increasing corporate value and pursuing greater achievements in the future. I intend to do everything I can to ensure that our stakeholders understand this. In IR, we need to contribute to an accurate valuation for Sojitz through ongoing communication with shareholders and investors to explain strategies and plans and provide regular updates of their progress and effectiveness. An important concurrent function of IR is seriously considering the opinions of our shareholders and investors and reflecting them in management. Sojitz intends to Executive Officer Corporate Planning, maintain close communication with shareholders Regional Coordination & Administration, Logistics & Insurance, and investors and exchange opinions about our Investor Relations strategies and initiatives. Shigeru Nishihara Sojitz Corporation Annual Report 2012 143 1-1, Uchisaiwaicho 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 108-8691, Japan TEL: + 81 3 6871 5000 http://www.sojitz.com /en
