Communication on Progress 2012 Rioforte 2 Communication on Progress 2012 Chairman’s Statement Manuel Fernando Moniz Galvão Espírito Santo Silva To Rioforte’s Stakeholders, We are very proud to address to the Global Compact our this principles in 2010, Rioforte embedded on the sustainability first, Communication on Progress, which deals with the work strategies and objectives, communication and conduct the developed during 2011, a year in which the Group companies before mentioned principles. All employees and subsidiaries unequivocally reinforced their commitment to the challenge of companies are aware of our commitment and mandated to sustainable management, and above all a year marked by the include on the corporate culture. formal adoption of Rioforte’s Sustainability Strategic Plan. Furthermore, the Report attests to our commitment to achieve From the start Rioforte has assumed the commitment of the objectives we set out to reach, and should be seen as a taking a structured approach to stimulating the adoption of commitment to share the results of the implementation of the sustainable management best practices within the universe Sustainability Strategic Plan. of its subsidiaries. The objective was to produce a document adjusted to the needs of an investment company, the I take this opportunity to thank all the managers within sustainability commitments of the Espírito Santo Group, and Rioforte’s universe for their contribution and commitment to the business specificities of each of the companies in Rioforte’s the challenge of Sustainability, as well as the teams of Rioforte portfolio. Such document would permit to define, organize and and its subsidiaries which were involved in the development implement the management strategy and business practices and reporting of Sustainability practices. This effort was, in the area of Sustainability. Today we have that mainstay in and will continue to be, indispensable in order to meet our place, which materializes our ambition into pillars, strategic commitment of developing a portfolio increasingly aligned to objectives, actions and performance indicators for the period of best sustainability practices. 2012 to 2014, applying to Rioforte in a general manner and to each of its subsidiaries in a specific manner. Having been developed based on the strong belief that the reinforced integration of best management practices in Rioforte’s management model is decisive for solid shareholder value creation in the medium and long term, the Plan will, in my opinion, give a crucial contribution to strengthen the business of each company and that of Rioforte as a whole. This philosophy of action is increasingly valued by all the stakeholders that engage with Rioforte, notably investors and business partners, both national and international, who have shown their strong appreciation for Rioforte’s consistent assimilation of responsible management practices. This objective was achieved in partnership with the subsidiaries’employees and heads of Sustainability management, who, actively supported by their senior officers and in the most natural manner, took it upon themselves to take the necessary action and implement the pillars and strategic objectives proposed by Rioforte for their businesses and market context, thus assuming their share part within a consistent structure of commitment to Sustainability. We believe that the execution of the Plan will give structure to and guarantee a legacy that will forever endure in the capital of the companies. Manuel Fernando Moniz Galvão Espírito Santo Silva The information reported also demonstrates our commitment to Chairman disclose the practices that comply to Rioforte’s 9 Sustainability Principles and the 10 principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact. Rioforte continues to support the ten Global Compact principles within the sphere of influence. After the adoption of Rioforte 3 Communication on Progress 2012 Rioforte Rioforte Investments S.A. is the investment company for the Espírito Santo Group’s interests in non financial companies Sustainability Principles operating in various economic sectors in the South Atlantic region. Having a diversified asset portfolio, the company operates in sectors such as real estate, construction, tourism, I. To consolidate an identity based on competence, agriculture and energy, and has prioritized the development of nowledge and quality, and oriented to value creation; its activities within a geographical space defined as a strategic triangle formed by Southeast Europe, South America and II. To promote a culture of rigour, confidence and Africa, to which it channeled the bulk of its management transparency in management; efforts. Rioforte’s Sustainability Principles reflect management’s approach to the environmental, social and economic issues, III. To anticipate trends, promote knowledge and foster which is reinforced by the Company’s adhesion to the innovation; 10 Global Compact Principles. IV. To dialogue with and raise the awareness of stakeholders in order to obtain support and recognition for the effort Mission of building a sustainable portfolio; V. To promote respect for the rights of citizens directly To leverage the capabilities, competences and relationships influenced by the activity of Rioforte and its subsidiaries; of the Espírito Santo Group in the South Atlantic economic triangle (Southwest Europe, South America and Africa), to VI. To guarantee the employees’ wellbeing, integrity and operate in selected non financial businesses, based on solid motivation; partnership models, and delivering increasingly high levels of return to the shareholder VII. To achieve an harmonious integration of the activity of Rioforte and its subsidiaries within the local communities Vision with which they interact; VIII. To contribute with strategies that help minimize the Reference Investor Group in the South Atlantic economic impacts of climate change; triangle, with a value firmly recognized by the capital markets, based on a geographically balanced and high performing IX. To promote the protection and respect for the business portfolio, privileged options for future growth and a environment. unique network of partnerships Assets breakdown by business area Turnover breakdown by business area 0% 1% 6% 8% 23% 6% 9% 35% 26% 30% 25% 2010 2011 6% 2010 2011 54% 8% 29% 63% 15% 21% 13% 23% Construction Real Estate Tourism Agriculture Others* * Includes stakes in the energy and healthcare industries, as well as financial assets, accounts receivables and cash and cash equivalents Rioforte 4 Communication on Progress 2012 Human Rights Principles Respect for universal accepted Human Rights are a prerequisite All the investments materially relevant for Rioforte approved to do and conduct business within the universe of Rioforte and in 2010 and 2011 safeguard these aspects, trough clauses that its subsidiaries. safeguard compliance with human rights. The Sustainability Principles is the document that guides the However, Rioforte went one step further by addressing the risk effort to implement a responsible business conduct within the of human rights abuses on subsidiaries’ suppliers’ value chain. Company. Principle five highlights the approach of Rioforte to To minimize this risk, Rioforte made the following efforts: human rights. • In 2010, after the adoption of the sustainability principles, For Rioforte, to promote the respect for Human Rights means Rioforte implemented these principles within its subsidiaries. safeguarding diversity and respect for race, gender, religion, and The principles allow to all subsidiaries to easily communicate ethnics and rejecting all forms of slave, child and forced labour with suppliers, the expected values and conduct from the or any other form of abuse. business relationship established with Rioforte; Rioforte main objective is to ensure that there is no • In 2011, after the approval of the sustainability strategic discrimination whatsoever amid the employees of Rioforte and plan, the subsidiaries adjusted and made a final commitment, its subsidiaries and raise awareness across the value chain about formalizing their own Sustainability Plan. All subsidiaries are respect for the Human Rights and the Universal Declaration implementing actions to establish suppliers’ code of conducts of Human Rights in the communities and regions where they and controls that allows minimizing and reporting human have a significant presence. rights abuses or violations. This effort, allow to build long-term relationships with suppliers that have the same conduct As an investment company, Rioforte main ability to implement as expressed by Rioforte values and principles. a successful sustainability strategy is trough the investments activity. In 2012, after the adoption of the sustainability strategic plan, Rioforte approved the inclusion of human rights clauses in investment contracts, safeguarding compliance with the fifth sustainability principle. Principle V To promote respect for the rights of citizens directly influenced by the activity of Rioforte and its subsidiaries Source: Rioforte Sustainability Principles Rioforte 5 Communication on Progress 2012 Labour Principles In the construction sector, human resources The employees’ integrity, wellbeing and motivation underlie management practices are adapted to the reality the decision making process at Rioforte and its subsidiaries. of each company. Given the current context of the construction sector in Portugal, the challenge faced Employee motivation fosters the development of a group by these companies is focused on restructuring culture, which Rioforte and its subsidiaries assume as a key and securing operational viability in the short term so as to element for competitive success. guarantee economic and financial sustainability in the medium and long term. Even so, they maintain their commitment to To mitigate the risk of violation of the moral and physical their hygiene, health and safety management systems viewing integrity of any and all employees of Rioforte and its subsidiaries the minimization of occupational hazards. constitutes an essential condition to ensure a culture of wellbeing, belonging and satisfaction with the organization. The agricultural sector has the same concerns about Rioforte’s Sustainability Strategic Plan and the specific Plans the health and safety of their employees, having of the various units foresee the adoption of continuous implemented an extensive programme on the use, training practices, consistent and competitive hiring practices, control and disposal of pesticides and pesticides practices that foster employee engagement and motivation, and packaging. This programme is of vital importance practices aimed at minimizing safety and hygiene hazards in the in so far as the inadequate handling of pesticides is one of the workplace, in agreement with the activity of each subsidiary. main causes of health problems among farming workers, and these are subject to regular medical exams. Any occupational Subsidiaries implemented a set of good practices, summarized accidents are reported to the competent authorities. as follows: The companies in the real estate sector in The companies in the energy sector have made an Portugal have in place well established practices effort to train and adapt their employees to the for employee training, performance assessment new challenges they face. In geoservices, there are and the management of hygiene, health and well established practices for employee training and safety at work. When there in an interest by health and safety management, which have resulted both parties, retiring employees are encouraged to cooperate, in a reduction in the number of occupational either circumstantially or on a part-time basis. In Brazil these accidents despite an increase in the number of hours of practices are being standardized viewing the consistency and exposure to risk. systematization of human resources management. The tourism sector has seen continuous investment in the sophistication of its human capital management, through the implementation Principle VI of practices such as: Organizational climate analyses; To guarantee the employees’ wellbeing, Health, hygiene and safety management systems; integrity and motivation Training plans; Career management systems, supported by employee, Source: Rioforte Sustainability Principles performance assessment. Rioforte 6 Communication on Progress 2012 Environmental Principles The group-wide implementation of a business approach that • The main concerns of the agricultural sector at global level are incorporates the management of the main impacts on the the sustainability of the soils, the preservation of biodiversity environment – as another factor of differentiation and value and the correct management of water resources. In Brazil, two creation – will foster awareness to an efficient use of the natural of Rioforte’s subsidiaries in this sector rent their land to partners resources. who are committed to respect natural values and preserve the business’s sustainability in the long term. The only estate In the implementation of this principle Rioforte and its fully managed by Rioforte in Brazil (Cobrape) has identified subsidiaries will integrate the legal environmental provisions all the environmental impacts of its activities and processes. applicable in the various geographies in the underlying basis for This survey was conducted by the regulator, which decisions in order to gradually: subsequently recommended the implementation of programmes to monitor, manage and minimise the • Arrive at business decisions that promote the valorization and environmental impacts. All these programmes were deployed protection of the environment; under a holistic approach aimed at guaranteeing the operation’s sustainability in the long run. • Implement good environmental management practices; • The farming estates in Paraguay also conducted • Ensure the efficient consumption and use of resources, environmental impact surveys to determine the main risks for namely water, soil, and raw materials; biodiversity arising from their activity. Such risks are managed in accordance with environmental plans namely the Forcerpa • Engage the value chain in the adoption of good environmental Forestry Management Plan, the Estancia Golondrina management practices. Integrated Production Plan, or the Ypeti Natural Reserve Management Plan – which are adjusted to the activities In this regard, Rioforte and its subsidiaries believe that a developed – cattle breeding and forestry – and subject to continuous effort to improve environmental performance regular assessments. In this respect, the following facts are should go hand in hand with an effort to increase awareness worth mentioning: among employees, the communities, clients and suppliers. The quality management system for seed production (soy, The sustainability plan of each subsidiary has specific actions wheat and cotton) is certified under ISO 9001; to implement during the period of 2012-2014, that aims to minimize the main environmental impacts. Forestry production and management is certified in accordance with the criteria of the Forest Stewardship However, so far, the subsidiaries implemented a set of good Council (FSC); practices, summarized as follows: Soy production is currently in the process of certification in • The hotel units have invested in the implementation of accordance with the International Sustainability and Carbon environmental management systems permitting to minimize Certification (ISCC) standards, which validates carbon their impacts on the environment. Three hotel units have credits generated through the production of all types of their management systems certified under the ISO 14001 biomass. standard. The hotels have also put into practice programmes to raise awareness among employees, suppliers and clients • In the energy sector, the company that performs geoservices and engage them in the initiatives implemented. has in place an environmental management system that complies with ISO 14001, which covers the management of • In their search for efficiency, the travel agencies select their solid waste and liquid effluents, and controls water and equipment and materials having in mind the reduction of energy consumption. consumptions. This includes the installation of more effective HVAC devices and energy saving bulbs and optimising lighting in their counters’ light panels. • The companies in the construction sector in Portugal manage their main environmental impacts through an environmental Principle IX management system certified under the ISO 14001 standard, which guarantees high consistency in works management To promote the protection and execution processes. This system allows for the correct and respect for the environment monitoring of the main environmental impacts, such as water and energy consumption, and to dispose of and recycle the waste produced during constructions. Source: Rioforte Sustainability Principles Rioforte 7 Communication on Progress 2012 Anti‐Corruption Principles Rioforte has assumed the commitment of defining and sector, which employ the largest number of people in Southeast implementing a Compliance Programme capable of Europe, provided specific training to their employees on the supporting the exercise of its business activity in accordance Code of Conduct, thus making it easier to understand and with transparency, integrity and ethical standards, guaranteeing endorse it. compliance with laws and regulations and meeting the demands of the markets for an increasingly transparent and The implementation of the Code of Conduct and Compliance strict operational management. Programme allow to reduce the risk of corruption or of violation of laws or regulations across the universe of subsidiary In 2011 Rioforte initiated and concluded the implementation companies, not only through the enforcement of internal of the Code of Conduct in its subsidiaries in Southeast Europe, control mechanisms but also by raising awareness to all successfully obtaining the involvement of all the companies employees and senior management about the alignment of and guaranteeing the significant adhesion of their employees, behaviors to Rioforte’s Principles and Values. which represented an important step towards the execution of the Compliance Programme. All the employees of ESPART and Comporta, have adhered to the Code of Conduct. Regarding the ES Viagens and Tivoli, To facilitate the implementation of the Code of Conduct a 99% and 93% of the employees of these companies have signed Follow-up Manual was drawn up. Being adapted to each of the Code of Conduct. the subsidiaries and including functional contents accessible to all employees, the Manual aimed to enhance knowledge It should be stressed that no cases of corruption were known or about the applicability of the Code to the reality of the various detected in 2011 within Rioforte or its subsidiaries. companies. To give an example the companies in the tourism Employees that have adhered to the Code of Conduct Principle II 100% 100% 99% 93% To promote a culture of rigour, confidence and transparency in management Source: Rioforte Sustainability Principles ESPART Comporta ES Viagens Tivoli Rioforte 8 Communication on Progress 2012 About the Communication on Progress (COP) The information reported, must to be complemented with the information of the 2011 Rioforte Sustainability Report and Annual Report, available on www.rioforte.com. The Sustainability report follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines version G3.1 and the Global Compact Principles. Readers and users may consult the link between the GRI guidelines and Global Compact Principles on the sustainability report, to fully understand our commitment and performance towards sustainable development and consequently the ten Global Compact Principles. For additional information on sustainability performance, please consult the 2010 Rioforte Sustainability report, the first report exercise that explains the first investments in a structured approach to manage environmental, social and economic risks and opportunities. The 2012 COP has the purpose to fully address each set of principles: Human Rights, Labor, Environmental and AntiCorruption. The report follows the basic template proposed by the Global Compact. Rioforte’s Sustainability Principles embody its approach to Sustainability. We believe that it is based on these principles that lay the right path to build a sustainable portfolio at economic, environmental and social level. The principles where implemented on Rioforte and its subsidiaries. Rioforte developed a set of commitments in 2011 trough specific objectives, actions and goals. This commitment will be implemented during 2012-2014 in Rioforte and adjusted to all relevant subsidiaries. The practices already developed in 2009, 2010 and 2011, together with those diagnosed and implemented by Rioforte’s subsidiaries, which reflect both the strategic objectives and the Global Compact principles, are reflected in COP. Rioforte 9 Communication on Progress 2012 Contacts www.rioforte.com rioforte@rioforte.com Rio Forte Investments S.A. Rioforte (Portugal), S.A. Rioforte Investment Holding Brasil S.A. 21/25 Allée Scheffer Rua de São Bernardo, 62 Av. Eng. Luiz Carlos Berrini, 1511, Conj.91 L-2520 Luxembourg 1200-826 Lisboa – Portugal CEP: 04571-011 São Paulo, SP Brasil R.C.S. Luxembourg T: 351 21 391 5700 T: 55 11 3041 2001 T: 352 4349 4532 F: 351 21 395 2008 F: 55 11 3041 2002 F: 352 4349 454 Av. Rio Branco, 89 14.º andar Cep. 20040-004 Centro Rio de Janeiro/RJ Brasil T: 55 21 3973 9900 F: 55 21 3973 9949
