General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: To: Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). Saulius Mudėnas, director Examples (Please click on the links below for examples of statements) Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. The definite salary estimating the system of project managers and the team members was implemented. The implementation implies that the team members are aware of each others salary and principles according to which the salary is determined. The policy of the company‘s salary does not depend from gender, but is a subject to occupation and competence. Examples • Reference to (statement of support for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards • Written company policy on respecting Human Rights and preventing potential abuses (e.g. in code of conduct) • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the principles on Human Rights? • Assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation (see Risk Assessment Report at www.humanrightsbusiness.org) • Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. All the notices can be forwarded directly to the company‘s director e-mail. Anonymous messages will be also taken into consideration. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No complaints concerning the violation of the human rights were received. The company does not carry child labor policy. There are no forms of discrimination in the company. Examples • Specific progress made in the area of Human Rights in the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals with incidents of Human Rights violations • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of Human Rights performance Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and PrinciplePrinciples Labour 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 3:information (For more Businesses on the principles, uphold theclick should here)of association and the effective recognition of the right to freedom collective bargaining; Assessment, Principle 4: thePolicy and Goals elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Description of the relevance Principle 5: the effective abolition of labour rights of child for the labour; company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). and Description of written policies, public commitments Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect andofcompany employment on labour goalsand rights. occupation (ForThe company implements the more information policy on the of employment principles, click of new people who are provided with the opportunity of lifelong education. The here) company also implements internal training programmes for the employees to improve on their qualification. Assessment, Policy and Goals Examples Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). •Description Reference of writtento ILO Core public policies, Conventions or otherand commitments international company goals instruments on labour rights. • Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and Examples benefits •• Policy Reference requiring to ILObusiness partners and Core Conventions suppliers or other to adhereinstruments to the Labour principles international •• Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association sector and country(ies) of operations and collective bargaining and the • Specific goals in the area of Labour Rights for the upcoming elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination year • Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and Implementation benefits •Description of concrete Policy requiringactions businesstaken by your partners andcompany adhere to labour supplierstotoimplement policies, the Labour reduce labour risks and principles • respond to labour violations. Assessment of labour‐related risks in the industry sector and country(ies) of operations •It is important to improve Specific goalsworking in theconditions in the shop-floor. area of Labour Rights for thetaking While into consideration upcoming year the requests of the employees, the system of airing in the shop-floor is to be installed. Implementation Examples Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and •respond to Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms labour violations. • Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies • Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured • Describe how your company prevents discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for Examplescomparable work •• Consultation Suggestion with box, employees call center or and other stakeholders grievance mechanisms • • Allocation of responsibilities for Awareness raising or training for employees the protectionon of labour labour rights rights within and your organization policies •• Human Resource policies and procedures supporting Describe how the health and safety of all employees is ensured the Labour principles •• Describe howinyour Participation international framework company prevents agreements of discrimination and allother kindsagreements and ensureswith labour unions comparable pay for comparable work •Measurement of outcomes Consultation with employees and other stakeholders Description • of how Allocation of company monitors theresponsibilities for the and evaluatesofperformance. protection labour rights within your organization • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles •The company’s financial penalty system that was applicable for the faults and mistakes was cancelled. Participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions All the employees have the possibility to declare the opinion in a written form concerning the improvement of the working conditions. Measurement of outcomes Environmental management is arranged in accordance with ISO 1400 standard. Company’s expert is responsible for environmental Examples Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. management and supervision. 100% of the company’s waste is being sorted. • Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) •It is planned that in the Describe yearyour how 2012 the dealswhich paper waste, company withisincidents the major waste of production, of violations will be reduced. of Labour To implement this aim, a plan principles •of efficacyInvestigations, will be arranged. legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Examples Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period •• External Demographics auditsof (e.g. SA 8000) and employees by diversity factors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) management • Describe how your company deals with incidents of violations of Labour principles • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Labour • Periodic review of results by senior management • Specific progress made in the area of Labour during the last reporting period • External audits (e.g. SA 8000) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (For more information on the principles, click here) Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection On the grounds of company’s statistics, the waste of the paper amounts almost 37%. Thus the aim of the year 2012 is to reduce the percentage to 30%. The aim will be to seek for the settlement with the suppliers for the provision of undersized format paper. Examples • Assess the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents A new technology of the publications printed on 100% recycled and FCS certified paper will be introduced to the customers. A plan of efficacy concerning the reduction of the waste will be arranged. Examples • Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection • Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes • Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Raise awareness among suppliers by asking them for environmental data on their products • Environmental management system with objectives and procedures for evaluating progress, minimizing negative impacts and transferring good practices • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within your company Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance Due to the demand of the energy saving a new airing system equipped with the latest recuperation arrangement will be installed. The goal concerning the energy saving for the year 2011 was the repair of the manufacturing premises’ lap’s insurance of the warmth. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to environmental principles • Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performance Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery (For more information on the principles, click here). Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. The power technical due-diligence is to be implemented in the year 2012. The company executes the definite business policy towards all the forms of corruptions. Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country(ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. The e-mail of the company’s director will be disclosed for any notices to be forwarded directly. Examples • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms • Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within your company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. Examples • Information about how your company deals with incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery • Specific progress made in the area of anti‐corruption during the last reporting period • External audits of anti‐corruption programmemes
