Pentland Group Corporate Responsibility Review 2011 _03 About Pentland Group Pentland Group is a family-owned, Through our subsidiary Pentland Nearly 2,000 people work directly for UK-based company that focuses Brands we manage our wholly-owned Pentland Group and Pentland Brands _04 05 About this Review primarily on the apparel and footwear sports, outdoor and fashion brands: at our offices in the UK, Asia and the industries. In 2010 the business Berghaus, Boxfresh, brasher, ellesse, US (see map at www.pentland.com). _07 A message from the Chairman reported global revenues of £1.3 KangaROOS, Mitre, ONETrueSaxon, A further 14,000 people are employed billion, with sales across Europe, the Prostar, Red or Dead, and Speedo. by JD Sports Fashion. _08 09 About CR at Pentland Americas, Asia, Africa and Australia1. Pentland also holds licences to make Pentland Group is a signatory to the footwear for Lacoste and Ted Baker _10 11 Business ethics Founded in 1932 in Liverpool, globally, as well as Kickers in the UN Global Compact and a Council Pentland was originally called the Supporter of the International Business UK and Ireland. _12 17 Products Liverpool Shoe Company and traded Leaders Forum. Pentland Brands is a purely in shoes, first as a wholesaler The Group has a 57% shareholding long-standing member of the Ethical _18 23 Environment before expanding into manufacturing. in JD Sports Fashion plc2 and Trading Initiative, a signatory to Better Pentland was one of the pioneers shareholdings in other brands, Work’s Buyer Principles, and a Board _24 29 People in sourcing footwear from Asia, and including Hunter. member of the World Federation of formed a division in Hong Kong in the Sporting Goods Industry. _30 34 Community the early 1960s. 1 2010 financial figures are the latest available. 2  his Review relates to the 2011 calendar year and therefore its scope does not include Blacks Leisure, T acquired by JD Sports Fashion in January 2012. _2 _3 This Review presents Pentland Pentland Group holds a significant Group’s approach to being a stake but does not exercise direct responsible business, and our management control. corporate responsibility activities The Review comprises our 2011 during the 2011 calendar year. It Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Principles Relevant section covers the companies and brands (COP) to the United Nations Global wholly-owned by Pentland Group. Compact (see table). Our previous Businesses should support and respect the protection of Where appropriate it includes 1 COPs are available in the Corporate internationally proclaimed human rights. People, pages information and data relating to JD Responsibility section of 24-29 Sports Fashion and Hunter, in which Human rights www.pentland.com. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 2 human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 4 forced and compulsory labour. People, pages Labour rights 24-29 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of 5 child labour. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination 6 in respect of employment and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 7 environmental challenges. Products, pages Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 12-17 Environment 8 environmental responsibility. Environment, pages 18-23 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion 9 of environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Business ethics, Anti-corruption 10 including extortion and bribery. pages 10-11 _4 _5 At Pentland Group, we believe that While we are pleased with the being responsible is the only way progress we are making, we to conduct business. For a global recognise that there will always be Group of companies like ours, this challenges. We firmly believe that means keeping track of diverse collaboration – with others in our environmental and social trends, industry, with non-governmental and tackling complex issues on a organisations and with trade unions – daily basis. is the best way to overcome them. Our commitment to behaving Our membership of the UN Global responsibly remains undimmed Compact is one such partnership. despite the ongoing global economic We are proud to have signed up downturn and the resulting pressure to the UNGC’s Ten Principles, and on businesses to cut costs. In fact we are committed to engaging with the are increasing our focus, for example organisation in its efforts to make by working more collaboratively responsible business practices across the Group to reduce our mainstream, to tackle human rights carbon footprint. We have also abuses, and to help lift people out of further defined our Group corporate poverty. I am delighted to share with responsibility direction and objectives, you this Review, which presents our to set a clearer path for our future activities and progress in 2011, and activities. You can read more about comprises our latest Communication our strategy overleaf. on Progress to the UNGC. R Stephen Rubin Chairman, Pentland Group plc _6 _7 External partnerships ng In 2011 we introduced a new staff ds is a Foundi Pentland Bran be r of th e handbook that includes a summary of Collaborating with industry bodies and Circle m em oa lit io n our commitment to being a responsible organisations outside the Group is essential parel C Sustainable Ap business and suggests employees for achieving our CR objectives. We partner contact the CR team with any questions. with others to understand CR trends, share Pentland Brands becom es experiences and resources, and build relationships a member of AFIRM CR strategy that make progress possible. We work at local and global levels with business alliances, In 2011 we reviewed and refined our governments, non-governmental and advocacy rands signs CR strategy. We renewed focus on Pentland B ciples of organisations, community groups and charities. l Buyer Prin our most material CR issues, including Internationa or k pr og ramme an increased emphasis on product Notable partnerships include: the Better W FSGI sustainability. + Better Work: an International Labour Chair of the W m itt ee The strategy has four pillars: Organization and International Finance CSR Com Corporation collaboration that aims to improve compliance with labour standards, Product and competitiveness, in global supply chains. phen Rubin C hairman Ste es to Pentland Brands is a signatory to Better Work’s E for servic Objective: Buyer Principles. receives OB m an rig hts ness and hu busi To reduce the impact of our products on Behaving responsibly brings with it Managing CR at Pentland + Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI): established the environment. mes a significant opportunities to grow our Brands in 1998, ETI brings together companies, trade Pentland beco business, improve the lives of those C si gn at or y unions and voluntary organisations to improve UNG around us, and reduce the impact of Pentland Brands’ CR team – based in Environment workers’ lives. Pentland Brands is a longour activities on the environment. London, Hong Kong and Shenzhen, China – manages day-to-day CR standing member. Objective: Corporate responsibility (CR) has ce again activities in collaboration with brands. To reduce the environmental impact of + International Business Leaders Forum Pentland on always been a fundamental part Where appropriate, it also engages beco m es a private our business operations. (IBLF): an organisation that works with business of Pentland’s approach. We have with other Group companies on CR company leaders to inspire sustainable development. long believed that companies have issues and initiatives. Pentland Group is a Council Supporter of newlyresponsibilities – not just to make Pentland joins the money for shareholders, but also to To encourage best practice across Ethical trade the IBLF. Tr ad ing formed Et hic al behave as good corporate citizens, Pentland Brands, we share information +U  N Global Compact (UNGC): an initiative Ini tia tiv e adhering to high ethical standards and about CR activities and collaboration Objective: to help businesses align their operations and upholding the interests of all people who opportunities. In late 2011, for To conduct business honestly, fairly and example, we launched an internal strategies with ten principles on human rights, make and use our products. with respect for people, their dignity and case study bank that gives brands the labour rights, the environment and antitheir rights. CR department – then Our Chairman, Stephen Rubin, takes chance to showcase their work and corruption. Pentland Group is a UNGC signatory. called Business Standards a strong personal interest in CR and is learn from one another. – formed + World Federation of the Sporting Goods a recognised advocate for improving Community workers’ rights in the supply chain. Every employee has a role to play in Industries (WFSGI): an independent, nonIn 2002, Mr Rubin was awarded an helping us be responsible. At Pentland profit association that supports and coordinates Objective: OBE for his work on human rights and Brands, we raise awareness about industry collaboration in areas such as CR, To contribute positively to the Pentland listed on London business. The Chairman has oversight CR through regular training sessions, trade and intellectual property. Pentland communities in which we operate. Stock Exchange of all Pentland Group’s CR activities. posts on our internal blog and Group Chairman, Stephen Rubin, is Honorary resources on the company intranet. President of the WFSGI. Pentland Brands is All new starters and graduate scheme We develop and consistently review CR an executive member of the Corporate Social participants receive an introduction to targets, tailored as appropriate for Group Responsibility Committee. CR as part of the induction process. companies, to guide progress. Pentland founded For details of collaborations on specific CR issues, (as Liverpool Shoe Company) see Products (page 12) and People (page 24). _8 _9 We insist on ethical conduct and integrity in + Code of Business Conduct: makes clear our expected + Environmental Policy: states our position on minimising the Ethics and the workplace and expect standards of behaviour towards employees, customers, suppliers environmental impacts of our products and operations, while safeguarding Integrity Policy everyone who works for and the wider community. the health and safety of our Pentland Group to do employees and the public. In July 2011, Pentland Brands + Employment Standards Policy: business the right way. updated its Ethics and Integrity sets out our commitment to respect We provide all direct Pentland Group This is reflected by our and protect the health, safety and and Pentland Brands employees with Policy. The policy sets out our Group Business Standards rights at work of our employees and a copy of these policies as part of their expectations for employees’ conduct and behaviour, and Policies3, which are our suppliers’ employees. new starter information pack. They are also available in the Corporate our zero tolerance approach to consistent with globally+ Code of Employment Standards bribery and corruption. Pentland Responsibility section of recognised International for Suppliers: specifies our www.pentland.com. Brands has communicated the Labour Organization (ILO) expectations for business partners’ revised policy to its suppliers, standards. They include: treatment of the workers who make contractors and business our products, and is consistent with partners. the Ethical Trading Initiative’s We raised awareness about the Base Code. revised policy and the new UK Bribery Act through a company-wide email from the CEO, a post on the internal blog, and the introduction of an ethics and integrity e-learning course that explains what we mean by ethical behaviour and tests employees’ understanding of the policy. Training on the policy now forms part of the induction process for new starters. We encourage employees to report any concerning behaviour by talking to their line manager or the Human Resources department, or by calling a confidential helpline. 3  or the purposes of these Codes, ‘Group’ means those businesses which are wholly or F majority owned by Pentland Group plc or its subsidiaries and over which we exercise direct management control. In respect of businesses where Pentland Group has a material interest but does not exercise direct management control, and in respect of businesses operating in the USA, we shall use our reasonable endeavours to seek compliance, where appropriate, with these Codes by the relevant business. _10 _11 All products have an Pentland Brands looks for launched in 2011 – aims to measure, impact on the environment. opportunities to reduce our compare and reduce the environmental products’ environmental footprint and social impacts of apparel and For apparel and footwear, across the whole lifecycle. This footwear products. We are a Founding the extent of this impact is important because it sets us Circle member of the SAC, and have depends on the materials up well to comply with future begun participating in the pilot of the used to make the product legislation, and helps us meet SAC’s index tool to measure and and its packaging, the customers’ and consumers’ compare products’ environmental growing expectations. Looking for performance. Speedo is also developing manufacturing process, more sustainable raw materials its own initiative to map product its journey from factory to also helps safeguard against manufacturing and distribution impacts consumer, resources used future shortages of natural and identify opportunities to improve to maintain the product resources. efficiency. during use (such as water This is not something we can We take a bespoke approach to for washing clothes), and do alone, so we collaborate with improving the sustainability of our the way it is disposed of partners and suppliers as part of the products, tailoring our activities to when no longer wanted. Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC). suit each brand’s product range and This industry-wide collaboration – customer base. _12 _13 purchase and makes it more likely that they would choose brasher products again in future. Identifying more Leather is a major component of our It offers care products for leather and fabric walking boots such as a sustainable materials brands’ footwear. We are members of the Leather Working Group (LWG), cleaning gel, leather conditioning creams, and a waterproofing spray. which measures the environmental All brasher leather care products are impacts of tanneries and encourages water-based, and produced in the The raw materials we use most them to reduce the environmental brasher helps its consumers UK by a company that has achieved frequently include cotton, impacts of their own and suppliers’ prolong the life of their footwear, a recognised product sustainability leather, rubber and synthetics operations. In April 2011 we hosted meaning people can buy fewer standard. for apparel and footwear, and the LWG meeting held in Hong Kong. pairs over time – not just saving paper and pulp for packaging. Our packaging guidelines for brands money, but also resources To further extend the life of footwear, We are investigating the use emphasise the ‘reduce, reuse, and the energy required for brasher partners with two boot repair of materials that have a lower recycle’ principle for cutting the manufacturing. Doing so benefits companies that can fit new soles, environmental impact than impacts of packaging. brasher, too. It helps ensure laces or footbeds to the majority of conventional materials, but that Progress to date includes: customers are satisfied with their brasher boots. are still cost-effective and provide the high quality end product our + Kickers shoe boxes are made consumers expect and deserve. from recycled pulp, sourced predominantly from suppliers Swimwear brand Speedo has Wristwatch packaging tends to be Some of our brands already use located close to manufacturing sites reduced the size and weight complex and relatively heavy, to more sustainable renewable or to reduce the need for transport. of its footwear and wristwatch ensure it protects the product and recycled materials in their products. For example, Berghaus’ Activity + brasher has virtually eliminated the packaging, while retaining the presents it well in-store – but it is jackets and men’s Polarplus fleeces use of glue from its shoe boxes, right look for displaying products often discarded by consumers after are made in part from recycled and anticipates that its boxes will be in-store, protecting products, purchase. In 2010 Speedo began a materials, while brasher’s Naturale totally glue-free by the end of 2012. and providing consumers with project to make its watch packaging walking sock range is made from brasher packaging is recyclable, important information. smaller and lighter. The result, around 80% bamboo that has been and printed with soya inks. launched in 2011, is a box that can be certified as sustainable by the Forest For its poolside footwear, the simply folded to create a display stand Stewardship Council (FSC). It is + Speedo successfully reduced the brand switched from shoe boxes to that does not need any additional made in the UK, which helps avoid size and weight of packaging for lightweight hangers made from card plastic supports. The box is printed greenhouse gas emissions from its footwear and watch products that is around 90% recycled and with a concise quick-start guide, with shipping. brasher also offers ways to (see next page). All Speedo goggle recyclable. The hangers are printed more detailed instructions available prolong the life of its boots (see next packaging materials are FSC with graphic icons depicting key online in multiple languages. The page). certified, while all goggle, footwear features to cut down on the space changes have reduced the weight of and swimcap packaging can now needed to communicate messages wristwatch boxes by 88%, and are be recycled. to consumers, and eliminating the expected to save nearly £40,000 in need for a separate tag. The footwear packaging material costs in 2012. We are looking into our existing use of products are made from robust, more sustainable materials and aim to flexible materials, so are not affected In both cases, reducing packaging identify opportunities to increase this by the lack of a protective box. size and weight also helps make steadily over time. Speedo anticipates the change will shipping more efficient, since more save around 18 tonnes of cardboard units can fit on each pallet. per year. _14 _15 We give our designers and In June 2011 we revised our Policy, the issues and what we expect from We are looking at ways to make and materials, and give feedback on + Ethical fashion brand From suppliers the guidance they need Standards and Guidelines for them. Brands are responsible for products easier to recycle when the usability of tools that aim to help Somewhere, whose creations using to avoid the use of any potentially Managing Restricted Substances, informing their suppliers about our they are no longer wanted or fit for developers increase the recyclability the LZR Racer suits are on sale in harmful substances in Pentland which aims to ensure customers, requirements. Compliance with our purpose. Pentland Brands supports of their products. exclusive outlets in Belgium, Japan, Brands’ products. This helps workers and suppliers are not restricted substances policy and Loughborough University’s UK Shoe the UK, and online. ensure our products are safe to exposed to harmful chemicals in the relevant laws and regulations is a In 2011, Speedo continued for a use and comply with relevant manufacture or use of products that condition of business with Recycling Project that researches + Chelsea College of Art and Design second year with a project to use regulations, and at the same time are sold by our brands. All Pentland’s our suppliers. ways to recover footwear materials in London, UK, whose students used the unsold LZR Racer suits made helps protect environmental and brands have received a copy and that would otherwise end up in strips of LZR Racer suit material to Pentland Brands is also a member obsolete by FINA’s rule change on worker health at our suppliers’ relevant employees have taken landfill. In 2011 we put University create a sculpture exhibited at the of AFIRM, the industry group that competitive swimwear, rather than manufacturing sites. training to ensure they understand researchers in touch with product 2011 Ecobuild conference. works to reduce the use and impact send them to landfill. The initiative developers from two of our brands, of harmful substances in the apparel includes creative collaborations with: We divert other excess stock from who will advise on shoe construction and footwear supply chain. landfill through charity partnerships. See Community, page 30, for details. JD Sports Fashion, meanwhile, reduced its airfreight by around 12% in 2011. It achieved this through a Pentland Brands’ own direct With this in mind, we have started combination of: environmental impact (see integrating environmental questions + Increased production in Turkey, Environment, page 18) is relatively into our factory assessment process, which enabled finished product to small, but our supply chain’s and have put several factory be transported by truck, reaching footprint is much larger. It is representatives in touch with European destinations in 7-10 days comprised of the energy and water environmental management at a lower cost than air freight. used by factories to make our training providers. products, as well as the waste + For more distant manufacturing Product distribution has an impact locations, prioritising sea freight and wastewater generated during too. We choose to ship our products and using air freight for critical manufacturing. by sea instead of by air freight where stock orders only. JD has reduced We cannot control these factors, possible. This helps reduce the the number of critical orders especially since our products rarely carbon dioxide emissions associated through better forecasting of core comprise all of a factory’s output. with distribution. In 2011, around 97% product demand, and stockpiling Instead, we have a role to play in of Pentland Brands’ products were key fabrics to reduce production encouraging suppliers to look for transported either by sea or by road. time by around 25 days. ways to be more efficient. _16 _17 Pentland Group companies The majority of our environmental Our Group Environmental Policy own or lease a number footprint is associated with JD (available at www.pentland.com) Sports Fashion’s 642 stores in the outlines our standards, and we use of offices, retail spaces UK, Republic of Ireland, France and posters at our offices and distribution and distribution centres. Spain. The rest of the Group’s direct centres to encourage employees We are committed to environmental impacts – from other to contribute to our efforts. We operating these facilities stores, offices, distribution centres primarily focus on using energy and business travel – are relatively more efficiently, reducing waste and more efficiently, to reduce low by comparison. increasing recycling, and also look our direct impact on the at using water and other natural environment. resources more responsibly. _18 _19 Energy and climate change As a UK-based company, JD Sports Fashion + Installation of over 350 smart energy we measure and report our meters, with the result that 93% of Pentland Brands’ facilities in the temperature, and a ground source installation of more efficient lights, greenhouse gas emissions in Making JD’s stores more efficient JD’s electricity and gas use in the UK all implement energy reduction heat pump that makes use of this has helped to reduce energy line with the Carbon Reduction is a priority. We are looking for UK and Ireland is now automatically measures. Activities in 2011 warmth from the ground outside. requirements for the office by 16% Commitment (CRC). In 2010/11, ways to use less energy while still measured every 30 minutes. included: The building is also fitted with since 2008. we were responsible for giving customers an enjoyable retail + Implementation of building photovoltaic solar panels. approximately 36,800 tonnes of experience, with goods presented in + London headquarters: the site All Pentland Brands sites globally a well-lit environment at a pleasant management systems that enable makes good use of natural light, + Distribution centres: in 2011 switched off office lights and carbon dioxide (CO2) – around ambient temperature. JD provided JD’s head office to monitor and reducing the amount of artificial we completed the roll out of low computer monitors for an hour on 80% from JD’s stores, offices training to 240 retail management control energy use remotely. lighting required while at the same energy lighting at our distribution 25th March 2011, to coincide with and distribution centres4. We are working to reduce our carbon staff in 2011 to ensure they know time using the building’s structure centres near Blackburn and Earth Day. +A  n increase in the purchase of footprint and have established a what they can do to help reduce and tinted windows to reduce Sunderland. We estimate that energy from renewable sources. Group-wide committee to share energy use in their stores. overheating from sunlight. The we will recoup our investment Business Travel ideas and look for opportunities. automated building management in under a year, as a result of Progress in 2011 includes: system controls and helps reduce energy savings. At Glover, near Many employees need to travel to energy use, for example by using Sunderland, the changes resulted manufacturing sites and our global We have consolidated energy +O  ngoing roll out of energy efficient air-conditioning in parallel with in a 39% reduction in energy use offices, but we avoid flights where purchasing across the Group, air-conditioning in all new stores. natural ventilation. In 2011, we compared with 2010, despite a possible by using videoconferencing and in November 2011 switched + Significant reductions in in-store technology. We are working to to a tariff that includes energy replaced one of the site’s boilers 17% increase in hours of operation. lighting wattage (from 70 watts with a more efficient model, At Mitre and Prostar’s warehouse consolidate our data on CO2 from renewable sources for all to 35 watts) in all new stores emissions from business air travel Pentland Brands and JD Sports upgraded to more efficient lights in Wakefield, skylights allow in since 2010 in the UK and Ireland, where necessary, and installed enough natural light to virtually across Pentland Brands. Fashion offices and distribution halving the electricity required centres in the UK. a partial new roof with extra eliminate the use of electric lights for lighting. Pentland Brands is also switching insulation and double-glazed in summer. to lower emission vehicles for its skylights. We have also begun to implement company fleet, so far resulting in + Speedo, Nottingham: 2011 was half-hourly energy metering at a 17% reduction in CO2 emissions Speedo’s first full year in its new Pentland Brands’ UK sites to improve per kilometre travelled, from 2010 headquarters at Nottingham’s the accuracy with which we monitor levels. We also encourage car NG2 development. The building is energy use. sharing – for example, around 30% rated as ‘excellent’ by sustainable of car commuters to Berghaus’ and Our Hong Kong office promotes building experts BREEAM, and brasher’s offices share their journeys energy saving with posters reminding has a level B Energy Performance with colleagues. staff to switch off lights, computers Certificate (the second highest and air-conditioning when not rating). Energy saving technologies required. Timers have been installed include lights fitted with motion on bathroom lights and photocopiers, sensors that automatically dim on to minimise unnecessary power a bright day, revolving entrance consumption. Combined with the doors that help regulate inside air 4 2010/11 financial year data as reported under the CRC. Figure includes JD Sports Fashion. _20 _21 We aim to generate less waste – has meant no new cardboard JD Sports Fashion and promote recycling at all storage products needed to be Pentland Brands and JD Sports bought in 2011. JD focuses on recycling cardboard, Fashion facilities. a major constituent of its bulk Disposable cups are another packaging. Where possible, used Pentland Brands significant source of waste. At cardboard is transported back to JD Pentland Brands, Speedo alone distribution centres where it is baled Across the Group we use relatively + Using rainwater to water grassy The catering contractor sources In 2011, nearly three-quarters had been using nearly half a tonne little water. The water we do use is landscaped areas at our London Rainforest Alliance certified tea and and passed to a recycling contractor for of waste from Pentland Brands’ of paper cups each year until it mostly for domestic purposes and headquarters. coffee, Fairtrade bananas and sugar, processing. JD recycled 423 tonnes of offices and distribution centres was made the switch to ceramic cups landscaping. We look for ways to and sustainably sourced fish (Marine cardboard in 2011, 72% more than the + A grey water system at Speedo’s either recycled or used to produce in October 2011. It promoted reduce our water consumption, and Stewardship Council certified where previous year. JD is also introducing a head office that uses boreholes fuel. Our offices have centralised the initiative by providing each are also working to improve water possible). It also reduces food miles dry mixed recycling scheme, to divert to supply groundwater to sanitary waste bins that help employees member of staff with their own cup use monitoring. by using British beef, milk and eggs. more waste from landfill. facilities. to quickly and easily segregate and giving them the chance to paper, cardboard, metal cans and Water efficiency measures include: At Berghaus and brasher, we use customise it during a cup-painting We also try to use other natural plastics. We also separately collect natural and water-based cleaning event. +M  ains-fed water dispensers, which resources responsibly, and factor wood, metal, electronic waste, products, stock a Fairtrade choice in have significantly reduced the this in to our procurement decisions and photocopier and printer toner To reduce paper consumption and vending machines, and provide staff amount of bottled water purchased. where practicable. For example, cartridges. For electronic waste, we waste, we encourage employees to with recycled stationery. To furnish its at Pentland Brands’ London work in partnership with companies ‘think before they print’, and set all + ‘Hippos’ fitted in toilet cisterns at new building, Speedo sourced office headquarters our regular A4 printer that buy old equipment for either printers to default to double-sided Berghaus’ and brasher’s offices furniture that contains high recycled paper stock is Forest Stewardship recycling or responsible disposal. printing. Several offices, including in Sunderland, UK, which have content, and recycled over 150 metal Council certified (from FSC We donate the proceeds to charity, those in Bangkok and Hong Kong, reduced water use by nearly cabinets by re-spraying them to suit mixed sources). and in 2011 this amounted to nearly provide scrap paper for staff to use 200,000 litres annually. the new building design. £2,000 which we donated to Rays of in photocopiers and printers, or to Sunshine, a charity that helps grant make notepads. JD stores use around 28 million the wishes of seriously ill children. We donate all unwanted furniture plastic carrier bags annually. Most Cardboard is perhaps our largest from our London headquarters of these are high quality drawstring waste stream, as a result of the to Green Works, a charity that duffle bags that our customers use large quantity of boxes used to store passes it on at low cost to small and re-use. JD’s bags also contain product at distribution centres and businesses, charities, community 33% post-consumer recycled plastic, ship it to customers. We reuse boxes and educational groups. When as well as an additive that speeds up where possible, and recycle anything Speedo moved buildings in 2010, the degradation process. It also offers we cannot. At our Mitre and Prostar it donated furniture it could not reusable shopper bags for a small warehouse in Wakefield, UK, box reuse to local hospices and to charge. In Ireland, JD stores provide reuse – including spare boxes from furnish the café area at a nearby paper-based bags instead. other nearby Pentland Brands sites nature reserve. _22 _23 Nearly 16,000 people Ethical trade + Working conditions are safe To help build suppliers’ capacity to work for Pentland Group and hygienic. improve, we often put them in touch We are committed to conducting with local organisations who have companies5. This includes business honestly, fairly and with + Child labour is not used. expert knowledge of national legislation 14,000 who work for JD respect for people, their dignity + Employment is freely chosen. and current good practice in that Sports Fashion (of which and their rights. country or region. + No discrimination is practised. over 13,000 are retail staff), Global supply chains – especially and over 1,500 who work those servicing the apparel and + There is no harsh or inhumane footwear industry – pose many treatment. for Pentland Brands. Tens complex CR issues. Pentland Group of thousands more people companies take steps to tackle + Freedom of association and the work for the hundreds of right to collective bargaining are these issues, by assessing their respected. supplier companies that own suppliers’ factories and making make our products, mostly recommendations for improvement, + Regular employment is provided. and by collaborating with others in Asia. in our industry to bring about Pentland Brands sources apparel Pentland Group is widespread change. and footwear products from factories committed to being a in over 20 countries6. Around threePentland Brands is a long-standing quarters of our suppliers’ factories are responsible employer, and member of the Ethical Trading in China and Southeast Asia, with the endeavours to work only Initiative (ETI). The Group Code of remainder in the Indian subcontinent Employment Standards for Suppliers with business partners is based on ETI’s Base Code, and and Europe. We regularly assess who respect the rights stipulates that: factories to monitor their compliance of workers in our supply with our standards. Where we find + Living wages are paid. gaps in their performance, we make chain. recommendations for improvement, + Working hours are not excessive. agree a timed action plan and then follow up to check on implementation and progress. 5  igure includes people working for JD Sports Fashion. F 6 Direct suppliers only (excludes licensees’ suppliers). _24 _25 Pentland Brands’ employees Engaging with others in our In China, we are participating in ETI’s industry and specialist nonefforts to identify the level of a living Support from Pentland meant governmental organisations wage. We are also members of the workers at a Lacoste footwear is vital for improving working ETI China Corporate Caucus group factory in Indonesia received conditions in global supply chains on corruption in the audit industry, first aid training in 2011. and supporting workers’ rights. and have signed up to its antiOur success relies on We are committed to engaging with We will use the results from UKthe skills, experience our employees, providing them with based staff to focus our employee When Pentland Brands’ CR bribery charter. Pentland Brands worked with others opportunities to develop, championing engagement efforts, and staff at all team first visited the supplier, in our industry to agree a Freedom We collaborate with Better Work, a and creativity of our diversity and inclusion, and providing sites globally will participate in our it identified some areas for of Association Protocol for Indonesia, partnership between the International employees. We prioritise a supportive, safe and stimulating next survey. improvement and made which we signed in July 2011. Labour Organization (ILO) and the attracting, retaining and working environment. recommendations to factory Other communication channels management. When we visited The Protocol aims to strengthen the International Finance Corporation developing talented We offer a competitive compensation include: application of freedom of association (IFC) that aims to improve compliance people, and want them to again a few months later we were and benefits package that includes a (for example joining a union) in the with labour standards, as well as + Our company blog, which highlights pleased to see that significant workplace in Indonesia, and calls competitiveness in global supply chains. achieve their full potential bonus scheme. Staff at our London the latest news from across the progress had been made and the at Pentland Brands. headquarters also benefit from onon brands to support and promote We have signed the organisation’s business – we welcome employees’ factory had evolved into a safer site sports facilities and a subsidised the adoption of good practice Buyer Principles and participate in its blog entries. working environment for workers restaurant. by suppliers. programmes in Cambodia, Indonesia and management alike. + Regular Q&A sessions with and Vietnam. Employee engagement our CEO. However, the factory management Dialogue with employees gives us had been unable to find a first aid valuable insight into their needs and + A monthly company update training provider. We contacted a expectations, and provides a channel presentation, circulated to all branch of Red Cross Indonesia, for them to suggest how we can department heads and brand and arranged for them to provide improve as a business and as an managing directors, and delivered the necessary training. In October employer. It also gives us the chance by them to their teams. 2011, workers and management to let them know about our company + Regular meetings between staff from each section of the factory strategy, and any changes that might and their line managers, including learnt essential first aid skills, affect them. the annual performance review including CPR and how to JD sources products for its own if a self-assessment indicates that In 2011 we introduced a staff survey process. bandage a broken limb – funded brands (including Carbrini and improvements are required), and by Pentland. Over subsequent Mckenzie) directly from over 200 according to the volume of product that captures employees’ opinions + A confidential telephone line that months, staff who received factories, mostly in Asia and Turkey. being manufactured for JD’s brands on working for Pentland. Initially employees can use to report any the training will be passing the The company asks suppliers at each factory. we have rolled this out to Pentland concerns or suspected unethical lessons learned on to their to complete an annual ethical Brands’ UK sites, with 708 people behaviour. colleagues, significantly raising Other products sold at JD Sports taking part during September and trade self-assessment, and uses the level of first aid awareness stores are manufactured and October 2011 – a response rate of factory visits to check performance and skills across the factory. supplied by well-known sportswear nearly 85%. Overall, 90% of people and help improve working brands that have made their own who completed the survey said that conditions. Visits are prioritised commitments to ethical trade. Pentland Brands is a great place according to need (for example, to work. _26 _27 Developing our people Diversity and inclusion On joining the company, employees We provide Pentland Brands Having a diverse workforce enhances complete an e-learning course that employees with opportunities to innovation and creativity, and puts ensures they understand health and learn and develop new skills that us in a better position to understand safety risks and how to minimise will benefit both them and us. This and relate to our increasingly global them. Other initiatives include a risk includes access to internal and consumer base. We are committed to assessment that helps ensure deskexternal training programmes, treating employees equally and with based new starters have the correct regular ‘master-classes’ run by respect, regardless of age, disability, desk set-up and posture during senior executives in their area of ethnicity, gender, marital status, computer use. expertise, and e-learning courses. religion, social background or sexual We also take steps to support Employees may also request time orientation. employee wellbeing, including: off to study. Over 1,300 people In 2011 we improved our diversity + Competitive maternity, paternity and globally took part in our internal monitoring system to enhance the adoption leave. training courses in 2011, 20% collection of employee diversity data more than the previous year. + A subsidised, on-site nursery for as part of the recruitment process. Every employee has the opportunity children under five years old, at our to identify their development needs London headquarters. as part of an annual performance Health, safety and wellbeing + Flexible working, where appropriate. review discussion with their line We are committed to protecting the manager. Part of this process health and safety of our employees + On site, complimentary is a review of talent across the at work. recreation facilities at our London business, led by Pentland Brands’ headquarters, including a gym, At our offices, health and safety swimming pool and five-a-side CEO, which allows us to identify risks are relatively low. Accidents are high potential employees and the football pitch. JD Sports Fashions’ 13,000 JD encourages its retail staff at all the human resources department’s infrequent, and those that do occur levels to strive for progression up quarterly magazine gives employees ways in which we can support their retail staff make up over are mostly commonly associated with to management level within the all the latest information on events development. For example, our slips, trips or falls. Health and safety 80% of Pentland Group’s company. Training and development within the Group, new senior staff, bespoke leadership programmes measures are especially important for workforce. By hiring many activity in 2011 included: available training courses, and help develop the capabilities of high workers at our distribution centres, recent school leavers and employee of the month awards. potential managers. who are often involved in lifting heavy + A five-day management induction university graduates, the course, attended by 160 new JD’s finance department also issues We also run a graduate scheme. objects and working at height. updates on the company’s financial company makes a significant managers and 129 internallyParticipants spend two years at performance. Pentland, learning on the job and contribution to the promoted assistant managers. employment of young people Protecting the health and safety of by taking part in development + Graduation of 51 trainee managers employees and customers is a major programmes. in the UK, the Republic of from JD’s Training Academy to take focus. JD’s health and safety team Ireland, France and Spain. up management positions within provides input to the design of all It also participates in work the Group. new and refitted stores, and audits experience schemes with + Several regional development stores for high safety standards schools and colleges. courses for store supervisors. during construction. Staff participate in a health and safety induction and JD is committed to equal + Introduction of e-learning for all training programme, and JD also runs opportunities, and aims to non-management retail staff. targeted safety awareness campaigns fulfil requests for flexible Regional and area managers throughout the year. or part-time work wherever communicate regularly with store possible. managers and retail staff, while _28 _29 We are committed Our support in 2011 included: to supporting local + Donating surplus product to over communities and charities, 430 charities through In Kind Direct through donations and (see page 32). in-kind contributions. + Supporting and volunteering with local community organisations in countries Pentland Group companies around the world where we have offices. and Pentland Brands + Speedo’s sponsorship of Nottinghamshire offices have the flexibility to Wildlife Trust’s Wildlife in the Wetlands support the organisations project. Its support will help the charity and causes that are most raise awareness about the importance of conserving wetland habitats for UK relevant to them, based on native species such as otters and local issues and areas of water voles. greatest need. + Contributing to the North-East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami Appeal in March 2011. + Ongoing support for The Prince’s Trust, with a donation that helps young people set up their own businesses. _30 _31 We sometimes have surplus product. Sports equipment and outdoor gear + Boxfresh jackets, shoes, t-shirts Instead of sending it to landfill, we is particularly popular, especially with and other clothes. partner with In Kind Direct to make youth charities. + Lacoste shoes. Berghaus employees – just like the + In March, 10 employees helped sure it reaches charities that can put people who wear their products clear footpaths at Herrington In 2011 – our twelfth year of working + Mitre footballs and equipment. it to good use, relieving pressure on – are passionate about getting Country Park, near Berghaus’ with the organisation – we donated their budgets and helping people in Eight Pentland Brands employees outdoors and experiencing nature. office in Sunderland. Pentland products to over 430 need. More than 6,200 UK charities raised nearly £3,000 for In Kind charities through In Kind Direct. So it makes sense that, several + In April, 10 employees helped working at home and abroad are Direct by running London’s Royal Goods were most in demand from times a year, teams of staff work cut back trees and overgrown in the In Kind Direct network. Parks Half-Marathon in October child and youth care charities. together with local environmental branches at Cragside, a National Registration is free and charities 2011, and we donated an additional pay just a small handling charge to Our contribution included: £2,500 in matching funds. organisations to conserve natural Trust estate in Northumberland. have goods delivered to their door. habitats. In 2011, for example, +B  erghaus fleeces, gloves + In late June, 16 employees Berghaus ran three environmental and jackets. travelled to the Isle of Skye to volunteering days in partnership with help with a natural woodland the John Muir Trust: regeneration project. Staff spent a day pulling out conifers that had previously been planted for commercial purposes, helping to clear the site for native plants and trees to be planted. Staff at Pentland’s office in Ho Chi A month later, employees helped Minh City regularly get involved in refurbish a local primary school. supporting local community projects. They painted walls and fixed broken lights, and took notebooks and other In May 2011, the team arranged Children living in the socially-deprived Speedo set up the swim club supplies with them to help replenish for 700 workers at a local factory Nottingham area of St. Ann’s and in collaboration with the EPIC the school’s stocks. to receive reusable shopping bags, Sneinton are being inspired to swim, partnership, a group of schools printed with the slogan ‘for a greener In previous years, activities have with support from Speedo. and other organisations making environment, please say no to included tree planting and fundraising a difference to disadvantaged plastic bags’. Distributing the bags to help educate disadvantaged The brand, which is headquartered in communities, and the Youth Sports is helping to dramatically reduce children. the city, has donated 2,500 pieces of Trust, which works to improve workers’ use of disposable plastic swimwear and £2,000 to run coaching young people’s prospects through bags to carry their lunch to work sessions at Nottingham University’s exercise and sport. Together, they each day. swimming pool. The initiative gives the are looking at the positive impacts children the chance to learn to swim, that swimming has on the children’s helping to boost their confidence and everyday lives. giving them a safe and sporty afterschool activity. _32 _33 Our associate company Hunter to give people access to safe Its support helped the charity to helps provide clean water to domestic water, sanitation, give over 32,000 people access the world’s poorest people and hygiene education. to clean water, and nearly with sales of its limited edition 27,000 access to sanitation In 2010 and 2011, Hunter’s “Hunter for WaterAid” wellington facilities. More than 330 women contribution went towards boots. Proceeds from sales of received training on how to WaterAid’s work in the boot – £10 per pair sold raise awareness about good Madagascar, where just – go to the charity WaterAid, hygiene among their children 41% of the population has which in turn uses the funds and local communities. access to a safe water supply and only 11% to adequate sanitation. Wishing to support communities near Each member of the corporate its southern Indian manufacturing responsibility and product design base, in May 2011 JD began teams has sponsored two of the sponsoring the Udavum Karangal children at the orphanage, and (‘Helping Hands’) orphanage in the will send them a birthday card city of Coimbatore. The orphanage and Christmas gifts each year. provides a home and schooling for 60 children and three babies. The company’s contribution covers the cost of education and examination fees, school books, educational materials and uniforms. It buys toys and sports equipment for the school, and sends the orphanage any surplus children’s apparel, as well as water bottles, baseball caps and backpacks. _34 Pentland Group 8 Manchester Square London W1U 3PH www.pentland.com For further information about CR at Pentland Group, contact: corporateresponsibility@pentland.com No Ordinary Shoes Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Ted Baker Plc. Airborne Footwear Limited is the UK Licensee for apparel, footwear and accessories under licence from Kickers International B.V. Pentland Chaussures Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Lacoste S.A. BERGHAUS and are registered trade marks of Berghaus Limited. BOXFRESH and are registered trade marks of Boxfresh International Limited. BRASHER and are registered trade marks of The Brasher Boot Company Limited. ELLESSE and are registered trade marks of Ellesse International S.p.A. KANGAROOS and are registered trade marks of Asco Group Limited. KICKERS is a registered trade mark of and used under licence from Kickers International B.V. LACOSTE and are registered trade marks of and used under licence from Lacoste S.A. MITRE and are registered trade marks of Mitre Sports International Limited. ONETRUESAXON and are registered trade marks of ONETrueSaxon Limited. PROSTAR and are registered trade marks of Prostar Sports Limited. RED OR DEAD is a registered trade mark of Red or Dead Limited. SPEEDO and are registered trade marks of Speedo Holdings B.V. TED BAKER is a registered trade mark of and used under licence by No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. PENTLAND is a registered trade mark of Pentland Group Plc. © 2012 Pentland Group plc. Designed by Hype! www.hype.co.uk
