Barrick 2011 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Search This Site Glossary About Our People Safety and Community Environment Employee CSR Indexes Barrick Health Recognition Data Tables Home > CSR Indexes For our 2011 Responsibility Report, we have combined our GRI (G3) – based sustainability reporting with the requirements for the annual Global Compact Communication on Progress in the Table below. We will also post an electronic version of this table and a link to the 2011 Responsibility Report on the Global Compact website. United Nations Global Compact Barrick Gold Corporation Communication on Progress 2011/2012 Barrick has long been committed to the principles articulated in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have been proud signatories to this international voluntary initiative since 2005. Barrick continues to integrate best practices in human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption into its culture and day-to-day operations. For the past four years, Barrick has been ranked as a world leader in social and environmental responsibility by the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, and has been part of the North America listing since 2007. The following Communication on Progress provides an overview of Barrick’s 2011 key achievements and objectives for 2012, aligned with the UNGC principles and the indicators corresponding with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As Barrick is a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), we have also linked this annual update with ICMM’s Sustainable Development principles. I hope you will find this Communication on Progress informative and I invite you to view the Barrick website, annual Responsibility Reports and Beyond Borders stakeholder publications for further detailed information on our commitment to corporate social responsibility and the principles of the UNGC. Kelvin Dushnisky Executive Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs Barrick Gold Corporation GRI Indicator Table and UNGP Communication of Progress for 2011 Barrick Gold Corporation GRI Indicator Table and UNGP Communication of Progress for 2011 open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com GRI GRI (G3) UN Global Compact: COP Addressed ICMM Location in Disclosure Disclosure & Indicators Sustainable Responsibility Report Section Development Principles Strategy and 1.1 Executive viewpoint Barrick’s Statement of Continuing Support for the Principle 2 About Barrick – Analysis UNGP Executive Viewpoint 1.2 Strategy Principles 2 Ab out Barrick – and 4 Executive Viewpoint Organizational 2.1 Name of organization No specific COP requirement. Description of Principles 2 About Barrick Profile Barrick’s size, nature and locations provide the and 4 2.2 Products context for understanding our actions and About Barrick, performance on UNGC Principles. Products 2.3 Operational structure About Barrick 2.4 Headquarters About Barrick 2.5 Countries of operation About Barrick 2.6 Nature of ownership About Barrick 2.7 Markets served About Barrick 2.8 Scale of organization About Barrick 2.9 Significant changes Principle 10 About Barrick 2.10 Awards received About Barrick Report 3.1 Reporting period No specific COP requirement. Descriptions of the Principle 10 About this Report Parameters scope of the report provide the opportunity to see how 3.2 Date of most recent Barrick defines its ‘sphere of influence’. Principle 10 About this Report report 3.3 Reporting cycle Principle 10 About this Report 3.4 Contact point Principle 10 About this Report 3.5 Defining report content Principles 4 About this Report – and 10 Material Issues 3.6 Report Boundary Principle 10 About this Report open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com 3.7 Limitations Principle 10 About this Report 3.8 Joint ventures and Principle 10 About this Report subsidiaries 3.9 Data Principle 10 About this Report 3.10 Restatements of Principle 10 About this Report information 3.11 Significant changes Principle 10 About this Report 3.12 GRI content index Principle 10 About this Report 3.13 Assurance Principle 10 Independent Assurance Governance, 4.1 Governance structure 4.1 to 4.7 describe how Barrick is structured to meet Principle 1 Governance Commitments its CSR commitments, including the UNGC and 4.2 Board independence Principles. Principle 1 Governance, Board of Engagement Directors 4.3 Board structure Principle 1 Governance, Board of Directors 4.4 Shareholder and Principle 1 Board of Directors employee communication 4.5 Executive Principles 1 Board of Directors, compensation and and 2 2012 Management performance Proxy Circular 4.6 Conflicts of interest Principle 1 Governance – Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, 2012 Management Proxy Circular 4.7 Board qualifications Principle 1 Website – Guidelines and Mandates 4.8 Vision, values and code Barrick’s statement of commitment is aligned with Principles 1 Governance of conduct the UNGC Principles. and 2 4.9 Board overview of These indicators describe Barrick’s mechanisms for Principle 1 Governance – Board sustainability high-level oversight. Overview of Corporate open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Responsib ility 4.10 Review of board Principle 1 2012 Management performance Proxy Circular 4.11 Precautionary Actions taken to implement Principle 7. Principle 2 Commitments – approach Precautionary Approach 4.12 External codes Barrick’s participation in other CSR initiatives is Principle 1 Commitments – and initiatives consistent with its commitment to the UNGC. External Charters, Principles and Initiatives 4.13 Memberships Principle 1 Commitments – External Charters, Principles and Initiatives and NGO Relationships and Partnerships 4.14 Barrick’s stakeholder Barrick has shared progress on implementation of Principle 10 Engagement – groups identified the UNGC Principles with stakeholders throughout Identification and this report. Selection of Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for Principle 10 Engagement – identification of Identification and stakeholders Selection of Stakeholders 4.16 Stakeholder Principles 1 Engagement – engagement and 10 Stakeholder Engagement 4.17 Key topics and Principles 4 Engagement – concerns raised by and 10 Stakeholder stakeholders Engagement , Community – Significant Issues , Environment – Significant Issues Economic Management Approach Actions taken to implement Principles 1, 4, 6 and 7. Principle 1 Our People, Community, open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Environment – Management Approach EC1 Economic No specific COP requirement. Principle 9 Community – performance Economic Contrib utions and Indirect Economic Impacts, 2012 Annual Report, Data Tables EC2 Financial implications Actions taken to implement Principle 7. Principle 6 Environment – Climate of Climate Change Change – Risks and Opportunities EC3 Defined benefit plans No specific COP requirement. Principle 9 Our People – Benefits EC4 Government financial 2012 Annual Report assistance EC5 Wages Outcomes of implementing Principle 1. Principle 9 About Barrick – Human Rights – Discrimination, Diversity and Equality of Wages, Community – Economic Contrib utions, Data Tables EC6 Local purchases No specific COP requirement. Principle 2 Community – Economic Contrib utions, Data Tables EC7 Local employment Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principle 9 Ab out Barrick – Human Principle 6. Rights – Discrimination, Diversity and Equality of Wages, Community – Economic Contrib utions, Data Tables open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com EC8 Infrastructure No specific COP requirement. Principle 9 Community – development Community Development and Economic Contrib utions, Data Tables EC9 Indirect economic Principle 4 Community – impacts Economic Contrib utions Environmental Management Approach Actions taken to implement Principles 7, 8 and 9. Principle 1 Environment EN1 Materials used Outcomes from implementing Principles 8 and 9. Principles 6 Environment – and 9 Materials Stewardship EN2 Recycled materials Principles 6, Environment – 8 and 9 Materials Stewardship and Products EN3 Direct energy Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. Principle 6 Environment – Energy consumption Use, Data Tables EN4 Indirect energy Principle 6 Environment – Energy consumption Use, Data Tables EN5 Conservation and Outcomes from implementing Principles 8 and 9. Principles 6 Environment – Energy energy efficiency and 8 Use EN6 Energy efficiency Actions taken to implement Principles 8 and 9. Principles 6 Environment – Energy initiatives and 8 Use and Climate Change EN7 Renewable energy Principles 6 Environment – Energy and 8 Use and Climate Change EN8 Water use Outcomes from implementing Principles 8 and 9. Principle 6 Environment – Water Management, Data Tables EN9 Significant effects on Principle 6 Environment – Water water sources Management EN10 Water conservation, Principles 6 Environment – Water open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com reuse, recycle and 8 Management EN11 Land management Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. Principle 7 Environment – Biodiversity and Land Use EN12 Significant impacts on Principle 7 Environment – biodiversity Biodiversity and Land Use EN13 Protection and Principle 7 Environment – restoration of habitats Biodiversity and Land Use EN14 Managing impacts on Actions taken to implement Principle 8. Principle 7 Environment – biodiversity Biodiversity and Land Use EN15 IUCN Red Listed Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. Principle 7 Environment – species Biodiversity and Land Use EN16 Greenhouse gas Principle 6 Environment – Climate (GHG) emissions Change, Data Tables EN17 Other relevant Principle 6 Environment – Climate GHG emissions Change, Data Tables EN18 GHG emission Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 6 Environment – Climate reduction initiatives Principles 7, 8 and 9. and 8 Change EN19 Ozone depleting Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. Principle 6 Environment – substances Emissions, Effluents and Wastes EN20 Other significant Principle 6 Environment – air emissions Emissions, Effluents and Wastes EN21 Water discharges Principle 6 Environment – Emissions, Effluents and Wastes, Data Tables EN22 Non-processing Principles 6 Environment – open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com waste disposal and 8 Emissions, Effluents and Wastes, Data Tables EN23 Significant Principle 6 Environment – environmental spills and Significant Issues incidents EN24 Hazardous waste Principles 6 Environment – and 8 Emissions, Effluents and Wastes EN 25 Significant Principle 6 Environment – environmental impacts from Significant Issues discharges and runoffs EN26 Significant Actions taken to implement Principles 7, 8 and 9. Principles 6, Environment – environmental impacts 8 and 9 Products of products EN27 Product recycling Outcomes from implementing Principles 8 and 9. Principle 6 Environment – Products EN28 Fines for Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. Principle 6 Environment – environmental nonSignificant Issues compliance EN29 Significant Principle 8 Environment – environmental impacts Significant Issues of transportation EN30 Environmental Actions taken to implement Principles 7, 8 and 9. Principle 6 Environment – protection expenditures Environmental Protection Expenditures Labour Management Approach Actions taken to implement Principles 1, 3 and 6. Principle 1 Our People Practices LA1 Workforce statistics No specific COP requirement. Our People – Ab out our Employees LA2 Workforce turnover Outcomes from implementing Principle 6. Our People – Ab out our Employees LA3 Benefits No specific COP requirement. Our People – open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Employee Benefits LA4 Trade union Outcomes from implementing Principles 1 and 3. Principle 3 Our People – Lab ourrepresentation Management Relations LA5 Communication Outcomes from implementing Principle 3. Principle 4 Our People – Lab ourregarding operational Management Relations changes LA6 Safety and health Outcomes from implementing Principle 1. Principles 4 Safety and Health – committees and 5 Safety LA7 Safety and health Principles 4 Safety and Health – performance and 5 Safety Performance and Occupational Health Performance, Data Tables LA8 Assistance to Actions taken to implement Principle 1. Principle 5 Safety and Health – workforce, families and Occupational Health communities regarding serious diseases LA9 Trade unions and Principle 3 Safety and Health – safety and health and 8 Safety LA10 Training No specific COP requirement. Principle 2 Safety and Health – Emergency Response, Data Tables LA11 Skill management and Principle 9 Our People – life-long learning Employee Benefits – Career Development LA12 Career development Principle 9 Our People – Employee Benefits – Career Development LA13 Diversity of Outcomes from implementing Principles 1 and 6. Principle 3 About Barrick – Human governance bodies Rights – and employees Discrimination, Diversity and Equality of Wages LA14 Equality of wages Principle 3 Ab out Barrick – Human open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Rights – Discrimination, Diversity and Equality of Wages Human Management Approach Actions taken to Principle 1 About Barrick – Human Rights implement Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Rights HR1 Human rights and Outcomes from Principles 1 Ab out Barrick – Human investment agreements implementing Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. and 3 Rights HR2 Human rights and Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 1 Ab out Barrick – Human suppliers Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. and 3 Rights HR3 Human rights training Outcomes from Principle 3 About Barrick – Human for employees implementing Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Rights – Human Rights Training, About Barrick – Human Rights – Human Rights and Security HR4 Discrimination Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principle 3 About Barrick – Human Principles 1, 2 and 6. Rights – Discrimination, Diversity and Equality of Wages HR5 Freedom of Actions taken to implement Principles 1, 2 and 3. Principle 3 About Barrick – Human association Rights HR6 Child labour Actions taken to implement Principles 1, 2 and 5. Principle 3 Ab out Barrick – Human Rights HR7 Forced labour Actions taken to implement Principles 1, 2 and 4. Principle 3 Ab out Barrick – Human Rights HR8 Security personnel and Outcomes from implementing Principles 1 and 2. Principle 3 Ab out Barrick – Human human rights training Rights – Human Rights and Security HR9 Incidents of violation of Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principle 3 Community – rights of Indigenous people Principles 1 and 2. Indigenous Peoples Society Management Approach Action taken to implement Principle 10. Principle 1 Community open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com SO1 Community No specific COP requirement. Principles 2, Community – development programs and 3, 4 and 9 Community practices Development SO2 Corruption analysis Outcomes from implementing Principle 10. Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance SO3 Anti-corruption training Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance SO4 Actions taken in Actions taken to implement Principle 10. Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic response to corruption Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance SO5 Public policy Actions taken to implement Principles 1 to 10. Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic development and lobbying Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance SO6 Contributions to Outcomes from implementing Principle 10. Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic political parties Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance SO7 Anti-competitive No specific COP requirement. Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic behaviour Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance SO8 Significant fines for Principle 1 About Barrick – Pub lic non-compliance Policy, Anti-Corruption and Compliance, Governance Product Management Approach Actions taken to implement Principles 1 and 8. Principle 1 Environment – Responsibility Products PR1 Product life-cycle Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principle 8 Environment – Principle 1. Products – Product Life Cycle open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com PR2 Non-compliance with Outcomes from implementing Principle 1. Principle 8 Environment – product safety regulations Products – Impacts from Products PR3 Labelling Action taken and outcomes from implementing Principle 8 Environment – Principle 8. Products – Impacts from Products PR4 Non-compliance Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. Principle 8 Environment – regarding product labelling Products – Impacts from Products PR5 Non-compliance No specific COP requirement. Environment – regarding customer Products – Impacts satisfaction from Products PR6 Marketing Environment – Products – Impacts from Products PR7 Non-compliance Environment – regarding marketing Products – Impacts from Products PR8 Customer privacy Outcomes from implementing Principle 1. Environment – breaches Products – Impacts from Products PR9 Fines for nonNo specific COP requirement. Environment – compliance regarding Products – Impacts products from Products Metals & MM1 Amount of land Actions and outcomes from implementing Principles Principle 7 Environment – Mining Sector disturbed and rehabilitated 7 and 8. Biodiversity and Land Supplement Use MM2 Biodiversity Principle 7 Environment – management plans Biodiversity and Land Use MM3 Mining and Actions and outcomes from implementing Principles Principle 8 Environment – processing waste 7, 8 and 9. Emissions, Effluents disposal and Wastes open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com MM4 Number of strikes and Outcomes from implementing Principles 1 and 3. Principle 3 Our People – Lab ourlockouts exceeding one Management Relations week MM5 Operations adjacent to Actions taken and outcome from implementing Principle 3 Community – Indigenous people’s Principles 1 and 2. Indigenous Peoples territories MM6 Disputes and Principle 3 Community – resolutions involving local Indigenous Peoples, communities or Indigenous Community – people Significant Issues MM7 Grievance Principle 3 Community – mechanisms used to settle Indigenous Peoples, disputes with communities Community – or Indigenous peoples Significant Issues MM8 Artisanal mining Principles 3 Community – Artisanal and 9 Mining MM9 Resettlement Principles 3 Community – and 9 Resettlement MM10 Social aspects of Principle 9 Community – Mine mine closure Closure and Community MM11 Materials Actions taken and outcomes from implementing Principle 8 Environment – stewardship Principle 8. Materials Stewardship open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com About Barrick Our People Safety and Health Community Environment © 2012 Barrick Gold Corporation. All rights reserved. About Barrick Management Approach Management Approach Management Approach Management Approach About this Report About our Employees Safety Community Development Energy Use Executive View point Labour-Management Emergency Response Economic Contributions Climate Change Relations Material Issues Occupational Health Indigenous Peoples Water Management Employee Benefits Governance Artisanal and Illegal Mining Biodiversity and Land Use Employee Recognition Human Rights Resettlement Emissions, Effluents and Waste Commitments Mine Closure and Community Materials Stew ardship Engagement Significant Issues Products Performance Snapshot Environmental Protection Independent Assurance Expenditures Board of Directors Significant Issues open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com
