Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20 2011 Contents CEO’s Address............................................................. 05 The Report..................................................................... 06 Attica Group................................................................ 08 History.......................................................................... 11-12 Organization................................................................. 13 Management........................................................... 13 Stakeholders......................................................... 14 Shareholder Structure.......................................... 14 Financial Information............................................ 15 Awards......................................................................... 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Vision and strategy.................................................... 17-20 Human Resources and the Market........................... 22 Our Personnel.....................................................……… 23-24 Corporate Governance..............................................… 25 Audit Committee................................................... 25 Internal Audit Department.................................... 25 Corporate Announcements Service...................... 26 Shareholder Support Service................................ 26 Code of Business Conduct.................................... 27 Our Partners.......................................................….…… 28 Environment At Sea........................................................................... 31-32 Land........................................................................….. 34 Recycling............................................................... 35-36 Sustainable Development...................................... 37-38 Biodiversity............................................................ 39-40 Society......................................................................... 42 Culture......................................................................... 43-44 Athletics..............................................................….….. 45 Solidarity..................................................................…. 46-49 Other activities......................................................…..… 49-50 Thank you letters.......................................................... 51-52 Cop Attica Group......................................................... 53 Gri-G3 Attica Group.................................................... 54-58 Report Evaluation Form............................................... 59 3 A hidden voice is remitted by the sea A voice that enters our hearts and make it beat and glee A tender song is chanted by the sea A song composed by great poets of three, The sun, the air and the sky It is chanted by her voice of divinity While across her shoulders she spreads calmness and serenity As if the summer was her dress “Voices from the Sea” by K.P. Cavafy 4 The unprecedented international and European financial crisis with which we are faced has created a new, highly volatile business environment, which makes it imperative for businesses to redefine their priorities and their relation with society. In this context, Greek passenger shipping has become the focus of significant developments and changes, also combined with remarkable rises in the cost of fuel. Being one of the largest passenger shipping companies on the routes of the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, Crete and Adriatic Sea, we are fully aware of the responsibility we have assumed, but also of the trust shown by our clients. Therefore, our focus on the principles of Sustainable Development and social cohesion has remained a top priority for Attica Group in 2011. From a strategic point of view, the Group has incorporated Social Corporate Responsibility in the quality and innovation of the services it offers, by implementing two important investments to further upgrade and modernize its fleet: delivery of the newly built passenger-car ferry BLUE STAR DELOS in October 2011, and delivery of a second ferry, BLUE STAR PATMOS, in the first half of 2012. As regards the social responsibility programme which was implemented for the fifth consecutive year – 2011 was characterized by a new action entitled “Traditional Professions”, which presented a number of crafts under the increasing threat of extinction in local societies. Always loyal to the protection of our national cultural heritage, but also to the promotion of local society, this initiative turns the motto of “with you as our destination” to practice and embraces all Group activities. Under the “Sun protection” programme, we travelled to Leros and Patmos and offered free medical tests and gave speeches about sun protection, while company employees and crews provided actual support to the residents of remote islands by taking part in “Blood Ties”, the voluntary blood donation programme. Human resources is the Group’s most important asset for its growth. We keep investing in the ongoing care for, and wellbeing of our employees, building a discrimination-free working environment which promotes their growth, training, safety and health. The company’s key goal is full harmonization with the UN principles of Global Compact, and further actions as an “Operation Active citizen”, through rational management of available resources, as well as actions which substantially contribute to society and sustainable development. Corporate responsibility, transparency, integrity and social solidarity – principles key to Attica Group – will act as drivers for the company’s further growth in a constantly changing environment. Spiros Ch. Paschalis Chief Executive Officer 5 Introduction For Attica Group this is the 5th consecutive annual “Social Responsibility Report” and the 3rd issued according to the guidelines of the GRI/G3 International Sustainability Reporting Initiative. Its contents reﬂect the overall perception of Corporate Responsibility for the Group, setting out and disclosing important issues and effects with regard to the fundamental principles of Social Corporate Responsibility (SCR). The Report represents the period 01/01/2011 – 31/12/2011 (unless otherwise indicated at some points) and pertains to all Group operations in Greece and in part to foreign operations. The Report contains quantitative data drawn from direct measurements; where estimates are made, express reference is made thereto. Reporting principles The structure of the report follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (version G3.1,2011), at the same time adopting the UN-developed Global Compact principles and criteria. Deﬁnitions For easier reading of the Report, please pay attention to the following, widely used terms: TERM REFERS TO “Company”, “we”, “Attica Group”, “Group” Attica Holdings SA “Blue Star Ferries”, “Superfast Ferries” the subsidiaries comprising the Group “ΑΝΕΚ-SUPERFAST FERRIES” the joint service of SUPERFAST FERRIES with ΑΝΕΚ LINES for the Piraeus-Heraklion & Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona routes “Report” Social Responsibility Report 2011 “p. 7, 8, etc” Report section 6 7 8 Attica Group is a Marﬁn Investment Group subsidiary and the parent company of shipping companies Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries. The fleet of the Attica Group consists of 13 car-passenger ferries operating ferry routes between Greece and Italy, and to the Cyclades, the Dodecanese and Crete. The head offices are located at 123-125 Syngrou Avenue and 3 Torva St, 117 45, Athens, Attica. In more detail: a) In the Adriatic Sea, Attica Group operates 4 SUPERFAST ferries (SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI), which carry out daily year round itineraries between the Greek ports of Patras and Igoumenitsa and the Italian ports of Ancona (served by ANEK-SUPERFAST) and Bari. During the summer months there is also a connection from the island of Corfu to Bari, Italy. b) Attica Group is active in the domestic market with 7 BLUE STAR ferries and 1 SUPERFAST vessel, carrying out year round itineraries to the following destinations: • Piraeus-Heraklion with SUPERFAST XII (line served by ΑΝΕΚ-SUPERFAST) • Piraeus-Syros-Tinos-Mykonos with BLUE STAR ITHAKI • Piraeus-Paros-Naxos-Ios-Santorini with BLUE STAR DELOS • Piraeus-Syros-Paros-Naxos-Santorini & Amorgos (Katapola & Aigiali)-Iraklia-Schinoussa-Koufonissi-Donoussa-Astypalaia with BLUE STAR PAROS & BLUE STAR NAXOS • Piraeus-Patmos-Leros-Kos-Rhodes & Syros-Santorini with BLUE STAR 1 & BLUE STAR 2 • Piraeus-Kalymnos-Kos-Rhodes & Astypalaia-Patmos-Lipsi-Leros-Nisyros-Tilos-Symi-Kastellorizo with DIAGORAS Ro-Pax BLUE STAR DELOS, a modern vessel built at the shipyards of The sale of Superferry II and the acceptance of the two newly built Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., Ltd, South Korea, was passenger-car vessels, Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos, form delivered in October 2011. The vessel started its itineraries on the part of Attica’s strategy to further modernize its ﬂeet. Piraeus-Paros-Naxos-Ios-Santorini line on Sunday 13 November 2011. All of the Group’s vessels are certified by the International Safety Management Code ISM in accordance with SOLAS requirements, for the BLUE STAR DELOS is an ultra-modern vessel, with a cruising speed of safety of human life at sea, and in accordance with the international 26 miles per hour, 145.9 m length, 23.2 m width, 2,400 passenger capacity, standards ISO 9001:2008 (International Quality Management Standard) 32 cabins for passengers (122 beds) and a garage for 427 cars or for 57 and ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management Standard). The ISO 10-meter trucks and 148 cars. The vessel offers comfortable shared 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 certifications were issued by the areas for passengers and all the necessary amenities in order to offer American Certification Agency “ABS Quality Evaluations”, part of the luxury traveling year round, regardless of weather conditions. international Group of Companies, American Bureau of Shipping (ABS). The certiﬁcation according to the new Quality Management Standard The building of the second vessel, BLUE STAR PATMOS, is continuing at ISO 9001:2008 took place in 2009 and stands as recognition of the high an intensive pace in the same shipyards, and it shall be ready to serve standard services provided by the Group. domestic routes in the ﬁrst half of 2012. This investment, which is In the summer of 2010 Attica Group certified the SUPERFAST I, unique for Greek domestic lines (the total ship building cost is SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII & BLUE approximately €137 million), comes as a conﬁrmation of Attica Group’s HORIZON vessels according to the International Standard ISO ongoing effort to provide high standard transportation services, with 22000:2005 Food Safety Management Systems. This certiﬁcation proves modern, new and fast vessels, and to contribute during an era of global in practice that the receipt, processing and sale of foods is based on and domestic economic crisis towards the development of our islands strict hygiene regulations set by this international standard, ensuring to the beneﬁt of both their residents and their visitors. that the Group’s vessels provide safe foods to passengers. 9 In 2011, Attica Group certiﬁed BLUE STAR DELOS under International DIAGORAS, BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS & BLUE STAR Quality Standards ISO 9001:2008 and Environmental Management ITHAKI International Standard ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management Standard ISO 14001:2004. This certiﬁcation evidences Attica Group’s Systems. The Goody’s restaurants on BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE commitment to the environment and its focus on the high quality of services. STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS & BLUE STAR ITHAKI also have the Finally, the contractor implements on BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, ISO 22000:2005 Certiﬁcation. Attica Group, with a fast and ultra modern ﬂeet at its disposal, fully understands the essence of a comfortable and pleasant trip. A full range of amenities and services are offered on board our vessels: • Spacious cabins • Aircraft type seats • PURE technology cabins (available on SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII, BLUE STAR 1 & BLUE STAR 2) • Restaurants, Bars and Cafés offering delicious meals and moments of relaxation • Bars and Cafés on deck • Pool (available on SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII) • Casino (available on SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI) • Shops for on board shopping • Wireless internet connection • Internet Corner (available on SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI) • Coin telephones and ΑΤΜs • Disco • Reserved space for pets Attica Group, through Blue Star Ferries, was responsible for changing the conditions of travel in the wider area of the Aegean, combining responsibility and reliability with elegance and comfort. Together with Superfast Ferries, which holds the leading position in the Adriatic Sea market and Crete, it provides high quality services, respecting the needs of its partners, employees and, above all, its passengers. 10 ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. with distinctive title Attica Group was established in 1918 and its current name was given by a decision of the Ordinary General Meeting of shareholders of 03.06.2004 (GGI S.A. & LLC 6333/18.06.2004). The Company is classiﬁed, according to the classiﬁcation of the Economic Operation Sectors (STAKOD 2003) of the NSSG, under code 741.5 on Holding Companies Activity Management. The Company’s registered ofﬁce is located in the Municipality of Athens, Attica, at 123-125 Syngrou Ave & 3 Torva St, 11745 Athens, tel. +30 210 8919500, fax +30 210 8919509. The Company is registered in the Companies Register of the Ministry of Development, Department of Companies and Credit, with registry number 7702/06/Β/86/128. Its operation in the sector of passenger shipping through subsidiaries began in 1993. In 1999 Attica Group acquired 38.8% of the shares of ATHEX-listed Strintzis Lines Shipping S.A., which it increased to 48.6% the following year. In the same year, in 2000, it changed the company’s trade name to Blue Star Maritime S.A. and created the Blue Star brand. The Blue Star ﬂeet's renewal started mid-2000 and was completed in June 2002 with the purchase of ﬁve new generation Blue Star car-passenger ferries. On 3 October 2007 the ownership status of Attica Group changed when MARFIN INVESTMENT GROUP SA (MIG) directly and indirectly acquired 51.64% of the share capital and voting rights from the Company’s old reference shareholders. In September 2008 the Company’s head ofﬁces were relocated and all services would now be carried out from the new ofﬁces at 123 125 Syngrou Ave & 3 Torva St, 11745 Athens. The Company’s registered seat was also transferred to the Municipality of Athens. In October of 2008 the newly built RoPax Superfast I, 24 knots speed, with a capacity of 950 passengers, 140 trucks and 100 cars was delivered. The vessel was deployed in the Patras – Igoumenitsa – Bari route in the Adriatic Sea. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of 02.12.2008 approved the merger, according to the provisions of article 68 (par. 2) – 77a and 78 of C.L. 2190/1920, of articles 1-5 of Law 2166/1993, and in general the commercial legislation, as applicable, through the absorption of Blue Star Maritime S.A. and 100% subsidiary Superfast Ferries Maritime S.A. by Attica HOLDINGS S.A.. The said merger of the three SAs was approved with decision number Κ2 15054/23.12.2008 of the Ministry of Development. As a result of the merger, Attica Group issued 37,440,020 dematerialized common registered shares, with a nominal value of €0.83 each, which it distributed to the shareholders of merged company Blue Star Maritime S.A., according to the determined exchange ratio. On 25.06.2009 Attica Group announced the signing of a shipbuilding In February 2010 SUPERFAST V which operated in the Adriatic Sea was sold. agreement with shipyards Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. (DSME) of South Korea, for the building of two ultra modern As of 1 February 2010, SUPERFAST FERRIES became the ﬁrst shipping car-passenger ferries. The total investment cost reaches €137 million company worldwide to offer a new class of cabins with “PURE” technology, on the Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona line, in the Adriatic Sea. for both vessels. On 20 November 2010, the ﬁrst of the two new Group’s vessels, ordered In October of 2009 the newly built RoPax SUPERFAST II was received, in June 2009 was launched at the shipyards of Daewoo Shipbuilding and with features similar to the SUPERFAST I and it was also deployed in Marine Engineering Co. (DSME), South Korea. the Patras-Igoumenitsa-Bari route in the Adriatic Sea. In January 2011 the Company’s Share Capital increase was completed In January of 2010 the Company’s Share Capital increase was completed with the payment of cash and a pre-emptive right for old shareholders. 29,236,320 new shares were issued, with sale price €0.83 per share, with the payment of cash and a pre-emptive right for old shareholders. and €24.3 million were drawn in total. 20,810,300 new shares were issued, with sale price €2.00 per share, and €41.6 million were drawn in total. Therefore, the Company’s share In March 2011, Ro-Pax Superferry II, a ship built in 1974, was sold to capital amounted to €134,811,920 divided into 162,424,000 dematerialized GOLDEN STAR FERRIES SHIPPING CO. The ship was delivered at the common registered voting shares, with a nominal value €0.83 each. port of Raﬁna. 11 In the same month, SeaSmiles, the new single Customer Loyalty (DSME), South Korea. The vessel started its itineraries on the PiraeusScheme was launched for Attica Group passengers travelling Paros-Naxos-Ios-Santorini line on Sunday 13 November. with Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries, in the Adriatic Sea, the Cyclades, the Dodecanese and Crete, offering exclusive privAttica Group has 13 car-passenger ferries, all registered in the Greek ileges, unique gifts, special offers and high quality services to ship registry operating in the passenger shipping sector in the Adriatic its members. Sea, at the Greece-Italy routes, as well as domestic routes in Greece. From April 2011, BLUE STAR 1 and BLUE STAR 2 which serve the According to the NSSG classiﬁcation (STAKOD 2003) the Group’s main Dodecanese lines, and SUPERFAST XII which serves the line to Heraklion, operation falls under sector 611.0 “Maritime and coastal transport . are equipped with the new, innovative air and surface purification technology system, the “PURE cabins”. In particular, the Group’s vessels currently operate a) in the Adriatic Sea, on the Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona line, served by the ANEKOn 8 June 2011, Attica Group proceeded to a partnership of high strategic SUPERFAST Joint Service with 2 SUPERFAST vessels and F/B Hellenic importance with ANEK LINES for combined routes by ferries of the two companies on the international Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona Spirit, and on the Patras-Igoumenitsa-Bari line with two SUPERFAST line, and on the Piraeus-Heraklion line. vessels; and b) in the domestic market, on the Cyclades and the Dodecanese lines, served by seven BLUE STAR vessels and on the The newly built ship BLUE STAR DELOS was delivered in October 2011 Piraeus-Heraklion line, served by the ΑΝΕΚ-SUPERFAST Joint Service from the shipyards of Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. with F/B Olympic Champion and SUPERFAST ΧΙΙ. 12 The following chart presents the structure of the ATTICA HOLDINGS SA Group with its subsidiaries. ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. SUPERFAST ONE INC. BLUE STAR FERRIES MARITIMES S.A. BLUE STAR FERRIES Shipowning company of the vessel Shipowning company of the 7 vessels of 100% MARITIMES S.A. & CO SUPERFAST I BLUE STAR JOINT VENTURE SUPERFAST TWO INC. BLUE STAR M.C. Shipowning company of the vessel Shipowning company of the vessel SUPERFAST II BLUE STAR DELOS 100% SUPERFAST EXI INC. BLUE STAR FERRIES M.C. Shipowning company of the vessel (vessel under construction) SUPERFAST VI 100% SUPERFAST ENDEKA INC. BLUE STAR FERRIES S.A. Shipowning company of the vessel Management company SUPERFAST XI Notes: ATTICA FERRIES M.C. BLUE STAR FERRIES MARITIME S.A. is the shipowning company of the vessels BLUE STAR PAROS, Shipowning company of the vessel BLUE STAR NAXOS, BLUE STAR ITHAKI, BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, DIAGORAS and ΒLUE HORIZON. SUPERFAST XII The table above does not include neither the ex shipowning companies nor the joint venture companies with no activity, which are: NORDIA MC, MARIN MC, ATTICA CHALLENGE LTD, ATTICA SHIELD LTD, SUPERFAST EPTA MC, SUPERFAST OKTO MC, SUPERFAST ENNEA MC, SUPERFAST DEKA MC, SUPERFAST DODEKA INC, WATERFRONT NAVIGATION CO, THELMO MARINE S.A., BLUE ISLAND SHIPPING INC, STRINTZIS LINES SUPERFAST FERRIES S.A. SHIPPING LTD, SUPERFAST PENTE INC, SUPERFAST DODEKA (HELLAS) INC. & CO JOINT VENTURE, Management company BLUE STAR FERRIES JOINT VENTURE and ATTICA PREMIUM S.A. which has been inactivated from the beginning of the ﬁscal year 2011. Management The current structure of the Board of Directors (hereinafter the “BoD”) of the Company is the following: The professional address of the BoD Members is the Company’s registered ofﬁce at 123-125 Syngrou Ave & 3 Torva St, 117 45 Athens. Full name Capacity Petros M. Vettas Chairman Non-Executive member Kyriakos D. Magiras Vice-Chairman Executive member The Company’s sole administrative and management Spiridon Ch. Paschalis CEO Executive member body, in accordance with its Articles of Association, is Michael G. Sakellis Director Executive member its Board of Directors. The Company's supervisory body Efthymios Th. Bouloutas Director Non-Executive member is the Audit Committee. Therefore, top administrative Theoﬁlos-Aristeidis G. Priovolos Director Non-Executive member executives of Attica Group under the meaning of the Areti G. Souvatzoglou Director Non-Executive member Commission Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004, para.14.1 Markos A. Foros Director Independent Non-Executive member of Annex Ι) comprise all members of the Board of Alexandros Th. Edipidis Director Independent Non-Executive member Directors and of the Audit Committee. 13 Stakeholders The dialogue and our relations with our Social Partners, i.e. the groups which are directly or indirectly affected by our decisions, are two of the aspects involved in the social model of Attica Group. The following table summarizes the groups considered to be our Stakeholders, and the main methods used to understand their expectations and needs. STAKEHOLDERS DIALOGUE THROUGH: Employees and Employee Associations Negotiations with the Employees’ Union Employee Satisfaction Survey Organisation of Events Intragroup Newsletter Educational Programmes Meetings Passengers Customer Service Centre Passenger Satisfaction Surveys Customer Loyalty Scheme Corporate sites Social Media Sales network – Port agents Regular meetings Annual meeting Suppliers Meetings Evaluation of suppliers State and Regulatory Authorities Dialogue with authority representatives at national level Cooperation with organizations and associations Local societies Social Responsibility actions Ongoing conversation with local authorities and various entity representatives NGO’s and bodies Cooperations Meetings with NGO’s Sponsorships Media Corporate Announcements (Press Releases), etc Press conferences Events Contacts with media representatives Information through the corporate sites Shareholders Adoption and implementation of principles and policies Cooperation Annual General Meeting Shareholder Structure Based on the shareholder list information on 31.12.2011, the holders of shares and voting rights above 5%, according to Law 3556/2007, as well as Sivet Holding Inc., which is controlled by the Company’s Chairman, Mr. P. Vettas, were the following: Shareholder list information as of 31.12.2011 of ATTICA Holdings SA (Law 3556/2007) Shareholders Number % Voting right % of shares (Law 3556/2007) MIG Shipping S.A 149,072,510 77.78 Marﬁn Investment 22,241,173 11.60 171,313,683 89.38 Group Holdings SA Sivet Holding Inc.1 8,273,724 4.31 8,273,724 4.31 Other shareholders 12,072,913 6.31 12,072,913 6.31 Total 191,660,320 100 191,660,320 100 1 Sivet Holding Inc. is a company controlled by the Chairman Mr. Petros Vettas. 14 Financial Information ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A., with distinctive title Attica Group is purely a Holdings Company and as a holdings company it has no activity. The company, through its subsidiaries, is mostly active in passenger shipping and the provision of tourism services. Attica Group is classified, according to the classification of the Economic Operation Sectors (STAKOD 2003) of the NSSG, under code 741.5 on Holding Companies Activity Management. The Group’s main operation is covered by sector 611.0 “Maritime and Coastal Transport”. The shares of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. are listed on ATHEX with the code Attica. The Company is registered in the Companies Register of the Ministry of Development, Department of Companies and Credit, with registry number 7702/06/Β/86/128. Its term was initially set at 90 years to be extended with decision dated 19.03.1992 of the Extraordinary General Meeting (GGI 3526/13.07.1992) for one hundred more years and expires on 27.10.2108. The Company’s share capital on 31.12.2011 amounted to € 57,498,096 and was divided in 191,660,320 common registered shares, with a nominal value of €0.30 each. The ATTICA HOLDINGS SA GROUP is consolidated using the full consolidation method in the Financial Statements of MARFIN INVESTMENT GROUP HOLDINGS SA, which is established in Greece. Selected ﬁgures of Group results for the nine-month period of 2011 The total turnover of the Attica Group in the 01.01.2011 30.09.2011 are shown in the table below: period amounted to €203.0 million versus €221.3 million in the corresponding nine months of 2010. More particularly for the nine STATEMENT OF TOTAL EXPENSES OF ATTICA GROUP months of 2011, the turnover originates from Domestic shipping by 57.0%, (versus 60.3% in the nine months of 2010) and from the Adriatic (in thousand EUR) 01.01-30.09.2011 01.01-30.09.2010 Sea by 43.0% (versus 39.6% in the nine months of 2010). Turnover 203,020 221,241 Gross proﬁt 15,967 31,741 EBITDA in the nine months of 2011 amounted to €0.5 million versus % of turnover 8% 14% €10.7 million in the corresponding period the previous year. Proﬁt/(loss) before tax, ﬁnancing Important factors which had a negative impact on the results for the and investment results -19,853 -9,565 nine-month period of 2011 for the Group included the decline in % of turnover -10% -4% transportation as a result of the extensive domestic recession, the Proﬁt/(loss) before tax -26,390 -20,563 intense competition, and the signiﬁcant rise in the cost of fuel for vessels. Income tax -61 -3,066 EBITDA per geographical area in the nine months of 2011 is as follows: Proﬁt/(loss) for period after tax -26,451 -23,629 Proﬁt of €5.9 million from domestic shipping, losses of €3.3 million from Distributed to: the Adriatic Sea, and losses of €2.1 million from other activities. Parent company owners -26,451 -23,629 Minority rights Losses after taxes for the Group stood at €26.4 million compared to Other comprehensive income after tax 752 6,499 losses of €23.6 million for the respective nine-month period of 2010. Cumulative total income after tax -25,699 -17,130 Proﬁt/(loss) after tax per share –(in Euro) -0.1 -0.1 Proﬁt/(loss) before tax, ﬁnancial, Note: Any devergences in the total from the sums of individual ﬁgures are due to rounding offs. Source: Interim Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 01.01-30.09.2011 prepared investment results and depreciations by the Company based on IFRS and not audited-overreviewed by a Certiﬁed Auditor-Accountant. (EBITDA)* 513 10,679 *Source: “Data and information” published under decision 4/507/2009 of the Capital Market % of turnover 0.2% 5% Commission BoD. The total depreciation for the nine months of 2011 has been integrated into the cost of goods sold and the administrative expenses as follows: BREAKDOWN OF DEPRECIATION FOR ATTICA GROUP (in thousand EUR) 01.01-30.09.2011 01.01-30.09.2010 The Company is audited by Ordinary Certiﬁed Auditors-Accountants Vessel depreciation 19,727 19,519 with regard to its annual financial statements and is reviewed by Administrative cost depreciation 640 725 Ordinary Certiﬁed Auditors-Accountants with regard to its semi-annual Total 20,367 20,244 ﬁnancial statements as a Company listed on the Athens Exchange. Note: Any divergences in the total from the sums of individual ﬁgures are due to rounding offs. Source: Interim Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 01.01.2011 -30.09.2011 prepared by the Company based on IFRS and not audited-reviewed by a Certiﬁed Auditor-Accountant. 15 Attica Group • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards 2004. • Distinction for its invaluable contribution to the country’s tourism and national economy, 36th International Tourism Industry Exhibition “XENIA 2005”. Blue Star Ferries • “Superbrand 2005” and “Superbrand 2006” in the category “Tourist Services”. • Elected “Best shipping company of the year” for 2005 and 2006 by the readers of Voyager magazine. • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards 2006. • “Silver Ermis Award“, of the Ermis PR unit for the social responsibility program titled “Sun Protection”, Ermis Awards 2010. • “Best Communication Strategy” for 2010, “Efkrantis” Awards, organised by “Shipping Chronicles” in cooperation with the Association of Shipping Economists of Greece (ENOE). • “Most popular domestic shipping company in Greece and Cyprus”, readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2010. • “Golden Reputation Award 2011” in the category “Shipping Companies, FAMOUS BRANDS Awards 2011 by the Reputation Management Institute. • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping 2011” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards. Award of BLUE STAR 1 and BLUE STAR ITHAKI by the Swedish magazine ShipPax Information for their design and excellent decoration. Superfast Ferries • “Most popular domestic and international shipping company in Greece and Cyprus”, readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2009. • “Most popular domestic and international shipping company in Greece and Cyprus and top ranking company in the same category”, readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2010. In September 2002, Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries were the ﬁrst passenger vessels to receive ISO 14001 certiﬁcation for Environmental Management from the American Certiﬁcation Agency “ABS Quality Evaluations”, part of the International Group, American Bureau of Shipping. EFKRANTI AWARD 2010 16 18 The Group has been operating for years now in passenger shipping, serving domestic and international lines, and has adopted practices which promote fair business. For Attica Group, Corporate Social Responsibility is intertwined with the culture of all its participants, and with its business mission and policy. With the aim of responsibly satisfying all needs of its customers and continuously improving the quality of its services, the Group seeks to incorporate social and environmental parameters in all its activities. The Corporate Social Responsibility programme of Attica Group entitled “With you as our destination” reﬂects the Group’s principles and values and places people in the center of all actions, by designing programmes which apply to five different fields of interest: market and corporate governance, sustainable development, human resources, the environment, and local societies. With the sustainable development With the market and governance With the local societies as our destination as our destination as our destination With the environment With the employees as our destination as our destination with you as our destination A benchmark for Attica Group is the implementation of two important In parallel, it has acted as an important bridge and, on occasions, even investments of €137 million to upgrade and modernize its ﬂeet, always a lifeline, by providing transportation for patients who needed to be having in mind the ongoing efforts to provide high-quality transportation transferred to Athens, by going to destinations not included in its scheduled services, and the development of Greek islands. itineraries. It has also supported a number of organizations and associations in the sectors of health, education, culture and sports by In an environment of economic uncertainty, the Group follows a targeted providing free or discount tickets. and structured strategy for sustainable development and rational management of available resources, which is characterized by continuity, Finally, a number of Municipalities and Communities have been stability and consistency, carrying out our business as an “Operation supported by the Group which responds to various requests, by Active Citizen”. sponsoring initiatives in the interests of residents in the fields of environment, society and local economy. Over the last eleven years, the Group has stood by the islanders providing its support to Parents Associations, Charities and Non-Profit OrganiThe following pages present in detail the Group’s most important CSR zations, Metropolitan churches, Cultural and Athletic clubs, the best practices and initiatives for 2011, and the last pages present the medical community, etc, in order to facilitate and provide support. correlation of the content with the GRI – G3 indicators. 19 20 22 Attica Group implements policies that reinforce the personal growth of our staff; realizing that these are the people that, through their work in our ofﬁces and on board our ships, show their commitment, contributing to the provision of high quality services and towards maintaining the company’s reputation. Its Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics states in writing the basic principles and rules that govern all business activities of Attica Group, based on international best practices, beyond the existing legal and regulatory obligations. The Administration and Staff of the Group and its companies are bound to respect these principles in carrying out their duties and to recognize, acknowledge, accept and support the 10 universally accepted principles of the United Nations Global Compact (a strategic policy initiative) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and business activity within the market. The Department of Human Resources is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Code. The Department seeks to: • Include the Code in the information package given to all new employees. • Obtain a signed declaration of acceptance and commitment to abide by the principles of the Code from all employees, whenever issued or amended. Our Group’s core belief is that its employees are the most important asset for its growth, contributing signiﬁcantly towards the implementation of its strategic goals and choices. For us, it is a basic, vitally important choice to provide our staff with a high quality of life and access to healthcare in case of accident or illness. The Group’s Management offers a private group insurance program for its ofﬁce-based staff, which includes life insurance and medical coverage. This program also includes the employees’ families – spouses and children. Today, 1,071 people work for Attica Group. 201 are ofﬁce-based and 870 work on board our vessels. Our ofﬁce-based staff mainly consists of women compared to men; there are currently 107 women and 94 men. The majority of our staff have higher education degrees. The average age of our ofﬁce-based staff is 43.96 for men and 38.38 for women. On board average age is 37.42 years. Distribution of human resources per workplace. Distribution of ofﬁce-based employees per educational level. Data 2011 Data 2011 PRIMARY 2 EDUCATION MEN SECONDARY 27 WOMEN 81% SEA EDUCATION 20 LAND TECHNOLOGICAL 56 EDUCATION 37 19% UNIVERSITY 24 EDUCATION 35 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 23 A fundamental axis of every company’s growth and prosperity is the Believing in the ongoing training of our people, a total of 2,143 hours of careful selection and subsequently the growth and development of its further training and specialization seminars were conducted in 2011, Human Resources. There is a predefined recruitment process and up by 59.5% in relation to 2010 when 1,344 hours of seminars were held. policy, which outlines and deﬁnes the actions required for the selection of the best candidates by merit, and also for their better development. In 2008, for the ﬁrst time, we implemented a Performance Management This ensures that workers have the skills, capabilities, abilities and System for the Administrative Staff of Attica Group. A similar Evaluation effectiveness necessary to their position, according to the principles and System is being implemented for our onboard staff, with performance culture of our Group, and also that we are able to meet the challenges appraisal conducted at two hierarchical levels. This Performance and demands of our times. In 2011, 5 new employees joined forces with Management System is developmental in nature, and the purpose of the the existing staff of Attica Group to further promote the dynamic growth exercise is to identify the strengths and the weaknesses of staff, in order of our company. to develop their individual performance in general, by capitalizing on their skills and improving their weaker points. This evaluation procedure aims to create better professionals and more efﬁcient employees. The Educational Programs. Comparative 2010-2011 entire Administrative staff of Attica Group participates in this evaluation process and soon this system will be linked to our Compensation and Beneﬁts System. 2500 The Group would like to know the views and opinions of its employees, 2000 and believing that Human Resources are its most important asset, it is interested in the level of satisfaction of each employee. 1500 HOURS OF SEMINARS FOR 2010 In order for employees to freely express their opinion, and also to have HOURS OF SEMINARS FOR 2011 the option of producing measurable statistics, but mostly useful 1000 conclusions, the Department of Human Resources carries out each year an anonymous and voluntary “Staff Opinion Survey”. 500 Speciﬁcally, the ﬁrst “Administrative Personnel Opinions and Satisfaction” survey took place in December of 2008 with 86% participation, and the 0 second in December of 2009, with 69% participation. A similar survey was carried out in November 2010 for the first time for our Group’s 1,344 2,143 seamen, with a 73% participation. 24 The Group places particular emphasis on a policy of transparency in all corporate activity and transactions. In this context, Attica Holdings SA prepared the Corporate Governance Code which aims at setting out the corporate governance practices applied by the Company, both at own initiative and pursuant to the applicable legislation. The Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies, as published by the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (January 2011), was taken account in the preparation of the code, as well as the obligations arising from the provisions of Greek Law on corporate governance, and the general corporate governance principles adopted by EU countries. The Code will form a reference framework on which the corporate governance declaration will be based, which must be included in the Director’s Annual Management Report, pursuant to Law 3873/2010. Within the scope of Corporate Government: • There are 3 executive members, 4 non executive members and 2 independent non executive members in the nine-member Board of Directors of the company. • The responsibilities of Chairman and Managing Director do not fall to the same person. • In the Company’s Internal Rules of Procedure, as drawn up and implemented, there is a full description of the tasks and duties of all the organizational units of the company and the Group. • An Audit Committee was established and operates according to the provisions of L. 3693/2008 nr. 37. • There is an Internal Audit Department in operation, as well Corporate Communications and Shareholders' Support services. The Corporate Governance Code has been posted on the official Attica Group website, in the context of transparent, uninterrupted and discrimination-free information. Audit Committee The General Meeting of shareholders, in order to ensure the legitimate and safe operation of the Company at all times, as well as the restriction of ﬁnancial and legal risks, decided in implementation of the existing legal framework and the provisions on corporate governance aiming at transparency and the coordinated supervision of the auditors’ works, to establish an Audit Committee. The Committee comprises three members (one non-executive and two independent non-executive members). The Audit Committee reports to the Board of Directors. The Committee primarily aims to support the Board of Directors in performing its supervisory duties, to ensure transparency in all the corporate activities and to fulfill obligations and responsibilities towards the shareholders and the supervisory authority. Internal Audit Department I The Internal Audit Department operates as an independent body of the The Internal Audit Department’s main duties are: Company and is supervised by the Audit Committee. The Department’s • To plan the annual schedule of audits, as well as the individual main objective is to conduct efficient audits of the operations and schedules and their implementation seeking to determine and approved procedures of all the organizational units of the Company and protect the observance of policies and procedures, as well as the the Group, in order to ensure their smooth and efﬁcient operation within effective and legal operation of the Company and the Group’s the framework of the adopted strategic policy and the achievement of subsidiary Companies. the qualitative and quantitative stated objectives. • To provide the Management with the necessary information 25 regarding the efﬁciency of operations and the maximization of The Internal Audit Department operates on this procedural basis and the Company’s performance. conducts effective controls in order to evaluate the Company’s • To study the range and quality of the internal audit system and to operational efficiency. Its purpose is to develop a climate of propose more efﬁcient procedures for its improvement, in order communication and cooperation with the other Departments – Services, to reach its business objectives. so that the development of the audit culture ensures the protection of • To monitor the implementation and the continuous compliance with Internal the Company’s interests and the acceptance of the Internal Audit as a Operating Regulations and the Articles of Association, in order to identify tool for providing assistance to those being audited. and evaluate any possible operational risks in a timely fashion. • To control the implementation of the legislation related to the Company To achieve its objective, the Internal Audit Department works closely and in particular the legislation on companies and stock markets. with external auditors to avoid duplication of audits in fields where • To control the company’s organizational structure and operations. audits have already been conducted, and emphasize on areas of risk. Corporate Announcements Service The main duty of this Service is to ensure the Company’s compliance with the obligations regarding the provision of information to investors and the supervisory authorities, as stated in the existing institutional framework. Additionally, the Division is responsible for the Company’s communication with the Stock Exchange Authorities, the Media and any other competent bodies. The Corporate Announcements Service is responsible for planning and publishing all announcements related to investors. Shareholder Support Service The Service is responsible for the immediate and equal information of shareholders and for supporting them in exercising their rights based on the law and the Articles of Association. The Shareholders Support Service seeks to promptly inform investors regarding any important issues and especially on matters arising from the Company’s corporate activity, publications and distribution of dividends. In addition, the Service provides information regarding the Company’s General Meetings, as well as their decisions. 26 Code of Business Conduct The reputation and good name are, together with human resources, the most valuable asset of the Group, establishing its commitment for compliance with the principles and values summarized below: • Honest, fair and transparent transactions • Quality and skills in the provision of services • Avoidance of negative comments made in public on Group competitors • Meritocratic approach with regard to the recruitment of personnel, partners and suppliers • Full compliance with the laws and regulations on the actions involved in the performance of our duties Furthermore, by participating in the Greek Network for Corporate Social Responsibility, the Group acknowledges, accepts and supports four core pillars with regard to human rights, working conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. Core axes (indicative extracts) Secrecy Conﬁdentiality “Every member of the personnel must keep internal information about the Group conﬁdential and not disclose it to third parties, abiding with the information and system security rules, as set out in the relevant manuals. Disclosure of conﬁdential information to third parties is only permitted upon prior written approval of the Management or a court order.” Business Conduct “It is the Group’s intention to keep high levels of business conduct in all transactions and relations, both with customers or partners and colleagues. It should be stressed that no comments with regard to age, race, religion, sexual orientation, citizenship, disability or any other discrimination are permitted at Attica Group.” Conﬂict of Interests “As a general principle, it is strongly suggested to avoid situations where an employee’s personal interests affect or might affect his/her judgment when acting on behalf of the Group.” Enticement Bribery Graft acceptance “Any member of the Group’s personnel and any of his/her ﬁrst degree relatives will be strictly prohibited from becoming directly or indirectly involved in graft/bribery of any kind. Graft acceptance or obtaining personal gain from any customer or entity or organization cooperating or seeking cooperation with the Group is unacceptable.” Meritocracy All issues pertaining to the Group’s Human Resources are dealt with in absolute meritocracy and objectivity.” Transparency of activities “All personnel must follow all procedures as anticipated in the review and evaluation of any ﬁnancing, cooperation, purchase or sale of goods, services, and in the selection of suppliers on account of the Group, keeping the Group’s interests in mind.” Respect to Property and Available Assets “All personnel must protect the Group’s assets and available equipment, following the security rules. Also, any installation of software must only be performed by authorised persons of the IT Department.” Corporate Social Responsibility “The Group has incorporated social and environmental actions in its business practices, demonstrating its strong sense of responsibility to the society, its shareholders, employees and the environment.” The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any amendments thereto are approved by the company’s Board of Directors. 27 International Lines The Sales Network of Attica Group for international lines expands The reservation system of Attica Group is linked to the International across the world and is supported by 3 ofﬁces that belong to the Group Reservations Networks. More than 20,000 travel agencies are (Athens, Thessaloniki & Crete) and by 30 Premium Sales Agents in the connected online to these networks, offering direct integrated services. main markets and port agents at the departure ports. The Group aims to identify new markets and meet new challenges in order to expand its collaborations and increase sales. Our experienced Attica Group is a full member of the management and commercial bodies of the personnel, after careful strategic planning, using a variety of marketing International Union of Railways (UIC), the International Common Tariff tools, is in communication with its partner networks, informing and System of Railways (former TCV now NRT) and other associated railway guiding commercial policy, as well as keeping them up to date with the organizations (such as the EURAIL, the INTERRAIL, etc.), the Internacompany’s activities and new products. Simultaneously, by investing in new technologies and means of communication, the Group promotes tional Rail Transport Committee (CIT), the Central Clearing Bureau of online ticket sales through its website, www.superfast.com, as well through Railways (BCC), the European Statistics and railway Information Organizations, the websites of its partners, achieving ever increasing sales each year. etc. Today the International Union of Railways has 200 members from It also participates in the main Tourism and Transportation trade fairs 91 countries and 5 continents, through which our services are available. in Europe, promoting the programs and services it offers. Domestic Lines Attica Group, via Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries, has an active presence in the Greek Ferry Lines. The Domestic Sales Network of the Group is well developed. In every port of departure there are travel agents, who are connected online to the central reservation system, whilst through the CRS systems (ForthCRS, Ferryscreen, Start), more than 20,000 travel agencies in Greece and abroad are able to place reservations via the Group’s central reservation system. Through the corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com and www.superfast.com, the Group has an additional channel of communication with its customers through which online reservations and ticket purchases can be made. 28 30 Attica Group, via Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries places particular importance on environmental issues and the aspects that are most likely to be affected by their operation. The Group’s companies evaluate the environmental issues identiﬁed on an annual basis and aim to minimize the impact of their operations on the environment. The most important of these issues are: emissions, discharges into the sea, waste disposal management, land pollution, use of raw materials and resources and the environmental demands of local societies. The Group's environmental consciousness is inseparable from our commitment to providing superior customer service and satisfaction of our passengers. The policy objectives of the Group are: • To continue to invest in new technologies and to apply environmentally friendly methods. • To minimize the negative impact from engine operation, through their timely and proper maintenance. • To encourage its staff, both on board and ofﬁce-based, to adopt environmentally friendly methods and to develop their environmental conscience, through proper information and training. • To actively participate in organizations which promote the principles of environmental safety and protection. • To participate in international research and development programs which promote efﬁciency, responsibility and reduction of pollution in the shipping sector. • To be kept up to date with regard to environmental issues and to adopt appropriate new practices. The Attica Group ﬂeet is one of the most modern ﬂeets in Europe, with Most of the water used onboard is desalinated, via special boilers. Only newly built ships that meet all international regulations for the protection low consumption light bulbs are used onboard the Groups’ vessels, of the environment. The most important is the convention MARPOL apart from emergency lighting. The warm air for heating in common 73/78 of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). areas and hot water used for sanitation purposes is generated via the heat exhaustion from the main engines through the specially designed Examples of the implementation of strict environmental operation installations. criteria are: Via the human resources department, Attica Group trains its employees • The fuel used in the Group's ships comply with national and in best practices to minimize impact on the environment. international regulations. • The oily bilge water residue, which is discharged in the sea, meets the 15 ppm. limit set by the international and national regulations. Each ship has designated officers who are responsible for the • The antifouling paints are non-toxic, and non-poisonous for marine implementation of the environmental measures adopted. At the ofﬁces, organisms. This is another practice, which was adopted before there are qualified engineers and designated officers who monitor it became mandatory under international regulations. performance and set the guidelines for the general and specialized • All chemicals used in ships are environmentally friendly. environmental training needed. On-board and office-based staff • The use of substances that cause ozone depletion is prohibited. systematically participates in environmental emergency exercises, in Any chemical additives in use must be environmentally compatible. cooperation with the local authorities. 31 Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries are the ﬁrst Greek companies which, together with 43 carrier companies-UIC members, signed the in the passenger shipping sector which received the ISO 14001:1996 Sustainable Declaration. Environmental Management certiﬁcation. The Group’s vessels have been certiﬁed based on the same standard. The efﬁciency and enforcement Attica Group continuously promotes provision of information through of the company’s Environmental Management is monitored by the contributions to specialized publications, and has an ongoing concern American Certification Body “ABS Quality Evaluations” of the about environmental issues. international Group of Companies, American Bureau of Shipping. In 2006, the Group’s companies and ships were certiﬁed according to the Attica Group in 2008 began recording of the ecological footprint of its new environmental management standard ISO 14001:2004. ships. The Group initially calculated the consumption of diesel fuel and lubricants and engine and boiler room emissions (carbon dioxide, sulfur Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries are active members of dioxide, methane, nitrous nitrogen, nitrogen dioxide and suspended HELMEPA, the Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association, a particulates). The second phase involved calculation of the overall non-profit, non-governmental organization that aims to cultivate footprint, which apart from emissions and diesel fuel consumption, environmental awareness and concepts of safe operation in the shipping includes the materials used by the Hotel Division (sheets, soaps, sector, through information, advertising and publicity. chemicals, textiles, carpets, edible raw materials, water, food and drinks packaging). The results of the annual recording of the footprint Attica Group is member of the Sustainable Mobility Group, the are evaluated by the Group with the ultimate purpose of reinforcing the International Union of Railways (UIC) and the only shipping company efforts of the company’s preventive environmental policy. Cooking Oil Cooking Oil Collection LITERS When used oils cannot be used anymore, instead of being disposed of 20,000 as waste, with all the well known environmental implications, they can 17,575 be collected in order to produce, after proper processing, biofuels and 15,000 biolubricants which are environmentally friendly and are responsible for much lower levels of pollution damage than conventional ones. The Group, and more speciﬁcally the Blue Star Ferries ships, generated 10,000 8,645 5,375 liters of waste cooking oil during 2009 which was disposed of in an environmentally appropriate way. In 2010 an increase of 32.7% was 5,375 seen compared to 2009, and a total of 8,645 liters were collected. In 5,000 2011 this initiative was expanded to Superfast Ferries vessels which perform itineraries in the Adriatic Sea, resulting in an increase in collected cooking oil by 49.2% compared to 2010, the total volume 0 YEAR reaching 17,575 liters in total. 2009 2010 2011 Reduction of Emissions The newly built vessels Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos were designed so as to achieve the best ship-building characteristics for high efﬁciency with improved special emissions coefﬁcients. Further, by adopting: • the most optimized hybrid propulsion-power generation system, • the most modern and automated air conditioning system, • the generalized use of energy-efﬁcient and low voltage LED bulbs, • the use of suitable laminated stadip glass panels, • the use of suitable new generation ceramic insulating materials, the required power is reduced, thus achieving a respective reduction of total emissions. 32 34 The protection of the environment is one of the most important issues faced by modern society, and is, in consequence, one of the greatest challenges for Attica Group. Therefore, the Group recycles various materials it uses in order to reduce waste volume and its impact on environment. Paper Recycling The main priority in this direction is paper recycling in the ofﬁces of the Group. Nowadays, the protection of forests, and thus of the biodiversity, is crucial, but wasting paper unfortunately continues to be a daily practice. If we consider that one ton of paper is equivalent to 17 large trees, and that 93% of business waste is paper, then we can comprehend how paper recycling can “turn the page” and make a difference towards a new, viable future. Today, computers play an integral part in our lives and contribute signiﬁcantly to the reduction of paper consumption. However, a large number of documents are printed every day, resulting in a huge waste of paper. At the same time, companies continue to print advertising leaﬂets, which usually end up in common garbage and not in recycle bins. In Attica Group we seek to reduce total paper consumption with daily practices such as double-sided printing. At the same time, new initiatives are being evaluated to further increase the quantity of paper that can be sent for recycling and to reduce required quantities of printed advertising material. 35 Paper recycling LITERS In terms of figures, in 2008 we recycled 17,574 liters of paper, in 2009 31,712 liters of paper, while in 2010 36,290 liters of paper 40,000 36,290 were recycled. All this paper is sent for recycling via the non-profit 35,000 31,712 organization “Klimaka”, thus supporting its charitable work. 30,000 Apart from paper recycled by the Group, many of our advertising 25,000 pamphlets have been printed on chlorine-free paper, which consists 20,000 17,574 of wood pulp ﬁber from certiﬁed controlled cultivations (Forest 15,000 Stewardship Council CertiﬁedFSC). The Group uses this type of paper to print the annual Report of Sustainable Development 10,000 (2007 – 2008 – 2009 – 2010), small cards with useful tips on dealing 5,000 with climate changes as part of everyday practices, which are 0 YEAR distributed onboard and via the Group’s partner agencies, as well 2008 2009 2010 as other corporate pamphlets and ashtrays for the beach. It has been reported that since 2011 and according to a new modiﬁcation, the recommended measurement with regard to paper recycling is made in kilos and corresponds to the quantity of paper which was actually recycled. According to the Group’s available data, 9,352 kilos of paper were recycled in 2011. Recycling electronic devices & used ink cartridges In 2011, 13 electronic devices were collected from the Group's vessels and ofﬁces, which were delivered to the Thiva Recycling Centre. Under the used ink cartridge recycling programme, 370 ink cartridges were collected from the Group’s ofﬁces and vessels for recycling in 2011. Battery recycling Battery recycling KILOS The Group, in cooperation with the company AFIS (battery recycling), 12,000 10,358 has placed special battery recycling bins in all ofﬁces and vessels for all battery types up to 1,500 grams, whether primary (single use) 10,000 or secondary (rechargeable). In 2008 we managed to collect 147 kilos 8,000 of batteries from ships and ofﬁces, in 2009, 575 kilos of batteries 6,000 were collected and sent directly for recycling, whilst in 2010 593 4,000 575 593 kilos were collected in total. It is worth noting that larger batteries used by vessels were also added to the quantities of recyclable 2,000 batteries in 2011, collecting 10,358 kilos in total. 0 YEAR 2009 2010 2011 36 The reckless destruction of the environment and the systematic shrinking of our natural resources create a new reality which every organization, company and individuals should oppose by any possible means. We aim to be more than a simple ferry company, and within a short period of time, we have been able to actively demonstrate that we have made a substantial contribution to the preservation and protection of our natural resources. Under this light the Attica Group adopts practices and actions that focus on sustainable development and improvement of the quality of life. Promoting the Use of New Technologies In order to promote the use of new technologies, we offer a 50% discount for all hybrid cars on our Adriatic Sea routes. Alternative – Environmentally friendly ways to travel We promote alternative and environmentally-friendly ways to travel, by offering travel packages combining “Train and Ferry” for destinations outside Europe. Beach Ashtrays The Group continues to actively participate in the effort to keep our beaches clean, with two main activities. For the fourth consecutive year, the Group prints and distributes recyclable beach ashtrays, through the magazine Traveler’s Icons, as well as at its agencies in Athens, Thessaloniki and Heraklion, onboard all ships, during the voluntary coast cleaning campaigns organized by the Group in Amorgos, and by hand to hand distribution on the beaches of the islands. In total, in 2007, 2008 and 2009 Attica Group printed 570,000 beach ashtrays and in 2010 it printed 208,500. The respective quantity in 2011 reached 200,000 pieces. Leaﬂets with Useful Tips for Planet Protection The Group reprinted leaflets with useful tips for dealing with climate change by making small changes in daily routines which are distributed onboard and through the partner agencies. Pan-Cycladic student competition with subject: “My town/village” Our Group, concerned about issues of environmental education, especially when the persons involved are students and youth, supported the Pan-Cycladic competition on the subject of “My town/village”. The competition addressed to students of kindergartens and primary schools of the Cycladic islands and it included: a. Group collage project b. Painting c. Photography Attica Group undertook the expenses for the competition’s informative poster and the publication of a 2012 calendar which included the awarded works. 37 Pan-Cycladic student poster competition with subject: “Cyclades, Environment and Culture; Loving and caring for our land Inspired by the subject of the competition, the Secondary Education Division of the Prefecture of the Cyclades organised an original painting exhibition which travelled across the Cyclades onboard of the Group’s vessels, reaching out to a wide public. Attica Group supports the efforts of junior, high school, and special school students from small and large islands and hosts an album which contains their works. The purpose of the competition was to present a spontaneous, pure and warm view of the islands seen through the eyes of young students, promote their urge for communication with the world and show their different views on the culture and environment of the Cyclades. Optimization of Recycling and Waste Removal Attica Group supports the program for improving the recycling and the removal of the waste of the Municipality of Heraklion, which is carried out in cooperation with the Technological Educational Institues (TEI) of Crete, by undertaking the issue of the printed information material. The program aims to maximize the results of recycling, making the city of Heraklion cleaner by reducing the volume of the waste and improving its removal. Transport of Recyclable Materials With the aim of supporting and contributing to the development of recycling as an institution, as well as to enhance sustainable development, Attica Group offers free or discount tickets for the transport of recyclable materials. In particular, in 2011 we cooperated with a number of entities, non-proﬁt organizations, schools and companies from local societies to transport materials to Athens. 38 According to the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) WBCSD/CSI guidelines, “biodiversity” is deﬁned as the variability of living organisms from all sources, including the ecological complexes of which they are part, and diversity within and between species and of ecosystems (as deﬁned in the Convention on Biological Diversity). The intensiﬁed urbanization and the increase of infrastructures, the over-exploitation of natural resources, pollution of all kinds, and the introduction of alien species into ecosystems signiﬁcantly harm biodiversity. This is why Attica Group actively participates in the protection of ﬂora and fauna, aiming at preserving or developing environmental values. Supporting “LIFE” programme Supporting all information-awareness actions under the LIFE Programme for seabirds implemented by the Hellenic Ornithological Society, starting from summer 2011, all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries ships performing itineraries to the Cyclades, the Dodecanese and Crete have leaﬂets available for the information of passengers about sea birds, the actions of LIFE Programme and the importance of the island and sea areas of the Aegean. During their journey, passengers can observe the Aegean sea birds. Using the sea bird observation leaﬂet made available at the ships’ receptions, passengers can identify sea birds and contribute themselves to the counting of their population in Greece, by ﬁlling in and handing in the special recording form at the reception or by posting their notes on www.ornithologiki.gr/seabirds. It is worth noting that in 2011 the Hellenic Ornithological Society received 26 written and 247 online records through the special form made available onboard of Group ships. Photo: Aris Christidis 39 40 42 For Attica Group, which travels to the Aegean daily, the support of local societies is a priority, as regards the full spectrum of its activities: social care, environment, culture, sports, education, health, and even more so when the ﬁnal recipients are the children and the young people who reside on our islands. An important initiative in the context of social contribution is the systematic response to numerous requests for donations or direct sponsorships of societies from the islands of the Aegean and other places in Greece. Local tradition and athletics have long been a wide ﬁeld of social contribution for the Group. In this context, Attica Group offered for another year discount or free tickets to cultural and athletic clubs, this way supporting the continuity of local culture and sports activities. Some of the main bodies which the Group supported in 2011 are listed in the following unit. Traditional Occupations In 2011, the Group launched a new business responsibility programme entitled “Traditional Occupations”. Through the ofﬁcial website of Blue Star Ferries www.bluestarferries.gr, Attica Group introduces a series of occupations and arts that are continuously facing the danger of extinction. This programme aims at reviving and preserving these occupations, promoting the role of local societies whilst sustaining and protecting our national heritage. While implementing this programme the Company came in contact with many gifted people who, in their own unique way shared their expertise and secrets; for example how to create molds for handmade bells at the island of Symi, understanding the utility value of traditional techniques used for the preparation of local cheese (tyrovolia) at the island of Astypalaia, finding the correct geographical location for the construction of pigeon houses at Tinos and many more. Personal testimonials and narrations highlight professionals from older and more recent generations living at the islands of the Aegean that continue with the same devotion to preserve and keep alive those occupations using local materials and techniques. The website is updated on a regular basis enhancing its content and thus reinforcing the cultural tradition of insular Greece. 43 Other actions In the context of its social contribution, the Group systematically responds to requests for donations or sponsorships for cultural and social societies of islands. These requests reach the company daily, and are followed by the thank you letters, which are our reward. Within this framework Attica Group has enthusiastically responded to numerous requests made by cultural groups in Cyclades, Dodecanese and Crete, thus supporting local traditions and the preservation of the unique cultural characteristics of each place. Among the numerous requests of cultural associations across Greece to which we responded by offering tickets to support their raffles, the following stand out: • Antique Car Club of Greece (Philpa) • Cultural Educational Club of Astypalaia • Acropolis Rally • AMES NIREAS, Paros • 35th ELPA Rally • Cycladic Art Museum, “Islands Off The Beaten Track” • Patmos Cultural Centre • Cultural Union “Friends of Santorini • Syros Music Association • Federation of Amateur Theatre of The Aegean • Tinos Institution of Culture • National Conservatory of Thera • Cultural Club of Tholaria, Egiali, Amorgos • Kavafy Cultural Association of Ano Syros • Greek-Italian Cultural Club of the Friends of Leros • European Music Day, Naxos • Museum of Greek Children’s Art • Anima Syros Festival • Organization of Cultural events Debop.gr • Aion Cultural Non-Proﬁt Organization, Naxos • Semeli Folk and Nature Club • Folk Dance Club of Naoussa, Paros • “Corfu Maskarata” Cultural Club • Cultural Association of Danakos, Naxos • Greek Book Club 44 Attica Group has a long tradition of community service in the area of Sports and in support of the efforts of the groups and associations of the local island communities. The Group’s support, apart from giving free or discount tickets, also includes direct ﬁnancial aid. Recognizing the important role which sports can play in developing the tourism market and by supporting the organization of sports events with international audiences in our country, as well as the promotion of fair competition, we have sponsored or supported the following, with the provision of free or discount tickets: • Schinoussa Athletic Club • Syros Yacht Club • Diagoras Rhodes Fc • Kolossos Kallithea, Rhodes Club • Kolossos Rhodes Bc • Motorsports Club, Heraklion • Ergotelis Fc • Greek Chess Federation • Ippokratis Kos Club • Greek Shooting Sport Federation, Rhodes • Ierapetra Fc • Hellenic Equestrian Federation • Porto Rafti Sailing Club • Cyclades Equestrian Club • Stavros Rhodes Club • Ipc World Shoot – World Shooting Championships, Rhodes • Volleyball Federation of The Dodecanese • Mykonos Yacht Club • Association of Basketball Unions, Cyclades • Xanthos Patmios Club • Heraklion Tennis & Sports Club • Rodilios Cycling Club • Ergotelis Womens’ Fc • Team Racing – Th.Marinakis • Marathon Runner’s Club, Crete • Pao Kos • Prometheus Club, Patras • Foinikas Syros Volleyball Club • Mountaineering Club of Chania • Paros Yacht Club • Athletic Educational Club of Heraklion 45 Supporting the programme “Agoni Grammi Gonimi 2011” For the 5th consecutive year, Attica Group focused on local island communities, by supporting the non-profit organization “Diadrasi”, as GRAND SPONSOR, within its programme “Agoni Grammi Gonimi 2011”. During the visits to the islands, the actions are divided in three areas, including Reading Clubs, a Children’s Book Reading Competition, and the main actions of the “Diadrasi” festival, where children and adults can take part in range of educational workshops and cultural activities. This year the programme reached the residents of Iraklia, Antiparos, Halki, Thirasia, Kastellorizo, Kalymnos, Amorgos and Tinos. The enthusiasm and commitment demonstrated by all members of the team create a unique atmosphere in all events, and take the residents of the participating islands to a journey full of theatre, music, sports events and strong emotions, proving people in all areas can come together in fruitful procedures. This initiative brings artistic expression to people who live in remote areas and have no access to such activities, and at the same time provides entertainment during the difficult long winter months. “Blood Ties” Attica Group acknowledges the ever increasing need in blood and wishes to help deal with this social problem. As a result, it implemented the “Blood Ties” programme for the 3rd consecutive year. This programme has been designed in a way that it has become an ‘institution’ for the Group. Since 2009 when the programme was launched, blood donation is an act of responsibility, contribution and solidarity of our employees to people in need, in the hope that within the next few years “Blood Ties” concept will have become an institution. The voluntary blood donation of the Attica Group employees continued for the 3rd year, supporting with continuity and consistency our Group’s commitment to offer a helping hand, fostering voluntarism and social contribution. The “organized blood donation days” of 2011 took place in April and October in cooperation with the Athens General Hospital “G. Gennimatas”, with ofﬁcebased and on board employees giving once more a strong message of sensitivity and selﬂessness. The Blood Bank that was created meets demands for residents of remote islands which the Company services in the Cyclades and the Dodecanese, and at the same time covers emergency needs both for Group employees and for their families. By 31.12.2011 we had already responded to 52 cases which required blood immediately. 46 Information speeches and education about Diabetes Mellitus Attica Group and MITERA Children’s Hospital, in cooperation with the Hellenic Diabetes Federation, being fully aware of their enhanced social role and always with a focus on people and their needs, joined forces for the first time to deal with emergency situations of passengers suffering from Diabetes Mellitus. In July, the experienced medical staff of MITERA Children’s Hospital, offered information speeches and educational meetings about Diabetes Mellitus, the symptoms demonstrated in case of hypoglycemia and the methods to deal with it to the crews of Blue Star Ferries, BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE STAR ITHAKI & DIAGORAS, and SUPERFAST ΧΙI. Information material was handed out during the meeting, while participants attended a demonstration of how to use a blood sugar metering device. At the end of the presentation, testing strips were handed out to deck officers, to deal with potential emergencies. It is everyone’s goal to disseminate this initiative and train the crews of all vessels, as well as office personnel of Attica Group. “Sun Protection” Programme The Group, in cooperation with the “Melampous” Melanoma Prevention and Treatment Organization and the assistance of local doctors and bodies, organized free check-ups and informative speeches for the third year, with the purpose of informing islanders enjoying the Greek sun regarding the risk of prolonged exposure and methods of prevention. In May and June 2011, Blue Star Ferries and the medical team travelled to the islands of Patmos and Leros where 586 adults and children were examined, while even more were informed about the appropriate methods of prevention which help benefit from the sun and eliminate health risks. Further, Blue Star Ferries distributed informative leaflets to islanders with references to the indicated methods of self-examination. Leaflets are also available at the company’s central and port agencies and the domestic line ships of Attica Group all year round. Since 2008 the programme has been implemented in 10 islands, while further implementation is planned for 2012 in Ios and Santorini. 47 Deck log Written by a member of the “Sun Protection” team Patmos Moments • During artistic expression class, a primary school student asked the teacher and priest of the village of Skala: “Sir, can I add black? And the priest said: “Aren’t you bored Upon arrival at the Health Centre, opening the boxes with the medicines and sanitary material. of black already? You see my black robes every single day. Everything was provided by Blue Star Ferries Why don’t’ you add a vivid color?” in order not to charge the Health Centre. • Head of library in the Patmos Monastery. Characteristic face of a young man. • Meeting with a member of the “Doctors of the Aegean”. The team had brought presents for the 4 children who live on the small island of Arkii, across the island of Patmos. A young boy had asked for a map. I want to see where my island is” he had told them… • small brown dog of the company’s agency anxiously The waits for Blue Star 2 to reach the port, jumps on the ship, travels to Rhodes and returns on the next day. Drawing given as a gift by 6 year old Pantelis to the our doctor… what a great message!!! Leros Moments • The beautiful island. The Venetian buildings in Lakki and Agia Marina blend harmoniously with the culture brought by people from Asia Minor and Egypt. Wind mills on the castle. From here you can see Bodrum, the Greek city of Alikarnassos. Turkish boats come to Leros every day for food and shopping. • The old psychiatric clinic weighs on the island's name. The Melampous team… Leros, at the Hospital’s garden, last day of the program, time 16:00 upon Wing 16 (used for severe cases) was ﬁnally closed in 1994 completion of the free examinations to the local population. after the imposition of a ﬁne by the EU on Greece. The president of Melampous (third from the right) exhausted after performing 43 hours of examinations The psychiatric clinic now accommodates 300 patients and 11 hours of speeches in both islands!!! under standard programmes subsidized by the EU. On our last day, the residents would hug and kiss us. • An older man said we had honored them by visiting their island. All hospital nurses, doctors, the director, would check on us about 4 times a day to make sure everything was all right and that we had everything we needed. At the end of the speeches we handed out information leaﬂets regarding sun protection, baseball cups, and bags for our little friends. Last but not least, the people. All of them. In both islands. Those who were tested or attended the speeches and those seen in the streets, in coffee shops. As soon as they would see licence plates from Athens, they would beep and wave, welcome us, open their hearts and homes to us. 48 Cooperation with Non-Government THE SMILE OF THE CHILD Organizations MEDICINS DU MONDE In the context of the company’s responsible actions for the greater good, Attica Group offered a helping hand to the 3,804.86 p non-government organizations “The smile of the child” 2011 356 p and “Medicins du Monde”, providing support to their signiﬁcant work and initiatives. The Group recognizes the 5,308.50 p efforts made by those two organizations, and placed charity 2010 733.81p boxes on all ships, thus proving in practice its intention to support them in their work. 4,219.35 p 2009 738.60 p 991.85 p 2008 0 0 2,000 p 4,000 p 6,000 p The Municipalities and Local Authorities are the institutionalized bodies that address and handle all issues of the local societies, supporting the preservation of traditions and covering the needs of local people. Attica Group has offered sponsorships to many municipalities, for the organization of conferences and scientific workshops for the locals etc. For expatriate Greeks in Europe, in order to promote the Greek language and by extension the Greek culture, we sponsored the granting of tickets to the following Clubs and Associations, we present indicatively: • “Keramos”, Kastelliani Club, Meramvelos, Lasithi • French Aid Association (Association Francaise d’entraide en Grece) • Greek Community of Rotterdam and Greater Area • Greek Summer Festival 2011, Bredene, Belgium • Greek Community of Emilia Romagna Bologna • Greek Community of Germany • Greek-Irish Society St. Patrick’s Day ball • Greek Community of Maintal • Belgian Club of Greeks from Hepirus • Brussels Club of Cretans • Comunita Elenica Pavese (CO.EL.PA.) • Greek Orthodox Church of Proﬁtis Ilias, Frankfurt • Greek Community of Brussels • Greek Orthodox Parish of Geneva • Organisation for the Dissemination of Greek Language In addition, in the context of enhanced actions to aid socially vulnerable groups, we have also provided support to the following: • Fos Christu Missionary Brotherhood (Rhodes) • “Stegi” Social Support Society For Minors And Adolescents • Make A Wish • Oasi Tou Paidiou • Ark Of The World (Special Care & Protection • Dikeoma Sti Zoi Association – Union Of Parents NGO For Mothers And Children) And Friends Of Disabled Persons 49 Finally, in the health sector we have supported, among others: • Patmos Health Centre • Hellenic Red Cross, Rhodes • Ofﬁce of South Aegean Deputy Head of Region • Association for the Psychosocial Health of Children & Adolescents • Hellenic Rescue Team (A.P.H.C.A.) • South Aegean Region • Association of Parents and Friends of Disabled Persons “Ergastiri” • Women’s Association of Marpissa, Paros • Hellenic Society for Disabled Children (Elepap) • Korgialenio-Benakio General Hospital • Therapeutic Riding Association of Greece • Aegean Team • Comitato Assistenza Agli Italiani (CO.AS.IT.) • Society of Volunteers against Cancer “Agaliazo” • Athens Association of Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders • Medicins Du Monde • Hellenic Society for Disabled Children (ELEPAP) • Medicins Sans Frontieres • Hellenic Red Cross, Rhodes • Hellenic Cancer Society • Therapy Center for Dependent Individuals (KETHEA) • Festival for the promotion of Mental Health • Society of Volunteers Against Cancer “Agaliazo” • The Smile of the Child • Hellenic Cancer Society The program of the Attica Group has a long history. From 2005 to December 2011, Attica Group has offered a particularly large number of discount and free tickets, whereas every year it supports through direct sponsoring cultural and athletic associations, non-governmental organizations, Municipalities, Communities and Bodies. 496,805 p Travel beneﬁts: 2009 The value of the total number of tickets was: €391,016 2010 YEAR 2009 YEAR 2010 The value of the total number of tickets was: €498,653 391,016p 498,653 p YEAR 2011 2011 The value of the total number of tickets was: €496,805 Direct sponsorships: 132,280 p In 2009 the Group gave in total: €186,279. In 2010 the Group gave in total: €158,264. YEAR 2009 In 2011, despite the international economic recession and the YEAR 2010 158,264 p global restraint in spending, Attica Group gave in total for direct sponsorships the amount of €132,280. YEAR 2011 186,279 p In conclusion, it should be emphasized that Attica Group will continue the ongoing implementation of the Corporate Social Responsibility program in 2012, adhering to all its commitments towards sustainable development and vigorously supporting local island communities, and young people in particular. 50 Thank you letters The work of Attica Group brings us closer to the local societies and island residents in the Aegean. By our actions, we have not and do not aim to substitute for the State or regional infrastructure planning. We just wish to be an integral part of the local societies, of the places we travel to every day. We do not want to just be a bystander, who focuses solely on corporate development. This is why, every time a small, simple “thank you note” reaches our offices from Municipalities, Communities, Associations and Non-Governmental Organizations, it gives us great pleasure and satisfaction, and encourages us to continue our work in the same manner. 51 52 Communication on Progress (COP) Global Compact Attica Group, within the framework of its Corporate Responsibility Programme, is committed since the beginning of 2009 to the Global Compact of the United Nations, which encourages companies to adopt 10 universally accepted principles for the sustainability of the environment, human rights, labor conditions and the fight against corruption, via universal implementation of the principles in all international activities. The Global Compact is the largest global initiative in corporate responsibility, with thousands of participants from more than 100 countries and its primary goal is to build and promote the social legitimacy of companies and markets. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary global initiative with two primary goals: • That these 10 principles should become the main trend governing business activities all over the world. • That the initiative should act as a catalyst for action in support of the millennium development objectives of the United Nations. Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Attica Group respects and protects human and labour rights and its Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics declares in writing the acknowledgment and support of these rights. Page 27 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Attica Group does not violate any human rights and the Internal Code of Business Conduct describes in writing the relations between colleagues, Administration and Suppliers. Page 27 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Attica Group defends the right of the employees to participate in organized unions and this is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 27 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Attica Group opposes any form of forced or compulsory labour and this principle is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 27 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Attica Group opposes any form of forced or compulsory labour and this principle is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 27 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Attica Group adopts an efﬁcient recruitment procedure and policy, which states and identiﬁes all required actions for the meritocratic selection of the best qualiﬁed candidates and their personal development. Since 2008, Attica Group has been implementing a Performance Management System which refers to the evaluation of the company’s administrative and on board staff. Page 24 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Attica Group has adopted a preventive environmental approach. Page 31, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Attica Group has undertaken speciﬁc initiatives for the reinforcement of environmental responsibility and implements programmes aimed at that objective. Page 31, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Attica Group encourages the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies, such as is the offer of 50% discount off the transportation fees for all hybrid cars in the Adriatic Sea route, the use of low power consumption light-bulbs throughout its vessels and premises, etc. Page 31, 32, 37 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Attica Group is opposed to any form of corruption, as clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and also in its corporate governance policy. Page 25, 26, 27 53 GRI-G3 Indicator Table The Corporate Responsibility Report of Attica Group is based on the Guidelines GRI / G3 applied for the composition of sustainability reports. The GRI instructions are a sum of principles and indicators, with a wide range of technical and specialized guidelines, notes and annexes, depending on the sector, which were formed through the international cooperation of multiple interested parties and are evaluated within the composition of these sustainability reports. More specifically, these reports are based on the GRI Sustainability Report Publication Framework and disclose all conclusions and results extracted during the reporting process concerning the commitments, strategic policy and administrative methods of the organization. The Framework is applied to all organizations, of any size, type or geographical location, and it is already in use as a foundation for the publication of sustainability reports by thousands of international companies, associations and organizations, in all sectors. The Report refers to the period 2011 and records the performance of Attica Group in the sectors of corporate governance, environmental policy, human rights, personnel and society at large. This is the 3rd consecutive annual “Social Responsibility Report” issued according to the guidelines of the GRI/G3 International Sustainability Reporting Initiative. Electronic database management systems were used for the data collection included at the Report in hand. It is worth mentioning that the methodology used for the calculation of the Report’s indicators remained the same as in the previous years apart from the recommended methodology for calculating paper recycling which was modified during 2011 from liters to kilos. Finally, it is specifically stated that the present Report has not yet been certified by an external, independent body but it is anticipated to be implemented in the near future. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization CEO’s Address Page 5 (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Corporate Social Responsibility Page 19 Vision & Strategy 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of organization. Attica Group Page 9 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Attica Group Page 9, 10 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main Attica Group Page 9 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Attica Group Page 9 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names Attica Group / Our Partners Page 9, 28 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Attica Group Page 9, 11, 12, 13, 14 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Attica Group / Our Partners Page 9, 28 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Attica Group / History / Management / Page 9, 11, 13, 14, 23, 28 Our Personnel / Our Partners 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Management Page 9, 11, 12 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards Page 16 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information CEO’s Address Page 5 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Corporate Social Responsibility Page 19 Vision & Strategy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). CEO’s Address / Corporate Social Page 5, 6, 19 Responsibility Vision & Strategy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Evaluation Form Page 59 54 GRI-G3 Indicator Table 3.5* Process for defining report content. CEO’s Address / Corporate Social Page 5, 19 Responsibility Vision & Strategy 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 54 58 in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external COP Attica Group Page 53 assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Corporate Governance Page 25 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Page 25 is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state Corporate Governance Page 25 the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4* Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Corporate Governance Page 25, 26 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Corporate Governance Page 25 governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance Page 25, 26 conflicts of interest are avoided. *Partial indicator coverage 55 GRI-G3 Indicator Table 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualiﬁcations, and expertise Corporate Governance Page 25 of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes CEO’s Address / Corporate Social Page 5, 19, 23 of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, Responsibility Vision & Strategy / and social performance and the status of their implementation. Our Personnel 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach CEO’s Address / Corporate Social Page 5, 19 or principle is addressed by the organization. Responsibility Vision & Strategy 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social International Lines / Environment Page 28, 31, 32 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization at Sea subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) International Lines Page 28 and/or national/international advocacy organizations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholders Page 14 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Stakeholders Page 14 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Economic Performance Indicators EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Attica Group / Other Activities Page 9, 49, 50 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations Cooperation with NGO’s and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Our Personnel Page 23, 24 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments International Lines / Domestic Lines Page 28 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic International Lines / Domestic Lines Page 28 impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Environment at Sea / Environment & Land Page 32, 35, 36 ΕΝ2* Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Environment & Land Page 36 EN3* Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Environment at Sea / Environment & Land Page 31 38 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environment at Sea Page 31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environment at Sea Page 32 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Environment at Sea / Environment & Land Page 31 38 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN8* Total water withdrawal by source. Environment at Sea Page 31 32 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Environment at Sea Page 31 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Environment & Land Biodiversity Page 39 EN14 Strategies, current actions & future plans for managing impacts Environment & Land Biodiversity Page 39 for biodiversity. *Partial indicator coverage 56 GRI-G3 Indicator Table EN18* Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Environment at Sea Page 31, 32 achieved. EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Environment at Sea Page 31, 32 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Environment at Sea / Environment & Land Page 32, 35, 36 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Environment at Sea / Environment & Land Page 32, 35, 36 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Environment at Sea / Environment & Land Page 31 38 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Our Personnel Page 23, 24 and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee Our Personnel Page 23, 24 turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temOur Personnel Page 23, 24 porary or parttime employees, by signiﬁcant locations of operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Our Personnel Page 23, 24 agreements. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Our Personnel Page 23, 24 unions. LA10* Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Our Personnel Page 23, 24 and by employee category. LA11 Programes for skills management and lifelong learning that Our Personnel Page 24 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Our Personnel Page 24 and career development reviews, by gender. LA13* Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Our Personnel Page 23 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Our Personnel / Code of conduct Page 27 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR5* Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of asOur Personnel / Code of conduct Page 27 sociation and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6* Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Our Personnel / Code of conduct Page 27 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7* Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Our Personnel / Code of conduct Page 27 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. *Partial indicator coverage 57 GRI-G3 Indicator Table S Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Culture, Athletics, Solidarity, Page 43 50 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. Other Activities SO3* Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Our Personnel / Corporate Page 23, 25 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Governance SO4 Actions taken in response incidents of corruption. Our Personnel/ Code of conduct Page 27 Product Responsibility PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Attica Group Page 9, 10 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results Attica Group / Awards Page 9, 10, 16 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6* Programes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Our Personnel / Code of conduct Page 27 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. *Partial indicator coverage 58 EVALUATION FORM OF 2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Aiming at the continuous development of the corporate social responsibility actions implemented by the Attica Group, please take a few moments to ﬁll in the following questionnaire. Your opinion is especially important to us. In which category of the Attica Group participants do you belong: Employee Local Society Participant Associate Non governmental Organization / Society / Association Customer Media Shareholder/Investor Other Supplier Please note your overall impression about the following units of the Report: Excellent Good Average Poor Corporate Governance Attica Group and CSR Development of Actions for employees Development of Actions for the support of local societies (culture, athletics, social care, etc.) Development of Actions for the environment Report Information Please note your overall impression from the Corporate Social Responsibility Report Excellent Good Average Poor There is balance between the units The texts are complete The content is comprehensible It includes all the subjects it should Would you like to make any other comments/recommendations? .................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................................................... Personal Details (optional): Full name: Organization: Address: Tel: e-mail: Please mail this questionnaire to: ATTICA GROUP, attn. Mrs. Christina Grigora, address: 123 125 Syngrou Ave. & 3, Torva Str., 11745 Athens, Greece or by e-mail to: grigora@attica-group.com or by fax to: +30 210 89 19 829. All information will be used by the Group to evaluate the Report through a statistical analysis. Personal details are protected as stipulated by the law on personal conﬁdentiality. 59 In the interest of the environment, this report has not been printed and has instead, been made available as an HTML pdf document on the sites of: Blue Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Attica Group. Readers may also choose to print sections of the report. ATTICA GROUP: 123 125 Syngrou Ave. & 3, Τorva Str., 11745 Αthens, Greece, Tel.: +30 210 891 9500, Fax: +30 210 891 9509, www.attica-group.com
