Thinking Green, Doing Green. 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 1 CONTENTS 02 About MRCB 04 Our Approach to Reporting 06 Organisational Chart 08 Corporate Structure 10 A Message from Chief Executive Officer 16 Strategy and Analysis 20 Corporate Governance 25 Awards and Recognitions 26 Environment 40 Community 50 Workplace 62 Marketplace 69 GRI Index 83 Assurance 2 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ABOUT US About MRCB The Group is a multi-disciplinary specialist offering integrated solutions in urban planning; engineering; urban development; Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad (MRCB) is a leading environmental engineering and regeneration; and energy urban property, infrastructure and environmental regeneration infrastructure development. The Group’s four core divisions specialist in Malaysia. Established in 1968, it became a public are Property; Engineering and Construction; Infrastructure, listed company in 1969 and was listed on Bursa Malaysia Concession and Environment; and Building Services Division. (Malaysia’s Stock Exchange) in 1971. Property Division MRCB Land – Transforming communities Infrastructure, Concession & Environment Division Connecting People to places MRCB Land, MRCB’s property division is the leader in MRCB Infrastructure, Concession and Environment is a leader integrated developments as epitomized by the success of in integrated infrastructure and environmental rehabilitation its iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral development. The division developments. The Group has been a catalyst for connected is a catalyst for the transformation of environments and the urban centres and sustainable development in Malaysia with creation of new communities with its innovative business successes including the modern highway construction of the strategy. Duta-Klang Expressway (DUTA) and the recently completed Eastern Dispersal Links (EDL) located in Johor, a southern From residential to commercial developments, from retail state in Peninsular Malaysia. complexes to transportation hubs, MRCB Land’s awardwinning properties set new benchmarks in sustainable The successes of its coastline and river rehabilitation have development. The division is one of the first developers to effectively transformed beaches, coastlines and riverines in pro-actively adopt sustainable development certifications for Malaysia which included a section of Pulau Tioman coastline, all new developments within Kuala Lumpur Sentral. Green one of the world’s best known islands. We are currently certifications adopted include the US Building Council’s working on two river rehabilitation projects, namely Perai Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED); River in Penang, Pahang River in Pahang State. Singapore-based Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) certifications. Engineering and Construction Division Building for Building Services Division Harmonising the a sustainable tomorrow living environment A fully-fledged engineering and construction firm with a MRCB Building Services, an accredited MS ISO 9001: 2000 national and international reputation for excellence and Quality Management System organisation which commits commitment to project and service distinction, its success to best working practices, is quickly becoming a leader in is epitomized by its construction of the iconic Kuala Lumpur building and security services. Its successes in maintaining Sentral CBD Development. Its successes and capabilities and managing building facilities for commercial, government range from the design and construction of Malaysia’s longest and high-rise office buildings include the landmark and iconic high-voltage transmission networks, the 273km SabahStesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur as well as several commercial East West Interconnection Grid and the National Grid for buildings in Kuala Lumpur and Penang. Peninsular Malaysia, to being a turnkey contractor and urban developer of township, commercial, residential and integrated transportation hub developments. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 3 MRCB has infused its brand of innovativeness and uniqueness into each project. The encouraging response from purchasers has spurred MRCB Land to further leverage on its expertise and at the same time, build with the environment in mind. 4 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING This is the fifth Sustainability Report produced by MRCB. This Report covers our responsibilities to our stakeholders and the contributions we have made towards sustainable development. About this Report This Sustainability Report is consistent with our Annual Report and previous Sustainability Reports. This Report continues to feature Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) and provides information on the nature of our business in each area of the GRI Guidelines. Our strategies, achievements and future plans for sustainability management are all aligned with these guidelines especially in the areas of sustainable environmental management, community, social contributions, ethics and corporate culture. The atrium at Platinum Sentral Where group-wide information is not available, we have provided performance data and case studies which are representative of our general approach. In this Report, we have also tracked data and statistics of our performance to date and evaluated our progress in achieving targets. Our transparency efforts are not limited to this Report. Other material issues such as Corporate Governance and detailed data of our internal operations and business activities are reported in our Annual Report and are not repeated here. Scope of Report Reporting period: January 1st to December 31st 2011 Reporting Cycle: Annually Coverage: The MRCB Sustainability Report covers our entire organisation and includes quantitative and qualitative data for 2011. Where groupwide information is not available, selected site data has been used. Some indicators are partial and only relate to certain divisions or activities as indicated in the text. Reference and Guidelines Principal Guidelines • GRI-G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Framework A section of the wall plants at Platinum Sentral / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 5 Additional Guidelines Feedback • Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) This Report is available to all stakeholders in hard copy on Framework request and can be downloaded from MRCB’s corporate website. • Silver Book: The Putrajaya Committee GLC Transformation For further information and comments please contact: Manual • ACCA Malaysia Sustainable Reporting Guidelines for Mohaini Mohd Yusof Malaysian Companies General Manager • ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility Head of Corporate Communications Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad Reliability of information disclosed Level 22, 1 Sentral, Jalan Travers, Kuala Lumpur Sentral The Report’s reliability has been examined by SIRIM QAS PO BOX 12640 International Sdn Bhd. Our assurance approach is completely 50470 Kuala Lumpur transparent, bias-free and independent. Their conclusions are Malaysia presented in an Assurance Statement which can be found at the end of this Report. There is no conflict of interest between the Tel: +603 2786 8080 report preparation process and verification process. Fax: +603 2780 5883 www.mrcb.com.my The view of the garden at Platinum Sentral 6 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ORGANISATION CHART Board of Directors SECRETARIAL AUDIT COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President Finance Human Resource Business Development Property & Government Relations Treasury & Corporate Corporate Finance Communications Total Quality Management/Customer Relationship Management Procurement/ Legal Admin & IT Divisional Head Safety, Health & Of Finance Environment / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 7 Chief Operating Chief Operating Officer Officer (Property) (Construction & Infrastructure) Engineering & Infrastructure, Retail Marketing Building Services Construction Concession & Environment 8 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE Property Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (64.38%) Unity Portfolio Onesentral Park Sdn Bhd (100%) Sdn Bhd (100%) Prema Bonanza Sdn Bhd (51%) MRCB Utama Sdn Bhd (100%) Malaysian Resources Development Sdn Bhd (100%) Seri Iskandar Development Corporation Sdn Bhd (70%) MRCB Sentral Properties Sdn Bhd (100%) Sooka Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Excellent Bonanza Sdn Bhd (60%) Cosy Bonanza Sdn Bhd (65.70%) Nu Sentral Sdn Bhd (51%) 348 Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) (formerly known as/ dahulu dikenali sebagai GSB Sentral Sdn Bhd) Bitar Enterprise Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Land (Australia) Pty Ltd (70%) 59 Inc Sdn Bhd (100%) Engineering & Construction MRCB Engineering Sdn Bhd (100%) Milmix Sdn Bhd (100%) Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd (100%) Region Resources Sdn Bhd (100%) / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 9 Infrastructure, Concession & Environment MRCB Prasarana Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Lingkaran Selatan Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Southern Link Berhad (100%) MRCB Environmental Services Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Environment Sdn Bhd (55%) Building Services Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Services Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Parking Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Technologies Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Sentral (Penang) Sdn Bhd (100%) 10 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / A MESSAGE FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER We continue to develop strategic action plans this is our way to ensure that sustainability is a shared value throughout the Company. MRCB’s progress in its overall business Corporate Responsibility underpins the Our Career Ladder Programme rewards performance was matched by positive responsible and sustainable delivery and recognises our employees for developments in its sustainability of our key business drivers; as such it is their achievements. Looking at our agenda. In 2011, our businesses continued an integral part of achieving our overall nature of operations, safety can never to develop roadmaps and action plans strategy. The Board believes that the be compromised. We strive to prevent in an effort to achieve our strategic integration of Corporate Responsibility occupational injuries while ensuring sustainability targets. These plans across the Group, and the inclusion of a comfortable and safe workplace. In consider the technology, investment and broader social and environmental issues order to be qualified, all site workers are operational decisions we will need to into our decision making, will help us required to attend two levels of mandatory meet our longer-term targets. With plans achieve our business goals. At the same safety training; a Construction Industry in place, we are prepared to achieve our time, it acts as a building block for growth Development Board’s (CIDB) Green Card goals. This is one way to ensure that in shareholder value while also benefitting course conducted by CIDB personnel and sustainability is a shared value throughout the communities in which we operate. As the MRCB safety Induction programme. the Company. such, the Board remains fully committed MRCB is committed to ensuring a safe to this important direction. and healthy working environment for I am happy to report that we made good all its employees and others involved in progress on our sustainability agenda in Workplace its operations. The Company considers 2011, with continuous support from our statutory requirements; relevant national stakeholders. Our strategy is unchanged. As an employer who is committed to and international standards and code of Our core focus is on delivering career development, we spent more than practices. shareholder value from significant RM800 on each employee for various structural opportunities and in building training and development programmes. our capability in support services. We The total internal and external training are now well into the sustainable and programmes conducted during the disciplined growth. year have exceeded 200 sessions. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 11 Marketplace We are happy to play our role in developing affordable homes in support of the Our supply chain processes with suppliers and Government’s effort to ensure all Malaysians customers is smooth and provides high quality are able to purchase their own homes with our deliverables. Project delivery is managed, contribution to the PR1MA Scheme. monitored and reported using a variety of management tools. Our myCRM software is The Brickfields blind community is located developed in-house by the Group to monitor very close to our iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral every stage of our product lifecycle. In 2011, Central Business District (CBD) development. our customer satisfaction results increased A stakeholder communications session was significantly in comparison with the previous held with the Malaysian Association for the year. In addition, winning the Conglomerate Blind (MAB) in March 2011 to discuss ways to Awards at the BrandLaureate Awards this year help the blind navigate their way around during is testament to our commitment to delivering the upgrading works in Brickfields. quality products and services. These awards were conceptualised by the Asia Pacific Brands Through our contributions to Promoting Foundation of which Y.Bhg Tun Dr Mahathir Intelligence, Nurturing Talent and Advocating Mohamad was a patron. Responsibility (PINTAR) programme, we continue to support educational necessities for Community children and families in need. We hope to ease the economic challenges facing these families As a responsible urban developer, we are also by improving educational opportunities and committed to contributing monetary or in kind an enhanced learning experience to their Corporate Social Responsibility assistance and children. We also spent on building a futsal affordable housing to the needy within our court for residents at Kampung Bakar Batu and areas of operations. the pupils of SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, an MRCB The MRCB contigent at the Federal Day parade 12 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / A MESSAGE FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PINTAR school. With the opening of this futsal of the Year (Asia, Australia and New Zealand). court, MRCB’s PINTAR students are encouraged Honourees were selected from more than to not only excel in academic performance 1,700 entries received from organisations and but also be actively involved in co-curriculum individuals in more than 40 countries where activities. I am pleased to see an improvement honourees were determined through two in the examination results of these children in rounds of judging by professionals worldwide. all schools in 2011. Environment We are also actively contributing to other philanthropic, cultural and heritage activities. As a construction company, MRCB has an These initiatives can be found in the Community obligation to help create awareness on global section of this Report. Our commitment to warming. We have decided to adopt a more prodeveloping the community was recognised active approach by incorporating sustainable through earning a double Distinguished elements in our property development. Since Honouree medal at the 2011 International 2009, MRCB has incorporated green building Business Awards in two categories on requirements into our Kuala Lumpur Sentral 13 October 2011, at an award ceremony at Abu development, utilising international green Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The winning building certification standards, notably, the USentries are the MRCB’s PINTAR programme, based Leadership in Energy and Environmental which was accorded a Distinguished Honouree in Design (LEED), Singapore’s BCA Green Mark the Corporate Social Responsibility Programme and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) of the Year in Asia (Asia, Australia and New for all its new development in Kuala Lumpur Zealand) while the Green Building Initiative was Sentral (Nu Sentral, Kuala Lumpur Sentral Park also nominated as a Distinguished Honouree in and 348 Sentral). Moreover, we also encourage the Environmental Responsibility Programme our clients and partners in going green with Datuk Mohamed Razeek Hussain, the CEO of MRCB receiving The Brandlaureate Awards 2010-2011 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 13 The atrium at Platinum Sentral 14 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / A MESSAGE FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER their developments, and these have resulted in several of them We were also named as one of the 20 shortlisted companies adopting green certifications. These include Platinum Sentral recognised for excellent corporate sustainability performance (BCA Green Mark Platinum) CIMB OfficeTower (BCA Green Mark by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Gold); Perdana Sentral Office Tower (Leed Silver); and St. Regis at the prize giving ceremony of Malaysia Sustainability Hotel and Residences (GBI Gold). Reporting Awards (MaSRA) 2011, held on 4 October 2011 at Shangri-La Hotel, Kuala Lumpur. Our Sustainability Report In addition to our internal environmental initiatives to minimise was selected from a total of 43 reports submitted, with the environmental impacts such as noise, waste, water and judging criteria based on completeness, credibility and emissions, we also contributed to the greening of Greater Kuala communications. Lumpur development plan by contributing RM1 million to the creation of Taman Botani Perdana. The 122-year-old Taman We continue to improve our disclosure and the dissemination Botani Perdana was upgraded and rebranded to establish a of transparent, credible and accurate information to our premier botanical garden in the heart of the city. stakeholders. This transparency helps us quantify and ensure our sustainability efforts are real. In realising this commitment, Our Commitment to Sustainable Reporting this year we have engaged SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd, an internationally-recognised body in sustainability verification Our commitment to transparent disclosure was once again and assurance to ensure the credibility of our disclosure. We recognised when we were named as one of the 27 finalists at believe that this transparent and bias-free engagement will add the StarBiz-ICR Malaysian Awards, held at Intercontinental value to this Report. Hotel, Kuala Lumpur on 29 March 2011. This time, MRCB was amongst the runner-ups, for the market category, affirming Continuing our Support of the 10 UNGC principles MRCB’s commitment to operating in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner while balancing MRCB continues to be represented as a committee member of the interest of diverse stakeholders. Our achievement was the Malaysian Chapter of the United Nations Global Compact recognised by the StarBiz-ICR Committee for demonstrating (UNGC) in keeping with our aim of adopting international outstanding CR practices that go beyond community and standards for our CSR programmes and vision. philanthropic activities. Pn. Mohaini Mohd Yusof, General Manager of Corporate Communications of MRCB receiving the StarBiz-ICR finalist plaque / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 15 Our goal is to work continuously towards incorporating all 10 Our commitment to UNGC principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption into our operations and credible sustainable reporting strategies, and to report on their implementation. We support and pledge to continue to observe these 10 universal principles has been affirmed through on human rights, labour rights, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption. recognition from various Acknowledgement organisations and we It is gratifying to witness the Group’s numerous achievements in will continue to improve this financial year.The accomplishments are only made possible by the dedication and hard work of our employees. On behalf of disclosure to our stakeholders. the Board of Directors, I would like to convey our most sincere thanks and appreciation to every member of the MRCB family. We look forward to many more faithful and mutually rewarding years of service from all. To our customers and shareholders, your continued loyalty and confidence have made this Group what it is today. Last but not least, I wish to extend a personal thank you to all stakeholders for the great journey in 2011. I am confident that with your continued support and devotion, MRCB’s achievements in the future will continue to shine positively. MOHAMED RAZEEK HUSSAIN MARICAR Chief Executive Officer Pn. Mohaini Mohd Yusof, General Manager of Corporate Communications of MRCB receiving the ACCA MaSRA finalist plaque 16 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Stakeholder Mapping We define our stakeholders as those who have a direct, indirect or potential impact on the Company. We also consider those groups who are affected directly or indirectly as a result of our operations. Our stakeholder mapping exercise identifies these people, organisations or entities in order for us to use the correct engagement approach. Each stakeholder group is managed by a relevant division whose duty is to regularly engage, respond to queries, address concerns and formulate strategies to better serve their expectations. Shareholders & Investors Customers Analyst / Media Employees Industry Peers Government / Value Chain Regulatory Authorities Partners The Public / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 17 A list of the main engagement methods used by MRCB to At MRCB, we use materiality analysis to identify social and engage with each stakeholder group is summarised below. environmental challenges, and opportunities that are important These methods outline the core channels but our engagement to our stakeholders. We define material issues as those which is not limited to these. are considered to be a priority for our stakeholders and have a potential impact on our business. These issues are integrated into our business strategies. Stakeholder Group Method of Engagement A combination of external stakeholder engagement and internal Customers • Customer Satisfaction strategic alignment ensures that this process is transparent and Survey credible. We focus on the long-term value drivers of our business • Customer Complaints Tools and stakeholders at large. Shareholders & Investors • Results announcement meetings • Annual General Meeting (AGM) • Regular Communication identifying focus on assess issues • Investor Road Shows issues of material identified • Reverse Road Shows concern areas Analyst / Media • Periodic Communication • Media interviews, press release and website postings • Official launches and events • Open dialogue Industry Peers • Conference and meetings • Industry workshops • Networking events Value Chain Partners • Contract bidding and procurement management • Training and communication • Site visits The Public • Community Engagement • Philanthropic activities • Open dialogue Employees • Employee representatives and committee meetings • Employee Grievance System • Employee training • Quarterly newsletters • Intranet • Management meetings • Other events: Annual dinner, functions and informal gatherings Government / Regulatory • Regular communication Authorities • Reports and compliance 18 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Issues raised by our stakeholders have been categorised into the main four sustainability pillars of MRCB: Environment, Community, Workplace and Marketplace. The table below summarises the most relevant issues and our commitment to addressing each issue. Pillar Issues Raised MRCB’s Response Environment • Environmental impact from the ongoing • Regular monitoring of all environmental indicators construction around Kuala Lumpur including noise, emissions and waste Sentral Community • Impact on the community as a result of • Dialogue sessions with the Malaysian Association for the our upgrading work in Brickfields Blind (MAB) to discuss ways to help the blind navigate • MRCB as a responsible corporate citizen their way around the upgrading work in Brickfields • Continuous contributions to various community programmes including PINTAR, charitable donations and cultural activities Workplace • Safe workplace • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for site workers • Career development and opportunities • Safety briefings for all workers before work and clear signs • Ongoing internal and external training programmes • Rewarding employees performance Marketplace • Availability and easy access to current • Regular updates on MRCB’s operations through the information on MRCB’s properties and corporate website, brochures and engagement sessions future developments • Customer satisfaction surveys • Channel available for suppliers and • Regular engagement with suppliers on procurement customers to communicate with the guidelines and procedures Company Material issues which are identified as having a significant current and potential impact on MRCB, which are also significant concern to our stakeholders, are mapped below. The materiality level defines the amount of disclosure in this Report. Low Material High materiality issues materiality • Gender diversity • Socio-economic • Environmental impact in the workplace development of operations due to the nature • Best practices in • Safety and health at of our operations the workplace work • Biodiversity • Provision of • Sustainable supply information to chain processes stakeholders • Business growth in the industry / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 19 How We Turn Risks to Opportunities Risk Opportunities • Beautifying of • Building of easy-access Brickfields which caused for the blind making inconvenience to the blind Brickfields a disabled• Environmental impact friendly area caused from active • Sourcing of construction works environmentally-friendly especially around materials to minimise the Kuala Lumpur negative impact on the Sentral areas environment • Regular maintenance • Significant increase in of our property sites to customers’ satisfaction maintain quality survey for MRCB Land and • High-risk work due to the MRCB Properties nature of our industry • A Safety and Health especially for contractors Committee established to and site workers enforce safety practices throughout the Company Little India development Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD 20 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Board Independence and Effectiveness The Board of Directors of MRCB and its Management remain The Board of Directors has a collective responsibility for the committed to developing and implementing good Corporate management and oversight of the Group.The Executive Director Governance practices throughout the Group. MRCB Group is responsible for the day-to-day business operations of the regularly reviews its governance framework and practices Group while the Non-Executive Directors apply independent to ensure it remains relevant and effective in meeting the scrutiny and judgement to management decision making and challenges of its dynamic business environment. provide objective challenges to management. This ensures that the objectives of the Group are achieved in a robust and The Board of Directors, to the best of its knowledge, confirms responsible manner. that the Group has applied the principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (Revised 2007) and the Main The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities are held by separate individuals, with clear division of Berhad (“MMLR”). responsibilities and authorities. While the Chairman provides independent oversight over the operations of the Group, the MRCB Board Structure CEO is responsible for the smooth and effective running of the Group. The CEO designs the overall business direction of The MRCB Board comprises eight members, five of whom are the Group; reports and communicates key strategic matters Independent Directors, two Non-Independent Non-Executive and proposals to the Board; and implements decisions made Directors and one Non-Independent Executive Director. The by the Board. The Chairman also presides over meetings of higher proportion of Independent Directors demonstrates the Board to ensure proposals and information provided by MRCB’s commitment to upholding the principles of objectivity the Management are properly discussed. In the absence of the and integrity in applying the principles of Corporate Governance. Chairman, the most Senior Independent Director, Dato’ Ahmad The Nomination Committee of the Board regularly reviews Ibnihajar, chairs the Board meetings. the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of its members. The Board believes that the present Board composition helps it discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively and competently. MRCB AGM held at Hotel Istana, Kuala Lumpur / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 21 Committee of The Board The EXCO comprises four members: a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director as the (“EXCO”) Chairman, the CEO and two additional Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the EXCO are: I. To guide the Management in the implementation of the GLC Transformation Initiatives; II. To review and recommend the annual business plan and budget of the Group to the Board for approval; III. To consider and review significant and/or major issues relating to the business direction of the Group; and IV. To deliberate on all major business transactions and issues relating to the Group that require the EXCO’s or Board’s approval in-line with the approved Limits of Authority. Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of four Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are: I. To identify and recommend new nominees to the Board and Board Committees of the MRCB Group of Companies; II. To assist the Board, Board Committees and Directors in assessing their overall effectiveness on an on-going basis; and III. To assist the Board in periodically reviewing its required mix of skills and experience and other qualities that Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board. Remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee consists of four Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are: I. To determine and recommend to the Board, the framework or broad policy for the remuneration packages of the Chairman of the Board, the CEO and other senior management personnel it is designated to consider; II. To establish a formal and transparent procedure for developing a policy on the total individual remuneration packages of the Executive Director, CEO and other designated senior management personnel including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentives and share options; III. To design the remuneration package for Executive Directors, CEO and other designated senior management personnel with the aim of attracting and retaining high-calibre senior management personnel who will deliver success for shareholders and high standards of service for customers, while having due regard to the business environment in which the Company operates. Once formulated, the remuneration package is recommended to the Board for approval; IV. To review and recommend to the board, improvements (if any) on the CEO’s and designated senior management personnel’s remuneration policy and packages, and any other issues relating to the benefits of those designated senior management personnel on an annual basis; V. To review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company, and where appropriate, recommend to the Board for adoption; and VI. To review and recommend to the Board for adoption, the framework for the Company’s annual incentive scheme which includes merit increment, merit bonus and incentives. 22 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee The Audit Committee consists of four Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: I. To consider the appointment of the external auditor, the audit fee and any issue of resignation or dismissal; II. To discuss with the external auditor before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit, and ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm is involved; III. To review the assistance given by the employees of the Company to the external auditor; IV. To discuss with the external auditor, his audit report and his evaluation of the system of internal controls; V. To review the quarterly and year-end financial statements of the Company prior to the approval by the Board of Directors, focusing particularly on: • any changes in accounting policies and practices; • significant adjustments arising from the audit; • the going concern assumption; and • compliance with accounting standards and other legal requirements; VI. To discuss problems and reservations arising from the interim and final audits, and any matter the auditor may wish to discuss (in the absence of Management where necessary); VII. To review the external auditor’s management letter and Management’s response; VIII. To do the following in relation to the Internal Audit function: • review, on an ongoing basis, the adequacy of the scope and resources of the Internal Audit function and that it has the necessary authority to carry out its work; • review the Internal Audit programme, processes and the results of the internal audit programme and investigations undertaken. Where necessary, the Committee will ensure that appropriate action is taken on the reports and recommendations of the Internal Audit function, and that all the above are not subject to Management’s approval or clearance; • review any appraisal or assessment of the performance of members of the Internal Audit function; • determine and recommend to the Board the remit of the Internal Audit function, including the remuneration of the Head of Corporate Governance; • monitor closely significant disagreement(s) between Internal Audit and Management, whether resolved or not; IX. To ensure that all serious allegations involving issues such as fraud, misconduct and criminal breach of trust are brought to the Committee’s attention. An investigation must obtain the clearance of the Committee Chairman before it can proceed and the Committee is empowered to review the major findings of such internal investigations as well as Management’s response; X. To consider any related party transactions and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Company including any transaction, procedure or conduct that raises questions on the Management’s integrity; XI. To obtain satisfactory response from the Management on the Internal Audit reports and reports issued by external auditors; XII. To submit a summary report to the Board after each Committee meeting to advise on issues discussed as well as an annual report to the Board highlighting material concerns discovered by Internal Audit during the year; XIII. To oversee the Risk Management function of the Group, and report to the Board significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect key risks; / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 23 XIV. Where review of audit reports of subsidiaries and any related corporation also falls under the jurisdiction of the Committee, all the above mentioned functions shall also be performed by the Committee in co-ordination with the Board of Directors of the subsidiaries and related corporation; XV. To review arrangements established by the Management for compliance with any regulatory or other external reporting requirements, by-laws and regulation related to the Company’s operations; XVI. To verify all Employee Share Option Scheme allocations to ensure that they are done in compliance with the criteria disclosed by the Company to its employees; and XVII. To consider other topics as defined by the Board. Option Scheme (“ESOS”) The ESOS comprises three members: an Independent Director as the Chairman, the CEO and a Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors. The principle responsibility of the ESOS Committee is to ensure that the implementation of the ESOS scheme is administered fairly in accordance to the Company’s ESOS by-laws approved by the Shareholders. Board Committees Communication and Transparency The Board has established five committees, each with specific It is important that our stakeholders and investing public authorities and responsibilities, to assist the Board in discharging have up-to-date information on the Company’s performance, its duties and responsibilities effectively.The skills and expertise operations and other significant developments. Various of each Director is drawn in these committees, where detailed corporate announcements required under the MMLR including reviews and deliberations of strategic issues are conducted. the timely release of quarterly financial results have been Nevertheless, the Board retains the ultimate responsibility for made during the period under review. In addition, detailed all decisions made. information on the Company’s significant corporate events and developments were made through the media via press Prevention of Fraud releases and/or press conferences. Shareholders, investors and stakeholders can conveniently access up-to-date information The Board has also developed the Prevention of Fraud Manual on the Company’s projects, quarterly financial position, investor which guides the Management and employees on maintaining relations and general corporate information at its regularlythe highest standards of conduct and integrity in all dealings. updated corporate public website http://www.mrcb.com.my. It also details the Management’s responsibility to establish There is also a “Contact Us” icon on the Company’s website, the proper control processes to prevent and detect fraud. It which leads to a webpage where shareholders and investors defines what constitutes fraud and fraudulent activities, and can conveniently forward their questions and comments to defines a framework for preventing it from occurring. the Company. Code on Whistle-blowing The Board also communicates to shareholders and investors at the Company’s Annual General Meeting, where information on The Prevention of Fraud Manual also contains a Code on the Company’s business activities, progress and performance Whistle-blowing which outlines procedures for whistle-blowers are shared. Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on to communicate their concerns to the Board. This can be done key resolutions (as defined by the MMLR and the Companies through the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Head of Act 1965) and to pose questions to the Board or Senior Corporate Governance, without Management’s intervention Management of the Company. and interference. The Whistle-blowing Code also describes the subsequent procedures to be taken for investigating and dealing with fraud cases. 24 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CSR at MRCB MRCB Group is committed to contributing to the nation’s growth and interests in tandem with its core business activities. The Group holds the principle to provide social assistance in terms IT of monetary or in kind to society, needy individuals and the developement nation. Our aim is to further enhance their quality of lives as well as align our development goals in support of the Government’s principles of sustainable development. Our CSR Guideline below applies to all the Group’s companies and subsidiaries. Four Core Activities education 1. IT Development Sponsorship of IT programmes – a computer literacy campaign focusing on rural people, schools and MRCB’s Core orphanages. In addition, contributions in kind are made to Activities relevant schools and orphanages, such as the donation of computers, printers, scanners and other necessities. community 2. Education projects • Establish Resource Centre – providing used books and newspaper distributions to selected schools and orphanages situated in the vicinity of MRCB projects. • Establish ‘Learning the English Language’ programme applicable to selected rural areas (mainly students), selected orphanages and children of MRCB employees. • High Achievers Awards – monetary incentives to the national and best students who are children of MRCB employees. charitable • Establish a ‘Young Leaders Campaign’ for poor primary organisations school students in rural areas by providing school uniforms, school bags, school shoes and stationery. • Adaptation of a primary schools. 4. National and charitable organisations 3. Community Projects • National organisations • Charitable programmes in the vicinity of MRCB • Malaysian Government endorsed charity activities projects, namely Majlis Berbuka Puasa, Donation to • Relevant Ministries activities Surau & Mosques, Majlis Kesyukuran/Doa Selamat on • Local orphanages completion of MRCB projects. • Organisations for the disabled • Visits to old folk’s homes, donations to poor families, • Relevant foundations recognised by the Malaysian donations to orphanages activities and the disabled. Government • Blood donation campaign by MRCB staff, gotong royong • Entrepreneurial activities organised by the National and other activities that will enhance the society’s needs Chamber, Malay Chamber or relevant associations approved by the Director General of Inland Revenue, • Recognised charitable organisations Malaysia. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 25 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Our CSR activities continued to receive recognition during (Subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) while its Green the year including international recognition for two CSR Building Initiative also received Distinguished Honouree as programmes, while we continued to attain acknowledgment one of the Environmental Responsibility Programmes of the nationally. In the international arena, MRCB was accorded with Year in Asia (Subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand). two Distinguished Honourees for two programmes organised by the US-based International Business Stevie Awards. Nationally, Malaysia was awarded the Conglomerate Award by the Brandlaureate Award while it continues to be recognised The MRCB PINTAR programme was accorded recognition as a finalist by the ACCA MaSRA. Corporate Social Responsibility Programme of the Year in Asia Organisation Award Venue Date NACRA Silver Award for Best Sime Darby Convention 27 January 2011 Corporate Social Centre, Kuala Lumpur Responsibility (CSR) category BrandLaureate Conglomerates Award Shangri-La Hotel, 23 March 2011 Kuala Lumpur StarBiz-ICR Runner up, Marketplace Intercontinental Hotel, 29 March 2011 category Kuala Lumpur MaSRA Sustainability Reporting Intercontinental Hotel, 4 October 2011 Awards 2011 Kuala Lumpur Stevie International Business Corporate Social Abu Dhabi, UAE 11 October 2011 Awards Responsibility Programme of the Year in Asia (subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) Stevie International Business Environmental Responsibility Abu Dhabi, UAE 11 October 2011 Awards Programme of the Year (subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) 26 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 27 OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR FUTURE Short-term progress and profit can never come at the expense of long-term environmental sustainability. We are focused on balancing progress with the preservation of nature. Our achievements in green building projects are our pride in addition to other environmental conservation efforts we engage in. 28 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ENVIRONMENT At MRCB, we recognise that short-term progress and profit As one of the leading proponents of green development, the cannot come at the expense of long-term environmental Group will continue to pursue sustainable development in sustainability. That is why our CSR focuses on building socially our core property business. We have consciously initiated strong communities that can draw on its resources for the the adoption of a green development strategy for all future present and in the future. We are focused on balancing progress developments in Kuala Lumpur Sentral. As a contractor, we are with the preservation of nature. also advocating a green development strategy for our clients. Our involvement in environment protection has included: This strategy has been implemented in all current projects in our iconic landmark Kuala Lumpur Sentral development include 348 • The improvement in the ecological balance of flora and Sentral, Lot G and Lot E Platinum Sentral. fauna • Protecting human and marine lives from further damage • Creating business opportunities for tourism-based industries • Creating a safer and better environment for local communities • Raising public awareness on alternative waste disposal and recycling methods • A greater sense of responsibility for environmental preservation Lot G: Nu Sentral Lot 348: Menara Shell and Ascott Sentral Materials Usage and Wastage Data for materials usage for Lot G is shown below. Type of Material Volume Concrete 69,656 m³ Steel Bar Reinforcement 13,768 tonnes / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 29 Green Building The LEED Green Building Rating System is a third party certification programme which encourages the global adoption With the challenges of reducing our carbon footprint, our of suitable practices through universally accepted tools green developments contribute to Malaysia’s Green Objectives and performance criteria. The five key areas of human and through: environmental health covered by this certification are suitable • Enhancing and synergising government transportation site development, water savings, energy savings, material mode and connectivity issues selection and indoor environmental quality. The Building and • Enhancing the image of building construction activities Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark is a Singapore green which are often seen as a nuisance to the public building rating system which promotes sustainability in the • Increasing control of building thermal comfort and utilising construction of buildings. It pays particular attention to energy daylight conservation and is endorsed and supported by the Singapore • Minimising and structuring energy use and consumption National Environment Agency. • Reducing building contribution to heat island effect • Controlling and reducing light pollution in Kuala Lumpur • Educating and promoting waste management and green materials Lot G Lot E Platinum Sentral 348 Sentral (Planning Stage) Energy Efficient • All underground parking • Air-conditioning system • Combination of green within the building uses a District Cooling coatings and materials with System vegetated roof • Provision of Energy Efficient • Reduced heat gain through Lighting, such as LED and cool roof coating T5 fittings • All site and building • Mechanical ventilation luminaries set at acceptable system is coupled with CO illuminance value sensors • Energy Monitoring System (EMS) • Implementation of lux sensors with dimmable light fittings • Implementation of motion sensor with light fittings Environment Protection • Central storage and • Singapore Green Label • Recycle corner on every collection of non-hazardous Scheme (SGLS) and Green office floor waste material Star Certified • Wood based materials • Materials follow Volatile • Products with at least 30% certified by Forest Organic Compound (VOC) recycled content by weight/ Stewardship Councils content limitation volume (FSC principles) • Use of non• Photovoltaic System chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) • Car park Guidance System refrigerant 30 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ENVIRONMENT Lot G Lot E Platinum Sentral 348 Sentral (Planning Stage) Indoor Environmental Quality • Construction Indoor Air • Project uses low VOC paint • Comply with VOC project Quality (IAQ) and Waste for all internal wall areas specification Carpet and Management Plan • Provision of high frequency Rug Institute (CRI) Green • CO2 level monitoring ballast for all fluorescent Label Plus Programme • Environmental Tobacco luminaries Smoke Control Water Efficient • Water efficient fittings to Use of Water Efficiency • All pavement is pervious for reduce water usage Labelling Scheme (WESLS) water removal • Water efficient fittings to reduce water usage; use of green fixture and fittings Compliance Air Air • Minimum Indoor Air • Minimum Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) Performance: Quality (IAQ) Performance: Compliance with Section Compliance with Section 4-7 American Society of 4-7 ASHRAE 62.1-2004 Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 62.1-2004 Thermal Comfort Thermal Comfort • Complies with the ASHRAE • To meet ASHRAE 55-2004 55-2004 (Day Light and (Day Light and Views, Views. Daylight 75% of Daylight 75% of Space) Space) Energy Performance Energy Performance • Complies with ASHRAE/ • To meet mandatory Illuminating Engineering provision of ASHRAE/IESNA Society of North America Standard 90.1-2004 without (IESNA) Standard 90.1-2004 amendments As the leader in integrated developments, epitomised by the first development in Kuala Lumpur Sentral to work towards iconic and exclusive urban centre of Kuala Lumpur Sentral, obtaining its green certification; BCA Green Mark (Platinum) MRCB is committed to complying with environmentallyand GBI (Certified). Lot E Platinum Sentral has conducted its sustainable practices in all its future developments. pre-assessment Since 2009, all new projects undertaken by MRCB Land have This commitment to sustainability constitutes a significant Key adhered to global standards stipulated by reputable green Performance Indicator for the Group’s investment projects. Kuala accreditation bodies. Among the standards implemented Lumpur Sentral, as a central business district, is committed are the Malaysian Green Building Index (GBI), US-based US to responsible Corporate Citizenship by continuing to adopt Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Green Building standards and strategies, towards greater Design (LEED) and the Green Mark by Singapore’s Building and environmental awareness. Construction Authority (BCA). Lot E Platinum Sentral was the / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 31 Project Green Rating LEED (USA) BCA (Greenmark GBI (Malaysia) Status Singapore) Lot A CIMB Tower – Gold Certified In progress Lot B Q Sentral – – Gold In progress Lot C St.Regis – – Certified In progress Lot D Sentral – – Gold In progress Residence Lot E Platinum – Platinum Certified In progress Sentral Lot G Nu Sentral & Pre-certified to Silver Compliance (selfRegistered for Certified Compliance Perdana Sentral level certification’ declared). MRCB Level certification (Self Declaration) follows the BCA guidelines but there are no plans for certification. Lot 348 348 Pre-certified to – Registered for Gold GBI registration phase Sentral & l Platinum Level Level Certification Certification Ascott Sentral Pre-certified to – – – Certified Level Certification Lot E Platinum Sentral 32 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ENVIRONMENT Energy Management The 10th Malaysia Plan (10 MP) re-emphasised the use of MRCB has entrenched its commitment to Malaysia’s Green renewable energy to meet Malaysia’s growing energy demands, Objectives in support of the Government’s green agenda. in particular hydro power for electricity generation and blending To date, we are proud to lead Malaysia’s green building initiative of biofuels for the transport sector. Renewable Energy (RE) is by committing to abide by Malaysia’s Green Building Index for derived from natural processes that are replenished constantly. all its current and future development. RE includes electricity and heat generated from solar, wind, ocean, hydropower, biomass and geothermal resources. In addition, MRCB continues to participate in the Earth hour It also includes biofuels and hydrogen derived from renewable movement by turning off all non-essential lights in our key resources. RE is seen as a growth sector that will help propel development each year. In our operations as a major developer, the country into a high-income economy. RE plays a major we believe we should be concerned with the dramatic climate role in meeting a country’s energy needs, enabling businesses change by making a positive contribution to climate change by to reap energy cost savings and revenue while combating participating in green awareness programmes including the global warming. Malaysia’s commercial demand for energy monitoring of our energy usage during construction. is projected to increase. MRCB is looking forward to working with the Government to develop RE in Malaysia and is keen to explore the opportunities ahead in RE. Energy Consumption by Building in 2011 Location Electricity Use (kWh) Lot G 830,233.25 Lot E Platinum Sentral * 5,271,507 348 Sentral 54,283 *The electricity consumption data for Lot E Platinum Sentral is from January to August as the project was completed in September 2012. Wastes Management The management of our wastes is based on the national waste General waste (industrial, commercial and domestic waste) is hierarchy which: controlled under the Local Government Act 1976 and Refuse Collection, Removal and Disposal By-Laws under the Act. The • Reduces the use of primary materials, prioritising those following measures have been proposed for the handling of which damage health or give rise to waste generation wastes potentially generated during the construction phase: • Re-uses materials wherever possible • Disposes of remaining waste in a responsible manner which • General municipal wastes are stored in containers and is in compliance with the requirement of relevant licenses collected and other obligations • Contractors are encouraged to minimise odour and litter impact • Scrap metals are recycled • No construction wastes can be burnt on site / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 33 Solid Wastes from Construction Building Projects for 2011 Wastes Consumption Summary (Tonnes) Scrap iron Soil (Earthwork) Total Waste Lot G 214 319,966 320,180 348 Sentral 1,741 – 1,741 Lot E Platinum Sentral Completed Water and Effluent Management LOT 348 Sentral Water Consumption 2011 3,000 2,561 2,301 2,500 2,001 1,926 2,000 1,738 1,725 1,645 1,500 1,291 1,293 1,013 982 1,000 737 500 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Buildings Water Used (m3) Lot E Platinum Sentral 5,836 Lot G 98,294 348 Sentral 19,213 34 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ENVIRONMENT Noise monitoring Summary Lot G The noise measurement programme is conducted in order to calibrated acoustically using a Larson Calibrator. The monitored determine compliance with the Schedule 6 of DOE’s Planning parameters and the frequency are as tabulated below. Guidelines for Environmental Noise Limit and Control, 2004. This stipulates that the noise levels at the project site Considering the sampling station N1 and N2 is near to the main boundary must be controlled at all times and not exceed road i.e. Jalan Tun Sambanthan and Kuala Lumpur Sentral Bus 65dB(A) for L90 and 75dB(A) for L10 during the day. The noise Terminals, noises sources are mainly from the passing vehicles, level monitoring is conducted by Alam Sekitar Malaysia buses, pedestrians and human activities in this area. It also Sdn Bhd using a Larson Davis sound level meter, which was includes the construction activities at the adjacent project site. Month Sound Level Noise Data Baseline dB(A) Point N1 Point N2 Point N1 Point N2 April 2011 LA10 72 70.5 80.3 73 LA90 62 68.5 50.8 56.1 June 2011 LA10 73 80 80.3 73 LA90 65 72.5 50.8 56.1 July 2011 LA10 77 74.5 80.3 73 LA90 63 64 50.8 56.1 October 2011 LA10 79.5 76.5 80.3 73 LA90 67.5 67.5 50.8 56.1 Compliance Limit Schedule 6 of DOE’s Planning Guidelines for Environmental Noise Limit and Control, 2004Maximum Permissible Levels of Construction, Maintenance and Demolition Work by Receiving Land Use Air Monitoring Lot G Alam Sekitar Malaysia Sdn Bhd. The monitored parameters and The points located at A1 and A2 were selected and Total the frequency are as tabulated below: Suspended Particulates (TSP) were measured for 24 hours using a MiniVol sampler. The monitoring of TSB was conducted by Summary of Monitoring Programme Parameters monitored Location Total Suspended Particulates (T.S.P) A1 At the north within construction boundary A2 At the west within construction boundary / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 35 Air Quality Distribution for Point A1 and A2 Parameter T.S.P Baseline MAAQG A1 (µg/m³) A2 (µg/m³) A1 (µg/m³) A2 (µg/m³) [µg/m³] Apr-11 217 199 81 61 260 Jun-11 198.4 208.3 81 61 260 Aug-11 217 199.7 81 61 260 Oct-11 199.7 182.3 81 61 260 Dec-11 95.49 130.21 81 61 260 The Total Suspended Particulates of air quality level measured at Point A1 and A2 were found to be within the MAAQG limits. Environmental Awareness Malaysians and property development players to work towards more sustainable lifestyles to address climate change issues. Earth Hour On 26 March 2011, MRCB supported Earth Hour for the third consecutive year in conjunction with the Earth Hour campaign. All non-essential lights were extinguished for one hour (from 8.30pm to 9.30pm) in its building and property under its management. This included the Kuala Lumpur Sentral development which comprises landmark office tower 1 Sentral MRCB’s Headquarters and Malaysia’s largest and busiest transport hub, the iconic Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur. Its Shah Alam property, Plaza Alam Sentral, also supported this worthwhile cause. The event was promoted through internal communication channels and all employees were encouraged to participate in the event. Its staff. Malaysians and property development players working together towards more sustainable lifestyles to address climate change issues. As a sustainable property developer, MRCB has an obligation to help create awareness on the issue of global warming which is currently pressurising our planet. MRCB hopes this contribution will create a new consciousness amongst its staff. MRCB contributes RM1 million to green KL MRCB contributed to the greening of Greater Kuala Lumpur changed to Taman Tasik Perdana by Malaysia’s second prime development plan by contributing RM1 million to the creation minister Tun Abdul Razak Hussein, in 1975. This project of Taman Botani Perdana. Through this project, the 122-yearhas resulted in greener tropical gardens which stretch old Taman Botani Perdana was upgraded and rebranded to over 200 acres including the botanical gardens, majestic establish a premier world-class botanical garden in the heart trees, flowering shrubs and even a creative theme park. of the city. Originally called the Lake Garden, its name was 36 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity and Conservation The benefits of protecting our biodiversity exceed the mere has negative effects on our health, material wealth and it provision of raw materials. Our food and energy security largely limits our freedom of choice. MRCB values biodiversity strongly depend on biodiversity. It also affects our vulnerability and conservation, and has established projects to help to natural hazards such as fires and flooding. Biodiversity loss safeguard it. Sg. Perai rehabilitation project On 30 November 2011, MRCB was awarded a contract by the Department of Irrigation and Drainage to perform coastal protection work at the Sungai Perai river mouth and nearby coastal areas. Coastal protection work included beach rehabilitation, the construction of a jetty, boat mooring facilities and related works to cater for safe berthing and mooring for the fishermen in Bagan Ajam and neighbouring areas. The 15month construction is scheduled to be completed by March 2013. River of Life Project On 6 December 2011, MRCB was formally appointed by the Government as the Project Delivery Partner (PDP) for the River of Life (ROL) Project with our joint venture partner, Ekovest Bhd.The project’s duration is three years and is valued at RM2.2 billion. The ROL project supports the Greater Kuala Lumpur National Key Economic Area under the Government’s Economic Transformation Programme. The project aims to transform the Klang valley’s river assets that run through the heart of Kuala Lumpur into a vibrant and liveable waterfront with high economic value by performing the following initiatives: / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 37 River Cleaning Project is conducted along a 113-km stretch along the Klang River basin, covering the municipal areas of Majlis Perbandaran Sepang, Majlis Perbandaran Ampang Jaya and Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur. Master planning and Beautification Project is performed along a 10.7km stretch along the Klang and Gombak river corridor. River Development Potential government land will be identified and followed with a master planning and beautification works. Sg. Kuantan rehabilitation Project During October 2011, MRCB secured a contract worth RM46.5 million from the Department of Irrigation and Drainage for a project in Pahang. “Projek Fasa 2 Bagi Pembinaan Pemecah Ombak di Kuala Sungai Pahang”, is an extension of the RM258.17 million contract upgrade of the Sungai Pahang River and estuary (Phase 1), that was awarded to the Company in October 2008. The main component of the project is to extend the breakwater constructed during Phase 1 by an additional 200 metres. The project is scheduled to be completed within 17 months. 38 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / ENVIRONMENT Carbon Footprint In December 2009, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Abdul Razak management into this Report for the third year. MRCB’s announced that Malaysia has agreed to reduce its carbon emissions accounting is based on the GHG Protocol dioxide emissions by up to 40% by 2020 compared with 2005 classification of direct and indirect emissions. levels. MRCB fully supports this vision and is including carbon Emissions Scope Category MRCB's emissions Scope 1 Direct GHG Emissions Company-owned vehicles Scope 2 Indirect GHG Emissions Electricity Scope 3 Indirect GHG Emissions Air travel and employee-owned vehicles Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG emissions from company-owned vehicles are monitored The data for electricity was obtained from the monthly by tracking and tabulating all fuel purchases used for companyelectricity invoices issued for Lot E Platinum Sentral and owned vehicles. It has been assumed that 75% of all fuel Lot G. All data inputs are in kWh and cover the period from purchases were petrol and 25% were diesel. The emissions January to December 2011. The emissions factor been derived factor for diesel and petrol have been derived from the from the Malaysian Green Technology Corporation CDM Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) Guidelines Electricity Baseline for West Malaysia. The carbon emissions for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. arising from the electricity consumption are as follow: Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from Company-Owned Vehicles in 2011 electricity usage at Lot G and Lot E Platinum Sentral 1,600 1,485.93 5,000 4,167.49 1,400 4,000 1,200 1,000 3,000 800 600 2,000 400 1,000 200 0 0 Emissions from Company-owned Vehicles (MT) Emissions from Electricity (MT) / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 39 At MRCB, we are focused on balancing progress with the Scope 3 preservation of nature. GHG emissions resulting from air travel were measured from As such, the Group point to point including the number of employees on board, distance and flight class. All short and long haul flights were will set targets for included in the GHG calculation. Online tools derived from the World Resource Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol have carbon emission been used to estimate the CO2 emissions from Air Travel. reduction by 2012. Emissions resulted from employees’ own vehicles have been estimated from data deriving from a survey of 167 employees conducted in early 2012. Respondents were asked questions to ascertain the type, make, model, year and type of fuel required for each vehicle. Questions were presented to estimate the average distance of daily business travel. A Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative was used to calculate the emissions. It has been assumed that each employee works 46 weeks on average each year. Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from employee owned Vehicles and Air Travel in 2011 2,500 2046.531737 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 105.85 0 Emissions from Employee-owned Emissions from Vehicles (MT) Air Travel (MT) 40 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / OUR ENGAGEMENT WITH THE COMMUNITY We recognise the significant impacts that our operations have on our communities. At MRCB, we continue to contribute to the development of the nation through enhancing the construction industries, public infrastructure, community needs and other philanthropic activities. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 41 42 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / COMMUNITY Socio-economic development of the local community Our Children Our Tomorrow PINTAR PINTAR – Promoting Intelligence, NurturingTalent and Advocating extra-curricular achievement. Each student received a Voucher Responsibility – is a collaborative social responsibility initiative by Cenderahati Bank Simpanan Nasional (BSN) amounting to PINTAR Foundation, working in collaboration with GovernmentRM150 as an incentive to encourage greater academic and extraLinked Companies (GLCs) and private corporations in Malaysia curricular achievements. The event was attended by 300 people to foster academic and non-academic excellence particularly for including more than 100 students and teachers from SK Tebrau the underserved students nationwide through its school adoption Bakar Batu, MRCB employees and officials from the Ministry of programme. In 2011, MRCB continued to support this cause by Education. contributing a total of RM397,237.20 to nine schools.This includes all the programmes we sponsor for PINTAR schools including The PINTAR programme covers a wide range of activities aimed motivational, tuition, and the sponsorship of school bags, shoes at providing tuition or additional classes to weaker and financially and uniforms. MRCB donated school supplies to help alleviate disadvantaged students. The objective of the programme is the economic burden of these underprivileged children’s parents to improve academic performance and provide a better study and their transition to school. MRCB also provides motivational, experience. We also donated school supplies to these students educational and academic assistance in the form of educational to ease the parents’ burden on school item expenses. In 2011, we materials, tutoring and monetary incentives for high achievers. continued our sponsorship of English Newspapers, DIDIK, to all schools. With the motivation from the Government to encourage On 23 November 2011, a futsal court was built at SKTebrau Bakar the use of English in learning, these newspapers have become a Batu, Johor Bahru to encourage students to excel academically useful tool in improving students’ English language skills. and be actively involved in co-curriculum activities. In the same year, two students received the Anugerah Tokoh Cemerlang The UPSR passing rate achieved by students in these schools has MRCB 2011 for their academic excellence while two other shown a significant increase over the years since the adoption students were honoured with the Tokoh Ko-Kurikulum for programme. A summary of these results are as follows: 2009 2010 2011 SK Bagan Jermal, Penang 73.90% 78.80% 82.80% SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor Baru 51.80% 60.20% 78.40% SK La Salle 1, Brickfields 61.40% 74.20% 71% SK La Salle 2, Brickfields 55.30% 62.90% 73.68% SK Indera Shahbandar, Pahang 61.22% 63.33% 65.78% SK Serandu, Pahang 77.27% 75.81% 75.88% SJK(T) Ladang Mayfield, Penang 64% 52.11% 62.86% / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 43 Tuition programmes sponsored by MRCB have helped Every single bit of help from MRCB was a great motivation students prepare themselves for the UPSR examination. for teachers and pupils in SK Serandu, especially for year As a result of this and other programmes initiated by 6 pupils. The teachers and pupils were very excited to have MRCB such as Klinik UPSR, Program Motivasi and ‘Get learning processes outside the school organised by MRCB. Together’, the overall students pass rate and number In addition, MRCB’s contributions to buy workbooks were of students achieving 5As in UPSR has increased a great help for the school, students and parents. significantly. Students enjoyed the interactive programme and it has made learning more fun. I am really pleased with MRCB’s contributions and I hope it will continue in the coming years. Hjh Fauziah Bt Hj Samsudin, Manisah Binti Wanthan, Senior Assistant, SK Serandu, Guru Besar SK Indera Shahbandar, Pekan, Pahang. Pahang 44 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / COMMUNITY Improving Connectivity at Kuala Lumpur Sentral and its vicinity With the community at heart, MRCB makes a point of providing convenience and comfort to the public. Currently, we have embarked on building connectivity within our iconic development Kuala Lumpur Sentral and its immediate vicinity. The LRT-Monorail integration project at SSKL is made available by a 410m walkway which was completed in August 2010. The work on the pedestrian crossing linking Jalan Tun Sambanthan and the Nu Sentral Complex began in October 2011 and is scheduled to be completed in July 2012. Once completed, the pedestrian crossing will connect the monorail with SSKL. The Kuala Lumpur Sentral Monorail integration works with SSKL, forms one of the three LRT and monorail integration project started in March 2010 which includes the monorail stations atTitiwangsa, Masjid Jamek and Kuala Lumpur Sentral. MRCB welcomes the Government’s vision of boosting public transportation usage by improving transport connectivity with SSKL as it is already the main transport for the Klang Valley. Artist impression of the sky bridge that connects Nu Sentral with Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur Upgrading Mosque’s Quarters MRCB spent RM3 million for the re-construction of workers’ quarters and other facilities at Masjid Jamek Pasir Pelangi via its subsidiary, MRCB Lingkaran Selatan Sdn Bhd (MLSSB). The completed quarters was handed over to the Imam of the mosque on 23 August 2011. The reconstruction involves eight units of houses in the more than a century old royal mosque, Masjid DiRaja.The building had never been upgraded, other than the repair and maintenance work which was borne by the state government, since the quarters were built in the 1980s. MLSSB reconstructed the quarters and added more parking lots in the mosque compound raising the number from 50 to 180. RM150,000 was also spent on building a futsal court for residents at Kampung Bakar Batu and the pupils of SK Tebrau Bakar Batu. This court is now being used by local residents. Masjid Pelangi, Johor Bahru / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 45 Integrating sustainability to our business Caring for our community On a separate occasion, MRCB contributed MRCB participated in the official launch RM50,000 to MAB on 14 December of the PRIMA launch at Putrajaya which A stakeholder communications session 2011. This contribution has helped MAB was officiated by the Prime Minister YAB was held with the Malaysian Association develop programmes for the visually Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak on 4 July 2011. for the Blind (MAB) on 2 March 2011 impaired to improve their livelihoods MRCB has identified Seremban which is at the MAB building, located on Jalan and create a sustainable income for their one of 20 sites targeted for development. Tebing to discuss ways to help the blind futures. 42,000 houses are expected to be built navigate their way around Brickfields on these 20 sites. MRCB believes it is during the upgrading work. The dialogue MRCB participates in PR1MA Scheme important to develop affordable homes was attended by MRCB, DBKL and MAB’s in support of the Government’s effort committee members. We realised that The 1Malaysia Housing Programme to ensuring all Malaysian are able to our Brickfields construction project might (PR1MA) is specifically for moderatepurchase their own homes. cause inconvenience for the blind with income Malaysians earning RM6,000 unfamiliar obstacles blocking their way. or less per month regardless of whether The dialogue was successfully concluded they work with the Government, the with MRCB and DBKL gaining a better private sector or are self-employed. This understanding of the needs of the blind scheme assists the moderate-income community in Brickfields. Following this, group who cannot afford to purchase suggestions and requests from MAB were high-priced houses and are not eligible implemented at all road works sites within to be considered for the existing low-cost the Brickfields area. public housing programmes. YAB Dato’ Seri Mohd Najib Tun Abdul Razak, the Prime Minister of Malaysia at the Pr1ma launch Stakeholder’s dialogue with the Malaysian Association of the Blind (MAB) 46 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / COMMUNITY Culture and Heritage Annual Chinese New Year’s Lion Dance Greets Kuala Lumpur Sentral’s Community In celebrating Chinese New Year with our Chinese community, two lions were invited to welcome the 2011 Chinese Lunar New Year on 9 February 2011. The lions’ performances ushered another year of prosperity for the community at Kuala Lumpur Sentral development. The lion dance celebrations were held at Sooka Sentral and 1 Sentral building, signifying the bringing of wealth and prosperity for both businesses and people alike. The Lion dance began at Sooka Sentral at noon and continued at 1 Sentral at approximately 2pm. Both performances ended with the successful capture of the green lettuce as the lion retreat to the beat of the drum and the throwing of “Ang Pow” or red packets MRCB’s senior management at the annual Chinese New Year lion dance containing money to the crowds. Other Contributions MRCB contributes RM30,000 MRCB in Support of Anti-Crime to flood victims in Pagoh On 4 October 2011, MRCB pledged to donate RM200,000 over We handed over 1,000 cartons of mineral water worth five years to the Malaysian Crime Prevention Foundation RM20,000.00 and RM10,000 in cash in aid of flood victims in (MCPF), a non-governmental and not-for-profit organisation Pagoh, Johore on Friday, 11 February 2011. The donation was under the patronage of Prime Minister, Dato’ Seri Najib Tun given to representatives of the Gerakan Belia 4B Negeri Johor. Razak.The MCPF aims to enhance crime prevention measures, the rehabilitation of offenders and raise public participation in crime prevention efforts. Philanthropic Activities Developing our People A total of RM351,470 was donated for various charitable causes On 26 November 2011, MRCB pledged to donate RM1 million to including flood victims in Pagoh, OKU Participations during Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan Bumiputera (YPPB) at its official World Summer Games Athens 2011, Carnival Brickfields with launch by Prime Minister, YAB Dato’ Seri Mohd Najib bin Tun OKU in conjunction with the Independence 2011 and Pusat Haji Abdul Razak. The main objective of the YPPB is to broaden Jagaan OrangTua Al-Qaim. Bumiputera access to education helping more Bumiputera to achieve high-income employment. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 47 Direct and Indirect Impact of Operations on Communities We recognise the significant impacts that our operations was used mainly for the upkeep and maintenance of the Little have brought to our communities. Brickfields is the home India Fountain, one of the tallest fountains in the country. of one of our significant local stakeholder groups, due to its close proximity to our flagship operation in the Kuala Lumpur As one of the largest property development and investment Sentral development. Our online community portal is dedicated companies, public infrastructure is given careful attention on all to the local community. This portal provides up-to-date our projects.This includes the building of roads, bus stops, civil information on ongoing projects, a forum for communication works and other aspects of community infrastructure. These and networking between us and the residents of Brickfields. developments have resulted in positive externalities to our local communities. We respond to the needs of people living MRCB has committed to contributing RM1.6 million for the in the communities by conducting stakeholder assessment as beautification and maintenance of Brickfields.This contribution part of our project planning process. Engagement with the Community EDL stakeholders briefing We held our first Eastern Dispersal Link (EDL) Expressway responses from the invited stakeholders. Our stakeholders stakeholders’ briefing on 6 December 2011 at Puteri Pacific Hotel, were briefed on the EDL and its benefits. They were also shown Johor Bahru, involving the media, the Singapore Consulatephotographs while the media were invited for a tour of the EDL. General based in Johor and the business community. The main purpose of the briefing was to inform the stakeholders of the Three stakeholders’ briefings took place which are summarised impending opening of the EDL, and at the same time, gauge below. Type of Engagement Stakeholders Attendance Media Briefing 19 attendees representing 11 media organisations including RTM, Best 104 (radio), Nanyang Siang Pau, China Press, New Straits Times, Berita Harian, Bernama, The Star, Oriental Daily News, Utusan Malaysia and Lembaga Lebuhraya Malaysia (LLM) Singapore Consulate-General Two representatives from the Singapore Consulate Business Community of Johor 37 attendees from Johor Business Community represented 10 business organisations, namely Tourism Malaysia (Johor), Johor Tourism Guide, Jabatan Pelancongan Negeri Johor, Perkhidmatan Teksi Johor-Singapore Sdn Bhd, Persatuan Kebajikan Tuan2 Punya Teksi, Kereta Sewa JB-Singapore, Handal Indah Sdn Bhd (commuter bus – Johor Singapore), Dewan Perniagaan dan Perindustrian Tionghoa JB, Dewan Perniagaan dan Perindustrian India JB, Dewan Perniagaan dan Perindustrian Melayu JB, Johor Indian Business Association and Iskandar Regional Development Authority. 48 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / COMMUNITY Investor Relations At MRCB, Investor Relations (IR) is an area of communications Our IRTeam’s responsibilities include: which specifically targets the investment and financial • Creating awareness of the Group’s potential, fundamental community such as shareholders, institutional investors, fund and financial strength to the investment community. managers, analysts, bankers as well as research and stock • Educating the investment community on the Group’s core broking houses and the investing public. business activities, strategy, vision and core values. • Communicating updates on the Group’s new developments. MRCB holds regular investor and analyst briefings as part of its • Selling and promoting the Group to analysts and fund IR initiatives in integrating two-way communication with the managers, which in turn will recommend the Group’s Community and other constituencies. The main objective of this strengths to potential investors. approach is to inform and update potential investors and current stakeholders of MRCB’s position in the current economic market The following communications media were actively used in 2011 and to gain further confidence in the Company’s management. to serve our IR stakeholders including shareholders; foreign and We aim to achieve a fair evaluation at our IR sessions. Our local fund managers; research and investment analysts; financial team comprises Corporate Finance members and Senior and business media; Government regulators and the financial Management who present business updates and business community. operational strategies. A total of 44 IR sessions were held in 2011 locally and internationally. This has resulted in an overall positive positioning for MRCB with its brand being recognised at the BrandLaureate Awards in 2011. Media • Feature article • Media releases • Interviews Event • Analyst Briefing • Investors’ Conference IT • Corporate Website Publication • Letters • Annual reports • Newsletter • Questionnaire/survey Public Policy Development and Lobbying As a GLC, MRCB supports the government’s efforts on social organisations during the reporting period. We also received and national development. The “Silver Book Achieving Value no significant contributions from the Government. Our ad-hoc through Social Responsibility’ which has been adopted since engagement activities include entertainment such as luncheon 2007 outlines guidelines and principles for GLCs to contribute and dinners; visits to relevant ministry or government agencies; to society and manage their social obligations. This sponsorships and donations; events and direct mailing letters. methodology is in line with our commitment to supporting public policy development. In addition, we have made no significant contributions to or maintained any links with political / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 49 Corruption We expect the highest standards of conduct and integrity relationships. Relationships with prospective or existing from all that have dealings with us including our employees, suppliers, competitors or regulators must not affect the directors, shareholders, consultants, contractors and the independence and sound judgement of MRCB. public. We are committed to eliminating fraud and corruption by ensuring all activities are conducted ethically, honestly and A declaration must be made to the management in a situation to the highest possible standards of transparency, openness that may be, or appear to be, a conflict of interest. MRCB and accountability. employees are prevented from receiving payment for services from any competitors, customers, distributors or suppliers. Employees or any parties found to have participated in Bribes or kickbacks are strictly prohibited. fraudulent acts are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, pursuant to the Group’s Human MRCB does not permit conflicts of interest on behalf of its Resources policies and procedures. Similarly, Directors are employees. Employees must not become involved in a conflict also subjected to action as applicable under the law and of interest and must report such a conflict should it come Companies Act provisions. Our Code of Ethics states how we to their attention. Employees or their family members are are expected to conduct ourselves and specifically requires forbidden from accepting gifts, loans, business deals, or other offers of gifts, hospitality and any items that could give rise to special preferences. Small gift items may be accepted and the potential conflicts of interest to be declared. occasional meals. Employees are forbidden from accepting kickbacks, lavish gifts We conducted a survey in early 2012 to gauge employees’ or gratuities in any form. Employees are also not allowed to knowledge of MRCB’s anti-corruption and bribery policy and give gifts, loans or other benefits to a customer. Business deals other ethical guidelines in the code of Business Ethics. Only within MRCB are based on the best interests of the Company 13.77% of employees felt that there was inadequate information and must not be motivated by personal considerations or provided on this area during induction training. Compliance We are pleased to report that there were no incidents or penalties for violations involving anti-competitive, anti-trust and monopoly practices at any time in the history of our operations. There have been no incidents or penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations reported at any time during this period. No violation or incidents of fraud, corruption or non-compliance with anticorruption reported in 2011. MRCB’s staff attending the Global Innovation Briefing 50 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / OUR EMPLOYE EES OUR GR REATEST ASS SET We conti tin nu n ue ttoo proovide car aree eerr growthth h oppppo orttuunnittie to ourr emp iess to plo loye yees es throughgh gh variou o s deve deevve elo elo loppmenentt pr p og ogrramm rammes. Our be eli lief ef i rewar in ardiding emp mplo mploloye yees ye e is appa appare rent in the e c mpettitive co e be bene nefi s we p fits prrov ovid de. e A stringe ent n health and d saf afet etty p po licy oli licyy is adop pte tedd ac acrosss alll operatio ons incnclu ng contr din ludi ng onntr acto trac to ors subr , su act conttrra b-co actcto ctors and tht e susurrouound ou ing ndin g publblic ic. ic ic. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 51 52 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / WORKPLACE Labour Practices and Decent Work Work–life balance held from 18 to 20 November 2011. The job fair road tour helped us to reach out and provided access to talents nationwide.These MRCB believes in providing a proper balance between “work” job fairs targeted Malaysians. A total of 11,350 job applications (career and ambition) and “life” (Health, pleasure, leisure, family were received from the three events. and spiritual development). As part of our responsibility to our employees, we conducted a survey in early 2012 to understand if Benefits our employees believe we had the right balance between family and work life within MRCB. We discovered that only 11.38% of In addition to the basic salary, we offer a comprehensive respondents were dissatisfied with this. attractive benefits package. The health of our employees is of paramount importance and we provide a comprehensive medical Supporting Local Talents package to employees. This medical coverage also extends to the employees’ family members and includes outpatient Being a GLC, MRCB participated at the GLC Open Day which was treatment, specialist care, ward entitlement and hospitalisation. held at the KL Convention Centre from 24 to 26 June 2011. During All employees are also entitled to dental treatment. the event, we demonstrated how the Company developed the nation’s largest transportation hub, Stesen Sentral Kuala An employee is entitled to sick leave on producing a medical Lumpur (SSKL), which connects local and international certificate from the Company’s panel clinics or during an travellers and commuters. We also participated in the inaugural emergency by any registered medical practitioner. An employee Barisan Nasional (BN) Youth Job Fair 2011 which was held from is granted sick leave without hospitalisation up to a maximum 25 to 27 March and 18 to 20 November 2011. Between 400,000 of 28 working days per calendar year. An employee who is to 500,000 job-seekers including school leavers and fresh hospitalised will be granted sick leave up to a maximum of 60 graduates attended the three-day job fair. MRCB also supported days per calendar year provided hospitalisation is recommended the second Barisan Nasional (BN) Youth Job Fair which was by the Company’s panel of doctors. MRCB booth at the GLC Open Day / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 53 Three days of leave is given to employees at their time of We believe that marriage. Maternity leave is given to women who have children and two days paternity leave is also given to fathers working at a balance between MRCB. Maternity benefit is provided up to five surviving children for female employees. work and life, Alternatively, up to three days compassionate leave can be taken leads to a happy, each year by employees who suffer bereavements. Employees are entitled to two days leave if they are victims of a natural healthy and disaster which makes his or her house uninhabitable. productive work At MRCB, we understand the importance of continuous education for our employees. Employees of any level may apply environment. for educational assistance up to a maximum of RM6,000 for courses up to degree level.This is subject to approval depending on the relevance of the course to their current job scope. An overseas clothing allowance is given every three years to help employees travelling abroad to purchase clothes they would otherwise have no need for. We will also reimburse management and executive employees up to RM50 per month to help with internet subscription fees. We allow eligible employees to take one pilgrimage leave of 40 days in a lifetime. Employees who have served the Company for 57.33% of those eligible were happy with the availability and more than five years are permitted to opt for the early withdrawal duration of examination leave and only 4.00% were unhappy. of their retirement benefits to help finance the Haj. 64.07% of employees were generally happy with their jobs in MRCB and its subsidiaries. Overall, we are pleased that our A festival subsidy is given to all employees celebrating the employees are enjoying our benefits. We hope to review our various festivals to enhance the good relationship between benefits programmes in-line with our employees’ expectations. MRCB and its employees and to join in the joy of the festival. All MRCB’s pension liabilities are covered through the EPF Each employee is entitled to one subsidy per year from the scheme. following list of festivals: The Employees Provident Fund (EPF) is a Malaysian government 1. Hari Raya Puasa for Muslim employees agency under the Ministry of Finance. EPF manages the 2. Chinese New Year for Chinese employees compulsory savings plan and retirement planning for employed 3. Deepavali for Indian employees workers in Malaysia. The EPF is intended to help employees 4. Christmas for employees who celebrate Christmas save a proportion of their salary in a lifetime banking scheme which can be used in the event that the employee is temporarily Employees are given a voucher worth RM50 which is redeemable or no longer fit to work. at selected Departmental stores. MRCB contributes 12% of employee’s salary to EPF savings As part of our impact assessment of these programmes we as required by law. MRCB also provides additional, unfunded conducted a formal survey of employee responses of those retirement benefits to permanent employees who joined before entitled to various benefits during 2012. 67.66% of employees 1 September 2002 and have been in the service for a continuous were satisfied with the medical benefits they received. 62.87% period of at least ten years. and 60.48% of employees were happy with the level of additional care and group insurance policy benefits respectively. 54 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / WORKPLACE Fair Pay and Equal Opportunities Notice Period for Operational Change MRCB is committed to compensating all employees at a level Any restructuring of operations is done after consultations that is at least equivalent to the industry average for both with managerial and supervisory employees. The impact of the construction and property management sectors.The Group also changes is also assessed when appropriate. If the Company regularly reviews employees’ salaries and benefit packages as makes any operational changes which potentially affect our the need arises. employees, we have a policy of giving a minimum of two weeks’ notice to the relevant staff. The more significant the operational Employees Grievances change, the longer the given notice period. Our grievances policy and procedures are important to ensure In promoting a two-way communication with our employees, that any one person does not arbitrarily make decisions which we regularly communicate our activities, updates, proposed will be prejudicial to the interests of the employees and MRCB. programmes and other updates via our intranet which is the These procedures allow employees to voice their problems or main channel of communication with all employees. complaints to higher levels of management. The purpose of the procedure is to settle grievances as close as possible to the root Human Rights cause. In any event, an employee is encouraged to discuss his or her grievance with the immediate superior first. If he fails Our Human Resources Policy covers a wide range of human to get a satisfactory response, he may make use of the appeal rights related topics. This Policy is also incorporated in our procedures. Investment and Procurement practices, with human rights screening as an added value given during suppliers and Collective Bargaining Agreements contractors screening. There have been no incidents of discrimination reported during the year. We are pleased to It has not been considered beneficial for us to have a Groupreport that there have been no incidents of discrimination or wide union with the relatively low number of non-executive risks to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Our staff throughout the Group. However, we continue to respect operations are mainly in areas of urban development which do employees’ rights to join unions or organisations of their choice. not affect the rights and lives of our indigenous community. Being a responsible employer, the Group Human Resources There were no incidents of violations involving discrimination, Manual has codified procedures and processes available for all child labour, forced or compulsory labour risks. employees to engage collectively to protect their rights. Career Development for Employees Training MRCB continues to grow while placing emphasis on attracting We conduct internal training programmes and team building and retaining talent within the Company. We believe that activities for our employees. These programmes were our employees are our greatest assets and crucial to our designed to develop individual initiatives, interpersonal skills continued success as a developer. Our workplace practices and the technical competence of employees. and policies reflect this and we are committed to investing in our employees’ training and career development. As part of our responsibility to our employees, we conducted a survey to gauge employee job satisfaction and the level to The budget allocated for training in 2011 was RM827 per which their training and career development programmes employee. The average hours of training received per fulfil their needs. This survey was anonymously carried out by employee is seven hours. independent consultants during early 2012. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 55 64.75% of surveyed employees believed the team building MRCB employees are also encouraged to go for formal programme had helped them feel a sense of company certification such as diploma or degree to foster the next pride and loyalty. 76.23% considered their people skills had generation of leaders. Currently, we are yet to design training improved as a result of the programme. 68.03% considered programmes for retirees. There were 76 internal training these exercises have helped MRCB develop a new working programmes and 139 external training programmes held culture. in 2011. Some topics covered during these programmes are highlighted below. Internal Training External Training Understanding An ISO 9001: 2008 Quality Management Seminar Akta-Akta dan Peraturan Perumahan untuk System Pemaju Perumahan Equipment training for Chiller Plant System for Lot E Quality Management Systems Auditor/Lead Auditor Platinum Sentral First Aid and CPR Course Certified Energy Manager Training Course Customer Service Excellence for Frontliners GBI Facilitator Basic and Advance Course CIDB Green Card Safety Training Effective and Efficient Construction Contract Implementation and Administration High Impact Culture Building OSH Management System Safety and Health Induction Training 2nd Annual Green Tech Asia (Optimising Green Water & Waste Management for Sustainable Future) Creative and Dynamic Team Building Public Private Partnership Workshop CONQUAS Assessment for Business Projects Deep Change Leadership Programme Recognising our people as the most important asset, we Promotions may not be within the same function. Progression constantly put every effort into helping employees gain may present itself in other functions within the Corporation. At maximum job satisfaction through challenging career times, such opportunities may even present itself in the form growth and development. An employee, who positively and of positions outside this country. There are those who excel consistently demonstrates his or her ability and readiness for as being self-contributors. For these employees their ultimate higher responsibility, will be given the opportunity to rise in the potential may be realised through other non-supervisory Company subject to the normal organisational constraints. positions. It is for this group of employees that the Career Ladder Programme is introduced. 56 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / WORKPLACE Welcoming Suggestions achievements, training and development needs.We acknowledge the importance of this review especially for: At MRCB, we welcome suggestions from our employees and have issued a series of “Guidelines of Suggestion’. Employees • Setting work standards. are encouraged to give suggestions on various topics including • Assessing the employee’s actual performance relative to methods or processes to enhance daily working and tools these standards. to expedite the work. All views on improving any aspect of • Providing feedback to the employee with the aim of safety, health and office environment are welcomed. We also motivating that person to eliminate performance deficiencies like to hear about products and services offered by other or to continue to perform above average. companies and ways to improve office operations. We welcome tips on improving self-motivational, leadership, effective At MRCB, performance management is an on-going, year round communications skills and general working conditions. Sensible interactive process between managers or supervisors and suggestions will be implemented provided they are practical, their employees. We believe that if performance management implementable, financially viable and not for personal interest. is properly managed, employees will perform in the most effective ways to produce the desired results. Our performance Performance Appraisal management system also helps managers and supervisors assess individuals’ performance and build effective working At MRCB, we conduct a performance appraisal on a yearly basis relationships with their employees through: in addition to informal periodic and ad hoc reviews. This is to ensure that regular feedback is given, thereby motivating the • Assessing people on both their results, their competencies strong performers and discovering performance gaps. During and management practices the appraisal reviews, the overall performance rating that • Encouraging ongoing coaching, counselling, development has been determined based on the period’s performance is and on-the-job training discussed. Emphasis is given to the individual’s competencies, • Openly discussing career opportunities Step Three Review Committee Human Resource discusses with Step Two Verification and individual Company/Division on Checking the justification of the grading for each Executive at the levels Human Resources checks for stated above if the ratings do not Step One Distribution and completeness and accuracy of the follow the set guidelines. Completion of the PDR Forms PDR forms before tabulating the final report. The above process is The Performance Development completed within two weeks. Review (PDR) forms are distributed to the respective Head of Companies / Head of Divisions by the 1st week of October together with the set guidelines. The immediate superior will arrange for a suitable time for the Performance Review interview with individual employees. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 57 Career Ladder Programme Unlike promotions to vocational, supervisory or managerial We recognise the importance of understanding our employees’ positions, Career Ladder progressions are based on individual needs. As part of our employees’ career management framework, competency and contributions. Progression through the Career we continue to conduct our formal appraisal system for full-time Ladder is based on the level of experience, skills demonstrated, employees twice a year. This evaluation also acts as guidance performance level and potential for growth. The higher the level for our remuneration system which is used in pay increment, of each of the above criteria demonstrated by the employee, the promotion and bonus decisions. In 2011, 100% of our employees faster will be his or her rate of progression within the Career received a formal performance evaluation at least once during Ladder and MRCB. As our operations become more complex, the year. the classifications can be further enhanced. Workforce Diversity Total number of employees Breakdown of employees by type % 57.30% 55.90% 58.10% 1,400 1,218 100 1,200 1,136 996 80 1,000 800 60 600 40 42.70% 44.10% 41.90% 400 20 200 0 2009 2010 2011 0 2009 2010 2011 Non-permanent Permanent Employee Turnover Breakdown of employees by gender Employee turnover in Malaysia from 2009 to 2011* % 71.90% 71.00% 69.90% % 100 40 35.24% 35 80 30 25 21.82% 60 20 14.20% 40 15 10 20 28.10% 29.00% 30.10% 5 0 2009 2010 2011 0 2009 2010 2011 Male Female * 100% of Turnover was in Malaysia for all three years 58 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / WORKPLACE Breakdown of employees by gender 25% 20.00% 17.60% 19.05% 20% 15% 13.00% 14.29% 14.29% 10% 5% 0 2009 2010 2011 %Women in management %Women in top management Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) We strive to prevent occupational injuries while ensuring a is carried out by CIDB personnel. In accordance with formal comfortable and safe workplace. MRCB practices decentralised requirements, we liaise with CIDB to organise a Green Card management for its projects, each project is managed by course for every 35 newly employed site workers. A compulsory a site manager including all health and safety aspects. This safety induction course is also conducted for all new site workers decentralised approach results in all occupational safety data whether they are MRCB employees or subcontracted workers. A such as accidents being compiled for each site independently. safety talk is given on a weekly basis before work commences. Our Health and Safety Manual covers all employees including subcontractors at construction sites. The statistics of accidents in 2011 are presented below. Other project sites including Kuala Pahang, Permai Psychiatric Hospital In order to be qualified, all site workers are required to attend Johor, Lot A CIMB Towers, UDA Bangsar, Kelana Jaya, Ampang three levels of mandatory safety training, including Construction Line Station and Lot B have no record of injury in 2011. Industry Development Board (CIDB) Green Card course, which Year Total Man hours Accident Data Accident Data (on total project) (MRCB Staff) (Contract Staff) Injury Death Injury Death 348 Sentral 1,316,151 0 0 2 0 Lot G 2,566,800 0 0 2 0 (Retail Office) Lot E Platinum Sentral 2,406,880 0 0 0 1 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 59 MRCB’s Safety and Health Policy Statement practices and sharing of OSH approach and common values will inculcate safety and health working culture for MRCB and its MRCB is committed to ensuring a safe and healthy working group of companies. environment for all its employees and others involved in its operations. We also consider statutory requirements; relevant The Safety and Health initiatives are regularly reviewed to ensure national and international standards; and Code of Practice. continuous improvement is made to the Policy and how it is The effectiveness and implementation of the Safety and Health implemented.This policy is monitored to ensure the achievement Policy is our line managers` responsibility together with the of our objectives and will be reviewed in light of legislative or support and involvement of all employees. We continue to organisational changes.The organisational structure for MRCB’s ensure that sufficient and adequate training and resources are Safety, Health and Environment is highlighted below. made available to achieve this. It is hoped that the appropriate Chief Executive Officer Safety Council SR Manager, Group Safety, Health & Environment Executive, Safety, Health Assistant/Clerk & Environment Infrastructure Emergency Engineering & Building Concession Rescue Team Construction Services & Environment Construction Energy MRCB 1 Sentral MESB TTSB SSSB SSSB Environment Manager, Safety Safety & Health Manager, Manager, S/B Sr. Safety Officer Security Safety, Health & Safety & Health Stesen Sentral Officer Executive, Environment Officer Kuala Lumpur Safety & Health Security Site Supervisor Officer MTSB Site Safety Sr. Executive, Supervisor Reporting Safety, Health & Functions Environment TTSB Special Task Safety & Health Officer Site Safety Supervisor 60 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / WORKPLACE MRCB Safety and Health Committee affected by our operations. In general, more than 45% of the members of each Occupational Health and Safety Committee are As we are operating in a high-risk environment, it is our site workers. The structure of our Occupational Safety & Health responsibility to practice high standards of safety control and Environment Committee for each project is illustrated to safeguard our employees and other people that may be below. MRCB CORPORATE TEAM Chief Executive Officer Senior Manager Executive Assistant PROJECT TEAM Chairman Deputy Chairman Secretary MRCB Sub-contractor Representative Representative The number of safety officers and project time varies depending on the project size and scope.The number of safety officers on each project site during 2011 are listed below. Project Safety and Health Officer Site Safety Supervisor Safety and Health Committee Lot A CIMB 1 1 22 Permai 1 1 20 Lot G,Retail 1 3 19 LRT 1 0 19 Kuala Pahang 1 1 10 Lot 348 1 1 10 Kelana Jaya 1 0 5 Uda Bangsar 1 0 17 Lot E Platinum Sentral 1 1 14 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 61 Internal Safety Training Programmes were conducted regularly Annual Disaster Drill at Stesen Sentral throughout 2011 for all sites. Our Safety and Health Manual is provided to each site manager. Each work site has an Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) conducted an annual crisis Occupational Health and Safety Manager who is responsible and disaster drill on 24 June 2011, designated as “Ex Sentral for overseeing and regulating all aspects of work safety to be in 11” for the 11th consecutive year. This annual drill prepares compliance with Malaysian laws. The Safety Manager also: employees for emergency situations.This year’s event simulated an armed robbery at the Transit Concourse, Level 1, Stesen • Assists in the development of Safety and Health rules and Sentral Kuala Lumpur. The exercise was conducted to minimise safe systems of work; risk and ensure the emergency response plan is executed • Reviews the effectiveness of Safety and Health effectively in the event of an emergency. programmes; • Conducts studies on the trends of accidents, near-miss The public at Level 1, 2, 3 and 4 was requested to evacuate the accidents, dangerous occurrences, occupational poisoning building and were led out before gathering at an identified open or occupational diseases that occur at the place of work. He area nearby. The simulation was conducted after operational or she reports any unsafe acts or unhealthy conditions or hours, so not to affect the trains and other public transport practices at the place of work to the employer, together with services. recommendations for corrective action; • Reviews the Safety and Health policies at the place of work Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd performed the successful operation and makes recommendations to the employer for any with the help of external parties. These include The Department revision of such policies. of Railways, National Security Council, Polis Diraja Malaysia, Jabatan Bomba dan Penyelamat Malaysia, Emergency Department University Malaya Medical Centre, Keretapi Tanah Safety Slogan Competition during the Melayu Berhad, Ekspress Rail Link Sdn Bhd and Rangkaian 2011 Occupational Safety and Health Week Pengangkutan Aliran Deras. During the 2011 Occupational Safety and Health Week, MRCB’s Training for Contractors and Sub-Contractors 348 Sentral project team won the safety banner organised by the Department of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH) MRCB recognises the need for environmental awareness on 14 July 2011. A certificate was received for 348 Sentral’s training for contractors and sub-contractors who are involved in safety slogan “SAFETY IS OUR PRIORITY, IMPLEMENTATION the construction phase of our projects. Environmental training is IS COMPULSORY”. MRCB had entered the safety slogan conducted at the start of each project which involves awareness competition which was organised to promote safety at work of the Environmental Management Plan and best management awareness at all work sites in Malaysia. practice on site. The training exercise involves both theoretical and practical techniques. Some of the training exercises that have been covered include Emergency Response Plan (ERP) training and induction; and Occupational First Aid. 62 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / OUR PROMIS SE TO SUSTAINABLE MARKETPLACE PRACTICES O Ouur mma arkket etp placace coomm mmittme entt ens nsur surreess a smo m o otth suuppplyy--c chha aiinn cyc cle l invvol ving olviing ellat g rel a io ions hips nshi hi ps witith h our ou our cu om cusstto mers an nd suupp ppli errs. lie rs We co ntin ont in uo inuo ously usly us y enga en ga gagge ge wiitth th thesse stakkeh hololde ders rs to ununde sta tand rsta ders nd ei their th need eir ne eed eds eds to to ach i ve the hie e higighheest a is st sat sffa act ctio ion and mo an mostt effic ficientt del fffi eliv ver ery.y. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 63 64 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / MARKETPLACE Purchasing and Procurement Practices MRCB’s procurement decisions are made based solely on • The tender process shall be conducted in a timely and MRCB’s best interests. A proper agreement is documented which transparent manner.TheTender Evaluation Report (TER) shall clearly identifies the services or products to be provided. It also serve as the basis for obtaining and evaluating tenders. included the basis for payment and the applicable rate or fee.The • Information submitted by the subcontractors shall be kept amount of payment must be commensurate with the services strictly confidential. or products provided. All vendors are treated equally and are • The cost quoted by selected subcontractors shall not vary accorded the same information at the same time. MRCB tries to more or less than 15% from tender estimate. Should this ensure there are no leaks of information during the procurement occur, an explanation is to be recorded in the TER. process. To ensure a fair procurement practice, a tender process is Locally Based Supply Chain encouraged at all times in the Company. Policies and processes involved in our tendering aim to promote transparency and We conduct our major construction works entirely through prevent any conflict of interest. The brief process is outlined subcontractors. This is part of our effort to contribute to local below: social and economic development. We allocate all subcontract • For a closed tender exercise, at least five prospective work to local suppliers in all significant locations and have a subcontractors shall be shortlisted and called. common practice to source all materials locally before sourcing • For open tenders, a tender notice shall be advertised in the them elsewhere. mainstream newspapers for at least three consecutive days. MRCB’s proprietary procurement software MRCB’s proprietary CRM software Quality Deliverable Operating contractors and suppliers must adhere to our safety teams to help them rectify and monitor any defects on an standards and specifications. Project delivery is managed, ongoing basis. monitored and reported using a number of management tools. Our myCRM software is developed in-house by the Group to A Communication Policy Manual, a Property Manual, regular monitor every stage of our product lifecycle. The software is customer satisfaction surveys and formal inspection processes continuously upgraded and improved to increase its coverage, are also implemented at the pre-handling of all stages of each quality and security. The results of customers’ inspection on project. The aim is to have adequate policies, procedures and their purchases are entered into myCRM software, which are systems implemented to ensure safe and high quality delivery subsequently made available to the project and management to the highest level of customers’ expectations. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 65 Customer Satisfaction Surveys We conduct our Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSS) on our Our operations residential and commercial properties that MRCB develops and manages. Surveys are also conducted six months after are conducted the completion of a residential or commercial project including other MRCB business units that are used for parking services, on best and fair security services, offices and a shopping complex. practices, which we The summary results of customers’ satisfaction for building services in 2010 and 2011 are presented below. These includes believe ensures good Semasa Sentral, Semasa Services, Semasa Parking, and Semasa Security. results and quality Customer satisfaction results for building services in our products in 2010 and 2011 and services. 90.5% 90.5% 90.475% 90.45% 90.425% 90.4% 90.4% 90.375% 90.35% 90.325% 90.3% 2010 2011 The summary results of customer satisfaction for MRCB Land which covers MRCB Selborn, SIDEC, MRCB Utama, KLSB, MRCB Sentral Properties and MRDSB are presented below. Customer satisfaction results for MRCB Land in 2010 and 2011 87.0% 86.6% 86.5% 86.0% 85.5% 85.0% 84.2% 84.5% 84.0% 83.5% 83.0% 2010 2011 66 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / MARKETPLACE Provision of Information to Customers Housing. We strive to protect customers from misleading marketing messages. While these laws apply only to residential We continue to provide information to our customers and the properties, we have standardised the same regulations across public on our residential and commercial properties through our portfolio of both residential and commercial properties. brochures and booklets with specifications of each unit. Information included in each publication is based on checklists • The Sentral Residences exhibition and roadshow which allow the potential purchaser to evaluate the unit against • APREC FIABCI in October 2011 specifications. Repairs or replacement can be requested if • Hari Raya Open House necessary before accepting delivery and up to 24 months after • Chinese New Year sales promotion delivery. • Senawang Phase 1C • Sales of Phase 1A (SST, Semi-D and Bungalows) Marketing and Communication • Q Sentral launch on the 22nd Sept 2011 Our advertising applies to advertisements in all forms of media Information Security including television, radio, telephone, newspapers, magazines, billboards, newsletter and the Internet. All communications by All confidential and proprietary information concerning MRCB comply with the cultural, legal and ethical standards of securities, financial condition, earnings or activities of the the communities in which we work. We strengthened our internal Company and information that is particularly sensitive including marketing approval process to ensure they are factual, clear and knowledge of acquisitions and divestiture; new products or properly communicated. It is a clear policy within the Group that processes; audit reports and earning figures: and trends remain no misleading advertisements, promotions or sponsorship will confidential until they are fully and properly disclosed to the be tolerated in any way. The Communication Department has public. established internal standards to regulate all communications outside the Group. This applies across all companies in the At MRCB, corporate, customer and employees information are Group. strictly private and confidential and must be treated as such at all times. Our policy recognises and respects the legal rights of We ensure our sales personnel are well educated and others on matters involving the ownership, use and disclosure knowledgeable by providing weekly briefings and sales of intellectual property. This obligation to preserve confidential kits to all our representatives. We also comply with the and proprietary information continues even after employment Housing Development Act which states that all marketing ends.There is also provision in the Code of Business ethics which communications and advertisements in Malaysia must first ensures customer information is to be kept and maintained in obtain approval and a license number from the Ministry of the highest confidentiality. Life-Cycle of Operations Approvals Actual Internal Necessary Postof Buildings Construction, and External Checks and construction Marketing Control and Repairs and Checks Promotion The procedures above apply to all residential and commercial the stage when the CRM team are involved. Engineering properties that are sold directly to individual or end customers. and architecture checks apply to all MRCB projects. Upon Construction projects that are undertaken from institutional satisfaction of all parties, billing and post-purchase procedures customers are also subject to similar procedures, excluding are followed. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 67 Economic Performance 2011 2010 2009 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 Revenues 1,213,077 1,067,579 921,616 Other operating income 28,609 21,754 35,425 Investment Income 23,923 30,847 27,980 Share of profits of jointly controlled entity (2,852) (6,046) (6,304) Share of profits of associated companies (1,469) (5,530) (10,194) Total Value Added 1,261,288 1,108,604 968,523 Economic Value Distributed Operating Costs (1,024,919) (904,689) (814,626) Employee Wages, Salaries and Benefits (92,562) (73,892) (67,534) Payments to Lenders (35,213) (31,449) (38,570) Payments to Governments Malaysia (15,326) (23,781) (9,009) Overseas Total (15,326) (23,781) (9,009) Community Investments or group donations (1,343) (999) (1,301) Non-controlling interests (14,463) (6,526) (2,859) (1,183,826) (1,041,336) (933,899) Consolidated profit for the year 77,462 67,268 34,624 Net Value Added 91,925 73,794 37,483 Payments to shareholders (3,095) (3,104) (1,680) Economic Value Retained 88,830 70,690 35,803 68 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Economic Performance 2011 2010 2009 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 Total Staff at 31 Dec per annual report 1,218 1,136 1,149 % Change in Staff 7 (1) 16 Total Equity RM000 1,398,254 1,321,477 690,312 Total Long-term debt RM000 2,557,886 1,803,981 1,731,372 Total capitalisation RM000 3,956,140 3,125,458 2,421,684 Total Assets RM000 5,411,172 4,388,340 3,118,752 Benefits and rewards per employee RM 76 65 59 Revenue per employee RM 996 940 802 Community Investments or group donations Tax exempt & non tax exempt donation 522 416 268 Tax exempt & non tax exempt CSR expenses 511 349 913 Tax exempt & non tax exempt gifts 311 234 120 External works outside Lot N Boundary – – – Landscaping works outside Lot N Boundary – – – 1,343 999 1,301 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 69 GRI INDEX In ensuring our compliance to the highest level of transparency in our Sustainability Report 2011 disclosure, we have adopted the internationally-recognised reporting framework, the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI). G3.1 is a finalised update of GRI’s most recent generation of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and is the most comprehensive sustainability reporting guidance currently available. Status: • Fully Reported; Partially Reported; x Not Reported G3.1 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART : Profile Disclosures Profile Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and Disclosure Reference Explanation 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision• P10 15 maker of the organisation 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and • P19 opportunities 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation • Front Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services • P2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation • P6 9 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. • P5 2.5 Number of countries where the • P6 9 organisation operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form • P8 9 2.7 Markets served • P8 9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation • P4 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting • P10 15 period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period • P25 70 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Profile Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and Disclosure Reference Explanation 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period • P4 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report • P4 5 3.3 Reporting cycle • P4 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the • P4 5 report or its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content • P4 5 3.6 Boundary of the report • P4 5 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or • P4 5 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, • P4 5 subsidiaries, etc 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the • P38 39 bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any • P10 15 re-statements of information 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting • P10 15 period 3.12 Table identifying the location of the • GRI Index Standard Disclosures 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to • Assurance seeking external assurance for the report Statement 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation • P20 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest • P20 governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive • P20 members of the Board 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and • P23 employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 71 Profile Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and Disclosure Reference Explanation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the • P21 and organisation's performance AR2011: Statement on Corporate Governance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of • P24 interest are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise • AR2011: of the Board Board of Directors profile 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission • P24 or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.9 Identification and management of • P26 economic, environmental, and social performance, conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest • P22 23 governance body's own performance and AR2011: Statement on Corporate Governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the • P45 precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, • P31, P55 environmental, and social charters, principles 4.13 Memberships in associations • P14 15 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the • P16 17 organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of • P16 stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement • P17 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been • P17 18 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics 72 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / STANDARD DISCLOSURES: Performance Indicators Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in ECONOMIC Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated • P67 68 and distributed EC2 Financial implications and other • P12, P35, risks and opportunities for the P38 organisation's activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation's • P52 defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance • P48, P67 received from government Market presence EC5 Standard entry level wage vs. local • P54 minimum wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of • P64 spending on locally-based suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring • P52, P64 Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of • P42 44 infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC9 Understanding and describing • P46 48 significant indirect economic impacts ENVIRONMENTAL Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume • P28 29 EN2 Percentage of materials used that X – We will continue to improve 2013 are recycled input materials our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 73 Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by • P32, P38 primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by • P38 39 primary source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation X – We will continue to improve 2013 and efficiency improvements our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy• P32 efficient or renewable energy EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy • P29 32, consumption and reductions P35 achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P30, P33 Total water withdrawn 2013 is disclosed in absolute quantity instead of by source. We will continue to improve our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. EN9 Significant impact of withdrawal of • P30, P33 water EN10 Percentage and total volume of X – We will continue to improve 2013 water recycled and reused our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, • P36 37 leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of • P36 37 activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas 74 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in EN13 Habitats protected or restored X – We did not monitor the 2013 habitats protected as a result of our biodiversity and conservation activities. We will continue to improve our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in the next Report. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and • P36 37 future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species X – We will continue to improve 2013 and national conservation list our data collection and species with habitats in areas measurement processes, affected by operations and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse • P38 39 gas emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse • P38 39 gas emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse • P38 39 gas emissions and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting X – We will continue to improve 2013 substances by weight our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air X – We will continue to improve 2013 emissions by type and weight our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 75 Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in EN21 Total water discharge by quality and P33 Total water discharged 2013 destination. is disclosed in absolute figures instead of by quality and destination. We will continue to improve our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and P33 Total waste by disposal 2013 disposal method method is not available. We will continue to improve our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our next Report. EN23 Total number and volume of X – We will continue to improve 2013 significant spills our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, X – We will continue to improve 2013 exported, or treated waste deemed our data collection and hazardous measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and X – We will continue to improve 2013 biodiversity value of water bodies our data collection and and related habitats significantly measurement processes, affected by the reporting and aim to have this organisation's discharges of water indicator available in our and runoff upcoming Report. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental • P29 30 impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and X N/A their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 76 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines • P29 31 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts • P38 39 of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection X – We will continue to improve 2013 expenditures and investments by our data collection and type. measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment • P57 58 type, employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee P57 Total number and rate of 2013 turnover by age group, gender, and employee turnover by age region group is not available. We will continue to improve our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in the next Report. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time • P52, P67 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations LA15 Return to work and retention rates X – We will continue to improve 2013 after parental leave, by gender. our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 77 Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees • P54 covered by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) • P54 regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce • P59 60 represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational P58 Accident data is repre2013 diseases, lost days, and sented by total number of absenteeism, and number of workinjuries and death. We will related fatalities by region continue to improve our data collection and measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available next Report. LA8 Education, training, counselling, • P59 61 prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered X – We will continue to improve 2013 in formal agreements with trade our data collection and unions. measurement processes, and aim to have this indicator available in our upcoming Report. 78 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per • P55 57 year per employee by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management X – We will consider to in2013 and lifelong learning that support troduce such support for the continued employability of employees approaching employees and assist them in retirement. managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving • P56 regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies P57 58 Governance breakdown 2013 and breakdown of employees per by age group and minority category according to gender, age group membership are not group, minority group membership, available. We aim to have and other indicators of diversity this indicator available in our next Report. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and • P52, P54 remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Percentage and total number of • P54 significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers • P54 and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on X – We will continue to improve 2013 policies and procedures concerning our data collection and aspects of human rights that are measurement processes, relevant to operations, including and aim to have this indicathe percentage of employees tor available in our upcomtrained ing Report. / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 79 Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of • P54 discrimination and actions taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which • P54 the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having • P54 significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identified as having • P54 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel • P54 trained in the organisation's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of • P54 violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of • P54 operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 80 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to • P54 human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL: SOCIETY Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness • P42 46 of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO9 Operations with significant • P44 45, potential or actual negative impacts P47 on local communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation • P47 48 measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of • P49 business units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained • P49 in organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to • P49 incidents of corruption Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and • P48 participation in public policy development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind • P48 contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 81 Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for • P49 anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines • P49 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health • P66 and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non• P66 compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service • P66 information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non• P66 compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer • P65 satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 82 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / Performance Description Status Cross Reason for Omission and To be Indicator Reference Explanation reported in Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to • P66 laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of • P66 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated • P66 complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines • P66 for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 83 ASSURANCE 84 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / 85 86 / MRCB sustainability report 2011 / NOTES NOTES MALAYSIAN RESOURCES CORPORATION BERHAD 7994-D Level 21, 1 Sentral, Jalan Travers Kuala Lumpur Sentral 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel: 603 2786 8080 Fax: 603 2780 7988 www.mrcb.com.my
