UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS – 2012 MEASUREMENT AND REPORTING: SAP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 (WWW.SAPSUSTAINABILITYREPORT.COM) Correspondence between UN Global Compact and GRI indicators: http://www.sapsustainabilityreport.com/un-global-compact GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE TOPIC PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses are  LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective asked to support and bargaining agreements. More › respect the  LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in protection of formal joint management–worker health and safety international human committees that help monitor and advise on rights within their occupational health and safety programs. More › sphere of influence;  LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. More ›  LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. More ›  LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. More ›  LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. More ›  HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. More ›  HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. More ›  HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. More ›  HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. More ›  HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. More ›  HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. More ›  HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. More ›  PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. More › 2. Make sure their  HR1 Percentage and total number of significant own corporations investment agreements that include human rights are not complicit in clauses or that have undergone human rights human rights abuses. screening. More ›  HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. More ›  HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. More ›  HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. More ›  HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. More ›  HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. More ›  HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. More › LABOR 3. Businesses are  LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective asked to uphold the bargaining agreements. More › freedom of  LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational association and the changes, including whether it is specified in effective recognition collective agreements. More › of the right to  HR5 Operations identified in which the right to collective bargaining; exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. More › 4. The elimination of  HR1 Percentage and total number of significant all forms of forced investment agreements that include human rights and compulsory clauses or that have undergone human rights labor; screening. More ›  HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. More ›  HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. More › 5. The effective  HR1 Percentage and total number of significant abolition of child investment agreements that include human rights labor; clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. More ›  HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. More ›  HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. More › 6. The elimination of  EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of discrimination in senior management hired from the local community respect of at locations of significant operation. More › employment and  LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by occupation. age group, gender, and region. More ›  LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. More ›  LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. More ›  HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. More ›  HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. More ›  HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. More ›  HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. More › 3. 7. Businesses are  EC2 Financial implications and other risks and ENVIRONMENT asked to support a opportunities for the organization’s activities due to precautionary climate change. More › approach to  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions environmental and reductions achieved. More › challenges;  EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. More › 8. Undertake  EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. More › initiatives to  EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled promote greater input materials. More › environmental responsibility;  EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. More ›  EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. More ›  EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. More ›  EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. More ›  EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. More ›  EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. More ›  EN11 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. More ›  EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. More ›  EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. More ›  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. More ›  EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. More ›  EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight More ›  EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. More ›  EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. More ›  EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category More ›  EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. More ›  EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. More › 9. Encourage the  EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled development and input materials. More › diffusion of  EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency environmentally improvements. More › friendly technologies.  EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. More ›  EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. More ›  EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. More ›  EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. More › 4. ANTI10. Business should  SO2 Percentage and total number of business units CORRUPTION work against analyzed for risks related to corruption. More › corruption in all its  SO3 Percentage of employees trained in forms, including organization’s anti-corruption policies and extortion and procedures. More › bribery.  SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. More ›  SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. More ›  SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. More › ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: SAP’s Sustainability Policies are publicly available at http://www.sap.com/corporateen/sustainability/index.epx; these include the SAP Environmental Policy, SAP Supplier Code of Conduct, SAP Partner Code of Conduct, SAP Code of Business Conduct, SAP Human Rights Commitment Statement.
