2011 At the heart of our values Photo : Elodie Fouache Sustainable development report PROFILE Contents 2011 Arc International, l’Art de la Table* 1825 Governance Arc International employs 12,600 people worldwide including 6,800 in France. The Group, whose head office is located in Arques, in the French Pas-de-Calais region, achieved a turnover of 1,1 billion Euros in 2011. Armed with its know-how in glassware, it developed Sharing a vision of a balanced future 8 globally and markets today a full range of tableware products in more than 160 countries. Economics The Group covers the Consumer Goods and Food Service markets through a portfolio of brands, Luminarc®, Arcoroc®, Cristal d’Arques® Paris, Pyrex®**and Chef & Sommelier. Adapting the Group’s organization to changing global markets 14 For more than 40 years the Group has also been addressing professional customers – industrialists, traders, manufacturers of semi-finished and finished products, and service Environment providers – by offering them tailored-made solutions to meet their specific requirements (for industry, advertising, premiums and customer loyalty programmes). Acting on the environmental impacts of our activities 22 Arc International is present in five continents with production sites (France, USA, China, SOCIAL UAE, Russia), distribution subsidiaries (France, US, Spain, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Japan) and sales offices. Giving all employees the opportunity to help shape their future 32 Finally, the Group has adopted a strategy of sustainable development in order to balance economic requirements, social responsibility and respect for the environment, and joined Communities 3 the U.N.’s Global Com pact in 2003. Getting involved alongside communities 44 * Tableware ** Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Inc., licensed by Arc International Cookware SAS in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Key figures €1,107 billion in turnover. €59,1 million in operating income. 12,600 employees, of whom 6,800 are in France. More than 70 Research and Development engineers. About 5 million items produced every day. 3 markets : consumer goods, food service and BtoB. 5 main brands : Luminarc®, Arcoroc®, Cristal d’Arques Paris®, Pyrex®, Chef&Sommelier. A sales presence in over 160 countries on 5 continents. 6 production sites in France, the United States, Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Incorporated, used by permission. China, the United Arab Emirates and Russia. EDITO Last March, Arc International announced its annual results, which were its best in 10 years. During a somewhat subdued 2011, marked by the tense political and economic climate, the Group showed its ability to adapt and rise to difficult challenges, notably a redundancy plan, while confirming its position as the world leader in the tableware market. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Group’s employees, who have worked tirelessly to make this achievement possible. Their individual and collective energy forms the very heart of the company, the symbol of a major international Group. In Europe, the second quarter was difficult. However, thanks to the actions implemented to optimize productivity over the last two years, the Arques site won some ambitious contracts. With Kwarx®, Zenix® and Diamax®, high-technology materials produced in Arques, we were able to provide innovative solutions to the most demanding customer requirements. In the United States, the more favorable economic climate and the opening of South American markets offer a positive profit outlook for the third successive year. The commissioning of a third production furnace will cover the market needs and open up other opportunities. In the Middle East, the current political situation is having a strong impact on the activities of AIME. Naturally, Arc International is continuing to support this company, which has contributed significantly to the Group’s results in past years. We are working to help the company and monitoring the situation closely. The Group’s international strategy has proven effective. Emerging countries already account for 38% of our turnover. The Group has strengthened its production capacity in China and 4 Dubai and set up operations in Russia. Our presence in these high-growth regions is 5 essential for the Group’s future development. Without doubt, 2012 will be a decisive year. The economic environment remains uncertain and we must maintain our heading: re-adjust, improve, and innovate. Thanks to our recognized know-how, we intend to capitalize on our image of French quality. This will be highlighted to the public through «Made in France» and «The French Brand» logos on our packaging. Our ability to innovate has always been a source of differentiation and we will continue to invest in the flexibility, innovation and optimization of our industrial processes. In 2011, over 120 million euros were invested in the Group’s factories. At the same time, we will focus on our value chain and work to reduce the time required to get our products to market. Finally, the French redundancy plan will end in December 2012. This has been a particularly Photo : Sofiane Morouche difficult chapter in the Group’s history; nonetheless, this was a vital process, conducted throughout in accordance with our core human values. The long term future of the Arques site, and therefore the Group’s survival, depended on this action. This process has transformed our organizational structure as well as the mindset of our employees, and I wish to thank our staff for their unwavering commitment during these changes. This collective force is what makes our Group unique. Guillaume de Fougières Chairman of the Board Sustainable development report LOCATIONS IN THE WORLD Moscou Gus-Khrustalny Arques Pine Brook Châteauroux New York Mill ville Seoul Tokyo 6 7 New Delhi Nankin Shanghai Tai pei Ras al Khai mah Dubaï Mexico Singapour Brondby Dublin Arques Wasquehal Lille Cologne Sao Paulo Ville pinte Roissy Châteauroux Paris Parthenay Johannesburg Nîmes Milan Melbourne Saragosse Men-Martins Offices Production sites Distribution subsidiaries Sustainable development report At Arc International, our commitment to Sustainable Development means building Focus Since 2003, Arc International has been actively committed to the Global Compact initiative and built its project on a foundation of and implementing long-term Programme strong values: respect for people and the environment. strategies shared by all. This has resulted in many different actions and the importance of Sustainable Development has become engrained in people GOVERNANCE minds. At the beginning of 2011, Caroline Barbier was appointed to a full-time position to address these issues. A specific Sustainable Development project has been incorporated in the Focus Program supporting the Group’s transformation. This project has 2 main objectives: to create a clear structure, in order to assess and drive the process forward. to communicate internally and externally, in order to anchor the process in the minds of our employees and establish dialog concerning these issues with our stakeholders. Sustainable Development is an area which may appear difficult 1Structuring to quantify, both in terms of results and the maturity of the 8 the approach process. By incorporating the ISO 26000 standard into our 9 strategy, we possess an effective in-house tool for evaluating and orienting actions. It will measure the progress we have made and the path that lies ahead. The ISO 26000 standard is therefore the basis of our internal audit, allowing us to accurately assess the status of each entity in terms of Sustainable Development. Our audit grid was built on the basis of this new standard, which is the reference in terms of corporate social responsibility. It revolves around 7 core issues and covers all areas through thirty different criteria which incorporate the aspects of implementation, performance and employee awareness. Using the results of the audit, we can build an action plan that is both comprehensive and entity-specific, taking into account the progress already made as well as the priorities for each entity. This has enabled us to Photo : Pierre-Marie Moulière establish a road map for actions and future progress. At this time, two of the Group’s subsidiaries have already completed the Sustainable Development audit: AIC in Châteauroux, France and DGMC in Millville, USA. Sustainable development report AIC launched its Cook n’Care project in 2008 based on an SD 21000 audit. In September 2011, an internal ISO 26000 audit was conducted, 2 Communicating Communication is vital for the success of the project and is being developed externally and internally to accompany the replacing the SD 21000. The results have reinforced the position of AIC, a process. recognized leader in the Group for its social and environmental practices. Customers are increasingly sensitive to the issues of Sustainable Its strengths were highlighted, such as the ISO 14001 certification of the Development, in terms of their own activities as well as the plant in Châteauroux and the Great Place to Work® program. practices of their suppliers. They expect to be supported in their policies and require tangible responses. To this end, we At the end of 2011, DGMC volunteered to implement a Sustainable have published a Sustainable Development Booklet, which, in Development project at the site in Millville. The project team fixed specific addition to the Annual Report, presents our main actions in objectives: to promote the ongoing actions, draft a roadmap and establish this field. This continuous exchange of information feeds and a Sustainable Development mindset within the company. The audit carried enriches our program. out at the start of 2012 highlighted the site’s strong points: labor practices and the control of emissions into the atmosphere. The project is now Internally, we place great emphasis on building a Sustainable underway, based on action and progress. Development mindset. Since 2011, a bond has been created with employees through internal events and active communication. Improving each employee’s knowledge and awareness of Sustainable Development issues ensures they are genuinely « The Millville site has rebuilt the US 2 furnace in May 2012. We have motivated and adhere to the projects. Therefore, during the selected the best available emissions reduction technology to make the Sustainable Development week, we organized a major quiz to furnace the cleanest of its kind. We have further added this equipment to increase awareness among all French employees. The internal the other two existing furnaces which makes the Millville site the cleanest magazine and the weekly Newsletter have also been used to tableware plant in the world. This significant investment will allow us report the actions undertaken in the different departments. 10 to better serve our customers while safeguarding the environment. At the start of 2012, a major Photo Competition was launched 11 Seizing this opportunity we thought it was the right time to review and for all employees. The subject was «The Representation of formalize our commitment to sustainable development in the broader Sustainable Development in the activity of Arc International». sense. In order to know exactly where we stand and to build a proper Testimony The objective was twofold: to have employees demonstrate and comprehensive action plan, our first step was to conduct an audit Fred Dohn, this relationship through their own initiatives and to make following the ISO 26 000 standard. During this audit we confirmed that CEO Americas them aware of the genuine impact of the project. We received we are already adhering to many best practices. Where we have found and BtoB many magnificent photos from France, Spain, the United Arab areas of improvement needed we have formed specific action plans to Emirates, etc. You can see them right here; the winning photo is address. We have a cross functional team in place to guide and access on the cover and you will find a selection of other photos as you these actions. We have also made presentations to major customers read through the chapters. and have invited a dialogue with them over sustainable practices. That Photo : Jacky Robert way we can keep the process an ongoing improvement strategy and a point of differentiation between ourselves and our competitors. We mean to make a real and permanent difference! » The Group is continuing to structure its program: audits of the production and distribution sites are planned for other entities in France and abroad. The audits will accompany the deployment of the Supplier Sustainable Development Charter and the Sustainable Development Questionnaire for Research and Development projects. development quiz – AIF Winners of the sustainable Sustainable development report AIC : Internal Through its Cook n’Care program, AIC is continuing to develop its project and involve its employees. Communication The Sustainable Development training courses are ongoing and will Placing our expertise within a code of ethics. Supplier charter In 2011, the Purchasing Department established a Charter of Ethics Campaign and continue through 2012 looking at different aspects. For example, special and Confidentiality. This Code aims to reinforce the purchasing process Ambassadors sessions are planned to help the salespeople respond to their customers’ and applies to all employees and suppliers involved in a commercial expectations. relationship with the Group. It complements our adhesion to the Global Compact initiative and is an integral part of our Purchasing Principles. The goal is to identify all practices in our professional relationships and establish the rules: To act fairly and objectively In addition, AIC has created a network of Ambassadors. They are trained in To maintain absolute confidentiality Sustainable Development and present at all levels of the company, where To protect our know-how they relay information about the project. Their missions are to set up These are the three major subjects addressed in the Code. Their common meetings with employees, to inform and share best practices with them denominator: to strengthen and ensure the commercial position of Arc and to improve their overall understanding of the subject. They promote a International, while maintaining a strong ethical code. Sustainable Development culture in the company. It is vital that everyone applies these common-sense principles, through Charter of Eth & Confidentia ics every phase of external transactions. This code was published in 2011 and is progressively being applied to all lity our suppliers. Ambassadors AIC sustainable development Another means used to increase awareness is a poster and questionnaire campaign which began in 2011 on the subject of Environment and 12 Governance. This will continue in 2012 and deal with all aspects of 13 Sustainable Development. A special newsletter was also launched at the end of 2011. It is called «365 initiatives» and presents the various Cook n’Care initiatives in Europe. These communication tools are intended to increase employee awareness regarding the objectives that have been fixed and to inform them about the results. They also enable employees to understand that everyone has a role to play in taking the company forward. Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Incorporated, used by permission. Sustainable Pyrex® development report In a constantly changing world, Arc International has Europe : succeeded In staying on course this year. The transformation projects underway hold out Transformation In Europe, 2011 was marked by major projects to improve our great hope for the future. in full progress competitiveness and develop our efficiency. Economy Since 2007, the Focus program has generated more than 200 crossfunctional projects. The majority of these are now complete, although fifty are ongoing and others are already planned. More than 1,000 Group employees have already worked on these projects, and as many will again Program be involved in 2012. Created in 2009, Arques Ambition aims to boost competitiveness. More than 500 actions have been launched, involving many staff in 2011. The project will finish at the end of 2012 and be replaced by a continuous improvement program. The Cluster 11 project was launched in 2011 to support the growth of the International Division. It is managed from the United Arab Emirates and has resulted in ten projects, which are ongoing. After the acquisition of OSZ in Russia in 2011, we now need to work on integrating the new entity into the Group and developing sales in Eastern Europe. 14 15 6 production sites Arc International France (AIF) creation date 1825 : Arques, Aire-sur-la-Lys (France), 5 955 employees Durand Glass Manufacturing Company (DGMC), creation date 1982 : Millville, New Jersey (Etats-Unis), 845 employees Arc Glassware Nanjing (AGN), creation date 2003 : Nankin (Chine), 1 148 employees Arc International Middle East (AIME), Photo : Michel Trintignant creation date 2004 : Ras-Al-Khaimah (Emirats Arabes Unis), 1 664 employees Arc International Cookware (AIC), part of the Group since 2006 : Châteauroux (France), 533 employees Arc International RUSSIA part of the Group since 2011 : Gus-Khrustalny, 1 184 employees Sustainable development report Europe Division Flexibility, a successful choice. In 2011, the Europe Division grew by 2.8% and posted significant ARSEG Trophy productivity gains despite an unfavorable environment: economic On 12 December 2011, the Work Environment Department of Arc French Association International France, in partnership with GSF, received the Trophy for of Work Environment slowdown in Southern Europe (Greece, Spain, Italy) and highly variable Customer-Supplier Relationship Quality. Managers market demand. Olivier B. Hasler, CEO of the Europe Division explains: Note: GSF is an international Group specialized in cleaning and «The signature of the Flexibility Agreement at our Arques site enabled us associated services. adapt to this situation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the This success rewards a partnership based on joint company values staff who actively contributed to this success.» and which has several objectives: to achieve gains in cleaning costs, to develop the turnover and business of the local provider and to Arques turns The Ambition Arques and Profil projects contributed to the return to profitability of the site, which had made losses since 2008. Today, Arques create jobs. the corner can announce an operating result of 24 million euros. «We exceeded our This Trophy is a particular honor for us since it is awarded by the largest French network of General Services Managers. Since targets,» says the CEO of the Division. 1975, ARSEG has been promoting this function with the support in January 2012, the fifth edition of the Arques Ambition seminar was held. of professionals and experts who highlight issues of general This event was the opportunity to praise the actions that contributed to the occupational interest. success and advancement of the program. A special prize was awarded to This award acknowledges an approach that is important to us. Laurent Herbulot, for his investment in coaching and the establishment of new organizations. Duplicated on the Châteauroux site, the Ambition Châteauroux and Challenge projects have also been successful: the site made a 2 million ARSEG prize-giving euro profit, compared with a 4 million euro loss in 2010. These projects will generate significant productivity gains. Olivier B. Emerging countries, shared growth across the board... 16 Hasler confirms: «Together, they account for €73M of the €80M in savings International In 2011, the Group’s International Division once again 17 that we targeted for the end of the year.» Division achieved growth of 10%, thereby exceeding the target; a great The Europe Division decided to restructure Arc Distribution Iberica (ADI) performance in a sometimes difficult context. The International and sell Arc Distribution France (ADF), with a view to reducing costs by Division comprises 25 States with very different profiles. Among 3% per year. these, we should mention Japan, which was affected by the At the same time, Arques has invested 59 million euros to optimize the Hasler Laurent Herbulot and Oliver tsunami and the catastrophe at Fukushima. Other countries, production facilities and R&D. For example, the L furnace has 20% more at the time of prize-giving such as Australia and Korea, are mature markets where the capacity but emits 20% less CO2 than its predecessor. growth margin is lower. In Russia, the acquisition of OSZ has enabled us to achieve the same Not surprisingly, it is the emerging countries that are driving levels of Drinkware sales in the country as those recorded growth: +33% in China, +30% in India, +29% in North Africa, before the 2008 crisis. We expect the market to grow by +40% in Egypt and as much as +55% in the United Arab 15% this year. Emirates. Bart Muller, CEO of the International Division, Finally, in terms of sales, the Europe Division underlines: «All segments contributed: BtoB and Food Service is benefiting from its distributor brand in Asia Pacific, Consumer Goods in the Middle East, Africa and positioning (Ikea, Auchan, etc.) in the the Indian subcontinent.» Consumer Goods sector. The Color Furthermore, the growth was boosted by the opening of Vibrance products by Luminarc® and a fourth furnace at the site of Ras Al-Khaimah in the the Cristal d’Arques Paris® brand United Arab Emirates. This facility improves our ability to have been extremely successful. meet demand in Africa, India and the Middle East. This success is based on the example of the China 1+ furnace commissioned in 2009 and which enabled us to support Color Vibrance the growth of the Asian market. Sustainable development Photo : Harold Lahaye report Promotion Let’s start campaigning! This year, our sales teams worked closely with local distributors, the In South America, our sales continue to grow strongly. Brazil primary promoters of our brands. This field work was supported by spearheaded the market, recording a magnificent 20% increase targeted local advertising campaigns: Luminarc® in China, India, Iran for the year, just ahead of Mexico, Argentina and Chile. The and the United Arab Emirates; Cristal d’Arques Paris® in Saudi Arabia. Consumer Goods and Food Service segments were particularly As Bart Muller notes: «Our job is to create new products, but also to successful. «The Opale Dinnerware ranges, manufactured create demand.» This vocation is reflected in Arc International’s ability to in France, are one of the factors behind our success in South innovate: 20% of international sales are generated from original concepts America,» points out Fred Dohn. However, the products sold on (Dinnerware, Drinkware, Diamax®, storage, etc.). site also come from our factories in China, Dubai and Millville. We remain confident for 2012, while continuing to monitor the political So, this success is shared across the board! tensions in the Middle East, which are already affecting our business in the region. «This situation puts our teams under pressure but our objective is Advertising campaign still to grow,» explains Bart Muller. Recovery in the United States and growth in South America. Americas Division The U.S.A. accounts for 12% of Group turnover. It was therefore vital to turn things around. Today, we are reaping the rewards of the efforts 18 19 begun in 2009: focusing production capacity on the BtoB and Food Service segments, which generate significant margins. We exceeded our objectives in BtoB, offsetting the slowdown in the Food Service sector serving hotels and restaurants. «We have retained the loyalty of customers such as McDonald’s and started programs with several brewers. We also benefited from a more favorable economic climate,» explains Fred Dohn, CEO of the Americas Division. At the same time, the modernization of the Millville site by the teams has enabled the plant to operate at full capacity throughout the year. In 2012, a new furnace will add 20% to the factory’s capacity and new filters will reduce atmospheric emissions by DGMC filter 75%, and particularly the NOx emissions of the existing facilities. We are ready for future growth! Photo : Eric Fouache Sustainable development report This year the Group posted its best operating profit since 2000. We can 2011 in figures take pride in this excellent result and should pay tribute to the turnaround Net result The net result is the operating profit less banking expenses, taxes and charges, including exceptional items. achieved in France and the United States as well as our international The net result for 2011 was 18.4 million euros, compared with development. 10 million in 2010. This notable increase in the result confirms the validity of our strategic choices and the need to continue our efforts in terms of company transformation and development. Turnover Turnover for 2011 was 1.1 billion euros. This is approximately the same as in 2010, but represents a real increase of 2.5%, at equivalent exchange rates. The breakdown of turnover between the three sectors (Consumer Goods, Food Service and BtoB) remained stable overall. Mature markets Operating profit This is the turnover less costs linked to production, sales, administration and structure. A clear improvement: the operating generated 62% of the turnover, with France accounting for 17%. Emerging for the period profit was 59.1 million euros, compared with 40.6 million in 2010. countries accounted for 38% of turnover compared with 36% in 2010. (EBITDA) This is the Group’s best performance since 2000. All the different They posted 11% growth and seem to confirm our stated goal of reaching geographic zones contributed to the result: France and the 50% of turnover by 2015. 60 59,1 United States by continuing their recovery; emerging markets by The Group’s growth was therefore driven by the International Division, 50 increasing their profitability. which has benefited from the investments made, the marketing campaigns 41 40 The Group expects to achieve its target of 80 million euros in conducted and the strengthening of local sales teams. operating profit by 2014. 30 20 20 21 Turnover (in billion Euros) 10 2009 1,5 2010 2011 1,1 1,1 -10 1 -20 0,5 -30 2010 2011 -34 Turnover by region (%) Debt ratio The net debt to EBITDA ratio is 1.3 compared with 0.67 in 2010, representing an increase in the Group’s debt level. This 25 27 increase is due to investments made in industrial projects in International 2011, amounting to a total of 120 million euros, comprising: 59 million in France, 11 million in North America, and 50 million AmERICAS 16 15 in International markets (including the commissioning of the RAK4 furnace in the United Arab Emirates). 59 Europe 58 3 ........................................................ 2,5 The ratio of net debt to EBITDA indicates the company’s capacity 2010 2011 2 to generate cash before taking into account investments, South America is included in Americas Division 1,29 1,30 1 0,95 interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and therefore 0,67 its capacity to repay its debts. The company’s situation is 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 considered healthy when the ratio is less than 3. Sustainable development report For a group that produces and distributes worldwide, Energy saving Glass fusion naturally consumes a lot of energy. This is at the it is natural to have the environment at heart. very heart of our industry, and therefore our concerns. On Environmental considerations are present at every level at the heart each site, we pay attention to every detail in order to control of the company and at all stages of our planning. of glass... and reduce our consumption of different types of energy. Our actions range from increasing staff awareness to optimizing our processes. ENVIRONMENT Throughout the Group, conclusive results are already visible: a 10% reduction between 2010 and 2011. In 2011, we created a working group on the Arques site to oversee energy saving. It works in three areas: audits, increasing awareness and monitoring. In tangible terms, certain actions have already been systematically implemented, such as the installation of lagging on hot points and the detection of compressed-air leaks. «Energy advisers» have been appointed in the most sensitive sectors. They monitor installations and their performance, compare them to the results expected, and optimize them if necessary. On Arc International’s other sites, good practice is also monitored by the maintenance and Manufacturing process manufacturing teams. 22 23 AIME : The AIME factory in the United Arab Emirates is increasing its use of solar energy. A first solar-energy facility was launched in Solar facilities 2010 and a second followed in 2011, providing hot water for the employees’ homes. The solar-panel system heats 12,000 liters of water a day, thereby saving over 350 MWh a year. In addition, adjusting the electrical power of certain machines has reduced consumption by almost 1000 MWh a year. Photo : Sabrina Martin n Photo : Velmurugan Anbazhaga Sustainable development report Waste In 2011, the optimization of waste treatment was based on 2 key points: Cullet Glass manufacturing produces specific types of waste, generically termed cullet. increasing awareness of good practice and reducing waste at source. The There are three types: integration of good practice is a sensitive issue because it involves changing transparent cullet, which can be 100% recycled internally, habits and raises specific problems in terms of day-to-day operations. amounting to more than 85,000 tonnes per year. Despite this, simple gestures, such as sorting waste or reducing printing, colored cullet, which is either colored through or decorated have been quickly adopted by everyone on all the sites. on the surface. The latter requires treatment prior to recycling. Actions are going forward on every front, from administration to This treatment generates certain constraints but these are production. Waste from factory operations is subject to special monitoring. essential to ensure both the quality of our glass and longevity The aim is to reduce the amount of waste produced and improve its of our furnaces. treatment, right from the sorting stage. These practices have become cullet from the production of special glasses. commonplace in Europe and are gradually developing across all the sites. Implemented in 2011, the sorting of colored cullet required a In Arques, the management and recycling of waste, which was previously long process to raise employee awareness at Arc International handled internally, were outsourced to two external providers in 2011: France. Colored cullet was already partly recycled but when GSF and Séché Environnement. Their expertise opens up new recycling sorting was difficult, it was sent to landfill or sold to be recycled possibilities, which we will talk about later. Waste separation as fiberglass. Today, colored cullet has earned the status of «noble waste». In 2008, just 34% was recycled; today that figure is 69%. This represents more than 20,000 tonnes of colored cullet recycled this year. There are many gains: reduction of raw materials used, reduction in transport to deliver waste for external recycling, 24 increase in waste recycling. 25 In total, Arc International recycles over 93% of its cullet. Water, a fragile Preserving this vital resource has become second nature for everyone. Photo : Gonzage Lacroix However, the issue of water is not perceived in the same way in New resource Jersey, Northern France and the United Arab Emirates. The impact of business requirements in terms of water is not the same. Nonetheless, Arc International has implemented a global policy to increase awareness of this issue and the results are already noteworthy: between 2010 and Photo : Caroline Robert 2011, water consumption associated with glass production decreased by 20%. The figure is already significant and encourages us to pursue our efforts. Cullet waste separati on Tin As the main ingredient used for finishing our products, tin is a key focus of our attention. In three years, Arc International has managed to control and reduce tin consumption by 37% in the manufacturing process. This represents a total reduction of several tonnes, obtained by optimizing the processes at each stage of manufacturing. Through our improved control of ME consumption, we are also acting to preserve natural resources. Sewage water treatment – AI Sustainable development report Sustainable R&D Research and Development is one of Arc International’s strategic forces; the Department is constantly redefining the boundaries. This Department takes into account all the foreseeable impacts of each project that reaches maturity. This covers a whole spectrum of environmental and social considerations. In 2011, a comprehensive grid of impacts was created. This involves two stages: FEDER Research and Development at Arc International focuses on improving the properties of glass and the production 1 the analysis of impacts 2their optimization processes. The objective is twofold: to optimize the efficiency of manufacturing processes while reducing their environmental impact. To this end, the DEMIVER (Development of Innovative Molding for Glassmaking) project was set up, in partnership with Holophane, Bodycote and the CNRS, and partly financed by the European Union through its Regional Development Fund (ERDF). The project considers a broad range of issues surrounding molding such as reducing the use of raw materials, optimizing the longevity of molds, reducing the use of nickel and mold coating in the processes. Reducing environmental impact also means improving waste emissions. Preventive measures can be taken to reduce emissions at source. Better combustion control improves our environmental impact, while other actions include such initiatives as installing filters. 26 27 Other projects, such as optimizing the weight of items and their effect on the environment have been initiated. This promising project has already generated positive impacts in terms of raw material consumption while maintaining the aesthetic and resistant qualities of the items. Finally, work is under way in such areas as organic decorations, using no heavy metals and baked at low temperatures (200°C instead of 600°C). Several manufacturing units are already working on this new generation of decorations that will reduce environmental impacts while increasing brightness and color rendition. This represents a double advantage for the customer. Color Vibrance, organic-based decorative patterns Sustainable development report Eco-design As part of its Cook n’Care project, Arc International Cookware (AIC) launched a major study of its products’ life-cycles. As well as glassware, ISO 14001 In autumn 2011, our Chinese factory, Arc Glassware Nanjing (AGN), renewed its ISO 14001 certification. This is an important AIC sells products in silicon or aluminum. The different materials require sign for our Asian customers, who are more and more sensitive many highly specific analyzes, covering issues such as greenhouse gas to environmental issues. emissions, water consumption and natural resources. This new project will focus on analyzing the life-cycle of the different At the same time, the Châteauroux (France) site obtained its materials and their environmental impact before continuing with the first ISO 14001 certification. This success rewards the overall actual analysis of product life-cycles... To be continued. process implemented over the last year by the whole company. Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Incorporated, used by permission. The audit highlighted various strengths, such as internal vocational training, consideration of environmental issues, site cleanliness, and the development of profitability. It also noted areas for improvement, notably due to the relative infancy of the AIC : ISO 14001 certi fication environmental management process. AIC has already included these improvements in its action plan. AIF : The offices at the Arques site launched a life-size test: the removal of plastic cups from water dispensing points. They have been Removal of replaced by «home-made» glasses and a cleaning system that plastic cups guarantees total hygiene for employees. The quality of the glass means they can be used for hot and cold drinks. 28 Everyone agrees that the feel of the glass is much 29 nicer, and they all appreciate the environmental gesture. Based on this successful experiment, Arc International France will implement this measure throughout its administrative offices in 2012. Pyrex items Packaging In a glass factory, more than anywhere else, it is impossible to design a product without packaging. Though it should be pleasant to behold, Photo : Muriel Ridet which is essential for marketing purposes, it is above all a vital means of protection. At Arc International, packaging is mostly made from cardboard, so it is a recycled material, and inherently ecological. Reducing the environmental Green stamps Launched in October 2011 by the French Post Office, the Green Stamp was immediately adopted by Arc International impact of our packaging is therefore a real challenge, since it has to be robust. At Arc International, the eco-design of packaging therefore involves France and Arc International Cookware. This type of postage other aspects: the removal of polyethylene and polypropylene films, guarantees less impact on the environment including by not optimization of product/packaging ratios, reduced cardboard thickness, using the aircraft. A simple gesture to reduce our green-house etc. gas emissions. All these actions added together reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. A little boost for nature! Sustainable development report Sorting and 2008 2009 2010 2011 recycling Europe 688 660 553 516 of plastics International 186 191 211 235 CO2 emissions 2008 2009 2010 2011 Metrics tons of plastics Americas 0 0 0 0 Metric tons of CO emitted per 2 Europe 1,03 1,09 1,17 0,90 TOTAL 875 851 765 751 metric tons of glass produced International 1,62 1,28 1,35 1,35 2008/2011 -16,49 % Americas 1,11 1,15 1,19 1,18 GROUP 1,25 1,17 1,23 1,06 2008/2011 -15,50 % In 2011, CO2 emissions have decreased significantly throughout Sorting and 2008 2009 2010 2011 the Group to reach -15.5% compared to 2008. The decline was sharp in Europe and more tangible in other divisions. Initiated recycling Europe 8662 6420 8126 6883 actions including energy in each unit are starting to pay. of paper International 851 847 915 1051 Metrics tons of paper Americas 836 828 448 529 TOTAL 10348 8095 9488 8436 2008/2011 -18,22 % 30 31 Water consumption 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sorting and 2008 2009 2010 2011 m3 of water per metric ton Europe 7,50 8,28 7,70 5,76 recycling of metal Europe 2936 1464 1660 2704 of glass produced International 4,07 4,79 4,72 4,34 Americas 4,21 5,70 5,72 5,94 Metric tons of metal International 119 123 120 144 GROUP 6,29 6,96 6,67 5,38 Americas 183 22 12 117 2008/2011 -14,58 % TOTAL 3238 1609 1792 2965 2008/2011 -9,20 % For the second consecutive year, water consumption decreased to -15% compared to 2008. The decline is most significant in Europe but the International Division has also progressed. This decrease is particularly important because to equivalent production we have saved 1 000 000 m3 in 2011 in comparison In 2011 compared to 2008, we can lower the overall production to 2008. of major recyclable waste such as metals, paper / cardboard and plastics. This decline indicates a real consideration of waste production right from the source. Actions such as reducing the amount of packaging or impressions are starting to show real results. However, waste metal remain very dependent on the activity of furnaces in particular their removal resulting in an increase mainly in Europe and the Arques site that dismantled facilities and rebuilt ovens in 2011. Sustainable development report A Group is built on know-how, economics and above all the people that work there. The human aspect has always been central to the Group and continues A Safe Arc Safety is an essential point of the Group’s policy. However, the many site locations and different cultures make it a particularly to drive all our projects. Together sensitive subject. «A Safe Arc Together» is a major Group SOCIAL project, which concerns all the production sites. It aims to improve safety considerations and halve the rate of accidents A Safe Arc resulting in absences. Arc International was supported during Together this project by the DuPont Group, which conducted detailed audits on every site. The audits enabled us to place each entity on the Bradley curve. This curve is a tool for measuring safety and health in the workplace. Based on 4 levels, it measures the relation between work accident frequency and the commitment of employees as regards safety issues. It clearly demonstrates that accidents decrease when safety is regarded as a major concern shared by everyone. The teams then set out a strategic vision and a roadmap based on leadership, organization, processes and actions. Finally, each subsidiary established its own action plan. 32 33 Since the start of 2012, operational managers at all levels have been following training courses. These will continue throughout 2012 and 2013. Courb of Bradley Since the financial situation improved in 2011, the employees Photo : Gireesh Kumar AIF : Safety included received a profit-sharing bonus in 2012. To this end, a new as a component of agreement was signed which adds a safety indicator to the the profit-sharing economic criteria. As a result, an increase in the amount set agreement at aside for profit-sharing may be allocated (or not) depending on Arc International whether the target in terms of accident frequency is achieved. The symbolic choice of a safety indicator reinforces the France. importance given to prevention and monitoring in this area. Sustainable development report AIF : Personal The Arques site has put in place a new automatic system for distributing personal protective equipment. The company «From our very first discussions with Arc International, we were Protective calls upon different skills and professions and a certain type of impressed by the management team’s determination to achieve a fixed, formalized and ambitious target in terms of safety. Equipment mission requires specific protection equipment. All employees Driven by a real desire to change things, the initiative launched by Arc have received badges encoded according to their profession. By International is global, structured and sustainable. testimony activating the system with the badge, employees automatically During our first field missions, we noted many good practices, the Thierry Piel receive the specific equipment they need, thereby avoiding the managers’ desire to progress in terms of safety, as well as the need to ConsultantAccount risk of mistakes. Each employee wears suitable protection raise and standardize the existing requirement levels in order to avoid all Manager, DuPont and becomes responsible for it. This system also improves the accidents. Sustainable Solutions, management of PPE stocks. DuPont de Nemours The development process for the Safety Culture within the Arc France International Group is exciting but complex and must be conducted over the long term: in addition to the tools and processes that need to be developed, the major change will focus on the attitudes, perceptions and mindsets of the people and teams. PPE machine In such a demanding business environment, the key challenge will be to maintain the leadership of the Group and local management teams over time, to ensure the changes are visible and to acknowledge the efforts and progress made; these are the key factors for the success of «A Safe Arc Together». Safety reinforced After the tsunami in March 2011, Arc International Japan in Japan took some forceful measures, based on solidarity and social responsibility. Employees now have emergency kits in every 34 35 office. These survival kits contain helmets and food and water for a few days. In addition, emergency procedures and the New safety A new international system for classifying and labeling chemicals has been drawn up: the Globally Harmonized System (GHS). Its recommendations contact list have been revised to facilitate their access and use. marking are relayed in Europe by the CLP (Classification, Labeling and Packaging) system, which recommends new rules. By 2017, all labels will have been modified and updated. Everyone must assimilate and understand them: vocabulary, hazard definitions, pictograms, information, etc. We must start preparing as of today, because being Emergency kit able to read and understand the label before handling a chemical is the first way of protecting yourself. In March 2011, a major Safety Quiz was launched among staff regarding labeling. Using a questionnaireArch chambers are used for finishing and packaging products. game format, employees were able to test their AIF : Automatic Some of these are equipped with AGVs (Automatic Guided knowledge of hazardous products used in both handling vehicles Vehicles). These driverless goods-handling trucks are equipped professional and domestic environments. This was in the Cold end with sensors; they follow a pre-established path marked on followed by a training session given by the Safety the ground and stop if there is the slightest obstacle, thereby Environment Department to the staff concerned. This avoiding any collisions with pedestrians. Their use is designed to fun, educational approach was much appreciated and improve productivity as well as the safety of employees working was a resounding success. around handling areas. AGV traffic areas must be clean, tidy and free of materials on the ground (pieces of cardboard, wood, etc.). These operating requirements mean increased vigilance, which in turn makes these areas safer for staff. Safety Labelling Sustainable development report aif : Ergonomics At the Arques site, the principle of ergonomics is well established in everyday practice. Two ergonomists work on site full time, for specific projects defined or on request. Some departments call upon their services when renewing equipment. All equipment will now be replaced AIME : The system for reporting and sharing good practice at Arc International Middle East (AIME), in the United Arab Emirates, by ergonomic, adapted equipment (tooling, goods-handling equipment, suggestion was created in January 2011 and applies to all the staff on site. manufacturing process, or office equipment). scheme for good It is based on safety, quality, and productivity as well as energy In many production line improvement projects, an ergonomist is involved practice saving and waste reduction. A committee meets each month from the very start and is able to provide a different vision of the work to validate the suggestions and record them in the action plan. station. When ergonomic constraints are integrated from the planning After their implementation, and once the expected benefits phase they are easier to implement. Let us note a few examples: have been validated, the Committee elects the best idea each replacement of 80% of the seats in the molding workshop, development of month. The person responsible for the idea receives a financial automatic mold polishing (reduced exposure to dust and fewer repetitive reward and is the subject of an article in the site’s monthly gestures for employees), and automation of certain work stations, such newsletter. as the palette stacking of items or the transfer of molds to the machines. This system encourages changes in practice and drives PRAP training courses (Prevention of Risks linked to Physical Activity) are improvement, while also recognizing the work and the also being developed. In 2011, another 500 people were trained in these proposals made by employees. PRAP training practices. The industrial environment can result in difficult working conditions, notably noise. Consequently, the noise studies conducted in 2011 in production areas have resulted in tangible solutions: reduced intensity and better absorption. Corrective actions on the noisiest operations were implemented, such as sound-proofing of the production waste containers 36 37 or the reduction in the sound level of the machine alarms. Based on these results, further actions will be implemented on other parts of the process AIME employee and extended to the noisiest areas. AIC : The «Great Place to Work®» (GPTW) model is a Charter of Trust built New actions were implemented in 2011, as part Great Place on 5 points: credibility, mutual respect, fairness, pride and camaraderie. of the «Living Better at Work» project. Among AIF : Better to Work® Employees are at the centre of this model. Through them, three key them, we can note the rules for using e-mails living at Work relationships are highlighted: do they trust their management, are they and the organization of meetings. Certain proud of their work, do they enjoy the working atmosphere? According habits and acts, such as sending e-mails after to a GPTW survey, 56% of staff consider AIC to be a good place to work. 8pm or at the weekend, the organization of In 2011, certain cross-functional projects were conducted: a seminar meetings after 7pm or during the lunch break, on “joined-up management”, workshops and surveys. The participants were particularly targeted and messages were were highly committed and made numerous suggestions, which are to be circulated to remind people of good practice implemented. We should note that communication was the theme most regarding these issues. Other subjects, frequently mentioned. such as improving the team restaurants and relaxation areas in production, have also been addressed by this working group. Taking meals or breaks should be a time for relaxing, and the environment of these spaces plays a major role in this. Open Up Arabesque flute Sustainable development report AIF : Disability Integration and disability have long been central aspects of the HR policy at Arc International France. At the same time, multidisciplinary meetings have been organized, involving occupational health practitioners, ergonomists, managers and Training AIF : Apprenticeship: Welcome to our apprentices! On February 6th 2012, ten apprentices arrived in the company human resource managers. During the meetings, decisions regarding the to prepare the Complementary Certificate for Glass-making adaptation of the workplace or the reclassification of staff are discussed Machine Operators. The apprentices alternate their time and validated, in order to improve the well-being of disabled employees. between studies at the Lycée Jacques Durand in Saint Omer All these actions mean that the employment rate of people with disabilities and practical work in the company, and will be on site for on the Arques site is well above the legal minimum. Indeed, this new 8 months. They were welcomed to the company by their scheme concerned 8.14% of AIF employees in 2011. Apprenticeship Managers, who are all volunteers and have been specially trained for the role. They will supervise the learning process and assess the apprentices, while liaising with the School throughout the apprenticeship period. This type of training, which had not been provided inside the company since Lobel workshop 2005, was reintroduced in 2011. The company’s HR Department helped to set up the program. The arrival of these apprentices Apprentices demonstrates the company’s active commitment to preparing for the future. • Equal opportunities in recruitment AIF : Arc International has published a Guide to Employment Law regarding Labor agreements discrimination, equal opportunities and harassment. This guide concerns Staff training rate 38 both managers and employees at Arc International France. It aims to 39 In France and abroad, the Arc International’s Human Resources clarify definitions and concepts, and to remind everyone of the Group’s policy encourages occupational training. The percentage of obligations and commitments in these areas. staff trained in France was 3.41% in 2011. The wide variety of training courses enables employees to progress in their field of expertise or helps them to change • Agreement regarding seniors jobs, inside or outside the company. AIF has signed an agreement with the unions regarding the prevention Moreover, the constant evolution of of hardship for seniors in the workplace. A series of actions has been processes and technology means that established: reducing multi-exposure to factors of hardship (noise, the knowledge and skills of our staff extreme temperature, alternating shifts), improving the ergonomics of must be regularly updated. the workstation, developing skills and qualifications, providing access On the Arques site, occupational to occupational training. A final component aimed at maintaining training assists employees who want employment through internal reclassification has also been ratified. to change jobs or companies, and Quantitative targets are to be achieved within three years and an annual optimizes their employability. The review of the results is planned. entire Group places great emphasis on developing the technical skills of • Gender equality production staff. Training programs A detailed report, published at the end of 2010, established the rates of and knowledge sharing support this Discrimination booklet representation and the breakdown of men and women in the company. policy. There are disparities in both directions, some of which are quite «natural», such as the low presence of women in certain jobs, notably in production. Nonetheless, Arc International is working to restore the balance on certain points: the leveling of salaries, maintaining salaries during maternity and Forum paternity leave, and flexible working hours. Sustainable development report The Arques site The Arques site has experienced some difficult years recently, particularly in 2004 and 2009. We needed to make significant changes, and take efficient, innovative measures to support the staff during this transformation. In addition, certain activities have been outsourced, such as We would like to highlight two key measures, the first concerning the the cleaning of the premises and vehicle maintenance. The site’s employees and the other focused on the region. They both reflect outsourcing of these activities was conducted in accordance with Arc International’s active involvement in developing an effective recovery the company’s values and the labor-relations charter signed plan. in 2004; it ensured the preservation of 250 jobs and indirectly created further employment through the development of these Measures devoted to the employees: service providers’ business in the region. An in-house Job-Mobility Center was created with three full-time staff One imaginative imitative was the «Créativallée» competition, responsible for supporting employees on the Arques site who wanted to which rewarded entrepreneurs who created jobs. This change jobs or companies. The work was carried out in close partnership competition highlighted the vitality of the Saint Omer region. with AFPA (National French Adult Training Association) and the regional Arc International France has also made industrial premises, Department of Labor. A collective audit of regional employability/Strategic technical expertise or internal human resources available to Workforce Planning was conducted for the Saint Omer area in order to new companies in order to help them set up in the region. For better target professions with labor requirements. example: Saverglass (320 jobs), Arvato (420 jobs), Transgourmet The training department also played an important role in providing (140 jobs). expertise and supporting staff in their search for the most appropriate training. The 2011 results for the Arques site are very encouraging: ter Employment and Mobility cen Between 2004 and 2011, a total of 1,272 employees received support, return to profitability and 10% increase in production. The 1,211,000 hours of training were provided, 1,248 individual training leaves investments made (59 million euros out of a groupwere granted, and 452 people completed the process to recognize skills wide total of 120 million euros) have improved 40 41 acquired through work experience. performance and ensured the continuity of the The Job/Mobility Center also organized over 23 profession-specific and site. This is proof that it is possible to continue recruitment forums in the company from 2009 to 2011. The forums manufacturing in France.. took place on the actual company site and enabled employees to meet companies with job vacancies as well as trade-specific professionals in order to find out more about potential opportunities. The «Living Better at Work» project supported the change process for employees remaining on site, providing tangible actions and responses to their concerns (see page 37). Measures devoted to the region: In conjunction with local political and economic players, Arc International is actively involved in developing business activity in the Saint-Omer region. Since 2005, Arc International has dedicated two people and a budget of almost 10 million euros to developing economic activity and new jobs in the area. Since 2005, three economic development agreements have been signed, which will run until 2013. These concern 21 companies, which have created 1100 jobs. Certain projects are still in the design phase and could result in the creation of another 500 to 600 jobs. AFPA pricegiving Sustainable Photo : Richard Dubois development report Disability 2008 2009 2010 2011 Distribution 2010 2011 Employment of people Rate of employment 7,80 % 7,82 % 7,30 % 8,14 % of employees Europe 7695 7275 with disabilities Legal rate in France 6% 6% 6% 6% by region on 12/31/2011 International 2815 3217 in France Consideration of disability remains a priority and different Americas 1028 1003 actions to integrate or retain persons working with disabilities are paying off as evidenced by the employment rate of 8.14% The Group has changed little in 2011 compared to 2010. The workforce of Europe continued to decline with the voluntary redundancy plan at AIF. The opening of a new furnace at the plant of AIME in the United Arab Emirates necessitated the strengthening of the teams. Lobel Workshop 2008 2009 2010 2011 Workforce 38 41 41 40 Supervisors 5 5 5 6 Nb of people 36 36 38 38 successfullygraduating Nb of people who 3 0 1 Training 2008 2009 2010 2011 obtained the CACES investment Training AIF Formation en % as % of payroll 4,89 3,47 3,71 3,41 In 2011, there were no outflows of the workshop. Training in as a percentage Taux légal Legal in France rate en France 1,60 % 1,60 % 1,60 % 1,60 % CACES, allowing disabled workers to work as a driver and thus enhance their employability. One more person has obtained the of payroll in France permit, bringing to four the number of CACES obtained since Investment in training continued in France this year to reach a significant 42 2009. 43 rate of 3.41% against the 1.6% regulatory. Briqueterie Workshop 2008 2009 2010 2011 Workforce 20 19 22 23 Supervisors 3 3 4 4 % people 67 % 50 % 50 % 67 % Accidents 2008 2009 2010 2011 reintegrated in a company in the workplace Europe 12,34 8,34 10,13 9,88 In 2011, the successfully rate of the Briqueterie workshop has Frequency rate International 9,13 9,22 9,57 8,64 been significantly improved reached to 67%. 6 young people Americas 13,23 5,91 4,33 1,91 were able to leave the workshop with a permanent employment. Severity rate 2008 2009 2010 2011 Europe 0,44 0,50 0,40 0,43 Employment 2008 2009 2010 2011 International Americas 0,07 0,36 0,11 0,31 0,13 0,27 0,12 0,18 of seniors Active employees 18 15 15 73 over 55 years of age Percentage 0,24 % 0,21 % 0,23 % 1,21 % The year 2011 is an encouraging level of safety. Frequency and severity rates are declining in all units. These results are a good basis for the In the senior agreement signed for 2010 to 2012, Arc project «A Safe Arc Together». International France pledges to double the employment rate for workers over 55 years. In 2011, the employment rate is 1.21%. Sustainable development report Arc International is a leading industrial company, but the Group is also much more than that. By investing in actions of solidarity and sharing, Arc International remains true to its values and highlights its uniqueness. A British pint, Since June 2011, Arc International has been working with COMMUNITIES English pubs. please ! During 2010, the British Government asked Arc International to work on a genuine public health issue: the potential danger of broken glasses during fights outside pubs. In 2010, there were over 80,000 accidents due to glasses, which become lethal weapons when broken. Always willing to take up new technological challenges, Arc International worked on this subject in close partnership with a design agency and an English brewing company. The result was: Ultimate Pint! This glass is five times stronger than normal glass. When it breaks, it shatters into thousands of pieces with no sharp edges. To achieve this, Arc International focused its research on the shape of the glass during the manufacturing process. The «tempering» process involves a significant increase in temperature which is abruptly interrupted to release the material stresses. The resulting glass has no ribs and is gently 44 curved. 45 Launched by Arcoroc on the professional market in June 2011, Ultimate Pint is fulfilling all its promises, and was acknowledged by the BBC in January 2012. Other countries such as Australia are already interested in the new glass, thanks to both its technology and design. Photo : Alexandre Daniel Sustainable development report ADSA : A network of generosity in South Africa Arc International South Africa was impressed by the tangible and effective Donations work of several associations united around a common goal: helping the « Many people believe that children do not get cancer, but in South Africa poor. Arc International supplied the associations with tableware; a modest about 1 child in 600 does in fact develop one of the many different types of contribution to great ideas. this illness. The prognosis is good for those children who are diagnosed early enough and are treated at one of the specialist centres; a cure The Childhood Cancer Foundation rate of about 70% can be achieved. Sadly in South Africa, it is estimated ndation Cancer Fou that less than half of the children with cancer are actually diagnosed, In South Africa, many children are affected by cancer. The Childhood Childho o d Cancer Foundation takes in families of sick children and helps them and of those too many are diagnosed at late stages of the illness, with a through the medical procedures, while preserving family unity, which is a consequent poorer prognosis. One of our projects has been to make staff vital factor in helping these children to heal. in primary health centres more aware of the warning signs for childhood Testimony cancer, to improve the rate of detection and effective treatment for Brenda Steyn, The Nkosi Haven Foundation all children in the country. However, without the support of individuals Secretary, and organizations such as Arc Distribution we would never have been CHOC Childhood This association founded by Gail Johnson raises funds to create and able to achieve what we have to date. » Cancer maintain community centers for people with AIDS. Foundation SA Africa Stars of all Academy Stars of Africa Football Academy Footb Based on a joint passion for soccer, a group of South African entrepreneurs created this academy, whose aim is to train and support young South The Ronald On 22 May 2011 the Ronald McDonald House in Villejuif underwent a major spring-clean and complete refurbishment. African footballing talents; gifted children who need support in order to McDonald House We should note that the children hospitalized in have the opportunity to live their dreams. Villejuif come from all over France and that, on top 46 47 of their illness, being far from their families can be a SOS Children’s Villages traumatic experience. The concept of the «Parents A member of SOS-Kinderdorf International, the largest, private worldwide House» is simple: to enable parents to be near their organization working for child well-being. Through this program, more children for a certain period of time, in a warm, than 200,000 children benefit from foster homes and education programs. friendly environment and without breaking their budget. Creating a home, a place where families Diambars Football Academy can be united. The house is huge, and has genuine SOS Children’s Villages Turning soccer into a driving force for education. The association works living areas where people can be together. in partnership with the provincial Government of Gauteng and the City of As in any home, the kitchen is an essential part of Ekurhulein to offer an education program to the region’s children. Around the living space, the heartbeat of the household. 20% of them become soccer-players. It is only natural that Arc International made its contribution to the kitchen. At the ouse SA Federation for Mental Health D on ald parents’h Foundation’s request, Arc International provided bright and c The federation’s purpose is to improve mental health in South Africa by Ronald M in Villeju if colorful Luminarc tableware and Pyrex kitchenware to equip caring for people with psychiatric or intellectual disabilities. the dining area, and add a little sunshine to the kitchen with practical items for preparing meals. On 19 October 2011, the House celebrated its 20th birthday with a second inauguration following the renovations. This is a wonderful joint initiative inspired by a great idea, which will perhaps be extended to other cities. Arc International is following the project closely. Diambars Footba ll Academy Pueblo Corail by Sustainable Luminarc development report AIF : In September 2011, the Cap’Cités association brought its new project to the attention of Arc International: the opening of a Club House in the In Paris, samples The Paris Office of Arc International has invented a new form of recycling. Our product samples returned from Trade CAP’CITéS very heart of Paris. A living space created with and for psychologically support professional Fairs or press presentations represent a significant volume. vulnerable people. Depression, accidents of life, bipolar disorder or integration Consequently, our colleagues have invented and organized addictions are problems which are often poorly treated or underin-house sales open to Arc International employees and other estimated. Cap’Cités has built its action around a simple concept: helping companies in the building. They take place two or three times Club House members by focusing on their strengths rather than their a year. The sale organized in December 2011 was a resounding weaknesses; exploiting each person’s potential to help them excel. Arc success. The entire sum collected was donated to the «Atelier International adhered completely to this approach. The Cap’Cités Club du Lobel», an association created and supported by Arc House is inspired by an American model founded in New York in 1948. International. This association employs and supports disabled Since that time, the Fountain House concept has spread around the persons, at Arques, in integrating the professional world. (see world; today, there are over 300 houses of this kind, welcoming 57,000 on page 43). people each year. The houses are regularly assessed and the results are positive. The Club House in Paris offers a place where people can op express themselves and receive professional care and support. Lobel worksh Arc International provided the house with the dinnerware it required: ... a long-standing relationship! tableware for sharing meals and kitchen equipment for preparing The A.S.C.A.I. is a Sports Association created in 1973 on the food, a vital factor for social reintegration. Arques site and open to everyone: employees, their families, retired persons and local residents. This highly active The A.S.C.A.I, association organizes many initiatives: sports, leisure activities On 5 December 2011, Arc International Cookware organized a PYREX the Telethon and holidays, at very affordable prices. Today, the A.S.C.A.I. has 48 clearance sale at its head office in Villepinte in favor of the local Food Bank. and disability ... 30 activities, more than 2,000 members and a great record. 49 This sale, which is usually reserved for AIC employees, was opened up For several years, the A.S.C.A.I. has been enthusiastically to employees from neighboring companies. The purpose was to sell off organizing events to support the Telethon. The 2011 event Photo : Alexandra Blyth products that could not be sold in stores while supporting a charity. The included a whole range of sports and leisure activities: zumba sale was a huge success with both regulars and newcomers. and country dancing demonstrations, basket-ball competitions Stock At the end of the day, the whole sum was donated to the Villepinte Food or remote-control car races etc. All the members played an clearance Bank. active role to meet the Telethon challenge. A total of 3,000 euros between neighbors The same initiative was organized on 18 November at DGMC for the New was collected during a day filled with fun and good humor. Jersey Food Bank, in addition to donations of food. During this Thanksgiving In addition, the A.S.C.A.I. has a handisport section. The period, our American staff demonstrated their great generosity. association can provide a mini-bus for transport. This is a genuine asset since travel can be a major issue for disabled sports-persons. The association finances the mini-bus, among other things, through the collection of plastic bottle caps and Arc International is a member of the «Fondation Croissance Responsable» The manifesto (Responsible Growth Foundation) which acts as a bridge between schools the organization of an annual handithon. for Responsible and companies in France. These two worlds are often far apart, but can only Growth gain from having a better understanding of each other. The signatories of the Manifesto invite teachers and career advisers to build interactive, longActing quickly with the appropriate measures term relationships in order to meet the needs of young students who will JapAn Faced with the tragedy of Fukushima on 11 March 2011, the enter the professional world in the near future. The companies undertake staff at Arc International in France, the United States and Japan to open their doors to teachers and career advisers in order to pool their acted in unison. Internal fund-raising enabled us to quickly experiences and consider solutions. send a donation to the American Red Cross present on site. In Relationships, training, integration... A shared determination to meet the June, a container of 5,000 tableware sets departed for Japan. challenges of tomorrow’s society. These 19-piece family sets designed by Arc International were Arc International is among the first 100 companies that signed the another way to help Japanese families rebuild their homes. Sustainable development manifesto launched in 2011. report NOTES 50 51 AN 365/12 Adaptation et photos © TerCréa un service d’Arc International France CONTACT Caroline BARBIER Corporate Sustainable Development Manager Arc International 104 avenue du Général de Gaulle Arques France Tél : +33 3 21 46 47 GSM : + 33 6 50 69 13 42 caroline.barbier@arc-intl.com Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Incorporated, used by permission.
