Annual Report 2011 Encounters: New homes through customer dialogue Customers’ needs and expectations guide the a brand-new home and the chance to have a say in planning of Lemminkäinen’s construction projects. its design. The best solutions are customer-orientOur customers can influence our solutions to ened – even at the planning stage. When planning a sure that the end result best suits their own indinew location, Lemminkäinen’s design team first runs vidual needs. through both their own previous experiences and their customers’ wishes and expectations. A timeAnri Mäkinen and Juuso Helokangas are buying one of table for alterations is drawn up so that future resiLemminkäinen’s brand-new homes in the new residents can have as much of a say as possible in choice dential district of Jätkäsaari. The Jätkäsaari construcof solutions. Anri and Juuso were, for example, able to tion project is visible testimony to the important role choose the materials used in their home. They went Lemminkäinen plays in developing Helsinki’s residenthrough their ideas with Lemminkäinen’s alteration tial environment. The company is also building apartengineers, and were able to visit the construction site ments and high-end business premises in Töölönlahti, as soon as it was safe to do so. downtown Helsinki, and Kahvikortteli – a new residenEven though Anri and Juuso have yet to move in, tial area in Vuosaari, eastern Helsinki that will noticethe new district’s sense of community has already ably shape the district’s ambience. been a positive surprise. Future residents have already Anri and Juuso had already decided to buy an met and formed a Facebook group to plan communal apartment in Espoo, but changed their minds when spaces and the housing cooperative’s activities. they found a suitably sized apartment in a more apAlthough Lemminkäinen builds and sells a lot of pealing location – a walking-distance to the city cenapartments, a new project is always exciting for sales tre. Jaana Jaatinen from Lemminkäinen’s housing personnel and the rest of the project team. Every prosales is not surprised by the couple’s decision. Jätject provides experiences for the next one, and designs käsaari is a diamond and is sure to have great appeal. are continually updated. In addition to the apartment’s excellent location, Anri and Juuso were attracted to the ease of living in Anri Mäkinen and Juuso Helokangas (left), Jaana Jaatinen from Lemminkäinen (right). The best solutions are customer-oriented – even at the planning stage. Jätkäsaari, saukonpaasi Lemminkäinen is building seven housing cooperatives with a total of 430 apartments in Saukonpaasi in the Jätkäsaari seaside district of Helsinki. The Saukonpaasi site has a total floor area of 38,000 square metres. Contents strategy page Lemminkäinen as a constructor in 2011 Encounters: Jätkäsaari inside cover building construction infrastructure construction technical building services Lemminkäinen as a constructor 2 Lemminkäinen in figures 3 Encounters: LKAB and Kiruna Mine 4 2011 in brief 6 The way we work 8 Review by the President & CEO 10 Operating environment 12 Towards the best way to build 16 Risk management 21 38% 50% 12% Financial development 2011 24 lemminkäinen as a constructor page Encounters: Finnpark and P-Hämppi 26 share of net sales Building Construction 28 Infrastructure Construction 32 Technical Building Services 36 Material and energy efficiency 40 share of operating profit Customers 44 society and personnel Encounters: SOK and Sipoo logistics center page 46 19% 75% 6% Stakeholders 48 Personnel, training and competence development 50 Occupational health, safety and wellbeing 54 Responsibility in the procurement chain 58 Independent assurance report 59 GRI-table ja Global Compact index 60 We at Lemminkäinen know that there is a better way to build, whether it be construction, renovation or maintenance of apartments, office premises, tunnels, bridges, or entire towns. Corporate governance We want to further develop responsible construction practices at every location and at every stage. and management page This means better expertise, higher quality and customer-oriented, environmentally sound solutions. Encounters: Danish Road Directorate 66 We are a leading expert in building construction, infrastructure construction and technical Corporate Governance 68 building services in Finland. We are seeking growth from Russian residential construction and NorBoard of Directors 76 dic infrastructure construction in particular. Executive Board 78 Our net sales totalled EUR 2.3 billion in 2011. The Group employed about 8,400 people, of whom approximately 30 per cent work outside Finland. financial statements page Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. Encounters: Kekkilä 80 Financial Statements 82 2 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Contents Lemminkäinen in figures group key figures 2011 2010 Change, % Net sales, EUR million 2,274.1 1,829.6 24 of which operations outside Finland, EUR million 780.3 543.5 44 Operating profit, EUR million 53.5 29.6 81 Result for the financial year, EUR million 35.6 1.2 over hundred Operating profit % 2.4 1.6 Return on investment, % 10.8 7.0 Return on equity, % 10.5 0.4 Equity ratio, % 30.8 35.0 Earnings/share, EUR 1.77 0.02 over hundred Dividend/share, EUR 0.50 ¹) 0.50 Gross investments, EUR million 84.0 59.6 41 Order book, EUR million 1,400.4 1,226.4 14 Personnel on average 8,421 8,314 1 Accident frequency: No. of accidents / million working hours 36.1 36.1 ¹) Board of Directors’ proposal to AGM neT SaLeS, eur miLLion operaTing profiT, eur miLLion earningS per SHare, dividend per SHare, eur 2,500 140 5 120 4 2,000 100 3 1,500 80 2 1,000 60 1 40 0 * 500 –1 20 0 0 –2 y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 earnings/share * Board of Directors’ Dividend/share proposal to AGM order Book, eur miLLion perSonneL, on average markeT CapiTaLizaTion, eur miLLion 1,500 10,000 600 1,200 8,000 500 900 6,000 400 300 600 4,000 200 300 2,000 100 0 0 0 09 09 10 10 11 11 y07 07 y08 08 y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 07 08 09 10 11 Lemminkäinen in figures – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 3 Encounters: Kiruna Mine is not compromising on safety When large-scale quarrying projects are carried out, safety and staying on schedule are decisive factors. The best result is achieved through sticking to agreed principles and forging mutual trust between client and supplier. The office balcony offers magnificient views over the mine area. IRON ORE Mine, kiruna, Sweden Since 2010, Lemminkäinen has built almost ten kilometres of maintenance and mining tunnels at LKAB’s iron ore mine in Kiruna, Sweden. About 110 people are working in Kiruna for Lemminkäinen and its subcontractors. Shared operating principles are the key to seamless cooperation and a high-quality end result. Since 2010, Lemminkäinen has been building mainKiruna Mine. In order to ensure that the client’s optenance and mining tunnels at LKAB’s iron ore mine erations are comprehensively environmentally friendin Kiruna, Sweden. Ulf Gräsvik, LKAB’s project direcly, it’s also important for contractors to work with the tor, says that Lemminkäinen was chosen as a partner environment in mind. For example, Lemminkäinen on the basis of its expert personnel, good resources, monitors equipment emissions in Kiruna. Up-to-date and competitive pricing. Previous successful quarryequipment also helps to reduce environmental effects. ing projects also demonstrated Lemminkäinen’s abilDuring large-scale projects, the professional skills ity to carry out demanding rock engineering contracts. of both the client’s and contractor’s personnel play an Scheduling plays a key role in the success of a important role. Kari Korhonen says that Lemminkäinmajor project such as the one in Kiruna. Kari Koren also seeks to ensure the professional skill of its emhonen, the regional director of Lemminkäinen’s rock ployees – and thereby the quality of its end results – engineering works in Sweden, also emphasises that by fostering long careers with the company. high-quality results and staying on schedule are a A shared understanding of a project’s operating prinmatter of pride for Lemminkäinen. ciples is the key to a high-quality end result and seamSafety is also vital on a mining construction site, less cooperation between client and contractors. Both as people may be working at depths of up to 1,360 LKAB and Lemminkäinen are satisfied with their coopermetres. And safety is indeed top of the list for both Ulf ation. The customers’ expectations have been met, and Gräsvik and Kari Korhonen. Environmental perspecpromises have been kept. What has been agreed upon tives are another major issue for consideration at the above ground has also been carried out below ground. Ulf Gräsvik from LKAB (left), Kari Korhonen from Lemminkäinen (right). Encounters – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 5 2011 in brief 31.1. Divestment of the roofing business 14.3. Corporate responsibility reporting Agreed on the previous year, we completed the sale of our roofing business to the Nordic equity We published our first description of Lemminkäinen corporate responsibility activities fund Axcel when the Finnish Competition Authority accepted the deal. complying with the Global Reporting Iniative’s (GRI) G3 guidelines, while scoring 69 out of 100 in the Carbon Disclosure Project on 21 October. 10.2. Residential construction in St Petersburg 12.5. Electrification project at the Kevitsa mine We agreed on a contract to build around 2,000 apartments and business and ofWe won a EUR 9-million electrification contract from Kevitsa Mining AB for the Kevitsa nickel fice facilities on the Vasily island in St Petersburg. It is our goal to start building and copper concentrate mine in Sodankylä, Finland. The customer is a subsidiary of the Canadian around a thousand apartments per year in St Petersburg within the next few years. mining company First Quantum Minerals Ltd. This project included building and process electrification of production facilities, and instrumentation installations. The order represented a followup to our previous earthworks and concrete structure projects at the Kevitsa mine. 2.3. Infrastructure construction in the Nordic countries 31.5. Norwegian acquisition We acquired the entire capital stock of Mesta Industri AS from MesOn 2 March, we received an order for the excavation of underground mine tunta Group, owned by the Norwegian state. This acquisition represents nels and ore, worth around EUR 15 million, in the Svartliden Mine in Sweden. On an important step in strengthening our position in the Nordic infra22 March, we won Norwegian state paving contracts worth EUR 26 million. On 16 structure construction market – one of our areas for growth. LemJune, we won a significant, EUR 43-million construction project for a new diverminkäinen has been in the infrastructure business in Norway since sion channel in Timrå, Sweden. Furthermore, we won a EUR 19-million project for 2001. After the acquisition, we are one of the country’s largest pavthe construction of Sunnhordland Kraftlag’s Eikemo hydropower plant on 29 June. ing contractors. 6 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – 2011 in brief 1.6. Office buildings in Helsinki’s Töölönlahti 10.10. Further specification of strategy Over a two-year period, Lemminkäinen will construct three office buildings in the In accordance with our specified strategy, we will give particular focus to improving the profitabilTöölönlahti area in Helsinki, two of which will also house apartments. The client ity and competitiveness of our domestic operations. Growth is being sought from operations outside is Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Lemminkäinen’s projects will total Finland. International Operations will be our fourth business sector, starting from 1 January 2012. over EUR 100 million in value. Over the next two years the Töölönlahti area will be one of the largest and most prominent sites in Finland with regard to office building construction. 10.10. Efficiency programme The efficiency programme was launched in order 1.7. Residential construction in to improve profitability and competitiveness. This programme is expected to generate annual savings Finland of EUR 50 million. Codetermination talks were initiated as part of the efficiency programme on 18 October, resulting in the decision to cut a maxiWe kicked off construction on around 1,200 units within our own residential development in Finland. mum of 300 man-years. As an example, Lemminkäinen will construct altogether seven housing co-operatives in Helsinki’s Jätkäsaari, with a total of 430 apartments. 12.10. Personnel survey 17.8. Kokkola Housing Fair In autumn 2011, we conducted our second Group-wide personnel survey. The reply rate was 49 per cent (52). The results have been disOur apartment building exhibit, named Albatrossi, was one of the cussed on both the Group and business sector draws of the housing fair in Kokkola. Over half the fair’s visitors, levels. We will develop our operations in 2012 around 65,000 people, visited the building over the course of the based on these results. month-long fair. New ideas for urban living, created in co-operation with designers Paola Suhonen and Sikke Sumari, added to the attractiveness of Lemminkäinen’s apartment building. read more at www.lemminkainen.com 2011 in brief – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 7 The way we work As a major player in the construction industry, we principles and reporting. The communications funcREPORTING PRINCIPLES strive to consider both the direct and indirect eftion is responsible for reporting. This annual report covers the period 1 Jan–31 Dec fects of our operations on the surrounding commuWe use management systems that meet the fol2011 and includes corporate responsibility reporting nity. Continuous, open dialogue with stakeholders lowing international standards: ISO 9001:2008 for the second time. In March 2010, we published our is a fundamental aspect of responsible operations (quality), ISO 14001:2004 (environment) and OHSAS first annual report based on the Global Reporting Inand management. 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety). Our itiative’s (GRI) G3 v3.0 recommendations. Corporate head office was granted membership of the WWF’s responsibility is reported annually. The annual report We base our operations on our values – respect Green Office network in 2010. is directed to shareholders, investors, analysts, media, and trust, constructive collaboration, and sustainacustomers, partners and personnel. ble growth and development. Our vision is The best CODE OF CONDUCT For the 2010 annual report, the corporate responway to build – we want to develop more responsiOur Code of Conduct covers all of our operations and sibility steering team defined Lemminkäinen’s most ble, higher-quality construction in cooperation with defines the way we all work. It also acts as a set of material responsibility themes. These were updated in our customers. Our Code of Conduct is based on inguidelines for our partners. Supplements to the Code autumn 2011. The materiality assessment steers our ternational regulations such as the UN’s Declaration include competition law regulations, insider and repreporting – the themes highlighted in the assessment of Human Rights and the Global Compact togethresentation guidelines, and our sponsorship principles. have become our main reporting themes. The materier with the ILO’s employment rights and principles, Everyone at Lemminkäinen must adhere the ality matrix is presented on page 9. the OECD’s operational guidelines for multinational Group’s internal guidelines in addition to current legThe majority of our financial responsibility figcompanies, and International Chamber of Commerce islation. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that ures have been obtained via the consolidated finan(ICC) recommendations. employees familiarise themselves with and adhere cial statements. These have been prepared in accordto these guidelines. According to the 2011 personnel ance with International Financial Reporting Standards RESPONSIBILITY – survey, 57 per cent of our employees know what to (IFRS), to comply with EU-approved IAS and IFRS THE HEART OF OUR STRATEGY do if they spot non-compliant behaviour. In 2011, we standards and the SIC and IFRIC interpretations in Expectations concerning responsible operations, such launched an online training programme in competition effect on 31 December 2011. Segment reporting is as energy-efficient construction and preventing the law. The training is open to all Lemminkäinen employbased on management reporting, as per IFRS 8, and grey economy, are great on the construction industry. ees working in Finland. 101 people had taken part in therefore deviates in part from the consolidated acIn order to meet these expectations, we’ve made corthe programme by the end of 2011. counting principles. The adjusted comparison figures porate responsibility a fundamental part of our operaWe acknowledge our employees’ freedom to orfor 2010 are presented in brackets. tions. We want to be recognised as a responsible playganise and their right to join professional unions and The personnel and remuneration data has been er in the construction industry. make collective labour agreements. We do not emobtained during financial reporting and is also pubOur CEO is responsible for corporate responsibilploy child labour, nor do we deal with subcontractors lished in the financial statements. This information ity. Corporate responsibility is steered by the responor suppliers who do. We are restrained in our supcovers the entire Group. The data on Finnish employsibility steering team, whose chairman is a member of port of political parties and non-profit organisations. ees is supplemented with information from our SAP the Group’s Executive Board. The steering team’s othIn 2011, we supported political activities to a total of HR data system, which was introduced at the beginer members represent our business operations and key EUR 6,150. We do not condone bribery, nor do we enning of 2011. The new system provides a broader and support functions. ter into business relationships that could lead to conmore comprehensive range of personnel data, and we The Group’s Executive Board and Lemminkäinen’s flicts of interest. You can read our Code of Conduct at: will continue to develop it during 2012. Our 2011 enBoard of Directors discuss key corporate responsibility www.lemminkainen.com. vironmental reports only cover operations in Finland. 8 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – The way we work Environmental data has been collected using quesmanagement systems in finland at lemminkäinen sites tionnaires. In 2011, we expanded our reporting to inEnvironmental ISO 14001 Quality ISO 9001 Safety OHSAS 18001 clude additional indicators, such as the environmental impact of transportation. The divested roofing material factory has been removed from the 2010 figures. Figures have not been adjusted in proportion to pro90% 98% 90% duction volumes. site with a certified system Accounting principles, any exceptions in and limitations to the calculation methods used have been site without a certified system noted next to the figures in question. If there have been any changes in the key figures reported, or to their 10% 2% 10% scope, boundaries or measurement techniques, these have also been noted next to the figures in question. The CR reporting in Finnish has been assured by an independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers materiality matrix Oy, and congruence between the Finnish and English Quality, keeping promises and sticking to schedules versions has been checked. Independent assurance Code of conduct, fighting the grey economy, High report is published on page 59. adhering to competition legislation, anti-corruption principles Comparisons with GRI recommendations and the Developing new products and services UN’s Global Compact can be found on pages 60–65. A full GRI table and further information about LemEnergy efficiency, carbon emission reduction, Identifying and predicting renewable energy sources customers’ needs minkäinen and our corporate responsibility activities IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS are available on our website: ­www.lemminkainen.com. Offering end-to-end solutions Transparency and open reporting Risk management Occupational health, Material efficiency, waste, accidents and safety and Training and competence logistics, material choices maintaining working capacity development Good superivisory work and leadership Equal rules for everyone, open internal communications, fairness and equality GREEN OFFICE Moderate A WWF INITIATIVE A good balance between work and leisure-time Motivational remuneration TO REDUCE ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT Moderate CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON COMPANY High The way we work – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 9 Review by the President & CEO We want to be a reliable and responsible construction partner that offers services and solutions designed to meet customer needs, and better quality and eco-efficiency at every stage of each project. Dear shareholder, lion, and earnings per share were EUR 1.77. Our order supervisory work. Investments in human resource deThe process to renew Lemminkäinen’s operations has book was strong at EUR 1.4 billion. These figures ofvelopment directly contribute to customer satisfaction, progressed in line with the strategy devised in 2009. fer a solid foundation for a good performance in 2012, operational efficiency and enhanced competitiveness. Our objective is to build a more competitive, interdespite the market uncertainty seen early in the year. Our vision is expressed in our slogan The best way national Lemminkäinen. The first results of our work We will not settle for the profit level achieved in to build. We want to be a reliable and responsible conwere seen last year. 2011. We will shift our operational focus to more profstruction partner that offers services and solutions deOur financial performance for 2011 serves as eviitable operations, such as own residential developsigned to meet customer needs, and better quality and dence of improved competitiveness. In infrastructure ment and maintenance and servicing in the technical eco-efficiency at every stage of each project. Better construction, we recorded profitable growth in all key building services segment. In our opinion, internationconstruction solutions translate into added value for markets. Growth was driven by high demand in mining al operations offer good growth opportunities. We will customers and profitable growth for us, which in turn operations and tunnel projects, and by the acquisition also pay special attention to project management and enables human resource and corporate development. of Mesta Industri, which made us the leading paving cash flow. At the year-end, we initiated a programme Pursuing these efforts also creates shareholder value. company in Norway. The housing market was steady designed to cut costs by EUR 50 million and thereby I would like to thank our shareholders for their throughout the year in Finland and in Russia. In St Peimprove our efficiency and boost our competitiveness. confidence in Lemminkäinen’s ability to renew itself. tersburg, we strengthened our plot reserve, with the obThe new procurement model will generate the majorI would also like to thank our personnel for their dedijective of attaining similar residential construction volity of these savings. cated efforts toward creating better construction soumes to those we have in Finland. In technical building Key priority areas in development work include enlutions in a changing business environment. We will services, we made good progress with the development ergy and eco-efficiency, more effective use of IT syscontinue to do our very best to benefit our customers of customer-oriented maintenance and servicing. tems in construction, and service development. All of and shareholders. Better competitiveness bolstered our perforthese have a direct impact on building quality, efficienmance: net sales were up by 24 per cent to EUR 2.3 cy and sustainability. In human resources, we will pay Timo Kohtamäki billion, pre-tax profit quadrupled to EUR 34.6 milspecial attention to key competence development and President and CEO Review by the President & CEO – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 11 Operating environment The Eurozone debt crisis is clouding the outlook for investments in the energy supply and mining induslook in infrastructure is, however, quite good in certain the European construction industry. There is, howtries will probably continue for several years. areas. The Finnish mining industry, for example, has ever, quite a reasonable outlook for two of LemminkäiIn the long term, several global trends will generlaunched – or is in the process of planning – a total nen’s growth areas – Russia and the Nordic counate new requirements for construction. Urbanisation of over 40 mining projects. According to the Research tries. Large-scale traffic route projects are being imwill increase the appeal of underground construction, Institute of the Finnish Economy, net sales in the minplemented in the Nordic countries, and considerable the number of single-person households is rising, and ing industry will increase almost threefold by the midinvestments are also being made in the energy supaging populations will generate new needs for living dle of the decade (to EUR 2.5 billion), and the number ply and mining industries. Fewer building construcand services. Stricter energy and environmental regof employees will double up to 5,500 people. tion projects are expected to start up in Finland but in ulations will increase demand for new technologies. Russia the amount is growing. The outlook for renovations is likewise good. SWEDEN – BUILDING ROUTES AND NETWORKS Nordic economies are in moderately good shape – a The European financial crisis is rocking the world FINLAND – GROWTH CENTRES INVESTING good thing for Lemminkäinen, as we are rapidly groweconomy and also clouding the outlook for the conFinland generates almost two-thirds of Lemminkäiing in the Nordic countries. struction industry, as construction volumes run in tannen’s net sales. Some economic research organisaAccording to Sweden’s Ministry of Finance, the dem with national economies. tions have forecast a decline in Finland’s export-led country’s economy grew at a rate of four per cent durThe outlook for the Finnish economy darkened economy in 2012. ing 2011. Sweden’s industrial base and public sector rapidly in late 2011, and economic research institutes Regional variations in economic wellbeing are evieconomy have remained in good shape, and unemploylowered their economic forecasts. dent in construction. Growth centres – and the busiment has been low. However, according to the Ministry, Downturns reduce both householders’ eagerness nesses that operate in them – are continuing to invest growth will slow to about one per cent in 2012. to enter the housing market and companies’ willingin construction. Outside growth centres residential, In Sweden, the need for construction is driven by ness to make investments. On the other hand, mioffice and infrastructure construction are in decline. several factors, such as strengthening growth cengration is maintaining demand for housing. The posAccording to the Confederation of Finnish Contres and the deficit in residential production left by the sibilities of the public sector are more limited than in struction Industries RT, construction grew by about four previous recession. The lifting of rent control and the 2008–2009 when, for example, construction was per cent in 2011, although growth is expected to remain popularity of privately financed residential construcused to revive demand in Finland. In the municipal around the zero mark in 2012. Building construction tion are also boosting demand. sector, there is a deepening divide between growth grew briskly in 2011, while civil engineering contracted. The outlook is also bright for renovation. During centres and declining areas. In Finland, this can alConstruction will remain brisk in early 2012, but is exthe 2009 recession, the Swedish government enready be seen in, for example, a reduction in infrapected to slow towards the end of the year. couraged renovation through tax deductions, which in structure construction in the weakest areas. In 2011, the new start-ups in building constructurn boosted professional renovation. Low interest rates, migration and reasonable emtion remained at the same level as in the previous year The outlook is also promising for infrastructure ployement will back up the construction and housing – about 38 million cubic metres. It is expected that this construction in particular. The KTH Royal Institute market. On the other hand, the unstable economy will figure will fall to 35.5 million cubic metres in 2012. The of Technology has estimated that over EUR 3 billion slow down real estate investing and finding tenants number of residential start-ups fell to about 32,000 in needs to be spent on highway and railway renovation for business premises. 2011 (33,700). The fall was largely due to a reduction in alone. The government has published a EUR 50 billion There are also favourable signs. In Sweden, Norsubsidised residential production. This decline is estimatinvestment programme to improve the country’s infraway and Denmark, considerable investments have ed to continue in 2012, to about 28,000 residences. structure in 2011–2021. been made in multi-year projects for traffic routes and Infrastructure construction continued to contract, Similar renovation programmes have also been water and sewerage networks. In the private sector, falling about four per cent in 2011. The growth outlaunched at power stations and waterworks. The in12 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Operating environment Lemminkäinen’S order Book By BuSineSS SeCTor, ToTaL voLume of ConSTruCTion in finLand groSS domeSTiC produCT and ConSTruCTion in eur miLLion finLand, CHange in voLume % 800 10 700 5 600 500 0 400 –5 300 200 –10 100 0 –15 y09 y10 y11 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11e 12e 09 10 11 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11e 12e building construction Technical building services Gross Domestic product (GDp) infrastructure construction Construction Source: Statistics Finland, rT residential 22% infrastructure 14% deveLopmenT of infraSTruCTure ConSTruCTion dustry has announced that it will invest about EUR residential (renovation) 20% infrastructure (renovation) 6% in THe nordiC CounTrieS, % non-residential 23% 20 30 billion in 2008–2018. The mining industry has alnon-residential (renovation) 16% 15 so launched major projects with more on the table. Source: euroconstruct 11/2011 10 5 NORWAY – REPAIRING BAD ROADS 0 Like the Swedish economy, the Norwegian econo–5 my is in relatively good shape compared to many euDENMARK – BUILDING RAILWAYS –10 08 09 10 11e 12e 13e 14e ro-zone countries. According to advance information There is greater economic uncertainty in Denmark than 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 from Statistics Norway, the economy grew by 1.6 per in Sweden and Norway. Unemployment, a rise in interest Finland Denmark cent in 2011. The research institute also expects the rates, and the recession may push house prices down. Sweden norway growth rate to increase to 2.0 per cent in 2012. The brightest ray of light in the construction inSource: euroconstruct, December 2011 In Norway, the greatest growth in 2011 was seen dustry is in infrastructure construction, Lemminkäinin residential construction, which is largely driven by en’s focus area in Denmark. The government is investpopulation growth. Infrastructure projects are imporing in both highways and railways. The length of the tant for Lemminkäinen. The renovation projects that Copenhagen metro will double once work is completed SaLeS of reSidenCeS in ST peTerSBurg, miLLion m3 Norway launched as part of its economic recovery proin 2018. 3.0 gramme ended in 2010, and this led to an unusual de2.5 crease in infrastructure projects. In 2011, the growth RUSSIA – GROWTH IN THE HOUSING MARKET 2.0 rate of infrastructure construction rose to five per cent In addition to the Nordic countries, Russia is also one 1.5 and is expected to accelerate to up to 9 per cent durof Lemminkäinen’s key growth areas. According to the 1.0 ing 2012. This growth is being driven by substantial OECD’s December estimate, the Russian economy 0.5 investments in roads, energy projects, and major wagrew by four per cent in 2011 and will maintain this 0 03 04 03 04 05 05 0606 07 07 0808 0909 10 12 13e 11 12e 10 11e 13 ter and sewerage network projects. There are also rate for the next two years. However, the fluctuations Source: Consulting agency peterburgskaya nedvigimost some major rail projects underway, such as the metro in raw material prices caused by the financial crisis and tramway projects in Oslo and Bergen. could quickly reverse economic trends. Operating environment – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 13 Russia is almost debt free, and has even seen a LEMMINKÄINEN – ANSWERING MEGATRENDS A wave of retirements will put the industry into even surplus in its national budget. Unemployment is at Last year, Lemminkäinen identified the megatrends greater competition with other industries. 6.4 per cent, but only 2 per cent in Lemminkäinen’s that we believe will have the most impact on our opimportant city, St Petersburg. erations by 2015. The major challenges facing the Globalisation increases competition In recent years, construction has been the fastest construction industry come from urbanisation, aging Globalisation increases competition and the free growing sector of the Russian economy. For example, populations, and a rise in energy and environmental movement of labour. The globalisation of Finnish conabout half of the investments in the national economy challenges – but these are also opportunities for us. struction companies is continuing, but new kinds of in 2010 were in construction. Answering megatrends requires innovation, new types competitors are likewise entering the Finnish market. Residential construction accounts for just over of cooperation networks, a customer-oriented apConstruction companies must remain competihalf of Russia’s construction market, which is worth proach, and strategic agility. Good service in particular tive, by maintaining both their cost-effectiveness and about EUR 140 billion, in St Petersburg 3 billion. The is becoming increasingly important. quality standards. Customers must be offered innovaprice of new and old apartments in St Petersburg rose tive solutions that exceed their expectations. by eight per cent in early 2011. Urbanisation fuels renovation Internal migration to major cities is putting inAs populations become increasingly centred on towns New energy and environmental solutions required creasing pressure on the government to increase resand cities, there is a growing need for public transport, Construction and buildings account for about 40 per idential construction. The government wants to incycle routes, and pedestrian routes. This gives rise to cent of all energy consumption. Finland has creatcrease apartment sizes, and a rise in living standards new types of infrastructure solutions. Successful soed a vision for an energy-smart built environment in is making this goal realistic. lutions require a broad variety of cooperation with, for 2017, and its goal is to have the world’s best built example, the construction industry, IT companies, and environment. Energy efficiency is a key target across THE BALTIC COUNTRIES – RECOVERING transport operators. the globe. Even Russia, whose livelihood is enerThe economies of all the Baltic countries experienced a Urbanisation also creates an increased need to gy production, imposed new energy regulations on sharp downswing in 2009. The turn for the better began improve existing properties in city centres. When evalhousing in 2009. almost at the same rate. In 2011, the Latvian economy uating renovation requirements, the functionality of Achieving this target will require energy efficiengrew by slightly more than three per cent, while growth in the area as a whole is becoming more important than cy, low emissions, and high-quality construction. At Estonia and Lithuania was around the six per cent mark. individual buildings. the same time, an even broader variety of expertise is Growth is forecast to be around 3–5 per cent over the In the future, city construction will increasingbeing demanded from the construction industry in, for coming years. The European financial crisis could, howevly move below ground and above existing networks, example, everyday information technology and awareer, be strongly reflected in these countries’ economies. such as roads and railways. This will create a denser ness of social and cultural developments. TechniThe construction market experienced a deep recescity structure and improve ecological efficiency, and cal building systems are accounting for an increasing sion in 2009–2010, and recovery has been slow. Howservices will be in even easier reach. However, these proportion of construction costs, as technology plays ever, in 2011 the number of road construction and rentrends require a new kind of expertise from both cona central role in fulfilling the needs of both customers ovation projects exceeded that of the previous year. In structors and city planners – and potentially from poand the environment. Estonia, demand for infrastuctrure construction grew litical decision-makers, too. Customers and both public and private sector faster than in other Baltic countries. Investments in companies expect the construction industry to protransport form the largest subsector of the construcAging population needs new services vide more new business models that include lifecytion industry in Estonia. As populations age, construction will focus on solutions cle responsibility, for instance. Customers also expect that promote safety, accessibility, and wellbeing. The end-to-end service, which supports Lemminkäinen’s construction of business premises will also be increasstrategy of increased internal cooperation. Tendering ingly geared towards solutions that support health, larger entities is less work for customers and makes it coping at work, and a pleasant working environment. easier for construction companies to plan their work. Aging populations also challenge the construcResponsibility for maintenance further widens the tion industry to enhance its own working environment. perspective of construction companies. read more at www.lemminkainen.com/investors 14 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Operating environment building construction infrastructure construction technical building services * Source: Euroconstruct December 2011 Paving and mineral aggregates, foundation and geoResidential construction, commercial and office contechnical engineering, rock engineering, the construcstruction, industrial construction, renovation, property tion of road, street and railway networks, maintenance, Installation and maintenance of technical building and Operations development, life-cycle projects concrete products and concrete construction. property systems, telecom network construction. Demanding foundation, rock and concrete construction work, deep stabilisation, foundation reinforcement, specialised sheet piling, and anchoring and reinforcing dams and abutment walls. A long history of product Maintenance and upkeep of technical building sysReal estate development, property development, and production technology R&D in paving, for example, tems. Turnkey and negotiated contracts. Refrigeration Special know-how renovation Lemminkäinen’s own central laboratory. and sprinkler systems. main market areas Finland, Sweden and Russia Nordic countries, Baltic countries and Russia Finland Lemminkäinen as a Investing capital in our own production generates Maintenance and upkeep services generate uninterconstructor Strategic role profit in favourable economic climates. Steady result in all economic climates. rupted cash flow. Local presence, life-cycle models, building information Life-cycle expertise and energy-efficient solutions, modelling (BIM). Reputation for reliability and higherAn infrastructure expert that can also handle major nationwide coverage with a local presence, expertise Strengths than-average quality in St Petersburg. projects. and experience in implementing demanding projects. Residential construction in Finland: Population growth, urbanisation, rising rental rates, low interest rates. In Russia: development of consumer credit schemes, a growing and wealthier middle class. Deteriorating road networks, growth in the mining Construction of business premises: development of industry, more efficient land use, growth in the energy growth centres, a need for new and energy-efficient supply sector, governments’ increased investments in Generalisation of technical building systems, demands Growth drivers premises in growth centres. infrastructure development. on energy efficiency in residential construction. Consumers, property investors, public administration, Public administration, real estate developers, owners property owner-users, housing cooperatives, industrial Public administration, industry, property owners, other and users, building managers, housing cooperatives, Customers companies construction firms construction firms One of the largest building constructors in Finland. The largest infrastructure constructor in Finland. The One of the largest foreign residential constructors in second largest paving contractor and a major infraMarket position St Petersburg. structure constructor in the Nordic countries. One of the three largest players in Finland. YIT, NCC, Skanska, SRV and Peab. Several local conNCC, Skanska, Peab, YIT, Destia, KalliorakennusCompetitors struction firms in Sweden and in St Petersburg. yhtiöt, Veidekke, Strabag YIT, ARE, several smaller companies Market situation Finland: residential construction (new) EUR 6.1 billion, residential construction (renovation) EUR 5.6 billion, non-residential construction (new) EUR 6.4 billion, nonresidential construction (renovation) EUR 4.4 billion. St Infrastructure construction (incl. renovation) Petersburg: residential construction (new) EUR 2.8 billion. Finland: EUR 5.3 billion Sweden: residential construction (new) EUR 6.8 billion, All Nordic countries: EUR 30.2 billion Market size* non-residential construction (renovation) EUR 12.4 billion. Baltic countries: EUR 3.5 billion Finland: EUR 4.3 billion Operating environment – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 15 Towards the best way to build Our vision, The best way to build, applies to everyvian infrastructure construction. In Russia, we have organically and through acquisitions. thing we do: we create conditions that make living, bolstered our reserve of plots, and will have the capacIn June 2011, we completed the acquisition of working and travelling easy, safe and healthy. The ity to start building 1,000 residential units per year in Mesta Industri A/S, previously owned by the state of achievement of our vision requires the constant de2013. Renovation operations have also seen steady Norway. Owing to this acquisition, we became one of velopment of our operations. Profitable growth cregrowth. Our operations are primarily concentrated in the largest paving contractors in Norway. The integraates the preconditions for this. project development in growth centres and the repurtion of Mesta operations with Lemminkäinen has proposing of buildings. The construction activities of our ceeded as planned. In rock engineering, we continued Lemminkäinen is undergoing renewal into a unified, one unified Lemminkäinen are particularly focused on the development of Nordic resource base, while alprofitably growing construction firm. We are develthe improvement of quality and internal efficiency in so expanding our operations to Norway, where we seoping our business operations, while bolstering our fisupport services and acquisitions, for instance. cured an extensive hydropower plant project. We bolnancial position, streamlining our structure and harOn the basis of the strategy review, we confirmed stered our reserve of plots with regard to residential monising our operating practices. Using this approach, our previous financial goals and estimated they can be construction in Finland and St Petersburg. We signed we are seeking average annual net sales growth of 10 achieved by the end of the strategy period. The coma contract that will enable us to build 2,000 residenper cent, a return on investment of over 18 per cent pany’s main objectives for 2012–2013 are still to tial units in Vasily island in central St Petersburg. Conand an equity ratio of at least 35 per cent. Anothpursue profitable growth and bolster solvency. We will struction will commence this year. We also kicked off er goal is steady distribution of dividends in which a shift the focus of business operations to more profitthe construction of 400 residential units in the centre minimum of 40 per cent of the financial year’s profit able segments. These include own residential develof St Petersburg. is distributed to shareholders as dividends. opment and maintenance and servicing for technical In 2012, we will especially concentrate on imbuilding systems. Growth is being sought from operaproving profitability and competitiveness in our FinnTHE MAIN GOAL: IMPROVING PROFITABILITY tions outside Finland. ish operations. Moreover, our goal is to enhance the Lemminkäinen’s current strategy, extending to 2013, use of capital. In Building Construction, the aim is to was reviewed at the mid-point of the strategy period. STRATEGY IS IMPLEMENTED THROUGH STRAincrease the share of real estate development. MainTo start off, we determined the global megatrends TEGIC PROGRAMMES tenance and up keep services for technical building that are significant to Lemminkäinen (see p. 14 in the In order to achieve our goals, we will focus on five strasystems will also be bolstered. We will increasingly annual report) through a participation-inducing protegic themes. These are profitable growth, customer seek growth from international operations: residencess. After this, we specified the competitive stratexperience, best solutions, the development of mantial construction in St Petersburg and infrastructure egies of our business operations. We assessed such agement skills and supervisor work, and efficient operaconstruction in Norway, Denmark and Sweden. On 1 matters as changes in the operating environment and tions. We will manage the implementation of our stratJanuary 2012, we founded a fourth business sector, competitive field, our own range of services and prodegy by means of strategic programmes and projects. International Operations, information on which can be ucts, the historical financial development of business found page 20 in the annual report. operations, and our expertise and competencies. Profitable growth We also conducted an assessment of the realiA strong market position creates great preconditions Customer experience sation of this strategy. Our profitability development for the development of profitability. We want to retain We want to focus our sales activities and resources had been affected by such factors as the slower-thanour leading market position in our home market, comincreasingly on customers and projects that enable expected recovery from the 2008–2009 recession prising the other Nordic countries, Russia and the Balus to provide the most added value for our customers. in our Finnish and Baltic business operations. On the tic countries, in addition to Finland. This requires conCustomer relationship management also improves the other hand, we have made fast progress in Scandinatinuous development and growth of operations both predictability and efficiency of operations. 16 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Towards the best way to build In 2011, we set clear, Group-wide goals for customer relationship management, while drafting a road map. We invested in key customer relationships and the improved co-operation of our various business Technical Building Services, 50% sectors at the customer interface. In the Technical Building Services business sector, we packaged the maintenance and upkeep services premier products of maintenance and upkeep services into distinctive product family in, for instance, energy The objective is to raise the service business share of the sector’s net sales to maintenance, electrical safety services and work safeapprox. 50 per cent. ty assessments. In residential construction, we developed more customer-oriented site design. We also focused on developing the brand, sales and marketing. In St Petersburg we commenced co-operation with banks in order to improve the opportunities for homebuyers to be granted credit. In 2012, we will continue the specification and implementation of commercial processes. We seek profBuilding Construction, 50% itable growth through improved management of key customer relationships. We will seek to better utilise real estate development Lemminkäinen’s entire range of expertise in order to obtain a competitive advantage in extensive projects. The objective is to increase the share of real estate development to over 50 per cent of the sector’s net sales. Best solutions We focus development on areas that are essential to profitable growth: the utilisation of IT in construction, environmental and energy efficiency and services development. We will complement our expertise with a network comprising the best operators in the sector. In 2011, we enhanced the development and productisation of maintenance and upkeep services related to technical building services. In February, we were granted a patent for a solution for raising apartment buildings. We set new environmental targets for the current strategy period and created a road map for the achievement of these targets. The enhancement programme for material efficiency, initiated in 2010, continued. By enhancing material efficiency we Towards the best way to build – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 17 Infrastructure Construction, € 100 Residential construction 1,000 Nordic countries million in Russia pcs The objective is to increase net sales from infrastructure construction in Norway, The objective is 1,000 residential start-ups annually. Denmark and Sweden by a total of about EUR 100 million in 2012–2013. are able not only to reduce adverse environmental efthe improvement of energy-efficiency in old buildings, programmes we took into use a new tool for project fects but also to increase the efficiency of production. and underground construction, for instance. portfolio management. Building information modelling was developed in conWe concentrated on supporting supervisor work nection with the design of new projects including the Improvement of management skills throughout these revisions, while also improved comone in Töölönlahti, in the centre of Helsinki. and supervisor work munications with supervisors. In occupational health We are constantly investing in the efficiency of The development of the competence of managecare, we implemented the so-called early-support our operations and the transfer of best practices withment and the organisation is the precondition for the model in which supervisors are provided with informain Lemminkäinen. The revised operating models of our success of our strategic programmes. We want the tion and support for the preventive handling of occupabusiness sectors improve the flexible use and mobilbest people in the construction business to be emtional health risks. We also focused on preventive ocity of labour and expertise. Moreover, we are constantployed by us. We are always developing the expertise cupational health work. We developed our rewarding ly developing construction quality while striving to enof our personnel and HR processes, while also supschemes to better correspond with our strategic goals. hance the efficiency of production. porting supervisors in the implementation of LemIn 2012, we intend to particularly concentrate on We are developing our special expertise in, for inminkäinen’s modernisation. the development of the managing model and change stance, energy-efficient solutions and the construcWe implemented an extensive, participation-inmanagement. This will support the development of tion of demanding urban projects. We boast diverse ducing strategy process in 2011. In order to improve future managers and key performers. We will bolster expertise with regard to the repurposing of premises, the implementation and monitoring of our strategic supervisor skills. Furthermore, we will improve our em18 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Towards the best way to build Optimisation of € 100 Lemminkäinen’s € 50 working capital million efficiency programme million The objective is to reduce net working capital by approx. EUR 100 million. The goal is annual cost-savings of EUR 50 million. Procurements will yield about EUR 30 million of these savings. ployer image both internally and externally in order to In order to bolster the balance sheet, we initiated a ensure the acquisition of skilled employees. working capital optimisation programme in the spring of 2011, the objective of which is to reduce the amount Efficient operations of net working capital by around EUR 100 million by The development of key processes and operating systhe end of 2013. Methods include the enhancement of tems enhances operational efficiency and harmonithe efficiency of own processes, for instance. sation of operations. Efficient operations improve our In the autumn we launched an efficiency procompetitiveness and the profitability of our operations. gramme. We seek annual cost savings of EUR 50 milAt the start of 2011, we switched to a more cenlion from 2014 onwards. As part of this programme, tralised operating model in HR, financial administrawe held employee negotiations, as a result of which tion, IT, as well as communications and marketing. We we will cut a maximum of 300 man-years during concentrated our procurement activities in one organ2012. We are seeking an additional boost from, for isation, determining purchasing categories and the instance, acquisitions, more flexible use of resources, persons responsible for them. We commenced the deand better utilisation of best practices. velopment of a unified management information sysAn efficient Lemminkäinen that works in unison tem for the Group’s financial administration activities. makes it easier for our customers to deal with us. read more at www.lemminkainen.com/company Towards the best way to build – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 19 neT SaLeS By markeT area perSonneL By markeT area, on average 2011 2010 Investments by area, EUR million Finland 43.1 32.9 Other Nordic Countries 36.4 19.4 Russia and Eastern-Europe 2.0 1.7 Other countries 2.5 5.6 Total 84.0 59.6 Personnel expenses by area, EUR million Finland 336.4 324.0 Other Nordic Countries 87.4 64.9 Russia and Eastern-Europe 11.9 7.6 Other countries 20.8 19.2 Total 456.5 415.8 Finland 66% Finland 69% other countries 2% other nordic countries 23% other nordic countries 14% russia and eastern europe 5% baltic countries 9% other countries 6% russia and eastern europe 6% Growth from operations outside Finland We are one of the leading paving contractors in We aim to become at least as large a provider of In addition to Finland, Lemminkäinen’s main market Norway and Denmark. In Norway, we have strengthresidential construction in Russia as in Finland. We areas comprise Russia, the other Nordic countries, and ened our market position through acquisitions in the have systematically increased our building site rethe Baltic countries. Additionally, we are realising profields of paving and rock engineering services. We see serves in St Petersburg. Our aim is to begin the conjects in 30 countries. In 2011, operations outside Finparticularly good growth opportunities in rock engistruction of 1,000 new apartments as early as 2013. land accounted for 34 per cent of our net sales and neering in the coming years. We are participating in In addition to residential construction, we provide employed 2,590 people. infrastructure construction in various ways in Sweden, services for Finnish and other western companies in For us, the greatest prospects for profitable where we are particularly known for rock engineering. Russia, as a supplier for their property investments. growth of our business lie outside Finland. To accelThe market outlook and growth potential seem posWe believe that the market for these services will erate growth, we initiated a fourth business sector at itive for rock engineering, paving and foundation and grow in the coming years. A project associated with the beginning of this year, International Operations. civil engineering. this is our Kaluga industrial park, located near MosThis business sector change aims to take better acIn Sweden, we are a middle-sized, local building cow, whose development is underway. count of these growth markets in operational manconstructor. Best now as a renovator, our subsidiary If necessary, we speed up our growth through acquiagement and development. Our goal is to increase the Rekab AB also engages in housing production. In resitions. On the other hand, we also divest international share of International Operations to approximately 40 cent years, its operations have been expanded from operations which do not reach our profitability targets or per cent of net sales in the next few years. the eastern coast to other growth centres. support our strategy. In late 2011, for example, we decided to close our branches in India and Egypt. 20 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Towards the best way to build Risk management Risk management is a fundamental aspect of our sible for identifying any risks relating to their own work market and, for example, a rapid rise in interest rates business management. Our risk management seeks and bringing them to the attention of their supervisor. can quickly increase market risks. to increase shareholder value and ensure that we We use bitumen in our asphalt production and, as achieve our strategic and operative targets. Lemminkäinen’s major risks the price of bitumen is tied to the global price of oil, Strategic risks we use oil derivatives and contracts to manage this We define risks as either internal or external factors Operating environment risks price risk. that, if they were realised, would hamper our ability Fluctuations in the world economy, megatrends in our to achieve our strategic and financial objectives. We operating environment, and changes in political and Operative risks evaluate the significance of a risk using a combination technological factors affect demand for LemminkäiProject risks of the likelihood of the event occurring and its effect. nen’s products and services and the company’s cost Project risks may be associated with, for example, At Lemminkäinen, risk management is a continulevel. When planning our operations, we actively moncosts and implementation management. These are al and comprehensive process. It’s part of our everyday itor – and attempt to forecast – changes in our opercontrolled through systematic project management at work and management processes. ating environment, thereby minimising any associated both the tender and implementation stage. The occarisks. You can read about our operating environment sional unsuccessful project does not, however, signifiResponsibility on page 12. cantly affect our financial position. Our risk management is based on the risk manageClimate change, and unusual or harsh weather ment policies approved by the Board of Directors in Market risks can weaken the profitability of our operations by inter2011. The Board also supervises the implementaOperations in Finland generate 66 per cent of Lemrupting or delaying projects. Mild winters on the other tion of our risk management. The Board defines the minkäinen’s net sales, and about half of our busihand extend our working season. Group’s risk-taking capacity and willingness to take ness functions are dependent on building construcrisks, both as part of its strategy and annual planning tion in Finland. Although construction in Finland grew Organisational risks processes and through its decisions. The Board’s Auin 2011, growth is expected to halt or even decline in We manage the risks associated with the growth and dit Committee monitors the sufficiency and effective2012. The cyclical sensitivity of new construction internationalisation of our organisation by maintaining ness of the Group’s risk management in accordance poses the most significant market risk to our operaawareness of political, cultural and legislative factors with the annual Action Plan. tions. We manage this risk by structural and operain our business countries, and by standardising our The President & CEO is responsible for the impletional means. operating methods and reporting systems. mentation of risk management. The CFO holds priThe more stable demand for infrastructure conAs our operations are labour-intensive, the availmary responsibility for managing financial risks with struction in the Nordic countries balances out flucability of skilled personnel is essential for our growth. support from our business sectors’ management. The tuating volumes in new domestic construction, as do We seek to safeguard our organisation’s expertise and executive responsible for risk management coordimaintenance and upkeep, effectiveness by avoiding uneven age structures and nates policies and processes, and reports risks to the In our own development of residential and busiminimising personnel turnover. In 2011, we invested in President & CEO, the Executive Board and the Board ness locations, we manage the sales and price risks developing the recruitment process, orientation, trainof Directors. He also works with units and functions to stemming from unstable demand by only beginning ing, good managerial work, key performers, and fair develop risk management guidelines and procedures. construction once a sufficient number of advance resand motivating remuneration. The heads of our business sectors, units and funcervations have been made. In addition, we seek to sell tions are responsible for executing risk management business premises to property investors in the initial Change management risks in their own organisations. Every employee is responphase of construction at the latest. Changes in the In line with its strategy Lemminkäinen is overhauling Risk management – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 21 lemminkäinen’s risk map ing. By managing financial risks, we seek to reduce the uncertainty that changes in financial markets may cause Strategic risks Operative risks to our value, result and cash flow. Our management of financial risks is based on the treasury policy approved by ██ Operating environment risks ██ Project risks the Board of Directors, which defines the operating prin██ Market risks ██ Contractual risks ciples and division of responsibility in risk management ██ Technology risks ██ Organisational risks and funding activities. ██ Regulatory risks ██ Change management risks Interest rate risk ██ Merger & acquisition risks ██ IT risks Fluctuations in interest rates have an impact on Lem██ Reputation risks ██ Communications risks minkäinen’s result and cash flows. We seek to mini██ Stoppage risks mise our interest rate sensitivity by setting the aver██ Malpractice risks age interest rate fixing period of our liabilities to the same level as the predicted interest rate sensitivity of operations. We can take out both variable and fixed lemminkäinen rate long term loans. In order to optimise our interest rate risk, the ratio of fixed to variable rate loans can also be changed using interest rate derivatives. ██ Funding and liquidity risks ██ Interest rate risks ██ Occupational safety risks Foreign exchange rate risk ██ Foreign exchange rate risks ██ Occupational health risks Exchange rate risks mainly arise in the form of trans██ Tax risks ██ Personnel risks lation and transaction risks. Translation risks occur ██ Credit risks ██ Environmental risks through differences in currency exchange rates when the income statements and balance sheets of our for██ Financial reporting risks ██ Security risks eign companies are translated into the Group’s home ██ Capital structure risks ██ Natural disaster risks currency. In accordance with our treasury policy, we primarily protect ourselves from translation risks by Financial risks Hazard risks ensuring that all equity funds in foreign companies are kept sufficiently small. Transaction risks arise in foreign currency denominated transactions from operating and financing activities. We seek to hedge our transaction risks of itself by becoming an even more unified construction pose challenges during the implementation of changbusiness operations primarily by operative means. The company. As part of this change, the structure of the es. Managers who are well-versed in change manageremaining transaction risk is hedged by using instruGroup and the operating model of the business funcment and successful internal communications that ments such as foreign currency derivatives or foreign tions were changed. At the beginning of 2011, support support change play key roles in risk management. currency loans. services, HR, legal affairs, finance, IT as well as comAccordingly, managerial training and communications munications and marketing changed over to a more were developed in 2011. Funding and liquidity risks centralised operating model. Procurements are also In order to guarantee uninterrupted operations, we being centralised. In autumn 2011, we started up an Financial risks must ensure access to sufficient funding under all cirefficiency programme to accelerate our profitability In the course of its operations, Lemminkäinen is exposed cumstances. We must cover the running of our daytrend, and the programme involved personnel reducto financial risks, the major ones being interest rate, exto-day operations whilst ensuring adequate liquidity tions. HR management and personnel’s commitment change rate, liquidity and credit and availability of fundand the risk premium required to implement strategic 22 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Risk management projects. We seek to optimise the use of our liquid asLitigations The ruling rendered by the SAC in 2009 as it stands sets in funding business operations and to minimise Writs of summons filed at district court level by the does not mean that Lemminkäinen or the other asphalt ininterest and other financial costs. Finnish state and a number of municipalities pose dustry companies actually caused any damages to the asOur Group Treasury is responsible for overall lia risk. In 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court phalt work clients. The ruling does not concern the individquidity management and ensuring that we have ade(SAC) ordered Finnish asphalt industry companies to ual contracts that the claimants cited in support of their quate credit lines and a sufficient number of financing pay an infringement fine for violations of the Act on claims. Nor does the ruling concern the pricing of individusources. The Treasury also ensures that our loans maCompetition Restrictions. al contracts. The SAC has not investigated the contention ture evenly over several years. Our liquidity risk manAt the end of 2011, 40 claims for damages that inflated prices have been charged for the contracts. agement is based on monthly forecasts and daily cash brought by municipalities and the Finnish state (FinnLemminkäinen’s initial position is that the claims flow planning. ish Transport Agency) were pending against Lemfor damages are without foundation. The claims will be minkäinen and other asphalt industry companies in processed in the order and schedule set by the District Credit risk the District Court. The claimants contend that restricCourt. Preparatory hearings started in January 2012. A We are exposed to credit risks through all of the tions of competition have caused them damages. The more detailed schedule of the process and the dates of Group’s receivables – both trade receivables and total amount of damages sought from Lemminkäinen the rulings is not available at the present time. those associated with financial intermediaries totals about EUR 117 million. After the Finnish TransNo provisions have been made for the actions filed (cash, deposits, derivatives and equivalents). We port Agency changed its claim, the total amount of at the district court by the Finnish Road Administramanage our credit risk by retaining possession of claims rose in January 2011 by approximately EUR tion and the said municipalities. buildings until we have received payment for their 15 million. The claims presented in the statements of Lemminkäinen will provide information on the construction, and by minimising and spreading out claim differ from each other as regards their amounts proceedings in its interim reports or in separate releasour receivables. and grounds. es, as necessary. Capital structure risks Capital structure, capital invested in operations, and interest-bearing liabilities pose a risk to profitability. We employ effective capital management to ensure that our company remains operational and competitive whatever the economic climate. We also continually monitor our liabilities, equity ratio, and net debt to Most significant risks EBITDA ratio. This enables us to maintain a sufficient According to the Group’s risk analysis in spring 2011, Lemminkäinen’s most risk-taking capacity and effective loan-servicing abilsignificant risks are: ity, whilst also paying good dividends. ██ Change management Accident risks ██ Working capacity risks Our accident risks are mainly associated with the en██ Fluctuations in the world economy vironment, working capacity, and occupational health, ██ Availability of funding safety and wellbeing. The majority of our environmental effects stem from our production facilities, construction, and transportation. For more detailed information about environmental issues, see the Material and energy efficiency section of the annual report on page 40. You can read more about occupational safety in the Occupational health, safety and wellbeing section starting on page 54. Risk management – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 23 Financial development 2011 neT SaLeS and groWTH in neT SaLeS 3,000 30 2,000 20 1,000 10 In 2011, Lemminkäinen’s net sales grew by 24 perGrowth in residential construction in 0 0 cent, and profitability improved markedly compared St Petersburg –1,000 –10 to the previous year. This growth was fuelled by inIn the spring, we announced an extensive residential –2,000 –20 frastructure construction, where business flourconstruction project on Vasily Island in downtown St ished, especially in Denmark and Norway. Petersburg. In total, this project is worth around EUR 07 08 09 10 11 net sales, eur million annual growth in net sales, % 400 million and includes about 2,000 residential GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY units, plus commercial and office premises. A project Infrastructure construction in good health for 150 residential units was completed in St Peterspre Tax profiT 120 6 In 2011, growth was fuelled by Infrastructure Conburg in 2011. Moreover, a new project covering ap100 5 struction, where all business sectors flourished proximately 400 units was launched, also on Vas80 4 throughout the year. The paving operations in Norily Island. In addition to infrastructure construction 60 3 way and Denmark, special contracting, and concrete in the Nordic countries we believe that our greatest 40 2 business were particular sources of growth. Through potential for growth lies in residential construction in 20 1 the acquisition of Mesta Industri, the net sales of our the St Petersburg region. Our future target is to start0 0 –20 –1 paving operations in Norway exceeded those of Finup approximately 1,000 residential units each year in y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 land for the first time. In Infrastructure Construction, St Petersburg. 07 08 09 10 11 pre tax profit, eur million % of net sales net sales were boosted by the capital gains of approximately EUR 15 million created by the sale of the Profitability of Technical Building Services imroofing business, and negative goodwill of approxiproved towards the end of the year reTurn on inveSTmenT, % 25 mately EUR 11 million recognised from the Mesta InTechnical Building Services have recovered relatively dustri acquisition. Our target is to increase net sales slowly from the 2008 recession: competition in this 20 from Infrastructure Construction in Norway, Denmark field has been intense. A rise in certain raw materi15 and Sweden by a total of about EUR 100 million in al and input prices has also burdened earnings trends 10 2012–2013. in the sector. Due to the weakened market situation, 5 we implemented several efficiency measures in our 0 Building Construction in Finland faces challenges Technical Building Services sector. Towards the end y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 In Building Construction, our result was burdened by of the year, more efficient sales and marketing op07 08 09 10 11 the weak profitability of competitive contracting. In erations, and the transfer of our operational focus to 2011, we began the construction of a total of 1,612 maintenance and upkeep services, began to impact on eQuiTy raTio, % (2,252) new residential units, of which 1,076 (1,004) the sector’s result. Our target is to raise the share of 35 were own development. 1,077 (418) residential units maintenance and upkeep services from its current 30 30 25 constructed as own development were completed. per cent to at least half of the entire business sector’s 20 The rate of sales for residential units weakened somenet sales. 15 what towards the end of the year. In 2011, our own 10 development accounted for approximately 30 per cent All-time high order book 5 of all building construction production; our target is to Our order book was good throughout the year, reach0 y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 increase this share to 50 per cent in future years. ing an all-time high of over EUR 1.7 billion in the sec07 08 09 10 11 24 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – strategy – Financial development 2011 Financial target Target level Actual in 2011 Actual in 2010 Return on investment over 18 per cent at the end of the strategic period 10.8% 7.0% Equity ratio at least 35 per cent 30.8% 35.0% Growth in net sales 10 per cent on average by the end of the strategic period 24% –4% Payment of dividend at least 40 per cent of the result for the financial period 28% 1) over 100% ¹) Board of Directors’ proposal to AGM ond quarter. This was particularly due to Nordic inprevious year, partly due to the growth in business voltotal was EUR 1,243 million, i.e. approximately 17 per frastructure construction, and in part the acquisition ume. At the end of the year, around half of our intercent above the previous year. The key reasons for balof Mesta Industri AS. In Finland, the order book grew est-bearing debt was long-term. The structure and ance sheet growth were growth in our business volthanks to active residential development and spematurity profiles of our debt portfolio remained the umes and increased emphasis on our own residential cial contracting in infrastructure construction. At year same as in the previous year. After the financial redevelopment. Our equity ratio of 30.8 per cent reend, our order book amounted to EUR 1.4 billion (1.2). structuring of 2010, our net financing expenses have mained below our long-term target. clearly fallen. Efficiency programme to accelerate profitability More efficient working capital management improvement Cash reserves strengthened in preparation for Growth in business volumes and the capital invested In October, we launched an efficiency programme uncertainty in financial markets in own residential development increased our working which is expected to generate annual cost savings of In the autumn of 2011, we prepared for lower availacapital in 2011. We have paid special attention to the EUR 50 million after 2013. Of these savings, roughbility of financing, strengthening our cash reserve by management and optimisation of our working capital. ly 30 million will be generated through more efficient drawing down the credit lines at our disposal. This By the end of 2013, we aim to reduce our net working procurement, and 20 million by improving the effimomentarily increased our liquid assets and interestcapital by approximately EUR 100 million. ciency of our own operations, processes, regional ofbearing debt. When the uncertainty abated, the funds fice network and organisational and management were returned. At the end of the year our undrawn structures. We estimate that around EUR 20 million credit lines stood at EUR 140 million. of these savings will already materialise in 2012. Year-on-year growth in the balance sheet FINANCING AND BALANCE SHEET Strengthening of our cash reserve also showed in the Our financing structure remained the same momentary growth of our balance sheet during the Our interest-bearing debt was a little higher than the third quarter. By the end of the year, our balance sheet Financial development 2011 – strategy – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 25 Encounters: Focus on the surrounding environment in city-centre projects Mutual trust as well as an honest and open way of working guarantee efficient operations on the PHämppi parking facility site. Lemminkäinen’s innovative solutions and experience in working in city-centre environments help to ensure that life around the site continues as normally as possible. P-HÄMPPI PARKING FACILITY, TAMPERE Lemminkäinen continues with the P-Hämppi contract with furnishing the interior of the parking facility in Tampere city centre. The underground facility will offer 971 parking spaces and is scheduled for completion in November 2012. 26 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Encounters Lemminkäinen’s innovative solutions make it easier to work in busy city centres. Lemminkäinen is furnishing the interior of the new unnearby must be kept up to date about what’s happenderground parking facility that’s currently being built ing onsite, surrounding properties must be able to opfor Finnpark Oy in Tampere city centre. The P-Hämperate as normally as possible, and traffic disruptions pi parking facility contract, which began in September must be kept to a minimum. Hiltunen says that Lem2011, includes some of our specialised infrastructure minkäinen’s innovative approach makes it easier to expertise, such as concrete and foundation construcwork on and around highly trafficked streets. The clition, surfacing, and tensioning. We were also previent’s original plans were improved by keeping a nearously involved in the rock excavation and construction by main street open to bus and other traffic. Techniphases of the project. cal solutions were designed to operate around the Finnpark and Lemminkäinen have worked togethtraffic. Finnpark and Lemminkäinen also arranged er before. Cooperation between our two companies joint monthly briefings to ensure that those living and began with the P-Frenckell parking facility, which was working nearby were kept informed. built in Tampere in 2001–2003. Finnpark Oy’s ManAccording to Hiltunen, a successful contract reaging Director, Markku Hiltunen, says that, during the quires not only technical expertise, but also good perP-Frenckell project, Lemminkäinen proved itself to be sonal skills. When relations between all players on a a top professional in the implementation of city-censite are good, it’s easy to solve any potential problems tre projects. that arise. Hiltunen also underlines the importance Lemminkäinen’s project manger, Heikki Keränen, of partners having shared values. The key words at says that working in major city centres places a spethe P-Hämppi site are: trust, openness, and honesty. cial set of requirements on both implementation and When working with a reliable contractor, clients don’t planning, as the surrounding environment must be need to worry about safety, even during the potentially taken into consideration. Those living and working most dangerous phases of construction. Markku Hiltunen from Finnpark Oy (left), Heikki Keränen from Lemminkäinen (right). Encounters – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 27 Building Construction Residential construction in Finland and building conHowever, the operating environment for construcSignificant additions to the order book were made struction in Sweden increased the net sales of the tion remained relatively stable. The drop in consumparticularly in Sweden and Russia. Lemminkäinen Building Construction business secers’ confidence in their own economy in late 2011 was In Sweden, the workload was good in both new tor. The result was heavily focused on Q4. Our goal is not manifested in housing sales, in which low interconstruction and renovation. We turned a good profit, to increase the share of real estate development, and est rates and the migration into growth centres mainwhile also expanding our operations in the Malmö area. bolster the market share of residential construction. tained demand for new housing. Due to the uncertain economic situation, the busiWE BUILT OVER 1,000 RESIDENTIAL UNITS Our Building Construction services include residential nesses are reluctant to invest in growth which, in turn, IN FINLAND construction, commercial and office construction, indropped the demand for business premises. UnderIn the review period, Lemminkäinen kicked off the dustrial and logistics construction and renovation. We utilisation rates of office buildings were high. In comconstruction of 1,612 (2,252) new residential units in also provide property management services. mercial construction, retail business is moving to city Finland. 1,076 (1,004) units were own development. Our key customer groups are homebuyers, resicentres. This caused a slight increase in the yield reAfter a busy spring, the increasing uncertainty of dential and other real estate investors, developers, and quirements for premises outside growth centres. the economic situation put the brakes on our own resleaseholders and owner-users of commercial premises. Difficulty in securing leaseholders and investor idential start-ups. Our residential unit sales remained In 2011, 81 per cent of the net sales came from Finland. timidity slowed down the launch of new office and relatively stable throughout the year, even though We are a locally known residential construcbusiness building projects. The number of start-ups in sales periods grew longer towards the end the year. tor and renovator in Sweden. The Swedish operaindustrial construction remained low. One of the focuses of our development activities tions amounted to 12 per cent (10) of our net sales. is on innovative services and solutions. In February The share of net sales generated in Russia, primarily RESIDENTAL CONSTRUCTION INCREASED THE 2011, the European Patent Organisation EPO awardfrom residential construction in St Petersburg, was 7 NET SALES ed Lemminkäinen a so-called ’European patent’ for a (7) per cent. The net sales of Building Construction saw year-onmethod of increasing an apartment building’s height. The Building Construction sector continued year growth of 16 per cent, amounting to EUR 894.1 The patent awarded for this method will open new streamlining its organisational structure and managemillion (770.2). Net sales growth was generated primarket opportunities for us, for example with regard to ment model in 2011. These revisions will assist us in marily by housing development and public work and the utilisation of unused building rights. The retrofitdeveloping into a more business-oriented organisaprojects in Finland. Operating profit amounted to EUR ting solution for elevators, patented earlier, has already tion, while promoting the transfer of best practices 16.3 million (25.6). The earnings were particularly afbeen used at 60 sites. within the business sector and enhancing efficiency. fected by weak profitability in competitive contractSince the start of 2012, Building Construction ing and the rise in construction costs. The earnings in POTENTIAL IN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN operations outside Finland have been included in the 2010 included also non-recurring capital gains from We are seeking growth through residential construcnew International Operations business sector. equipment sales. tion in Russia – especially the St Petersburg area. We The order book for Building Construction grew, aim to start up the construction of about 1,000 resiTWOFOLD YEAR IN THE FINNISH MARKET amounting to EUR 768.5 million (683.9) at the end dential units annually in the St Petersburg region. In 2011, the Finnish building construction market of 2011. The prices of new and old apartments in St Petersgrew by around four per cent. The year was twofold The net sales of operations outside Finland inburg rose by about eight per cent in 2011. The opportuin terms of economic trends. After the busy spring, creased to EUR 173 million (194), representing a nities for Russian homebuyers to obtain mortgages, and the market stagnated, as the Eurozone debt crisis in19 per cent share of the business sector’s entire their purchasing power, have improved substantially, creased uncertainty. net sales. which has increased demand for new housing. 28 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Building Construction neT SaLeS neT SaLeS By markeT area neT SaLeS, eur miLLion 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 operaTing profiT, eur miLLion 40 35 ToimiaLaT, 30 talonrakentaminen 25 20 own residential development 27% Finland 81% 15 own commercial development 5% other nordic countries 12% 10 5 Contracting services 51% russia and eastern europe 7% 0 renovation 16% y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 property management 1% ToimiaLaT, talonrakentaminen As the standard of living increases, Russian FROM CONSTRUCTION TO SERVICE MODEL Residential development is profitable but entails homebuyers are starting to value spacious living arOur goal is to increase the share of real estate develsales and price risks, since units under construction rangements, good location, high level of quality and opment to 50 per cent of the business sector’s net and unsold units tie up capital. These risks are manfurnishing, and comfort of use. The apartments we sales by the end of 2013. In 2011, the share of real aged, for instance, by waiting until there is a suffihave built in St Petersburg represent markedly highestate development amounted to around 30 per cent cient number of advance orders to start construction er quality than traditional bulk construction in the of our net sales. The development of our residenon new projects and units. We are developing our area, in addition to occupying prime locations near tial construction in the past few years supports the operations towards a service business approach. We the city centre. achievement of this goal. As much as 70 per cent of want to create an operating model that takes betThe order book for Building Construction was also residential construction kicked off by the company in ter account of customer needs as early as the planimproved in Sweden where we primarily operate as a 2011 comprised own development, whereas in 2010 ning phase. building residential constructor and renovator of public and 2009 this figure was 50 per cent and 25 per We are bolstering our building construction operabuildings. The outlook for the next few years is healthy. cent, respectively. tions in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and the most Building Construction – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 29 It is our goal to increase the share of real estate development. significant regional centres in Finland. We are also ing of the public sector and rapidly proliferating life Our nationwide network and knowledge of local seeking growth from operations outside Finland, and cycle projects enlarge our potential market. markets enable us to acquire first-rate plots. particularly from residential construction in Russia. In addition to general economic circumstances, Our versatile and extensive land reserves provide In renovation, which is enjoying steady growth, we the construction market is steered by the increasingly us with a substantial competitive advantage that reinare concentrating especially on the Helsinki Metropolindividual needs of property owners and users. forces our market position, while providing us with the itan Area. Growth can be found in conventional basic Urbanisation, the aging of the population, and the capacity for rapid initiation of construction projects. renovation, as well as height-raising and elevator proincrease in the number of one-person households injects for apartment buildings. crease the demand for apartment buildings. Central In competitive contracting, we intend to enhance trade corporations are constantly seeking new busiour profitability by concentrating on projects in which ness locations, while companies look for business we can provide additional value to our customers. We premises that can be flexibly adjusted. have strong competence particularly in large commerAt the same time, location, good transport concial and office premises projects. nections and the proximity of services are gaining sigOutsourcing of services will continue in the propnificance as selection criteria. Ever stricter environerty and business premises services market as commental and energy regulations increase the quality panies concentrate on their core activities. The openrequirements for design and production. 30 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Building Construction three main goals for year 2012 Our 2012 Why it’s a goal How we WILL goals achieve it Our projects will be developed with customer focus and we will To shift the focus of our business onto real estate development and When seeking to improve profitability in this business sector, real estate secure an extensive range of plot reserves, which corresponds to negotiated contracts. development and negotiated contracts have the greatest effect. It is a the markets and our strategy. We’ll enhance sales and renting risk matter of managing the whole value chain. management in our projects. We’ll utilize the best practices of one unified organization; we are To enhance production management Efficient production is the basis of profitable business. standardising our operating methods, training our personnel, and boosting the efficiency of our procurements. In customer relationship management, we’ll be paying particular Our profitability will improve when we focus our resources on those Customer relationship management attention to our key customers and clear areas of responsibility. projects, in which we have the best competence and are able to create We will be monitoring trends in customer satisfaction using Net most benefit to our customers. Promoter Score. Building Construction – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 31 Infrastructure Construction In 2011, the net sales and profitability of the InfraWe strengthened our market position through tinued apace on the P-Hämppi parking facility in Tamstructure Construction business sector saw marked both organic growth and acquisitions. Our net sales pere and on the Töölönlahti parking facility in Helsingrowth. Development was especially strong in Norin infrastructure construction from operations outside ki. In connection with the latter, we are also building way and Denmark. In Finland too, net sales saw Finland saw year-on-year growth of 60 per cent. The an air raid shelter, as well as maintenance facilities for steady growth in almost all business areas. Investnet sales and profitability of our Norwegian and DanFinlandia Hall and reception and maintenance faciliments in the energy sector and the mining boom are ish operations saw a marked improvement. Our opties for the National Museum of Finland. expected to continue unabated in 2012. The deerating activities in the Baltic countries also started We completed the initial West Metro line crease in public investments reduces our potential turning a profit. project in Helsinki, started in 2009. This profor growth in Finland. At the start of 2012, our infrastructure construcject comprised excavation in the Ruoholahti mettion operations outside Finland were transferred under ro station and Salmisaari. We continued the conWe are one of largest infrastructure constructors in the new International Operations business sector. The struction of the West Metro line, undertaking the the Baltic Sea region, with services including road, objective of this reorganisation is to boost profitable Koivusaari and Urheilu-puisto excavation projects. street and railway construction and basic road maingrowth in all of Lemminkäinen’s international market The technically challenging project comprises the tenance, as well as special contracting related to inand enhance the efficiency of our operations. excavation of Koivusaari station and the Katafrastructure construction. We also provide sports and jaharju shaft, located west of Lauttasaari, and a urban environment construction services. Moreover, ANOTHER STRONG YEAR IN THE ROCK two-kilometre metro tunnel from the Katajahawe are the leading domestic manufacturer of asphalt ENGINEERING rju shaft to the border of Espoo. The work comand mineral aggregates, and a notable manufacturer Even though our infrastructure business has seen rapmenced in June 2011, with excavation scheduled of concrete products. id international growth, Finland is still clearly our largfor completion by the start of 2013. The UrheiluOur most important customers include the Finnest individual market. We are the largest Finnish infrapuisto excavation project entails the construction ish Transport Agency and similar agencies in the other structure constructor, providing our customers with of a metro station, a 160-metre road tunnel and a Nordic countries, cities and municipalities, construcservices on a nationwide basis. 1.9-kilometre metro tunnel. Work started in Janution companies, industry, and property owners. The Finnish State and the municipalities cut their ary 2012, and the project is scheduled for com2011 was a good year for the infrastructure conallocations for basic road maintenance and street inpletion in September 2013. struction business sector, responsible for half of the vestments. The large municipalities, Finland’s growth As far as public infrastructure projects are conGroup’s net sales. The net sales, operating profit, and centres, are still continuing to invest in construction, cerned, the Koivusaari West Metro excavation proorder book all experienced significant growth. Our but demand for infrastructure construction fell in muject represented our largest order in Finland. The pronet sales increased to EUR 1,178.8 million (932.9), nicipalities with negative migration figures. jects won in 2011 continue our company’s traditions while our operating profit increased to EUR 63.9 milThe State launched only a few large infrastrucin metro construction, first started in the 1970s. lion (15.3) and our order book to EUR 521.8 million ture projects in 2011. In addition to this, the State As the public sector has downsized invest(416.6). suspended the procurement process of the Kokkolaments, the share of private customers in infrastrucBusiness operations were successful with regard to Ylivieska railway project in order to change the original ture construction has gone up. In 2011, around one products, as well as to contracts and services. The decontract model. third of our net sales came from the private sector, mand for contract construction and services was highDespite the public sector challenges, our infraespecially owing to strong growth in the mining inest in the rock engineering sector, stimulated by mining structure business enjoyed a good year in Finland. dustry. We have several significant Group-wide prooperations, and in road and street network projects. Busy As with year 2010, 2011 was a strong year for Lemjects under way – one of them being the Kevitsa building construction activities also ensured a healthy minkäinen’s rock engineering business. Regarding mine project in Northern Finland which, at best, emdemand for concrete products and mineral aggregates. projects launched the previous year, construction conployed around 300 of Lemminkäinen’s infrastruc32 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Infrastructure Construction neT SaLeS neT SaLeS By markeT area neT SaLeS, eur miLLion 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 operaTing profiT, eur miLLion 70 60 ToimiaLaT, 50 infrarakentaminen 40 30 paving 66% Concrete products 7% Finland 52% 20 mineral aggregates 8% other nordic countries 36% 10 earthworks and traffic route construction 5% russia and eastern europe 9% 0 Special contracting*14% y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 * incl. rock, foundation and civil engineering ToimiaLaT, ture construction, building construction and techniGROWTH IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES The Mesta integration has progressed in accordance cal building services professionals. About 50 per cent of Infrastructure Construction infrarakentaminen with plans and set goals. We expect the acquisition also We also obtained significant new orders from the business sector’s net sales came from outside Finto provide us in future years with synergy benefits and mining sector. For instance: a EUR 20-million followland, with the share of these markets amounting over benefits from economy of scale. This acquisition repreup project was initiated at the Pahtavaara gold mine, a half, EUR 285.4 million in order book. Our net sales sents an important and successful step in strengthencontinuing a project launched three years before. The grew and profitability improved particular in Norway ing our position in the Nordic infrastructure construction follow-up project commenced in early 2012 and will and Denmark. market – one of our strategic areas for growth. be completed in 2013. The new project includes an In Norway, we concluded the Mesta Industri AS In Denmark, the net sales and profitability of our option for 2014. acquisition in the early summer, and became the largpaving operations increased. We won more new conThe development in maintenance and servicing est paving contractor in the country in 2011. For the tracts than in previous years, while our production saw operations did not match our expectations of market first time, we were a larger paving contractor in Norsubstantial growth. On the other hand, some mulgrowth derived from the need of cities and municipaliway than in Finland, in terms of net sales. Traditiontiyear projects came to an end. As with Sweden and ties to outsource technical services and tasks. This deally, we have been a strong player in Norway’s municiNorway, Denmark is expected to invest in infrastrucvelopment was slower than expected – in some cases pal and private-sector projects, but in 2011 we were ture construction in 2012. even reversed as some cities forewent outsourcing in able to markedly increase our share in the Norwegian Norway and Sweden are investing also in enerfavour of incorporating their technical services. State’s road projects. gy-sector, in which we enjoyed success with large Infrastructure Construction – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 33 hydropower plant projects. In spring 2011, we handed over two hydropower plant projects in Norway, worth around EUR 30 million. In the summer, we won a hydropower plant project in Kvinneherad, Western NorThe profitable growth of our way, worth around EUR 19 million. This project includes the construction of a 5.5-km water transfer tunnel and seven water intakes. Work will be completinternational business operations ed by mid-2013. In the summer, we also won a EUR 43-million project for the construction of a diversion is a key goal for us. channel for the Bergforsen Kraft AB power plant in Timrå, Sweden. The contract includes demanding civil and foundation engineering, concrete construction In Latvia, we will renovate a 26-kilometre stretch The changes in large projects that have been a and rock and tunnel engineering. of the Riga ring road. The Riga ring road projects will long time in preparation engender uncertainty. The The mining industry is an important engine of inbe implemented in co-operation with our infrastrucsuspension of the procurement process of the Kokfrastructure construction in Sweden. We worked on ture construction units in the Baltic countries. In Lithkola-Ylivieska railway project is one example of these mine excavation projects at the Svartliden and Kiruna uania, we will renovate a 2.5-kilometre stretch of Vilkinds of changes, substantially complicating capacmines, for example. Work will continue in Svartliden nius’ southern bypass. ity planning. The anticipation of demand and the conuntil spring 2013. The Kiruna projects are expected to sequent adjustment of capacity are essential factors be completed by autumn 2014. The foundation reinGROWTH AND INTERNATIONALISATION SET TO with regard to good profit performance. In 2011, we forcement project at Stockholm’s Central Station, inCONTINUE were successful in this regard. itiated in autumn 2010, continued apace. After four The prospects for growth are good in Sweden, Norway The profitable growth of our international busiyears break, we also returned to Sweden’s paving opand Denmark. Our order book for the current year is strong. ness operations in infrastructure construction is a key erations market, concentrating on the Greater StockIn Finland, the market situation in the rock engigoal for us. In accordance with our goals, around half holm area and Northern Sweden. neering sector is likely to remain healthy owing to the of our net sales in 2011 came from international opmining industry and underground excavation projects erations. Our profitability also improved. In 2012 and IMPROVEMENT IN BALTIC OPERATIONS in growth centres. A number of new rail and railway 2013, our goal is to increase the net sales of our infraAfter several poor years, our operative result turned projects are expected to be launched in 2012. Howstructure construction business in the Nordic counpositive in the Baltic countries. Especially the activiever, a decrease is anticipated in basic road maintetries by total of EUR 100 million. ties in Estonia developed positively. Construction acnance due to the poor economic standing of municiIn domestic operations, we will concentrate on tivity has picked up in the Baltic countries, although it palities and the State. bolstering profitability, particularly by enhancing the has not yet reached the top figures from 2007. We reOur large power plant project in Sweden and Norefficiency of our development and operations. At the ceived new orders from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, way will continue into 2013. The energy sector is altop of our development operations list are the utilisaamounting to around EUR 48 million in total worth. so anticipated to continue investing in these markets. tion of IT in construction, the improvement of environAs the largest paving contractor in the Baltic region, Confirmed mine projects will keep our operations brisk mental and energy efficiency, and the expansion of our Lemminkäinen will renovate approximately six kilomein Sweden and Finland. In Finland, no growth is foreservice offering. tres of the E67 road leading from Tallinn to the Latvian seen in the State’s investments in transport infraborder, at the Pärnu bypass. In addition, we will build a structure. Municipal investments are also forecast to bridge spanning over 70 metres across the River Sauga. decrease outside growth centres. 34 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Infrastructure Construction three main goals for year 2012 Our 2012 Why it’s a goal How we WIll goals achieve it To strengthen special contracting in the Nordic countries We will be strengthening our expertise and resources in rock, Our unique expertise generates profitable growth. foundation and engineering construction in the Nordic countries. We are ensuring that standardised operating methods are To harness internal synergies Clarifying our offering will boost our competitiveness. Effectively introduced nationwide. We’re providing local service in paving, harnessing our internal synergies will increase our competitive edge. mineral aggregates and civil engineering. We will be making even better use of IT solutions, boosting the To improve productivity The key to increased profitability lies in boosting the efficiency of efficiency of our procurements, and improving our productivity production and our operations. using the LEAN method. Infrastructure Construction – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 35 Technical Building Services Demand for technical building services remained International operations are the responsibility of also impacted by occasionally strong fluctuations in reasonable, but with the intensifying price comthe subsidiary in St. Petersburg and Lemcon Netmaterial costs. petition caused by economic trends, profitability works, which focuses on telecommunication network For its part, the reduction in contracting is being was no more than satisfactory. Growing number construction and operates in North America, South compensated for by the continuous increase in demand of technical building systems and new energy efAmerica, South Africa and Russia. Lemcon Networks’ for building maintenance and upkeep services. This deficiency requirements for new construction are inmost important customer continued to be Nokia Siemand was accelerated by the renovation of older buildcreasing the demand. mens Networks (NSN). In early 2012, these operaings to match current requirements, and increased use tions were transferred to the new International Operaof technical building systems in new development. The Technical Building Services business sector is one tions business sector. The Technical Building Services sector is a late-cyof Finland’s largest suppliers of technical building inIn Finland, the market situation in technical buildclical sector, i.e. public sector budgets and the impact stallation, maintenance and upkeep services. We have ing services is fragmented. Populated with SMEs, the of economic trends on new construction are felt after a extensive expertise related to the special requirements industry has thousands of players both in the electricdelay of around six months. Weakened consumer confiof technical building systems, technical facility servicity and HVAC sectors. Lemminkäinen’s market share dence and the gradual decline of new building developes and industry. We can offer our customers a service has remained at a steady 5–6 per cent. In non-urment are expected to show in the industry’s general sitentity that covers the full life span of a real estate, from ban areas, our market position is stronger than that of uation by the late spring and summer of the year 2012. design to decades-long maintenance responsibilities. most of our competitors, thanks to our evenly distribTechnical Building Service contracting comprises uted network of regional offices. BETTER PROFITABILITY THROUGH IMPROVED turnkey deliveries, installations and design system and In 2011, we improved the efficiency of our interEFFICIENCY project management services related to HVAC sysnal practices and intensified co-operation with othIn 2011, Technical Building Services’ net sales grew tems, fire protection and fire alarm systems, and reer businesses in the Group, particularly with Buildby 9%, amounting to EUR 293.9 million (269.1). Opfrigeration, telecommunications, security and autoing Construction. erations in Finland accounted for 83 per cent of the mation technology. net sales. The business sector’s operations outside Services consist of process and building electrifiPRICE WARS FLARED UP IN THE INDUSTRY Finland largely comprised construction of telecom cation, installations of instrumentation and automaIn line with general economic trends in construction, networks in North and South America, Africa and Asia. tion systems, data transmission networks, security the year was also one of contrasts for Technical BuildThe sector’s profit clearly improved during the secsystems, ventilation and extinguishing systems, and ing Services. ond half, when our profitablity improvement measures maintenance services. Demand for technical building service projects began to take effect. Operating profit for the entire finanIn maintenance and upkeep services, we are reand services increased, alongside new production, all cial period grew by 16 per cent, amounting to EUR 5.2 sponsible for basic and technical maintenance, on-call through the first quarter and spring. Until the summer, million (4.5). Profitability developed favourably as the efservices, repair services and renovation; we also proreasonably active building construction also boosted ficiency of sales and marketing operations improved, the vide expert services in, for example, energy efficiency demand for HVAC installations and services. operational focus transferred to maintenance and upand electrical safety. In the autumn, the bleak economic outlook was keep services, service products were productised, and Our customers include the State, cities and municireflected in the caution exercised by customers procurement was centralised in cooperation within the palities, property developers, owners and users, property which intensified competition. Projects were put on entire Lemminkäinen. Process management and followmaintenance companies, housing cooperatives, construchold and requests for quotations thinned out. In addiup of contracted projects were also further developed. tion companies, and the trade and services sector. Our tion, profit margins on competitive contracting weakWeak profitability in contracting and the rise in network of regional offices covers the whole of Finland. ened towards the year end. Profit margin levels were raw material and input prices played a role in the earn36 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Technical Building Services neT SaLeS neT SaLeS By markeT area neT SaLeS, eur miLLion 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 operaTing profiT, eur miLLion 12 ToimiaLaT, 10 8 talotekniikka 6 Contracting, maintenance and upkeep services 84% Finland 83% 4 Telecommunications network construction 16% russia and eastern europe 2% 2 other countries 15% 0 y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 ToimiaLaT, talotekniikka ings trend early in the year. Contracting prices fell most At the end of 2011, the order book of Technition, maintenance and, in particular, life-cycle prosteeply in electrical contracting, but we successfully cal Building Services amounted to EUR 110.0 million jects. Through cooperation, customers can be offered improved our profit margins towards the year end. Ma(125.9). more comprehensive service entities. The new faciliterial costs were directly affected by price fluctuations ties of the fertilizer producer Yara in Siilinjärvi are a in oil and metals, for example. The telecom network LARGE CONTRACTS IN THE AUTUMN good example of this: all Lemminkäinen business secbusiness faced the challenge of managing operations In 2011, the business sector focused in particular on tors participated in the construction. distributed on four continents. Other difficulties were the streamlining of our own processes and functions, In 2011, the largest Technical Building Serviccaused by legislative differences between the target and on bringing servicing and maintenance operations es contracts were the electrification contract of the countries, which complicated project management. closer to contracting. In the maintenance and upkeep Kevitsa mine in Sodankylä and the technical building Maintenance and upkeep services’ share of net services the focus was on service productisation and service contract for Linnakiinteistö, a building under sales was approximately 30 per cent. Our goal is to more active sales and marketing. renovation in Turku Harbour. As Lemminkäi-nen’s sinincrease the share of services to 50 per cent of the Joint projects with the Building Construction secgle largest electrification project, the Kevitsa contract business sector’s net sales by the end of 2013. tor generate clear synergy benefits in new construcis valued at around EUR 9 million. The value of the Technical Building Services – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 37 Our goal is to increase maintenance and upkeep service’s share of our net sales. Linnakiinteistö technical building services contract, GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES en. A response to such demand is our Green & Safe agreed during the third quarter of the year, is approxiRequirements for new development sites include soluexpert services, launched in January 2012. These sermately EUR 7 million. Other major technical building tions that are more energy-efficient and environmentalvices assess the energy efficiency, savings potential services projects include the Westenergy waste incinly friendly. With respect to older building stock, demand and safety of buildings. eration plant in Vaasa and the expansion of the Atria for piping and HVAC renovations is growing, increasOur skilful personnel can handle challenging proslaughterhouse in Kauhajoki, where we were in charge ing demand for technical housing services irrespective ject entities. With their solutions and professional of the piping and electrification contracts. of economic cycles. On the other hand, the possibility skills, they can also meet continuously intensifying The zero energy projects, which were started in of a slowdown in new construction is reducing demand, requirements for energy efficiency and environmen2010 in Järvenpää and Kuopio, were completed. We although this impact will be delayed. On the whole, we tal friendliness. delivered and installed technology that uses collectors forecast that the market situation for technical building and panels to harness solar energy, in sheltered and services will remain good in early 2012. student housing buildings. Building owners and users will focus on their own Since early 2011, we have been in charge of maincore business operations. At the same time, they will taining technical building systems in the new Nevsseek more comprehensive products and services that ky Centre shopping centre and its retail premises in include life-cycle thinking, energy-efficiency and enSt. Petersburg; the centre is owned by Stockmann, a vironmental aspects. In contracting, various technical Finnish retail company. Major projects in Finland inbuilding system subareas are often handled in sepaclude the maintenance and upkeep contract for the rate competitive bidding processes. Demand for turnMikkelä depot, owned by the City of Espoo, and the key services, based, in practice, on a partnership with maintenance and upkeep contract extension for Tapa single trusted partner, is rising in both maintenance iola General Mutual Insurance Company’s headquarand upkeep services and in contracting. This will ters in Espoo. clearly open up growth opportunities for Lemminkäin38 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Technical Building Services Three main goals for year 2012 Our 2012 Why it’s a goal How we WIll goals achieve it Service operations are more profitable than contracting and are not as sensitive to business cycles. Properties are increasingly being equipped We will be ensuring the nationwide availability of our services. Profitable growth in maintenance and upkeep with technical building systems and energy efficiency requirements are We will be clarifying our offering through commercialisation and being placed on new construction – both of which increase demand increased efficiency of sales. for services. We manage customer relationship in a way that encourages our Good customer relationship management is the key to new contracts. customers to remain with us, by using our maintenance and upkeep Customer relationship management Demand for our extensive service range is increasing and market trends services after completing a contract for them. We are partners who are changing. Good customer relationship management offers an easier offer comprehensive services throughout a property’s entire lifecycle, way for us to identify all of our customers’ needs. from the planning stage to years of maintenance. We will be boosting the efficiency of our procurements, approving Profitability and competitiveness require efficient internal Internal efficiency and profitability project margin guidelines, and ensuring a sufficient financial margin operating methods. for our projects. We will only undertake profitable projects. Technical Building Services – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 39 Material and energy efficiency We are continually evaluating our environmental efwellbeing representatives. The steering team reports Transport and transportation fects and risks. The environmental aspect is included to the head of responsibility issues, who is also a memWe pay attention to the efficiency and optimisation in our decision making process. ber of the Group’s Executive Board. Development proof transportation. We have, for example, optimised grammes are carried out in a variety of expert groups. transportation in Technical Building Systems and piWe continually strive to reduce the environmental imIn 2011, we began updating the Lemminkäinen loted the use of a positioning system in Infrastrucpacts of construction. We are aware of the environGroup’s environmental policy. The publication date for ture Construction. mental impacts of our operations and take them into the updated version has been moved to 2012. In order to reduce the emissions caused by busiaccount in our product and service offering. We believe During 2011, we standardised our collection of ness trips, we have increased the number of video that promoting responsibility in the construction inenvironmental data and defined Group-wide environconference rooms. Emissions caused by business trips dustry is both an obligation and an opportunity for us. mental benchmarks and targets, which we’ll be monare reported as part of Lemminkäinen’s Green Office Environmental considerations are becoming initoring throughout the current strategic period, that reporting. They account for an estimated 1–2 per cent creasingly significant in our industry. This creates is, until the end of 2013. Each business sector monof the total emissions caused by our operations in Finfresh challenges and new requirements – for energy itors both Group-level environmental targets and the land. The emissions limit for company vehicles has and raw material efficiency, for example. Our custombenchmarks that are appropriate to its operations. Rebeen set at 185g CO2/km. ers are also demanding more ecologically efficient soporting covers our own production facilities. lutions. Environmental and energy efficiency is one of 2011 was the first year we participated in the CarMaterials – recycling and reuse our developmental focal points. bon Disclosure Project, which is supported by invesEvery year, our operations generate a considerable voltors. Lemminkäinen scored 69/100 points, placing us ume of surplus material, the majority of which is reEnvironmental responsibility in the Midrange category. cyclable. We seek to enhance the ecological efficiency reporting and management and cost-effectiveness of our operations. We are aware of our responsibilities and legal obligaEnergy and material efficiency in our In late 2010, Lemminkäinen began a programme tions – and our opportunities. Environmental responoperations aimed at enhancing material efficiency. The programme sibility forms part of our operations, management, We continually monitor any environmental damage or requires our production facilities and construction sites and decision-making throughout the entire Group. anomalies that occur within the Group. To our knowledge, to make thorough advance plans and undertake clear Our Group’s environmental activities are steered by no serious environmental damage occurred in 2011. measures to reduce the volume of waste generated – the Environmental Protection Act, our Code of ConDuring 2011, we defined a model for a Group-wide and to increase the re-use rate of surplus recyclable duct, environmental policies, the principles of the energy balance sheet that will enable us to identify materials in particular. In ideal situations, surplus mateGlobal Compact, and our Group’s environmental tarour greatest sources of energy consumption. At Lemrials can be used on the same site where they are gengets and benchmarks. minkäinen, production facilities, transport and transerated. One such example is our current Sipoo logistics During 2011, we enhanced the monitoring and reportation consume the most energy. centre project, which is a PromisE site. You can read porting of our environmental impacts. In 2010, we esThe majority of the energy we use is generated usmore about this project on page 47. tablished an environment and safety steering team, ing light fuel oils. Among our production facilities, six As natural gravel reserves diminish, the use of which steers environmental and safety issues in all of our asphalt plants are powered by natural gas. In our crushed rock is recommended as a substitute, in orbusiness sectors and shares good practices across paving production, we have lowered the temperature at der to preserve the esker acquifiers that are vital to business sector borders. In addition to business sector which we manufacture asphalt, enabling us to reduce groundwater flow. According to environmental data representatives, this steering team includes the Head of energy consumption. The temperature has been reon our mineral aggregates operations, about 80% of Environment and Safety, and occupational health and duced by an average of five degrees. our current mineral aggregates production consists of 40 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Material and energy efficiency energy consumption 2011 2010 2009 Waste 2011 2010 2009 Production facilities Production facilities Direct energy consumption Total volume of waste, t 32,200 28,100 26,800 Light fuel oil, GWh 137 123 132 Landfill / incineration, t 1,330 1,110 1,660 Heavy fuel oil, GWh 101 92 110 Re-used / recycled, t 30,700 26,800 25,020 Natural gas, GWh 59 47* 50 Hazardous waste, t 170 210 136 Utilisation rate, % 95.3 95.3 93.3 Indirect energy consumption Landfill rate, % 4.1 4.0 6.2 Electricity, GWh 26 23 29 Hazardous waste rate, % 0.5 0.7 0.5 District heating, GWh 1.7 1 1.6 Landfill / incineration denotes waste that is not suitable for recycling or re-use. Total, GWh 324.7 286 322.6 Re-used / recycled waste are reported on in a block. By recycling, we mean using waste to manufacture new products, materials or substances, for either their original purpose or a new one. By re-use, we mean re-using either a All of our direct energy sources are non-renewable. product or part of a product for the same purpose as it wasoriginally intended. * Corrected data for last year. By hazardous waste, we mean materials that require specialised processing at hazardous waste treatment facilities. Our utilisation rate shows all materials that go for re-use or recycling (including those that we cannot use ourselves) as a percentage of total waste. Our landfill rate shows all waste that ends up in landfills as a percentage of total waste. Our hazardous waste rate shows all waste that is sent to hazardous waste treatment facilities as a percentage of total waste. Reports do not include demolition waste and excavated materials. water consumption 2011 Water consumption, m3 230,000 Material and energy efficiency – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 41 processed rock. In our asphalt production, we also use in Finland published its 2012 energy regulations for Our energy maintenance service package consists recycled asphalt, which saves natural minerals and new buildings. The regulations seek to improve the of an analysis of the potential savings to be made in bitumen. We also crush a variety of materials for reenergy-efficiency of new buildings by about 20 per a property’s energy consumption and, if desired, a use – asphalt pieces, recyclable concrete, and surplus cent (compared to current levels) and thereby reduce standing maintenance agreement that will guarantee blast rock. emissions. Investments in energy efficiency also renot only basic maintenance but also comprehensive In 2011, Lemminkäinen began to monitor water duce costs during a building’s use, for example, if enenergy-use management. consumption by identifying operations that consume ergy prices rise. significant quantities of water. Our concrete, paving, Boosting the energy efficiency of buildings is an Environmental perspectives in paving production crushing and rock engineering operations use considessential aspect of Finland’s national climate and We consider environmental perspectives in our paverable volumes of water. Water consumption at the energy strategy. In order to promote energy-efficient ing production. We are continually developing our Group’s production facilities is monitored in accordnew construction, we have planned and built passive asphalt production with attention to environmenance with the reporting obligations of our environhouses and low-energy buildings. When zoning altal perspectives. Compact asphalt prevents hazardmental permit. lows, we also power buildings by harnessing geotherous substances from draining into the soil, and lowmal, solar and wind energy, and using heat pumps. temperature asphalt is also completely recyclable. In Biodiversity Other factors that affect energy consumption include 2011, we also invested about EUR 1 million in asphalt We make careful plans to safeguard biodiversity. The zoning solutions, bedrock properties, and the availarecycling equipment. Environmental Protection Act defines the types of bility of good transport connections. We consider enprojects that require an environmental impact assessergy efficiency in our apartments by, for example, usCooperation with the industry’s best ment. Mineral extractions are for example these types ing room-specific thermometers. We supplement our own environmental expertise with of project. Environmental impact assessments seek to 2011 saw the completion of an LEED-certified a network of the industry’s best players, with whom predict and reduce any significant environmental im(Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) ofwe develop better construction practices. We proacpacts, and to take precautions when required. One EIA fice building in Seinäjoki, and we launched the contively cooperate with, for example, the Confederation was completed at Lemminkäinen during 2011. struction of new office buildings adhering to LEED of Finnish Construction Industries (RT), the ConfedFor projects that don’t legally require an EIA, we principles on two sites in Helsinki (Töölönlahti and eration of Finnish Industries (EK), the Ministry of the conduct an environmental risk assessment. By evaluPorkkalankatu). A BREEAM-certified (BRE EnvironEnvironment, Finland’s environmental administration, ating the environmental impacts of a project, we seek mental Assessment Method) office building in Espoo Infra ry, the Green Building Council Finland, and eduto predict and reduce any significant environmental was also completed, and work continued on a Promcational institutions. We are also members of a workimpacts, and to take precautions when required. isE-certified logistics centre in Sipoo. The Pilke building group aimed at improving indoor air and another ing, which Lemminkäinen built for Metsähallitus in that is dealing with amendments to the Land Use and Environmental efficiency in the built Rovaniemi, North Finland, as an example of ecological Building Act. environment construction, received Puuinfo’s 2011 Wood Award. The demand for environmentally more effective soluThis annual award is given to a building, interior or tions are also a potential source of growth. In Finland, structure that promotes high-quality Finnish woodthe emissions generated while a building is in use acen architecture, or uses wood in a way that advances count for about 60 per cent of that building’s total construction techniques. emissions during its lifecycle (source: the Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries, RT). We offer Technical building solutions effective building solutions to our customers. For exTechnical building solutions play a significant role in ample, good maintenance and upkeep affect the enimproving a building’s energy efficiency. In 2011, we ergy consumption. developed our Green & Safe service package to improve the energy efficiency and safety of properties. Energy-efficient construction Mild, cost-effective measures can generate energy In November 2011, the Ministry of the Environment savings of tens of per cent. 42 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Material and energy efficiency our goals goal for How we What next? the year 2011 succeeded Updating our Group-wide environmental policies Policy updates were begun in 2011 Policies are ratified in 2012 Utilising the accrued information, we will design and execute Modelling the Group’s material and energy balance sheet The Group’s material and energy balance sheet has been defined measures related to energy saving and optimisation, and develop our material efficiency. In 2011, our report covers more detailed reporting of carbon dioxide GRI-compliant environmental reporting is expanded emissions (scope 1 and 2 defined) and information about metrics In 2012 we will develop reporting of our project operations. EN29, EN14, EN8 and EC2. calculated emissions 2011 2010 2009 Traffic and transportation 2011 Scope 1, t From energy consumed Energy consumption, GWh 28 and own transportation 84,900 68,200* 76,300* Transportation causes CO2, SOx, and NOx emissions, and noise and dust pollution. CO2 emissions Scope 2, t From purchased are reported onas part of our EN 16 scale (scope 1). Traffic and transportation is a new benchmark, electricity and district heating 5,900 5,100* ** ) 5,600 which was introduced in 2011. Total CO2 emissions, t Scopes 1 + 2 90,800 73,300 81,900 Our reporting covers our own vehicles’ fuel consumption in our domestic operations. Traffic and transportation includes all vehicles used on public highways. The following CO2 emissions coefficients have been used when calculating the emissions for these forms of energy: Light fuel oil 267 g/kWh; heavy fuel oil 284 g/kWh; natural gas 198 g/kWh; We reduce the environmental impact of traffic and transportation by paying attention to the optidistrict heating 220 g/kWh; diesel 265 g/kWh; and petroleum 265 g/kWh (source: Motiva). misation and efficiency of transportation, and servicing our vehicles regularly. We avoid idling, and Electricity, purchased 211 g/kWh (source: IEA, 5-year average 2005–2009). choose machinery and equipment that is appropriate for its intended use. We take particular care to protect the ground under aprons and maintenance areas, in order to prevent oils, * Corrected data for last year. fuels and solvents from leaking into the soil and groundwater. ** Electricity, purchased 220 g/kWh (source: IEA, 5-year average 2004–2008). The coefficient for purchased electricity is obtained annually from data published by the IEA. We have defined CO2 as the most significant greenhouse gas. These emissions are generated by both transportation and energy consumption in our own operations. Scope 1 covers emissions from energy consumption at our production facilities, and also from vehicles and fuel cards owned by us. Scope 2 covers the emissions generated during the production of electricity and district heating at our facilities. Scope 3 – coverage is currently being defined. In addition to CO2, we also cause environmental loading through, for example, noise, dust, vibration and odour pollution, and SOx, NOx and small particle emissions. Material and energy efficiency – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 43 Customers At the heart of our vision – The best way to build – In addition to apartments, we also sell paving current economic climate, the public sector has to priis the customer. We promote responsible and relistones, mineral aggregates and asphalt to consumers, oritise projects, while the so-called sustainability gap able construction throughout the various phases of either directly or through dealers. is forcing a search for alternative implementation and our work. funding models. In addition to price, the Finnish PubThe business premises we produce are purchased by lic Procurement Act also allows quality factors, such Our business comprises our own production, contractProperty investors. The key factors for them are good as references from previous clients, to be assessed as ing, projects, services and material sales. We operate leaseholder profiles and long-term leases ensuring a part of the procurement decision. as contractors or subcontractors for building and infrahealthy profit on the investment. A good location and structure construction and technical building services. In an understanding of varying space requirements are Other construction firms. We also work as subconaddition, we implement project management contracts. the key factors for securing leaseholders. We also cartractors for other construction firms insofar as techWe sell mineral aggregates, asphalt, concrete, paving ry out projects for property investors and provide them nical building services and infrastructure construcstones, and coating materials for sports construction. with various types of services, including property and tion are concerned. Furthermore, we sell construction business premises services. materials, including coatings, concrete, concrete eleOur key customer groups ments and staircases, mineral aggregates and asphalt Consumers. We sell the majority of our own residenWe provide the owner-users of properties and premto construction firms. tial production directly to consumers; only a fraction is ises with various kinds of business and commercial sold through other channels. We have our own sales premises, and infrastructure construction projects Added value through co-operation offices in 15 towns in Finland and a sales unit in St. such as tunnels, parking facilities and warehouses. The best way to construct is generated in co-operPetersburg, Russia. In Sweden, we use agencies for We also carry out sports construction and technical ation with our customers. Close co-operation with product sales. building services projects. Winning a bidding contest our customers ensures that our solutions meet their The factors influencing the decision to purchase requires cost-effectiveness and understanding of cusneeds in terms of both flexibility and cost-effectivean apartment vary in different countries. In Finland, tomers’ needs. A solid reputation and good references ness. We arrange seminars and functions to meet our the most significant factors influencing this decision grant a competitive edge. Housing co-operatives and customers, and also encounter them at trade fairs and are the location and uniqueness of the apartment, maintenance companies are the primary customers other industry events. We inform them of developservices, and the ease and safety of living. An infor our technical building services. We also carry out ments in our operations through our customer magacreasing number of customers purchase apartments renovations for selected sites. Projects are carried out zine and newsletters. Our advertising focuses on makas an investment. in increasingly demanding conditions, including city ing our range of products and services recognisable. In Russia, the overall increase in wealth has incentres and elsewhere in constructed environments. We comply with the guidelines of the International creased people’s desire to improve their living conOur industrial customers value special know-how and Chamber of Commerce ICC in our advertising. ditions. The deciding factors impacting on the purlocal services. Customers are seeking comprehensive services in chasing decision in Russia are location, price, the all construction markets, increasingly concentrating price-quality ratio, and the apartment’s level of finThe public sector is an important infrastructure conon their own core operations. Customers’ procurement ish. Another factor greatly impacting on the increased struction customer. We perform demanding foundaactivities will become more professional, and they will demand for apartments is the improved opportunities tion engineering work for buildings, construct tunnels, primarily purchase expertise and services. This is forefor obtaining loans. In Sweden, on the other hand, the and implement various kinds of traffic infrastructure cast to increase the demand for building services soabolishment of rent control has increased the attracand paving projects. We also build schools and varilutions, as well as for maintenance and servicing. On tiveness of owned dwellings. ous kinds of public-administration facilities. In the the other hand, project size will increase, with risk 44 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Customers Our operations combine local knowledge with internationally renowned project expertise. transferred to the shareholders. The turn-round petres. We also utilise our specialised technical expertise Score (NPS) method as part of the development proriod of projects will become a key competitive factor in the product development of our equipment. We are gramme. The survey measured the likelihood of Finnalongside price. increasingly carrying out projects that combine differish consumer, corporate and public-administration Various kinds of total cost and life cycle models ent aspects of our versatile expertise. customers recommending Lemminkäinen. Compared will become increasingly common in public adminto the leading companies in the construction secistration. In the life cycle model, construction comTowards systematic customer tor and other sectors in Finland, our result was good panies or joint ventures are not only responsible for relationship management but not excellent. We exceeded the average value of construction, but also for maintenance and servicing In 2010, we launched a development programme for all companies as well as the average value of our fore– sometimes for decades. Finding an approach that customer relationship management, the objective of most competitors. According to corporate and pubkeeps total costs down throughout the life cycle of the which is to support our operations in becoming more lic-administration customers, we are one of the elite building or route is a vital aspect in life cycle projects. customer-oriented. In 2011, we particularly focused large construction firms. As far as consumers are conon the management of our key customer relationships. cerned, there was great diffusion in the results, and Our competitive edge Moreover, we drafted a development map for customour values failed to reach the overall average. Among Our customers value our expertise, our versatile range er relationship management at Lemminkäinen, exconsumers, the factors increasing recommendations of products and services, and our premium-qualitending all the way to 2015. In 2012, our primary deare reliability and quality. Therefore, our goal is to furty work. We specialise in construction, innovate new velopment targets are the harmonisation of customer ther improve the accuracy of schedules, flawlessness solutions, and are able to manage major projects. Our relationship processes, management of key customer of deliveries, and our ability to react in cases of recoperations combine local knowledge with internationrelationships, and improved utilisation of customer inlamation. The improvement of customer satisfaction ally renowned project expertise. Our experts and speformation. We want to promote unified Lemminkäinen is one of our key development targets, and is monicial equipment can be flexibly transferred to demandoperating methods at the customer interface, believtored, for example, by means of the Group scorecard. ing targets in Finland and the other Nordic countries. ing this will provide us with profitable growth. In the autumn of 2012, we intend to conduct a net Our strength is an ability to operate in highly deIn the autumn of 2011, we conducted a survey recommendation index survey in our other key markets manding conditions, such as underground in city cenbased on the widely-used international Net Promoter alongside Finland. Customers – LEMMINKÄINEN AS A CONSTRUCTOR – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 45 Encounters: Close cooperation ­ and professional supervision The Sipoo logistics centre project pays particular attention to environmental aspects and responsible operations in general. The large size of the location coupled with its automation installation work requires cooperation skills and a high level of expertise from contractors. SOK’s logistics centre, sipoo Lemminkäinen is the project management contractor for SOK’s logistics centre project in Sipoo. SOK Kiinteistötoiminnot is the developer of the centre, which measures approximately one million cubic metres. SOK is a Finnish cooperative, which is a part of S Group. 46 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Encounters Lemminkäinen has kept its promise of reliable and responsible operations. The utility goods logistics centre currently under coning systems has led to unique work plans. In addition struction in Sipoo for Inex Partners Oy, a subsidiary of to these equipment installations, two very snowy winSOK, is one of Lemminkäinen’s largest ongoing conters have posed challenges for constructors, as they had struction projects. According to Juha Äijälä, Director, to keep clearing snow from the logistics centre’s roof SOK Kiinteistötoiminnot, the Sipoo centre is by no – which measures five and a half hectares. They have, means a traditional logistics centre – it’s more remihowever, kept on schedule in spite of these challengniscent of a factory than a warehouse. es, and SOK Kiinteistötominnot’s Äijälä says that LemResponsibility is a fundamental aspect of both minkäinen has kept its promise of reliable and responsiSOK and Lemminkäinen’s operations. In Sipoo, parble operations. In addition to operational reliability, Äijälä ticular attention is paid to, for example, environmenalso praised Lemminkäinen for its good corporate culture. tal perspectives. Äijälä says that environmental planA building of this size – ten times the size of the ning began before building design. In order to gain its Parliament House in Helsinki – places high profesPromisE environmental classification, environmental sional demands on supervisors. Bono highlights the issues must be monitored throughout the project. Enimportance of fieldwork in particular. Instead of manvironmental data is also gathered from Lemminkäinen aging from onsite cabins, Lemminkäinen’s supervisors and other contractors on a regular basis. try to get involved in the action. During the Sipoo project, constructors’ work plans There has been close cooperation and mutual must take equipment installations into account. Foretrust between the client and contractors. Thanks to man Kim Bono from Lemminkäinen says that the intethe smooth running of this project, Äijälä is open to gration of automation and traditional technical buildfuture cooperation with Lemminkäinen. Juha Äijälä from SOK Kiinteistötoiminnot (right), Encounters – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 47 Kim Bono from Lemminkäinen (left). Stakeholders Our key stakeholders are: our customers, current and potential personnel, shareholders, investors and partners, distribution of economic value added to our stakeholder groups and the media. In all stakeholder cooperation, we adhere to our Code of Conduct, as well as local and international customers 2,318.2 * commitments and legislation. Stakeholder relations are primarily handled by our business units. Contact with investors, analysts, national media, associations, authorities and other decision-makers are handled centrally lemminkäinen through Group administration. We constantly develop our stakeholder relations and seek to engage in open and honest dialogue. We always seek to meet our stakeholders’ expectations and 8.3 84.0 38.2 respond to changes in our operating environment. The issues raised by stakeholders are used to determine 1,803.6 456.5 M€ M€ our major corporate responsibility themes and thereby M€ M€ M€ public sector also guide our reporting. financiers Our customers are our number one stakeholder. investments We want to understand our customers’ needs and, in employees line with our strategy, are developing our operations to suppliers be even more customer-oriented. In autumn 2011, we The figures presented are based on accrual accounting conducted our first Group-wide customer satisfaction survey. You can read more about our customers * Income from customers include the income from products and services as well as other profits and financial yields, excluding unrealised profits. on page 44. We want to be the preferred employer, and we invest in our personnel’s well-being, competence develquality and cost-effectiveness. You can read more all responsibility for nationwide sponsorship projects. opment and training. Our personnel survey was conabout our procurement chain on page 58. When working with local associations and stakeducted for the second time in 2011. You can read We engage in active dialogue with the media. holders, each business sector is responsible for those more about our personnel on pages 50–53. activities that are associated with its operations. In As a publicly listed company, our communications SUPPORT FOR NON-PROFIT ORGANISATIONS 2011, our support for non-profit organisations tomust be open, reliable and correctly timed. Our diaWhen sponsoring organisations, we adhere to our talled EUR 187,000 (276,000). We sponsor mainly logue with our shareholders is based on our principles Code of Conduct and complementary sponsorship the Young Finland Association ‘Nuori Suomi’ and the of investor relations. In 2011, we conducted our first principles. In accordance with our sponsorship prinFinnish National Skills Competition ‘Taitaja’ organinvestment appeal survey, which was directed at inciples, we prioritise sports and exercise for young ised by Skills Finland. vestors and analysts. people, as well as youth projects that support the In 2011, we received EUR 135,415 in financial We’re developing and boosting the efficiency of acquisition of expertise and practical construcassistance from the Finnish Government. This comour partnerships and procurement chains to improve tion industry skills. Group management holds overprised subsidies received for development projects. 48 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations activities in 2011 High-quality, reliable products and services, delivery reliability, professional skills, responsible operations, understanding of customer needs, pricing, Face-to-face meetings, customer events, trade fairs, newsletters, online Customers customer service, customer relationship management. services. Developing supervisory and management skills, training and competence development, development discussions, personnel survey, development of remuneration, supporting well-being at work, open communications, such Good management, the potential for development, openness and cooperaas personnel magazine, intranet, quarterly information meetings, superviPersonnel tion between organisations. sor communication. Meetings with investors and analysts, General Meeting of shareholders, Dividends, appreciation of holding, reliable information about the company press conferences, press and stock exchange releases, Investors section Owners and investors and its outlook. of the website. Partners Income, growth, delivery reliability, development, networking. Meetings and direct contact, supplier audits, procurement systems. Reliable, sufficient and up-to-date information about the company’s Press and stock exchange releases, press conferences, routine meetings Media operations. and interviews, visits. Summer jobs and trainee positions, opportunities for writing theses, visits Interesting and challenging tasks, a broad range of information about to educational establishments, student and professional literature, trade Students and job applicants Lemminkäinen as an employer. fairs, employer image surveys. Stakeholders – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 49 Personnel, training and competence development Lemminkäinen seeks to be the best employer and ofthat ensure top-quality results – in short, it provides Personnel survey fers opportunities for personal development. We inmandatory competence training. Our PAKKI training Every year, we conduct a personnel survey to measvest in promoting occupational wellbeing, compeprogrammes are also open to all of our subcontracure job satisfaction and the practical implementation tence development and supporting supervisory work tors, which helps ensure that our partners’ professional of our strategy. The results are compared to industry in particular. Our goal is to ensure that every member skills are up to date and our projects are implemented averages. The Group-wide response rate was 49 per of the Lemminkäinen team has all the skills required responsibly. In 2012, we’ll be supplementing this bacent in 2011. The response rate in some areas of the to implement our strategy in their everyday work. sic training with the PAKKI 2 programme, which offers organisation was extremely low and did not therefore professional training leading to qualifications. generate statistically reliable results. It appears that Motivated personnel improve an organisation’s producIn 2011, we continued to run the LEKA Managethe low response rate was partly due to the method tivity. Job satisfaction reduces absences due to sickment Academy, which was established in 2009. 234 of collecting employees’ responses, and this will be ness and personnel turnover. By nurturing good HR and supervisors took LEKA training during the year, and a changed. The fall in responses could also indicate that management skills, we seek to ensure that our strategy total of 635 supervisors have taken part to date. The personnel were dissatisfied with how we handled their is implemented and organisational changes go smoothprogramme has been very well received among superresponses to previous surveys. We will therefore be inly. Lemminkäinen’s training programmes have also been visors. The networking opportunities offered by the vesting more time and energy in making good use of customised to support the achievement of these targets. training were considered particularly useful and are these results at all organisational levels. In 2011, we began the introduction of a new HR manalso considered to enhance cooperation between difOn the basis of the personnel survey results, we’ll agement system in Finland. The new system will make ferent functions. During LEKA training, supervisors albe setting clear targets for our key areas of developpersonnel data more readily available and enable developso go through the Group’s joint operational guidelines, ment – we’ll be drawing up an action plan and activement discussions and training to be monitored more relisuch as the Code of Conduct, as they are responsible ly monitoring its implementation. We’ll also be able to ably. We will continue to develop the system during 2012. for passing this information on to employees. systematically monitor the progress of our developWe also offer supplementary courses to support mental measures. Competence development LEKA Management Academy training. These suppleAccording to the 2011 personnel survey, employAs part of the 2011 strategy process, our business mentary courses, which include courses focusing on ees liked their work and felt that Lemminkäinen opersectors defined their most important areas of expercompetition law and the early support model, form the ated in accordance with its values. Personnel’s worktise with regard to success and creating a competitive VIILA training programme. You can read more about ing capacity and occupational wellbeing were also at edge. They were: the ability to develop workable sothe early support model on page 54. We organised a an excellent level. lutions, profound expertise in projects and contracts, total of 38 VIILA courses in 2011. The results did, however, reveal areas for develand having a better understanding of markets and opment. Employees reported varying experiences of customers than our competitors. Internal cooperation Development discussions supervisors’ management skills, and there were nowas also considered important. Development discussions are a vital management ticeable differences in the feedback received. EmIn order to support competence development, we tool. They help us to set personal and team goals, ployees wished for more feedback from their superoffer customised training to all personnel groups. In monitor the achievement of these goals, and evaluate visors: development discussions, for example, aren’t 2011, we launched the PAKKI training programme, the need for competence and career development. carried out with everybody. Other areas for developwhich is targeted at waged employees and onsite perAt Lemminkäinen, we also employ the early supment were identified in the organising of work and sonnel. 805 people took part in this programme during port model in our development discussions. Supervithe number of overlapping tasks. Communication be2011. We use this training as a concentrated method sors must consider employees’ wellbeing and ability to tween supervisors and employees is another area that of promoting occupational safety and developing skills cope before any potential problems arise. requires more attention. 50 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Personnel, training and competence development perSonneL By BuSineSS SeCTor, on average perSonneL By empLoymenT group, on average perSonneL By markeT area, on average building Construction 26% Salaried employees 35% Finland 69% other countries 2% infrastructure Construction 47% Hourly paid workers 65% other nordic countries 14% Technical building Services 24% baltic countries 9% Group administration 3% russia and eastern europe 6% age diSTriBuTion, finLand perSonneL, on average 1,000 10,000 800 8,000 600 6,000 400 4,000 200 2,000 0 0 <= 19 20 24 25 29 >6 3 35 39 30 34 45 49 40 44 50 54 55 59 60 63> 63 y07 07 y08 08 y09 09 y10 10 y11 11 <1 2060 55 50 45 –6 –5 –5 –4 –4 3 9 4 9 4 9 40 35 30 –3 –3 9 4 9 25 –2 –2 4 information on graph as on 31 December 2011, includes all employees. Personnel, training and competence development – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 51 As part of the personnel survey, supervisors with our personnel’s wellbeing by offering opportunities for temporary contracts. The personnel negotiations were at least five subordinates also receive a report on their flexible working hours and working from home. You part of an extensive efficiency programme, and the management skills, and these results are used in sucan read more about occupational health and wellbemajority of terminations affected operations in Finpervisors’ development discussions. The 2011 reing on page 54. land. Personnel reductions in other countries will be sults for management skills did not differ from those implemented in accordance with the appropriate legin 2010. Lemminkäinen’s supervisors achieved their Equality at lemminkäinen islation and practices. The reductions will be impleunits’ targets and forged good relationships with emLemminkäinen’s principles of equality are based not mented by the end of 2012. ployees. Feedback and employees’ competence deonly on legislation, but also on our own equality acLemminkäinen’s downscaling measures adhere velopment were, however, identified as areas for detion plan, which seeks to promote unbiased treatto the negotiation periods laid down in legislation velopment. A total of 360 supervisors (41 per cent of ment for all employees, a diverse personnel structure, and employment contracts and, in the case of termiLemminkäinen’s supervisors) received a feedback restandardised remuneration, and working conditions nations, minimum notice periods. We seek to find alport in 2011. suitable for everyone. ternatives to terminations, such as retirement plans We used the results of the 2011 personnel surThe plan’s implementation is monitored and evaland re-employment on other tasks elsewhere within vey to create an index for measuring the quality of our uated at Group level by Lemminkäinen’s codeterminathe Group. change management. This index will support Lemtion advisory committee, and in each business sector Our employment contracts comply with current minkäinen’s change management, and the results will by the relevant codetermination body. Regional state labour legislation. In 2011, all hourly paid workers and be monitored by both the Group’s Executive Board administrative agencies and the Ombudsman for salaried employees in Finland – over 91 per cent of and the executive boards of each business sector. Equality ensure that we adhere to legislation. personnel – were covered by collective labour agreeEquality and its implementation were also includments. No collective labour agreements, nor any other Remuneration ed in Lemminkäinen’s personnel survey. 71 per cent of collective agreements, have been agreed on with senIn 2011, we focused on enhancing and standardising respondents considered Lemminkäinen to be an equal ior salaried employees. our remuneration practices, so as to support the imopportunities workplace. Our goal for 2012 is to creAll of our employees’ employment contracts conplementation of our strategy and a ‘one Lemminkäinate guidelines to prevent the harassment and ill treattain a period of notice equal to at least the minimum en’ approach. We also wanted to ensure that our rement of personnel. required by labour legislation and collective labour muneration practices are in line with our values. We In 2012, we will draw up a policy for age manageagreements. Minimum periods of notice vary dewill continue these developments in 2012. ment. We want our managers to pay attention to the pending on employees’ collective agreements and the In 2011, we began competence classification of varying needs of employees of different ages. Prelength of time they have worked for Lemminkäinen. our management and senior salaried positions, and venting age discrimination is part of our age managethis will also work towards standardising remunerment programme. ation practices. We improved our salary statistics, which we can use to ensure that our remuneration Downscaling, practices are equal and unbiased. We also developed labour legislation and notice periods the content of our incentive scheme, and its processIn autumn 2011, Lemminkäinen launched codeteres and measures. mination negotiations that resulted in the decision to In addition to monetary rewards, Lemminkäinen make reductions totalling a maximum of 300 manalso offers non-monetary benefits. We invest in, for years. The reductions will be implemented through example, healthcare and exercise. We seek to promote terminations, retirements, and the termination of 52 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Personnel, training and competence development our goals goals for How we next the year 2011 succeeded steps In connection with our personnel survey, we implemented a separate managerial skill feedback report for managers with at least five employFollow-up and further development of the manager assessment Developing management skills ees in their team. We identified the managers who are most in need of implemented in connection with the personnel survey. managerial skills development, and directed them towards manageContinuous management training (LEKA). ment training (LEKA). Change management index based on the personnel survey was Change management index based on the personnel survey is 47/100. 39/100. It tells if Lemminkäinen employees have received enough It tells if Lemminkäinen employees have received enough information Developing change management information on the changes needed to build a unified company and on the changes needed to build a unified company and that they that they understand the development goals and find the development understand the development goals and find the development discusdiscussions useful. sions useful. Job grades have been defined for senior salaried employees and All salaried employees are included either in the annual incentive plan or management. Compensation development the project incentive plan. Internal and external salary comparison information is actively used in the development of fair and competitive recruitment. Personnel, training and competence development – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 53 Occupational health, safety and wellbeing Lemminkäinen’s occupational health and safety efdits are continually conducted to ensure safety on identify any threats to working capacity at the earliforts seek to minimise the risks associated with acconstruction sites and in other workplaces. These est possible stage. The Group’s occupational healthcidents, burnout, and professional diseases. We audits also form part of the requirements for OHcare unit coordinates the treatment and rehabilitaemploy standardised principles to improve working SAS 18001 certification. In Finland, we also make the tion of those threatened by working incapacity. The capacity management, and occupational health and weekly safety measurements required by law. unit works with line managers, the industrial safety wellbeing throughout the Group. Our personnel’s In addition to conducting external safety audits, organisation and HR professionals to support personwellbeing is an important factor in our success. we encourage our managers to make onsite visits. nel’s ability to cope at work. Occupational wellbeing at Safety rounds enable management to discuss onsite Lemminkäinen is managed by the wellbeing steering Occupational safety safety factors and pre-emptive measures with pergroup, which consists of HR management personnel, At Lemminkäinen, we seek a continual reduction in sonnel and foremen. occupational healthcare representatives, and salaried accidents by employing pre-emptive measures. The We encourage our employees to keep their eyes and waged employees. mainstays of our work are supporting safe working open and report any practices that pose a risk to safeconditions and methods, a workplace atmosphere ty. In order to make these observations easier to reWorking capacity – that emphasises safety, reducing accidents and safeport, we’ll be switching to an electronic reporting sysmonitoring, management and early support ty training. tem in 2012. Due to the physically demanding nature of working on Management, employees, safety managers and the In 2011, the accident frequency for the Group’s a construction site, early retirements caused by workindustrial safety organisation share responsibility for operations in Finland was 36 accidents leading to abing incapacity are a significant risk for Lemminkäinen. implementing safety measures and ensuring safety. All sence per million work hours. Although accidents were We evaluate our employees’ risk of working incapersonnel from waged employees to senior salaried emless serious in nature, we didn’t achieve our target: pacity as part of standard occupational healthcare proployees are represented by an industrial safety commita maximum of 20 accidents per million work hours. cedures and with the Sante health questionnaire, which tee. Our Group-wide environment and safety steering Last year, the accident reporting system was extendforms part of health checks. The most significant risk group shares good practices across business sectors. ed to cover our operations in infrastructure construcfactors to our personnel’s working capacity are smoking Industrial safety committees enable all personnel to tion Sweden (25.5) and Denmark (36.7). The numand excessive alcohol consumption, and – for salaried have a say in issues relating to health and safety in their bers and comparability of foreign accident frequency employees and management – the risk of diabetes. Beworkplace. A joint meeting of all of the Group’s indusrates has not been assured. Extending the reporting ing overweight is one of the explanatory factors in those trial safety committees is held once a year. Our safety system enables us to engage in systematic pre-empwith an increased risk of diabetes. policy and principles support our operations. tive measures and share good safety practices at an Working incapacity is also prevented through task We believe that safety training is effective in reinternational level. Our 2012 accident frequency tarmanagement, that is, the long-term development of ducing accidents. We provide all of our personnel with get for operations in Finland is 20. tasks. In 2011, we introduced a monitoring, managethe requisite safety training, and occupational safement and early support model to support the identity is now included in Lemminkäinen’s own LEKA and Occupational health and wellbeing fication of working capacity risks. The early support PAKKI training. You can read more about our training In addition to mandatory healthcare, we offer coverage model enables us to intervene in long-term or recurprogrammes on pages 50-53. geared towards occupational health at general pracring sickness absences by offering employees support. Lemminkäinen is a member of the Finnish Institioner level. We use an integrated healthcare model, We offer our supervisors training in early support. In tute of Occupational Health’s Zero Accident Forum, that is, Lemminkäinen’s healthcare unit coordinates 2011, 389 supervisors participated the training. Our which unites employers that are committed to imits services with a network of healthcare partners. We goal for 2012 is to have trained a total of 90 per cent proving occupational safety. Occupational safety aufocus strongly on pre-emptive care, which seeks to of Lemminkäinen’s supervisors. The training aims to 54 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Occupational health, safety and wellbeing occupational safety DUE TO sickness absences absence due to sickness % (in finland) 2011 2010 2009 target 2012 All personnel 4.1 4.1 4.4 4.0 salaried employees 1.8 1.8 1.9 hourly paid workers 5.4 5.3 6.1 Lemminkäinen Group 2.6 2.5 1.3 Building Construction 3.4 3.6 4.1 Infrastructure Construction 3.6 3.5 3.9 Technical Building Services 5.7 5.4 6.8 absence due to accident % (in finland) 2011 2010 2009 target 2012 All personnel 0.3 0.5 0.6 salaried employees 0.02 0.03 0.04 hourly paid workers 0.5 0.7 0.9 Lemminkäinen Group 0.01 0.02 0.2 Building Construction 0.3 0.6 0.6 Infrastructure Construction 0.3 0.3 0.3 Technical Building Services 0.4 0.6 0.8 Accident frequency rate (in Finland) 2011 2010 2009 target 2012 Lemminkäinen Group 36.1 36.1 36.2 20 Lemminkäinen Corporation 0 2.5 0 Building Construction 30.5 32.0 36.4 Infrastructure Construction 25.4 17.7 20.8 Building Products * 58.9 50.6 Technical Building Services 62.7 54.3 47.7 Fatal accidents 0 0 1 0 Absence due to sickness and accidents: for 2011 and 2010, the proportion of absence from theoretical regular working hours (new calculation model). The data for 2009 is based on the working hours performed. Accident frequency rate: x accidents / million working hours resulting in absence for more than one day Includes own staff. * Lemminkäinen divested its roofing business, part of the Building Products business division, in December 2010. Since 2011, concrete business and sports construction, formerly part of the Building Products Division, are reported as part of Infrastructure Construction. Occupational health, safety and wellbeing – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 55 make working capacity management a part of everyday supervisory work. Another thing we’re seeking to establish in our routine activities is professional rehabilitation for those with a high risk of working incapacity. Our goal Monitoring sickness absences is a is to identify those employees in need of rehabilitation and offer them rehabilitation at the earliest possible stage. In 2012, we intend to include career path planfundamental aspect of our pre-emptive ning in development discussions. Career path planning not only boosts professional development, but developmental efforts. also enables us to prevent unnecessary early retirements by steering high-risk employees towards new tasks, preferably within the Group. Monitoring sickness absences is a fundamental discussed by our business sectors’ codetermination fluence on personnel’s health. The latest study was aspect of our pre-emptive developmental efforts, and organisations. Our goal for 2012 is to offer our emcarried out in spring 2011. Long-term investments it has been set as one of the most important working ployees more information about the health risks asin our exercise programme have generated results capacity themes for 2011 and 2012. In accordance sociated with drugs and alcohol. Supervisor training as, according to the barometer, 57 (54) per cent of with the early support model, supervisors have been and internal communications will also boost the effiemployees take sufficient exercise to maintain good encouraged to stay in contact with employees during ciency of our pre-emptive measures. health. The most significant factors in the type and their sickness absences and to monitor their absencamount of exercise taken are employees’ own habes. In 2011, Lemminkäinen introduced a new system Supporting exercise its, support from their employer, and encouragement for classifying sickness absences based on the ConWe encourage our personnel to take plenty of exercise. from supervisors. The next study will be carried out federation of Finnish Industries’ (EK) model. In 2011, we invested a total of EUR 317,000 in proin 2013. moting exercise for our personnel working in Finland. Intoxicants We also raised our support to EUR 240 per person, in Activating passive exercisers Lemminkäinen’s healthcare unit assists in the treataccordance with our target. Our goal is to motivate those engaging in passive or ment and referral of those experiencing problems The Lemminkäinen exercise card is one of the unvaried exercise. An exercise and wellbeing pilot was with drugs or alcohol. Our goal is to have an intoxibenefits we offer to all of our employees in Finland. In carried out in the Infrastructure Construction business cant-free working environment and community. 2011, we started to introduce a joint electronic card sector in 2011. The pilot’s primary goal was to help reLemminkäinen’s anti-intoxicant programme was upsystem to all 450 sports locations. 92,504 visits duce the strain of everyday work by encouraging emdated in 2011. As part of the update, we drew up a were made to subsidised sports locations in 2011. Our ployees to improve their physical endurance. EmployGroup-wide intoxicant policy, which is based on Lemgoal for 2012 is to introduce our own fitness website ees were also encouraged to pay attention to weight minkäinen’s safety policy, working capacity maintethat will enable personnel to monitor their exercise. management and healthy habits. The average level of nance activities, and the early support model. These physical endurance among participants rose and body guidelines will help supervisors and other personnel Exercise Barometer composition results, such as fat percentages and to prevent and identify problems with drugs and alWe use a biennial Exercise Barometer to monitor the weight indexes, improved. The results did not, howevcohol, and to take any necessary action at the earliest success of our exercise programme in terms of both er, show any significant improvements among those in possible stage. Our anti-intoxicant policy has been implementation and service use, as well as its inthe largest risk group. 56 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Occupational health, safety and wellbeing our goals goals for How we next the year 2011 succeeded steps We implemented the early support model and sickness absence Implementing the early support model and sickness absence monitorWe continue training. The goal in 2012 is that 90 per cent of manmonitoring system. 50 per cent of managers have been trained to use ing system. Training managers in the use of the early support model. agers have been trained to use the early support model. the early support model. New tasks and solutions developed for employees with a high risk of In order to identify occupational disability risks, the Group deployed a Making career path planning part of development discussions. reduced work capacity, supporting coping at work. model for work capacity follow-up, management and early support. The frequency of accidents involving operations in Finland correThe frequency of accidents involving operations in Finland The frequency of accidents involving operations in Finland corresponds sponded to 36 accidents that led to absences per million work hours. equals 20 accidents leading to absences, per million work hours. to a maximum of 20 accidents leading to absences, per million work We expanded the reporting practice to the business operations of An electronic security risk identification system will be deployed hours. Reporting is expanded outside Finland. infrastructure construction in Sweden and in Denmark. in 2012. In Finland, 70 per cent of managers, whose team members’ sickness We created a system that monitors how active managers are in using Work capacity management incorporated into daily managerial duties absences are above the set limits, have organised an early support the early support model. discussion. Occupational health, safety and wellbeing – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 57 Responsibility in the procurement chain In accordance with our Code of Conduct, we require our a single organisation. We have divided our procureThe supplier audit response rate fell short of our partners and suppliers to adhere to legislation and to folments into 12 categories in which we handle tenders target in 2011. In 2012, we will be switching to a more low international regulations concerning human rights, for Lemminkäinen’s entire procurement volume. We comprehensive and more reliable system that will take employment rights and the environment. We work with have also defined a procurement strategy and have a more in-depth look at our suppliers’ subcontractor our subcontractors and suppliers to ensure that these begun to define procurement processes. These efforts chains and issues relating to quality, the environment, requirements are being met, and we are developing syswill continue in 2012. occupational safety, and corporate responsibility. Our tems to monitor their activities in this respect. Methods of achieving the targets laid down in target is to audit five of our major suppliers. Our purchases totalled EUR 1,511 million (1,186), our efficiency programme include standardising prowhich represents 66 per cent of our net sales (65). curement processes and systems, downsizing our Fighting the grey economy Goods and raw materials accounted for EUR 719 milsupplier network, removing overlapping agreements, We require all of our subcontractors to adhere to lion (543) and external services for EUR 809 million and handling tenders centrally to harness the benthe Act on the Contractor’s Obligations and Liability (646). Subcontracting was the largest external serefits of volume. We will also be increasing the proWhen Work is Contracted Out. We’ve been involved in vice, totalling EUR 656 million (490). About 35 per portion of foreign contractors and material imports developing the Tilaajavastuu.fi service, which seeks to cent (30) of procurements were made from countries in our procurements. The use of online auctions as prevent the operation of the grey economy in the conother than Finland. a medium for bidding on tenders has generated fastruction industry, as well as its associated services vourable results, and we will be increasing their use Luotettava Kumppani (Reliable Partner) and Valvoja Increased PROCUREMENTS efficiency in the future. (Supervisor). increases profitability Our goal is to increase online procurements by deIn August 2011, we organised a Group-wide, antiIn 2011, we launched an overhaul of our procurement veloping and employing standard, Group-wide elecgrey economy theme day. During the theme day, site model, which will promote our goals of improved proftronic procurement systems. Use of our procurement managers checked that their subcontractors were aditability and competitiveness, and help to make LemIT system will be extended to the entire Group, and hering to the Act on the Contractor’s Obligations and minkäinen a single, united construction company. As work towards this will begin in 2012. This system will Liability When Work is Contracted Out. Of the appart of our updated strategy, in autumn 2011 we anhelp us to, for example, improve supplier and product proximately 1,300 subcontractors inspected, about nounced an efficiency programme that seeks to lightitem management. 93 per cent passed with clean sheets. In the main, the en our cost structure by EUR 50 million. We aim to In order to gain benefits of volume, we have to imonly deficiencies found were minor and subcontracmake the majority of the savings, EUR 30 million, by prove cooperation between design process managetors were obliged to correct them immediately. increasing the efficiency of procurements. About one ment and procurements. When it comes to logistics, During the theme day, we sent our partners 185 third of these savings should be implemented in 2012. we can enhance cooperation between production and recommendations to join the Luotettava Kumppani Decentralised procurements and our extensive procurements. We choose responsible suppliers that (Reliable Partner) service. We are also aiming to make supplier network are some of the issues that have are able to provide nationwide service and with whom even more efficient use of the Tilaajavastuu.fi serposed challenges. The overhaul of our operating modwe can cooperate to develop more efficient operating vice in the future. We are identifying which suppliers el seeks to standardise and create cost-efficient opmodels and, in particular, on-site logistics. haven’t yet joined the service, so we can encourage erating procedures. them to join. Supplier audits ensure quality standardisation and cooperation – In 2011, we audited 18 of our major Finnish suppliroad to efficient procurement ers using a questionnaire. In Estonia, six inspections of In summer 2011, we centralised our procurements in audits were carried out. 58 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – Responsibility in the procurement chain Independent Assurance Report* To the Management of Lemminkäinen that the Responsibility Reporting has not been preConclusion Corporation pared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothWe have been engaged by the Management of LemReporting criteria. ing has come to our attention that causes us to beminkäinen Corporation to perform a limited assurIn a limited assurance engagement the evidencelieve that the Responsibility Reporting has not been ance engagement on the numeric information on gathering procedures are more limited than for a reaprepared, in all material respects, in accordance with economic, social and environmental responsibility for sonable assurance engagement, and therefore less the Reporting criteria. Our assurance report should be the period of January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurread in conjunction with the inherent limitations of (hereinafter “Responsibility Reporting”) disclosed in ance engagement. An assurance engagement involves accuracy and completeness for corporate responsiLemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual Report 2011. performing procedures to obtain evidence about the bility information. This independent assurance report amounts and other disclosures in the Responsibilishould not be used on its own as a basis for interpretManagement’s Responsibility ty Reporting. The procedures selected depend on the ing Lemminkäinen Corporation’s performance in relaThe Management of Lemminkäinen Corporation is repractitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of tion to its principles of responsibility. sponsible for preparing the Responsibility Reporting the risks of material misstatement of the Responsibilin accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out ity Reporting. Our work consisted of, amongst others, Helsinki, 27 February 2012 in Lemminkäinen Corporation’s reporting instructions the following procedures: and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Global Reporting Initiative (version 3.0). –– Interviewing senior management of Lemminkäinen Corporation. Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Practitioner’s Responsibility –– Assessing how Lemminkäinen Group employees Partner Director, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Reapply Lemminkäinen Corporation’s reporting inSustainability & Authorised Public sponsibility Reporting based on our work performed. structions and procedures. Climate Change Accountant Our assurance report has been made in accordance –– Visiting Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Head Office Sustainability & with the terms of our engagement. We do not acas well as three sites in Finland. Climate Change cept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except –– Interviewing employees responsible for collection to Lemminkäinen Corporation for our work, for this reand reporting of the information presented in the port, or for the conclusions that we have reached. Responsibility Reporting at Lemminkäinen Group We have not been engaged to provide assurance on level and at the different sites where our visits amounts or other disclosures relating to the prior reporttook place. ing periods presented in the Responsibility Reporting. –– Inspecting relevant documents and systems for We conducted our work in accordance with the gathering, analysing and aggregating the inforInternational Standard on Assurance Engagements mation presented in the Responsibility Reporting (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than as well as testing on a sample basis. Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informa–– Assessing the data consolidation process of the tion’. This Standard requires that we comply with ethinformation presented in the Responsibility Reical requirements and plan and perform the assurance porting at Lemminkäinen Group level. * Translation from the Finnish original engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe Independent Assurance Report – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 59 GRI table and Global Compact index Comparison with the guidelines of the global reporting initiative and the principles of global compact. We have declared that our reporting is compliant with Application Level C+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it is compliant with Application Level C+. The index contains indicators reported in 2011. The GRI index can be found on our website www.lemminkainen.com/company/responsibility. Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Global compact GRI reported indicators status pages comments/remarks STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO’s statement 11 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 12–15, 21–23, 43, 53, 57 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 15 2.3 Operational structure 15 www.lemminkainen.com/contact_information, 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 83 the company’s headquarters is located in Helsinki Number of major operating countries is 8: Finland, Sweden, Norway, 2.5 Number of countries and location of operations 15, 20 Denmark, Russia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 68 2.7 Markets served 15 2.8 Scale of reporting organisation 3 2.9 Significant changes 6–7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 42 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 8 3.2 Date of the most recent report 8 3.3 Reporting cycle 8 3.4 Contact point for questions 83 www.lemminkainen.com/contact_information 60 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – GRI table and Global Compact index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Global compact GRI reported indicators status pages comments/remarks REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY The annual report is directed to shareholders, investors, analysts, media, 3.5 Process for defining report content 8–9 customers, partners and personnel. 3.6 Boundary of the report 8–9 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope or boundary 8–9 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint ventures 8–9 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 8–9, 55 3.10 Explanations of re-statements 9 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 8–9 3.12 GRI content index 60–65 3.13 Assurance policy and practice 9, 59 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 68–69 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board 68–69 4.3 Independence of the Board members 68–69 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholder and employee consultation 68 Executive compensation and linkage to organisation’s 4.5 performance 72 4.6 Process for avoiding conflicts of interest 68 4.7 Process for determing expertise 66, 73 Implementation of mission and values statements; Code of 4.8 Conduct 8,68 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing risk management 68 Code of Conduct 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s performance 68 4.11 Addressing precautionary approach 21–23 Risk management 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives 8 4.13 Memberships in associations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 48–49 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholders have been identified during the strategy process 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 49 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement 45, 50 GRI table and Global Compact index – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 61 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Global compact GRI reported indicators status pages comments/remarks MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management approach to economic responsibility 15, 24, 25, 48 Economic performance indicators EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 48 Financial implication of climate change not quantified in financial terms, 7 EC2 Risk and opportunities due to climate change 21 www.lemminkainen.com/company/responsibility Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligaEC3 tions 52, 70, 115 EC4 Significant subsidies received from government 48 1 EC5 Entry-level wage compared to minimum wage EC6 Spending on local suppliers 6 EC7 Local hiring EC8 Infrastructure investments provided for public benefit EC9 Significant indirect impacts ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Management approach to environmental responsibility 40 Environmental performance indicators 8 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8–9 EN2 Recycled materials used 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption 41 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 41 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improve8–9 EN5 ments Initiatives to provide energy-effecient or renewable energy8–9 EN6 based products and services Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reduc8–9 EN7 tions achieved 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal 41 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected 8–9 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 8 EN11 Location and size of land holdings in biodiversity-rich habitats Description of significant impacts of activieties, products, and 8 EN12 services on biodiversity 62 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – GRI table and Global Compact index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Global compact GRI reported indicators status pages comments/remarks 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 8 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity 42 Species with extinction risk with habitats in areas affected 8 EN15 by operations 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 43 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 7–9 EN18 achieved 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 8 EN20 SOx, NOx, and other significant air emissions 8 EN21 Total water discharge 8 EN22 Total amount of waste 41 8 EN23 Significant spills 8 EN24 Transported, imported, exported or treated hazardous waste 8 EN25 Water bodies and habitats affected by discharges of water 7–9 EN26 Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 8–9 EN27 that are reclaimed by category Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with 8 EN28 environmental regulations 8 EN29 Environmental impacts on transportation 40, 43 7–9 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Management approach to social responsibility 50–53 Social performance indicators Total workforce by employment type, employment contract LA1 and region 51, 52 6 LA2 Breakdown of employee turnover Benefits to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 temporary or part-time employees 1–3 LA4 Coverage of collective bargaining activities 52 3 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes 52 In accordance with the Finnish codeterminated legislation. Representation in joint management-worker health and 1 LA6 safety committees 52 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, fatalities and 1 LA7 absenteeism 55 Education and prevention programs regarding serious 1 LA8 diseases 54, 56 GRI table and Global Compact index – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 63 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Global compact GRI reported indicators status pages comments/remarks Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 1 LA9 trade unions Average hours of training per year per employee by employee LA10 category LA11 Programs for skills management 50 Employees receiving regular performance and career developLA12 ment reviews 50, 52 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 1–6 LA13 employees 52, 68 1–6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women HUMAN RIGHTS Management approach to human rights 8, 52, 54, 58, 68 Human rights indicators 1–6 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses Significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 1–6 HR2 human rights screening 58 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning 1–6 HR3 aspects of human rights 1–2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken Actions to support freedom of association and collective Not actions threatening freedom of association or right to collective 1–3 HR5 bargaining in risk areas bargaining Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child 1–2, 5 HR6 labour 8 Not actions involving significant risks of child labour Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced 1–2, 4 HR7 labour Not actions involving significant risks of forced labour 1–2 HR8 Human rights-related training for security personnel Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 1–2 HR9 and actions taken SOCIETY Management approach to society 8, 21, 58, 68 Society indicators SO1 Managing impacts of operations on communities Number of business units analyzed for risks related to 10 SO2 corruption 10 SO3 Employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Public policy positions and participation in public policy 1–10 SO5 development and lobbying 64 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – society and personnel – GRI table and Global Compact index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Global compact GRI reported indicators status pages comments/remarks Contributions to political parties, politicians and related 10 SO6 institutions 8 Lecal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 monopoly practices 23 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and SO8 regulations PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Management approach to product responsibility 8, 17, 44–45, 68 Product responsibility indicators 1 PR1 Assessment of healt and safety impacts of products Non-compliance with regulations concerning health and 1 PR2 safety impacts of products 8 PR3 Product and service information required by procedures Non-compliance with regulations concerning product and 8 PR4 service information and labeling Practices related to customer satisfaction and results of PR5 customer satisfaction surveys 45, 48 Adherence to marketing communications laws, standards and PR6 voluntary codes 44 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes conPR7 cerning marketing communications 1 PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Fines for non-compliance concerning the provision and use of PR9 products and services GRI table and Global Compact index – society and personnel – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 65 Encounters: In Denmark, roadworks are also carried out at night In order to disrupt traffic as little as possible, paving work is often carried out during the evening and night. This requires good planning and effective solutions. Good relations between partners make it easier to achieve optimal results. MOTORWAY MAINTENANCE IN denmark Since 2006, Lemminkäinen has been carrying out major motorway maintenance contracts – worth a total of about EUR 80 million – for the Danish Road Directorate. Our road maintenance work in Denmark includes milling, paving, road markings, and signage. 66 Projects on highly trafficked roads require effective solutions. For the past five years, Lemminkäinen has been imsays that night work is always challenging and requires plementing major motorway maintenance projects for good planning, especially when it comes to logistics, as the Danish Road Directorate. Thanks to this, our asroads must be open for use by the early morning. phalt production in Denmark has risen by about 50 per Andersen first came across Lemminkäinen back in cent. Lemminkäinen’s road maintenance work in Den1994, when we launched our operations in the Danmark has included milling, paving, road markings, and ish paving market. He describes Lemminkäinen as a signage. In addition to maintenance, we’ve also paved responsible company that fulfils its obligations. Annew roads in Denmark. dersen also underlines the importance of personal rePeter Andersen, who heads up motorway maintelationships when implementing demanding projects. nance in Denmark, says that he’s extremely satisfied It’s easy to work with a partner you trust, as you don’t with Lemminkäinen’s implementation of major mainneed to get every little thing in writing. Seamless cotenance contracts. In particular, Andersen has been operation saves both parties time and money. very impressed by our performance in a maintenance According to Terkildsen, Lemminkäinen’s conproject for the highly trafficked Vejle Fjord Bridge. tracts with the Danish Road Directorate have enLemminkäinen A/S’s Managing Director, Claus Terkildhanced our operations, especially in terms of planning sen, says that the high volume of traffic on the bridge and procedures. He says that these demanding prorequired sensible, effective solutions to be planned jects have forged team spirit and an ‘up and at ‘em’ in cooperation with the country’s road directorate. As attitude at Lemminkäinen, which is also evident in our with many other motorway paving projects, work on end results. Andersen firmly believes that cooperathe Vejle project was carried out between 6 p.m. and 6 tion between the Danish Road Directorate and Lema.m., so as to minimise disruption to traffic. Terkildsen minkäinen will continue. Peter Andersen from Danish Road Directorate (left), Claus Terkildsen from Lemminkäinen (right). Encounters – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 67 Corporate Governance Lemminkäinen Corporation is a Finnish public listed General Meeting implications for the company. The Board appoints and company whose administration complies with the Lemminkäinen’s Annual General Meeting is held annualdismisses the President & CEO, supervises his or her Finnish Corporate Governance Code and the comly within six months from the end of the previous finanactions, and decides on his or her remuneration and pany’s articles of association. Lemminkäinen’s corcial year on a date determined by the Board of Directors. other benefits. The Board also approves our Group’s porate governance is also guided by the values and The right to attend a General Meeting is restrictstrategy, operating principles and guiding values, and Code of Conduct approved by the Board of Directors. ed to those shareholders who are registered on the list ensures that they are up-to-date and correctly impleof shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy on mented. The Board also ensures that the Group’s risk Up-to-date information about Lemminkäinen’s the record date, which is at least eight working days management principles have been defined and con­corporate governance can be found on our website at prior to the meeting. Shareholders must also register ducts an annual examination to ensure that key busi­www.lemminkainen.com/investors > Management their attendance by the date stated in the invitation. ness risks have been identified and are being systemand Corporate Governance. The Annual General meeting decides on all matters atically monitored. Lemminkäinen’s President & CEO required in the provisions of the Companies Act, such as attends the Board’s meetings to present matters for Principles of corporate governance adoption of the Financial Statements, profit distribution, the Board’s consideration, as do the CFO and the ExLemminkäinen is administered in accordance with and granting discharge from liability to the members of ecutive Vice President of Corporate Business Develcurrent legislation, such as the Companies Act, Acthe Board of Directors and the President & CEO. The opment, who also acts as the Secretary of the Board. counting Act and Securities Market Act, and the comAGM also elects the members of the Board of Directors Other members of the Executive Board and the company’s Articles of Association. and the auditors, and decides on their remuneration. pany’s management attend meetings as required. We also observe the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd and the Financial Supervisory 2011 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2011 Annual Gen2011 The Board of Directors met 11 times in 2011 Authority, and adhere to the Finnish Corporate Goveral Meeting was held in Helsinki on 4 April 2011. with an attendance rate of 92 per cent. The Board ernance Code. In accordance with Recommendation 129 shareholders attended the meeting, representing consisted of: Berndt Brunow (Chair), Juhani Mäkin54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, we about 69 per cent of the company’s total number of en (Vice Chair), Mikael Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von publish a separate Corporate Governance Statement, shares and votes. The decisions of the Annual GenerWalzel, Heikki Räty and Teppo Taberman. One of the both as a stock exchange release and on our website al Meeting are available in full at: www.lemminkainen. Board’s most important areas for concern in 2011 was at www.lemminkainen.com/investors > Management com/ Investors > Management and Corporate Governensuring Lemminkäinen’s profitability. The Board met and Corporate Governance. ance > General meeting of shareholders to discuss updates to the Group’s strategy and ways to guarantee sufficient funding. In 2011, the Board alLemminkäinen’s administrative bodies Board of Directors so handled strategic acquisitions, organisational reThe General Meeting is where shareholders exercise Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meetstructuring, and issues relating to the development of their voting rights and is Lemminkäinen’s highest deing elects each year at least four and at most eight Lemminkäinen’s operating model. cision-making body. The General Meeting elects the members to serve on the Company’s Board of DirecThe Board of Directors carried out a self-assessBoard of Directors, which in turn appoints the Presitors, which elects the Chairman and Vice Chairman ment of its work. Amongst other things, the Board asdent & CEO. The Board and the President & CEO are from among the members. Board members’ term of sessed its structure, working methods and compliresponsible for the management of the Group. The office ends at the conclusion of the first Annual Genance with its rules of procedure. The results of this Executive Board and other management personnel eral Meeting held after their election. self-assessment are used to develop the Board’s assist the President & CEO in his duties. The Board of Directors decides on matters of prinworking methods. The Board also assessed the indeciple and any issues that would have broad-ranging pendence of its members. All members of the Board 68 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance are independent of the company. Berndt Brunow, JuThe Board of Directors’ most important tasks hani Mäkinen, Mikael Mäkinen, Heikki Räty and Teppo ██ To approve the Group’ strategy, operating principles and guiding values, and to ensure Taberman are independent of major shareholders. that they are up-to-date and correctly implemented ██ To approve Group-company budgets as part of the consolidated budget Board committees ██ To make decisions concerning the Group’s key investment and financing activities At its annual organisational meeting, the Board of Directors appoints three committees from among its mem██ To ensure that the Group’s risk management principles have been defined and to conduct an annual ­examination to ensure that key business risks have been identified and bers: the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee are being systematically monitored and the Remuneration Committee. These committees ██ To ensure that the Group has a well-functioning system of internal controls assist the Board of Directors by preparing and drawing up proposals and recommendations for the Board’s con██ To make decisions on whether to divest existing businesses or to expand into new business areas in ­accordance with the company’s line of business as defined in its Arsideration. The Board of Directors has approved the rules ticles of Association of procedure governing these committees. ██ To appoint and dismiss the President and CEO and his or her immediate subordinates ██ To decide, on the basis of a proposal made by the Remuneration Committee, on the Audit Committee principles of the Group’s incentive-based remuneration systems and on the salaries, The Audit Committee monitors and supervises Lemincentives and other benefits of the President and CEO and Group Executive Board minkäinen’s annual and interim reporting processes and the statutory audit of the consolidated and parent company’s Financial Statements. The Audit Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Lemminkäinen Group’s Corporate Governance and Management Group’s risk management, internal controls and internal auditing. It also handles the section of the Group’s General meeting of shareholders Corporate Governance Statement that describes the Auditing main features of the internal control and risk management systems for financial reporting. Board of directors The Audit Committee deals with reports and plans prepared for the committee by the internal audit function and the auditor. It also assesses the independAudit Remuneration Nomination ence of the statutory auditor or firm of authorised committee committee committee public accountants, and in particular the provision of ancillary services to the audited firm. The Audit ComPresident and CEO Internal control mittee carries out preparatory work on the election of Management systems the auditor for the Board of Directors’ consideration. Internal audit Executive board Internal operating The Audit Committee consists of a Chairman and instructions two members appointed by the Board. The company’s Business sectors auditor, internal auditor and management representatives are also invited to meetings. All committee memCorporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 69 bers must be competent in the Audit Committee’s task incentive and retention bonus schemes. The Board er. The President & CEO is Chairman of the Executive domain, and at least one member must have expertise of Directors makes the final decisions on the basis of Board and appoints its secretary. in accountancy, bookkeeping or auditing. the Committee’s proposals. The Executive Board meets at least once a month and supports the President & CEO in, for example, the 2011 The Audit Committee met four times in 2011 2011 The Remuneration Committee met twice in preparation and execution of strategic matters, opwith an attendance rate of 100 per cent. The Audit 2011 with an attendance rate of 100 per cent. The erating plans, matters of principle and any other sigCommittee consisted of Heikki Räty (Chair), Juhani Remuneration Committee consisted of Mikael Mäkinificant matters. The Executive Board also supports Mäkinen and Kristina Pentti-von Walzel. In addition nen (Chair), Berndt Brunow and Teppo Taberman. the President & CEO in ensuring information flow and to regular items, the Audit Committee also considered The Remuneration Committee considered the shortsmooth internal cooperation. the Group’s funding and risk management policies and long-term incentives from 2010 and the eleand the comparison figures drawn up in preparation ments and earnings criteria for shortand long-term 2011 In 2011, the members of the Executive Board for the 2012 business sector change. The Committee incentives in 2011. It also decided which executives were Timo Kohtamäki, President and CEO; Jukka Teralso considered impairment testing. would fall under the scope of the 2011 management honen, Executive Vice President, Building Construction; incentive system. The Committee drew up a list of Henrik Eklund, Executive Vice President, Infrastructure Nomination Committee recommendations, which was approved by the Board Construction; Marcus Karsten, Executive Vice PresiThe Nomination Committee makes preparations for of Directors. The Remuneration Committee also redent, Technical Building Services; Tiina Mellas, Execthe Annual General Meeting by drawing up a list of proceived a review of the current situation in HR. utive Vice President, Human Resources and ICT; Tiina posed nominees for the Board of Directors and making Mikander, Executive Vice President, Corporate Busia recommendation for their fees. Group Management ness Development; and Robert Öhman, CFO. Kati SuurPresident & CEO munne, Senior Vice President, Communications and 2011 The Nomination Committee met once in 2011 The President & CEO is responsible for the Group’s Marketing, was Secretary of the Board of Directors. with an attendance rate of 100 per cent. The Nomination routine administration and business planning. The In addition to his other duties, Marcus Karsten, Committee consisted of Berndt Brunow (Chair), Kristina President & CEO undertakes the execution of measExecutive Vice President, Technical Building SerPentti-von Walzel and Teppo Taberman. The Committee ures approved by the Board of Directors and handles vices, was responsible for the management and demade a proposal containing a list of proposed nominees preparations for any measures that are strategicalvelopment of Group-wide customer relations. Jukfor Lemminkäinen’s Board and a recommendation for the ly important at Group level. The President & CEO alka Terhonen, Executive Vice President, Building fees to be paid to both Board and Committee members. so ensures that the Group has adequate management Construction was responsible for residential conThe General Meeting approved the Nomination Commitresources and that its administration is appropriate struction in Russia, developing a Group-wide renovatee’s proposal, which was presented at the Annual Genand complies with the law. tion concept, and enhancing procurements. Developeral Meeting held on 4 April 2011. ing Scandinavian infrastructure construction was the Executive Board responsibility of Henrik Eklund, Executive Vice PresiRemuneration Committee The Lemminkäinen Group’s Executive Board comdent, Infrastructure Construction. The Remuneration Committee handles matters reprises the President & CEO of the parent company, Tiina Mellas was responsible for the management and lating to the salaries and bonuses of senior managethe executive vice presidents of our business secdevelopment of the Group’s human resources and ICT. ment, as well as other key terms and conditions of tors, the Executive Vice President of Human ResourcTiina Mikander, Executive Vice President, Corporate their service agreements. The Remuneration Comes and ICT, the Executive Vice President of Corporate Business Development, was responsible for developing mittee also deals with Group-level remuneration, and Business Development, and the Chief Financial Officstrategic business planning and management systems. 70 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance CFO Robert Öhman’s areas of responsibility were mittee and submits an Auditors’ Report to the Anaccordance with the guidelines and orders issued by Finance, Treasury, Mergers and Acquisitions, Investor nual General Meeting. The Auditors’ Report contains the Board of Directors. In order to ensure adequate risk Relations and Legal Affairs. a statement as to whether the Financial Statements management, the Board of Directors discusses the and the Board of Directors’ report give a true and fair Group’s business sector reviews and financial reports, Insider Administration view, as defined in the rules governing financial reportas well as any substantial changes that have occurred We observe NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd’s insider guideing, of the Group’s result and financial position, and in the company’s business. The Board’s Audit Comlines, which are supplemented by the insider guidelines as to whether the information contained in the Board mittee also assesses the adequacy and appropriateapproved by Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors. We of Directors’ report is consistent with the Financial ness of internal controls and risk management. maintain a public and company-specific insider register Statements. The auditor’s fee is paid annually in acThe President & CEO is responsible for the practiusing Euroclear Finland Oy’s SIRE system. cordance with the Annual General Meeting’s decision. cal organisation of internal controls. He or she ensures Insiders subject to disclosure requirements are that supervision of the company’s bookkeeping and the members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors, 2011 Lemminkäinen’s auditor was Pricewaterhouseasset management has been properly arranged. the President & CEO and the chief auditor of our acCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised public accountants, Our business is organised into business sectors counting firm. We have also defined the members of with Kim Karhu as chief auditor in 2011. Pricewatewhose executive vice presidents report to the PresiLemminkäinen’s Executive Board as insiders subject houseCoopers Oy has been Lemminkäinen’s auditor dent & CEO. The Group’s other directors and manto disclosure requirements. The share ownership of all since 2004. In 2010, Lemminkäinen invited bids from agers are responsible for internal controls within their insiders subject to disclosure requirements is public. firms of authorised public accountants. As a result, own areas of responsibility. We also maintain permanent company-specific the 2011 Annual General Meeting re-elected PricewaWe control and monitor our functions in order insider registers of people who regularly receive inside terhouseCoopers Oy as our auditor, in accordance with to ensure their efficiency and appropriateness. Our information due to their position or duties. Their share a proposal made by the Board of Directors. key means are the financial reports and business reownership is not public. When necessary, we also keep In 2011, we paid our auditor EUR 631,781 (2010: views prepared by management at business area, registers of project-specific insiders. EUR 857,347) in auditing fees and EUR 269,601 in business sector and Group level. Our internal controls Share ownership and transaction details for Lemconsultancy fees (EUR 389,107). over financial reporting aim to ensure that the interminkäinen’s public insiders are available at: ­www.lemim reports and Financial Statements we publish are minkainen.com/Investors > Management and Corporate Internal control prepared in accordance with the accounting and reGovernance > Insider administration > Insider Ownership Internal controls seek to ensure that the Group’s opporting principles adopted by Lemminkäinen, and that erations are efficient and profitable, that reporting is they are reliable. The internal control function also Auditing consistent and reliable, and that the Group’s operatmonitors financial reporting to ensure that it is hanLemminkäinen has one auditor, which must be a firm of ing principles and all applicable legislation and reguladled in accordance with set timetables. LemminkäinAuthorised Public Accountants approved by Finland’s tions are observed. en’s financial reporting processes and risk manageCentral Chamber of Commerce. The Annual General The Board of Directors is responsible for ensurment are described in greater detail in the Corporate Meeting elects the auditor for a term of office that runs ing that the Group’s internal controls and risk manGovernance Statement, which is available on our webuntil the end of the following Annual General Meeting. agement are adequate for the scope of our business site: www.lemminkainen.com/Investors > ManageThe scope of our audit encompasses the Group’s operations, and that their supervision is appropriatement and Corporate Governance. accounting, administration, Financial Statements and ly organised. The Board of Directors supervises the Our most significant risks and their management Board of Directors’ report for each accounting period. President & CEO to ensure that he or she handles the are described in greater detail on our website and on The Auditor makes regular reports to the Audit Comcompany’s business operations and administration in pages 21–23 of the Annual Report. Corporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 71 Legal affairs are coordinated by a Group-level unit Remuneration tive Board and other management personnel consists in order to promote consistent practices and to ensure Remuneration – Board of Directors of fixed basic pay, payments in kind, other benefits, as the management of legal risks. Our personnel receive Lemminkäinen Corporation’s General Meeting elects well as shortand to some extent long-term rewards. regular training in legal and contractual matters. We the members of the Board of Directors on an annual A fixed basic salary denotes monthly monetary have also drawn up detailed guidelines for different arbasis and also determines their fees. These fees are compensation, which is determined by the nature of eas, such as competition law and insider issues, and paid entirely as monetary compensation. Board memthe position as well as the person’s experience and perprovide training on them. Monitoring compliance with bers’ term of office ends at the conclusion of the first formance. In addition to meal benefits and the use of a these guidelines falls under the scope of our line opAnnual General Meeting held after their election. company car and mobile phone, management personerations and management, and we also provide trainMembers of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors nel also have extended insurance coverage for accidents ing on them. do not fall within the scope of the company’s share and travel during their leisure time. Total remuneration Lemminkäinen’s shared values and Code of Conscheme, nor do they have an employment contract therefore consists of both basic salary and benefits. duct define expectations for how personnel should with Lemminkäinen. Each year, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors deact and how we should interact with our partners cides on benchmarks for longand short-term incenand stakeholders. The Group’s values, Code of Con2011 The 2011 Annual General Meeting decided that tive plans for the Group’s Executive Board, which seek duct and strategy are closely linked, and their practithe Chairman of the Board would be paid a fee of EUR to support the achievement of our strategic targets. cal application is a key part of leadership and every10,000 per month (2010: EUR 10,000) and Board On the basis of a proposal by the President & CEO, the day management. members would each receive EUR 3,000 per month Board decides on the benchmarks to be reached and (EUR 3,000). Members of the Board also received an the size of the incentives to be awarded. Internal Audit attendance fee of EUR 500 per meeting (EUR 500). The internal audit unit assists the Board of Directors The Chairman of the Audit Committee was paid Short-term incentives in its supervisory role by obtaining information on the an attendance fee of EUR 1,000 (500) and members Management’s short-term incentives are based on adequacy and functionality of risk management and EUR 500 (500) per committee meeting. the opportunity to receive an annual performance-reinternal controls in the Lemminkäinen Group and its lated bonus. The size of the bonus received depends business units. The internal audit unit assesses the Remuneration – Management on whether or not the performance targets specified economy and efficiency of resource usage, the reliabilOn the basis of a proposal submitted by the Remunerat the beginning of each year have been achieved. ity of reporting, the protection and security of assets, ation Committee, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors Lemminkäinen’s management is divided into four perand compliance with regulations, operating principles decides on the salaries, incentive schemes and other formance-related bonus groups, which determine the and guidelines. Its operating principles are defined benefits received by the President & CEO and the Exmaximum percentage applicable to each individual. in the internal auditing instructions approved by the ecutive Board. Individuals are allocated to groups based on both their Board of Directors. As part of Lemminkäinen’s strategy renewal process position in the organisational hierarchy and the nature The internal audit unit is subordinate to the Board in 2009, we also renewed our management remuneraand commercial value of their position. of Directors and operates under the supervision of the tion and incentive policy to aid developments in manPresident & CEO. It consists of an audit manager and agement. Remuneration for the Group’s Executive Board 2011 In 2011, management’s performance-related as many internal auditors as are required for the unit has been based on this policy since 2009, and was exbonuses were based on the Lemminkäinen Group’s to carry out its work. Internal auditing resources are tended to cover all management positions in 2010. profit before taxes and the successful implementastrengthened as required by procuring internal auditAccording to the policy, the pay of the President tion of the Group’s strategic programme. In addition ing services from external service providers. & CEO as well as the members of the Group’s Executo these criteria, the performance-related bonuses for 72 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance Independence of Independence of Members of the board and board’s committees the company significant shareholders Audit Committee Nomination Committee Renumeration Committee Berndt Brunow, chairman Yes Yes Chairman Member Juhani Mäkinen, vice chairman Yes Yes Member Mikael Mäkinen, member Yes Yes Chairman Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, member Yes No Member Member Heikki Räty, member Yes Yes Chairman Teppo Taberman, member Yes Yes Member Member board member meeting participation Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Renumeration Committee Berndt Brunow 11/11 1/1 2/2 Juhani Mäkinen 11/11 4/4 Mikael Mäkinen 10/11 2/2 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 11/11 4/4 1/1 Heikki Räty 11/11 4/4 Teppo Taberman 7/11 1/1 2/2 Corporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 73 the executive vice presidents of Lemminkäinen’s busied as a percentage of annual salary. Executive Board ness sectors were also based on each sector’s result members are entitled to retire upon reaching 60 years and the successful implementation of its own busiof age (old system) or 63 years of age (new system, ness plan. The performance-related bonuses for the as of 15 September 2011). Executive Board were based on implementation of Group’s business plan. The achievement of the tar2011 In 2011, EUR 1.2 million was paid into defined gets of performance-related bonuses is monitored at contribution pension plans for the President & CEO least every six months. and Executive Board members. EUR 0.2 million was In 2011, the President & CEO’s maximum perforpaid into defined benefit schemes. mance-related bonus was 80 per cent of his annual salary. The maximum percentage for performance-relatPresident & CEO ed bonuses for other members of the Group’s Executive Timo Kohtamäki, Lic. Tech., (b. 1963) has served as PresBoard was 60 per cent of their annual salary in 2011. ident & CEO of Lemminkäinen Corporation since 2009. The President & CEO’s pension is determined acLong-term incentives cording to the terms of the Group’s supplementary penLemminkäinen’s long-term incentive plan is a sharesion plan for management. The President & CEO’s plan based scheme comprising three one-year earning peis therefore based on a defined contribution scheme riods: the calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The and obtaining a paid-up policy. The President & CEO is commitment period is two years. The Board of Direcentitled to retire upon reaching 60 years of age. tors decides on the earning criteria for each period as The President & CEO’s employment contract may well as on the targets to be established at the beginbe terminated with six months’ notice. Upon terminaning of each earning period. The achievement of earntion of the contract by the company, the President & ing criteria is monitored at least once every six months. CEO shall be entitled to receive a one-off severance The scheme’s target group consists of the Presipayment equivalent to 18 months’ salary in accordance dent & CEO, the members of Lemminkäinen’s Execuwith his or her salary rate at the time of termination. tive Board, and about 35 others. The Board of Directors decides on the distribution of shares to key personnel. 2011 In 2011, the earning criteria for the long-term incentive plan were targets set for the Group’s equity ratio and return on investment. Supplementary pension plans As of 1 January 2010, supplementary pension plans for the President & CEO and Executive Board have been based on a defined contribution scheme and obtaining a paid-up policy. Contributions are calculat74 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – corporate governance and management – Corporate Governance monthly remuneration paid to members of the board of directors (€) 2011 2010 Berndt Brunow 120,000 120,000 Mikael Mäkinen 36,000 36,000 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 36,000 36,000 Heikki Räty 36,000 36,000 Teppo Taberman 36,000 36,000 Juhani Mäkinen 36,000 36,000 Total 300,000 300,000 remuneration paid to members of the board of directors (€) 2011 2010 Berndt Brunow 6,000 7,000 Mikael Mäkinen 5,500 6,500 Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 8,000 10,000 Heikki Räty 9,500 10,000 Teppo Taberman 4,500 9,000 Juhani Mäkinen 8,000 9,500 Total 41,500 52,000 salaries and benefits paid to members of executive board (€) 2011 2010 Salary 1,101,115 1,364,672 Benefits 47,372 62,480 Short-term reward scheme 75,481 241,112 Long-term reward scheme 91,703 Total 1,223,968 1,759,967 salaries and benefits paid to the president and ceo (€) 2011 2010 Salary 438,941 407,408 Benefits 18,966 18,490 Short-term reward scheme 33,000 132,000 Long-term reward scheme 88,320 Total 490,907 646,217 Corporate Governance – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 75 Board of Directors Berndt Brunow, b. 1950, M.Sc. (Econ.) Mikael Mäkinen, b. 1956, M.Sc. Heikki Räty, b. 1953, M.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of the Board since 2008 and a member of the Board Member of the Board of Directors since 2009. Chairman of the ReMember of the Board of Directors since 2009. Chairman of the Audit since 2002. Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member muneration Committee. Independent of the Company and its major Committee. Independent of the Company and its major shareholders. of the Remuneration Committee. Independent of the Company and shareholders. its major shareholders. Primary work experience Primary work experience • Helectron Oy Ab, Managing Director 2009– Primary work experience • Cargotec Corporation, President & CEO 2006– • EHA-Invest GmbH, Managing Director 2008–2009 • Oy Karl Fazer Ab, Managing Director 2002–2007 • Wärtsilä Corporation, Group Vice President, Ship Power 1999– • Myllykoski Corporation, Deputy CEO 1998–2008; • Sanitec Corporation, Managing Director 2000–2002 2006; Wärtsilä NSD Singapore, Managing Director 1997–1998; CFO 1994–1997 • Over 20 years of experience in executive positions in the forest Marine, Wärtsilä SACM Diesel, Vice President 1992–1997 industry both in Finland and abroad Key positions of trust Key positions of trust • Chairman of the Board of Directors: My Fastigheter ­Holding Ab Key positions of trust • Chairman of the Board of Directors: International Chamber of • Member of the Board of Directors: Saxo Oy, Pato Oy, • Chairman of the Board of Directors: Oy Karl Fazer Ab Commerce ICC Finland Mekalasi Oy, Electrosonic Group Oy Ab and Audico ­Holding Oy • Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors: • Member of the Board of Directors: Federation of Finnish TechUPM Kymmene Corporation nology Industries, Stora Enso Corporation and Finpro • Member of the Board of Directors: Hanken School of Economics, Hartwall Capital Ltd. and Oy Nautor Ab Juhani Mäkinen, b. 1956, Counsellor of Law Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, b. 1978, Teppo Taberman, b. 1944, M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Econ.), B.Sc. (Pol.Sc.) Member and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2008. Member of the Board of Directors since 1997 and Vice Chairman Member of the Audit Committee. Independent of the Company and Member of the Board of Directors since 2007. of the Board of Directors, 1998–2008. Member of the Remuneraits major shareholders. Member of the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committion Committee and the Nomination Committee. Independent of the tee. Independent of the Company and non-independent of its maCompany and its major shareholders. Primary work experience jor shareholders. • Hannes Snellman Attorneys Ltd, Partner 1985–2010 Primary work experience • Scandinavian Law Office, Rotterdam, Netherlands, Primary work experience • Professional board member and economic advisor, 1995– Resident lawyer 1982–1984 • Hanken School of Economics, Campaign Director/ fundraising, • Twenty years of experience in the banking industry, including depu2008– ty managing directorships in two different banks Key positions of trust • Work experience placements in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of • Chairman of the Board of Directors: Oy Forcit Ab Finland as well as in various positions in personnel management Key positions of trust • Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors: Componenta Oyj and the financial services industry for companies such as Man• Member of the Board of Directors: Rettig Group Oy Ab and • Member of the Board of Directors: Oy Karl Fazer Ab, datum Stockbrokers Ltd and Fortum Corporation, 1999–2006 Ingman Group Oy Ab Viking Malt Oy and Virala Oy Ab Key positions of trust • Member of the Board of Directors: Aspo Plc, Foundation for Economic Education, CMI • Crisis Management Initiative and Finnish Family Firms Association From left to right: Teppo Taberman, Juhani Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, Updated 9 February 2012 Heikki Räty, Mikael Mäkinen, Berndt Brunow Board of Directors – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 77 Executive Board Marcus Karsten, b. 1966, M.Sc. (Econ.) Executive Vice President, Technical Building Services 2010– Jukka Terhonen, b. 1954, M.Sc. (Eng.) Executive Vice President, Building Construction 2009– Group employee since 2002 Group employee since 2001 Primary work experience Primary work experience • Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy, Managing Director 2010– • Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Managing Director 2009– • Tekmanni Service Oy, Managing Director 2004–2009; • Rakennustoimisto Palmberg Oy, Managing Director 2001–2009 Marketing and Development Director 2002–2004 • YIT Group, Head of Building Construction, Area Manager in TampereTimo Kohtamäki, b. 1963, Lic. Tech. • Siemens Group, a variety of managerial positions 1992–2002 Vaasa, Head of housing production in Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Managing Director (Otto Wuorio Oy), Production Manager (Otto Wuorio President and CEO 2009– Positions of trust Oy), Design-and-build Contract Manager (Otto Wuorio Oy) 1985–2001 Group employee since 1996 • Chairman of the Board of Directors: Oy Victor Ek Ab and STTA ry • Member of the Board of Directors: LVI-TU Positions of trust Primary work experience • Member of the Delegation: Stiftelsen för Åbo Akademi • Chairman: Tampere Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Confederation • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Managing Director 2008 of Finnish Construction Industries (RT), Housing Group • Lemcon Ltd, Head of Infra Unit 2000–2007; • Member of the Board of Directors: Building Construction Association Construction Manager 1996–1999 (TRT ry) and SFHP (Suomi-Finland Housing and Planning Association) • Viatek Yhtiöt Oy/Geoinsinöörit Oy, Project Manager 1989–1996 Positions of trust • Chairman of the Board of Directors: Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries (RT) Tiina Mellas, b. 1960, M.Sc. (Econ.) Robert Öhman, b. 1959, M.Sc. (Econ.) • Member of the Board of Directors: Confederation of Finnish Industries EK • Member of the Supervisory Board: Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Executive Vice President, HR and ICT, 2010– Chief Financial Officer, 2009– Insurance Company Group employee since 2009 Group employee since 2009 • Member of the Advisory Board: Nordea Bank • Member of the Delegation: Helsinki Region Chamber of Primary work experience Primary work experience Commerce • Lemminkäinen Corporation, Director, Human Resources, • Sponda Plc, Chief Financial Officer, 2006–2009 2009–2010 • Vattenfall Oy, Finance Director, 1996–2006 • TietoEnator, HR Centre, Vice President, 2005–2008 • Waste Management Finland Oy, Finance Director, 1992–1996 • TietoEnator, Processing & Network, Director for Business • Reuters Ges.m.b.H, Finance and Administration Manager, 1990–1992 Henrik Eklund, b. 1961, M.Sc. (Eng.) Development, 2004–2005; Head of Profit Unit, 1999–2004; • Reuters Suomi Oy Ab, Finance Manager, 1986–1990 Head of Department, 1997–1998 Executive Vice President, International Operations 2012– Positions of trust Executive Vice President, Infrastructure Construction 2009–2011 • Member of the Board of Directors: Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company Group employee since 1989 Primary work experience Tiina Mikander, b. 1967, Master of Laws, MBA Harri Kailasalo, b. 1969, M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA • Lemminkäinen International Ltd, Managing Director 2012– • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Managing Director 2009–2011 • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Head of Paving and International Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Development 2010– Executive Vice President, Infrastructure Construction 2012– Operations 2008 Group employee since 1998 Group employee since 1995 • Lemminkäinen Corporation, Head of the Paving and Mineral Aggregates Division 2005–2007 Primary work experience Primary work experience • Lemcon Ltd, Export Director 2001–2004 • Lemminkäinen Corporation, Director, Legal Affairs 2005–2010; • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Managing Director 2012– • Lemminkäinen Construction Ltd, Project Planning Manager, Legal Counsel 1998–2005 Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Senior Vice President of Business Operations 2011– Project Manager, Regional Manager 1995–2000 • City of Kauniainen, city clerk and administration manager • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Senior Vice President, Civil Engineering 1997–1998 2009–2011 Positions of trust • Loviisa District Court, judicial trainee and locum district court • Lemminkäinen Infra Oy/Lemcon Ltd, Civil Engineering, • Member of the Supervisory Board: Etera Mutual Pension judge 1994–1996 Construction Manager 2000–2009 Insurance Company • Lemcon Ltd, Civil Engineering, Production Manager 1998–2000 • Member of the Board of Directors: Infra Association Positions of trust • Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, The Finnish ­Association of Civil Engineers (RIL) Harri Kailasalo joined the Executive Board on 1 Jan 2012 when 78 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – corporate governance and management – Executive Board Henrik Eklund started as Executive Vice President of International Operations. Eklund will continue as a member of the Executive Board. From left to right: Marcus Karsten, Tiina Mikander, Jukka Terhonen, Timo Kohtamäki, Tiina Mellas, Henrik Eklund, Robert Öhman. Executive Board – corporate governance and management – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 79 Kekkilä Oy Since 2011, Lemminkäinen has been responsible for electrical and fire safety monitoring at Kekkilä Oy’s ten production facilities in Northern Europe. The production facilities are inspected regularly, and the results are made available to Kekkilä via an online service included in the package. Matti Tyster from Kekkilä (right), Ari Kurri from Lemminkäinen (left). 80 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Encounters Encounters: Ensuring fire safety Systematic monitoring guarantees our customer’s enables more reliable ability to operate management of fire risks. Ensuring fire safety at production facilities with a Peat is the main raw material used in the produchigh risk of fire requires Lemminkäinen’s experts to tion of Kekkilä’s substrates, and its processing sigcarry out systematic, pre-emptive monitoring. Emnificantly increases the risk of fire. Effective moniploying external fire experts enables our customer to toring is employed to ensure that fire does not break focus on their core competencies. out, thereby safeguarding personnel safety, uninterrupted production, and delivery reliability. Tyster says Since 2011, Lemminkäinen has been responsible for monthat Lemminkäinen’s systematic, pre-emptive operitoring electrical and fire safety at Kekkilä Oy’s ten producating model is an effective way of identifying potention facilities in Northern Europe. Lemminkäinen’s techtial risks. nical building system experts conduct annual fire safety In Tyster’s opinion, a partner must be able to work inspections at the facilities. Reports on these inspections in a variety of surroundings without disturbing their are made accessible to Kekkilä via an online service. customer’s operations. It is also important for the reAccording to Matti Tyster, who heads up Kekkilä’s sults of inspections to be presented in an easily unsupply chain, and Ari Kurri, Lemminkäinen’s product derstandable manner. Kurri says that Lemminkäinmanager, the idea for transferring electrical and fire safeen’s electrical and fire safety service has not caused ty monitoring to Lemminkäinen came about during coany extra work for Kekkilä personnel, as Lemminkäinoperation on a rebuilding project, after a fire at Kekkilä’s en has independently handled all of the monitoring, production facility in Eurajoki. Tyster says that Lemreporting, and drawing up of suggested measures. minkäinen offered both a comprehensive service packAll that Kekkilä has to do is monitor the reports and, age and the equipment and systems expertise that Kekwhen necessary, decide what action to take. kilä lacked. According to Kurri, Lemminkäinen’s experts Tyster says that Kekkilä has been satisfied with must have certain qualifications and at least five years both cooperation with Lemminkäinen and the usefulof experience in comparable tasks. Tyster says that emness of the service. In his opinion, the costs are quite ploying Lemminkäinen’s experts enables Kekkilä to foreasonable considering the reduced fire risk versus the cus on its own business and core competencies. potential expenses of a fire. Encounters – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 81 Financial statements – Board of directors report contents 2011 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT IN 2011 financial statements page Finland Board of directors report 2011 82 The operating environment for construction was stable during the first half of the Consolidated income statement 95 year, but in the autumn economic uncertainty increased markedly. However, weakened Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 consumer confidence did not impact in residential unit sales, which remained steady Consolidated statement of financial position 96 during the entire year. Low interest rates, insignificant growth of unemployment, and Consolidated cash flow statement 97 the population shift to growth centres have maintained demand for new housing. Consolidated statement of changes in equity 98 After two consecutive years of decline, there was an upturn in the construction Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements 100 of business and commercial premises in 2011. The total annual volume of business Notes to the consolidated financial statements 109 premise construction still lagged behind the peak year of 2008 by approximateParent company income statement 145 ly one fifth. Trading in real estate slowed down towards the end of the year, and the Parent company balance sheet 145 yield requirements for sites, particularly outside growth centres, were up slightly. A Parent company cash flow statement 146 great number of construction projects were being planned. Finding tenants, howevParent Company’s Accounting Principles 147 er, proved to be challenging, and this slowed down project initiation. After the 2008 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 148 recession, the annual number of start-ups in industrial construction has remained Financial indicators 153 below the long term average. Share-related financial indicators 154 The total volume of infrastructure construction decreased for the third year Formulae for the financial indicators 155 running. The government and municipalities have cut their allocations for basic road Board of directors’ proposal for the distribution of profit 156 maintenance and road investments. The market for rock engineering was good. DeAuditor’s Report 157 mand was maintained particularly by underground rock excavation works in growth Shares and shareholders 158 centres and mine investments in Northern Finland. New building construction proInformation for shareholders and investors 160 jects kept the demand for geotechnical engineering works, concrete construction and mineral aggregates at a good level. The volume of paving works remained close to the level of the previous year despite the price increase for bitumen products. Growth in building construction increased the demand for technical building projects as well as for maintenance and servicing. Demand for electrical contracting was down after the summer, but regional variations were considerable. As for technical building system renovation projects, the order book grew due to piping renovations in residential buildings, repairs improving the energy efficiency of buildings, and changes in heating methods. Other markets In Sweden, highly active mining operations and major tunnel projects have kept rock engineering contractors busy in 2011. The state of Sweden has allocated considerable resources to the development of the country’s infrastructure, thus increasing the total volume of infrastructure construction for several years running. The building construction market situation in Sweden is good for renovation projects in particular. 82 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report The volumes of infrastructure construction in Norway and Denmark grew by apIn 2011, the net sales of Lemminkäinen grew by 24 per cent, and the company proximately 5 per cent in 2011. In both countries, the paving season was better than more than quadrupled its pre-tax profit. At 10.8 per cent, return on investment had in the previous year. Demand for infrastructure construction was also boosted by the also improved on the previous year. Profitability does not, however, meet set targets growth of the energy supply sector, and several ongoing road and rail projects. yet, but the company is clearly moving in the right direction. Strategy updates in the The economies of the Baltic countries started out on the road to recovery, but autumn of 2011 and the efficiency programme set up by Lemminkäinen are initiaconstruction was still muted. The number of road construction and renovation protives whose primary goal is to improve the Group’s profitability. At 30.8 per cent, jects exceeded that of the previous year. In Estonia, demand for infrastructure conequity ratio was weaker than in the previous year. This was partly due to the growth struction grew faster than in other Baltic countries. of Lemminkäinen’s business volumes and the capital invested in own residential According to the estimates of Euroconstruct, the volumes of new residential development. Proposed dividends for 2011 are EUR 0.50 per share, equalling 28.3 construction in St. Petersburg, Russia, grew by approximately 10 per cent comper cent of the company’s result for the financial period. In 2010, when the result pared to the previous year, with the value of the business reaching EUR 2.8 billion. of the financial period was EUR 0.02 per share, the company paid out dividends at Prices for new apartments were up by approximately 8 per cent. The demand for EUR 0.50 per share. residential construction in Russia was supported particularly by the growth in consumer purchasing power, and the better availability of consumer mortgages. More Key points of the autumn 2011 strategy update and more apartment buyers finance their apartment with a mortgage, and the numOn 10 October 2011, Lemminkäinen published its specified strategic focus for the bers of granted mortgages showed a considerable increase. period ending in 2013. The company’s key strategic targets and financial target levels remained unchanged. STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION IN 2011 AND UPDATES TO THE STRATEGY In business operations, focus will shift to more profitable segments. In Building Lemminkäinen published its current strategy for the period 2010–2013 in NovemConstruction, Lemminkäinen aims to increase the share of operations accounted ber 2009. In October 2011, the company updated its strategy and confirmed its fifor by its own development to over 50 per cent of the sector’s net sales (about 30 nancial targets. per cent in 2011) and strengthen the company’s market share in residential conThe key goals of Lemminkäinen’s strategy are profitable growth and strengthstruction. Maintenance and servicing for technical building systems will also be bolening of the Group’s financial position. The growth target for the company’s net stered. The goal is to raise the service business share of the Technical Building Sersales is an average of 10 per cent by the end of the 2010–2013 strategic period. vices’ net sales to approximately 50 per cent (about 30 per cent in 2011). The Group’s other financial target levels are return of investment over 18 per cent, Lemminkäinen looks for growth in its international operations, in particular. In and equity ratio of at least 35 per cent. The company seeks to issue dividends corSt Petersburg, the company seeks to start up the construction of about 1,000 resresponding to at least 40 per cent of the result of the financial period. idential units annually. The company intends to increase net sales from infrastructure construction in Norway, Denmark and Sweden by a total of about EUR 100 Financial target levels and their achievement in 2011 million in 2012–2013. In addition to the paving business, Lemminkäinen is seeking growth from special contracting in infrastructure construction, in which the Company has achieved a good competitive position in, for example, the growing Nordic Lemminkäinen’s Actual in Actual in market for rock engineering and geotechnical engineering works. Growth can also financial targets Target level 2011 2010 be accelerated through acquisitions. over 18 per cent at the end of Return on investment the strategic period 10.8% 7.0% Efficiency programme to boost the achievement of strategic targets Equity ratio at least 35 per cent 30.8% 35.0% When Lemminkäinen updated its strategy, it also initiated an efficiency programme 10 per cent on average by the aiming at improving profitability. The programme seeks annual cost-savings of EUR Growth in net sales end of the strategic period 24% -4% 50 million after 2013. Boosting efficiency in procurements will yield about EUR 30 40 per cent of the result of Payment of dividend the financial period 28% ¹) over 100% million of these savings. Savings of approximately EUR 20 million are sought by improving the efficiency of operations, existing processes, the business locations net¹) Board of Directors’ proposal on dividends work and organisational and management structures. As part of the efficiency programme, Lemminkäinen initiated personnel negotiations in the autumn of 2011. As a result of the negotiations, Lemminkäinen will make a reduction of a maximum of 300 man-years during 2011–2012. Board of directors report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 83 International Operations to be the Company’s fourth business sector OPERATING PROFIT Effective 1 January 2012, Lemminkäinen created a new business sector – the company’s fourth – out of its international operations in order to ensure profitable Net sales by business sector, growth and the company’s competitiveness in an international operating environEUR million 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change ment. In addition to Finland, Lemminkäinen’s main market areas comprise Russia, Building construction 16.3 25.6 –36% the other Nordic countries, and the Baltic countries. Infrastructure Construction 63.9 15.3 over 100% Technical building services 5.2 4.5 16% NET SALES Other operations –16.6 –15.6 –6% Business sectors, total 68.8 29.7 over 100% Net sales by business sector, Reconciling items –15.3 –0.1 over 100% EUR million 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change Group, total (IFRS) 53.5 29.6 81% Building construction 894.1 770.2 16% Infrastructure Construction 1,178.8 932.9 26% Technical building services 293.9 269.1 9% Other operations and Group eliminations –59.4 –61.2 3% Operating margin by business sector, % 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Business sectors, total 2,307.4 1 911.0 21% Building construction 1.8 3.3 Reconciling items –33.3 –81.4 59% Infrastructure Construction 5.4 1.6 Group, total (IFRS) 2,274.1 1 829.6 24% Technical building services 1.8 1.7 of which operations outside Finland 780.3 543.5 44% Group, total (IFRS) 2.4 1.6 Lemminkäinen’s net sales grew in by 24%, amounting to EUR 2,274.1 million Lemminkäinen’s operating profit in 2011 improved by 81% and amounted to EUR (1,829.6). Net sales grew in all Group’s business sectors. In Finland, residential de53.5 million (29.6). Operating margin was 2.4% (1.6). In infrastructure construcvelopment increased from the previous year with Lemminkäinen completing a total tion, the result more than quadrupled year-on-year. Profitability improved espeof 1,077 (418) residential units as own development. In infrastructure construction, cially in the concrete business sector and in the paving operations of Norway and the net sales growth was boosted by the underground infrastructure projects in Denmark. In building construction, more own housing development projects were growth centres and the mine excavation works in Northern Finland. Bustling buildcompleted than in the previous year. The result for this sector was, however, buring construction also increased the demand for mineral aggregates, concrete proddened by the low profitability of contracting and the rise in the costs of construcucts, and technical building services. tion. The company had non-recurring capital gains from equipment sales in 2010. In addition to Finland, Lemminkäinen’s main market areas comprise Russia, The profitability of Technical Building Services improved during the second half the other Nordic countries, and the Baltic countries. In 2011, the company’s net of the year, particularly because of the upturn in the market and the impact of the sales from operations outside Finland saw year-on-year growth of 44 per cent, Company’s internal profitability improvement measures. and amounted to EUR 780.3 million (543.5). The growth of Lemminkäinen’s pavLemminkäinen’s operating profit for 2011 was also improved by about EUR 11 ing contracting operations in Norway was fortified by the acquisition of Mesta Inmillion in negative goodwill from the Mesta Industri AS acquisition. Consolidated dustri AS. During the current year, and for the first time, the company’s net sales operating profit does not include EUR 15.3 million in capital gains from the sale of from paving operations in Norway exceeded those accrued in Finland. Infrastructure the roofing business. Its impact is recorded in the Group’s result for the review peribusiness operations in Denmark and the Baltic countries as well as building conod and earnings per share. struction in Sweden also exceeded the levels of the previous year. Net sales from operations in Russia were approximately on a par with the level of the previous year. Of the net sales during the review period, 66% (71) was generated in Finland, 23% (17) in other Nordic countries, 5% (5) in Russia and 6% (7) in other countries. 84 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report ORDER BOOK BALANCE SHEET, CASH FLOW AND FINANCING The balance sheet total stood at EUR 1,242.8 million (1,062.0) on 31 December Order book by business sector, 2011. The balance sheet grew due to growth in Lemminkäinen’s business operaEUR million 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Change tions and the increased emphasis on own residential development. Building construction 768.5 683.9 12% The Group’s return on investment improved to 10.8% (7.0). The equity ratio of of which unsold 206.3 135.3 52% 30.8% was down on the previous year (35). The equity ratio declined due to the Infrastructure Construction 521.8 416.6 25% growth of the balance sheet. Gearing was 114.5% (105.7). Working capital grew Technical building services 110.0 125.9 –13% by 20%, amounting to EUR 861.4 million (720.6). Net working capital was EUR Group, total 1,400.4 1,226.4 14% 435.7 million (388.6). Lemminkäinen seeks to achieve an 18 per cent return on inof which operations outside Finland 482.5 294.3 64% vestment and an equity ratio of 35 per cent by the end of the 2010–2013 strategy period. The company also seeks to reduce its net working capital by approximateLemminkäinen’s order book grew by 14% and amounted to EUR 1,400.4 million ly EUR 100 million. (1,226.4). In Building Construction, the order book for the Finnish operations reAt the end of the review period, interest-bearing debt was EUR 431.6 million mained at the level of the previous year, whereas the order book for international (375.5), of which long term interest-bearing debt accounted for EUR 194.6 million operations grew. In Infrastructure Construction, the order book grew thanks to rock (214.1) and short term interest-bearing debt for EUR 237.0 million (161.4). Interengineering, foundation construction and geotechnical engineering, and internaest-bearing net debt was EUR 401.2 million (349.2). Of all interest-bearing debt, tional business operations. In Technical Building Services, the order book remained 38% were with a fixed interest rate, and on 31 December 2011, the financing exsomewhat below the level of the previous year: however, the outlook in this sector, penses of all interest-bearing debt was, on average, 3.4%. particularly for the first half of the coming year, is relatively good. Technical Building Of the Group’s interest-bearing debt, 17% (17) comprise loans from financial Services have increased their attention to the margins of the order book. institutions, 28% (20) commercial papers, 12% (8) project loans related to own Lemminkäinen’s international order book grew by 64% year-on-year, and production of residential and business premises, 15% (24) pension loans, 14% (15) amounted to EUR 482.5 million (294.3). International orders were boosted by resfinance leasing liabilities and 14% (16) bonds. Moreover, the company had unused idential construction in Russia: at the end of 2011, the company initiated a project committed credit limits in the amount of EUR 140,7 million (160,0) at the end of in the Vasily Island of St. Petersburg, comprising 400 residential apartments. In Inthe review period. frastructure Construction, the order book grew particularly in the paving operations Some of the Group’s loan arrangements include two financial covenants that of Norway, Denmark and Estonia. Of the Group’s order book, 66 (76) per cent origare reviewed quarterly: equity ratio and ratio of net debt to EBITDA. inated in Finland, 20 (16) per cent in the other Nordic countries, 7 (3) per cent in Net financing expenses during the review period amounted to EUR 18.9 million Russia, and 7 (5) per cent in the Baltic countries and in other countries. (22.0), representing 0.8% (1.2) of net sales. The Group’s financing expenses were reduced by the financial arrangements carried out in late 2010. During the third quarter of the year, Lemminkäinen prepared for the uncertainty of the financial market by strengthening its cash reserve. At the end of the review period, the company’s cash reserve was reduced so that its liquid assets amounted to EUR 30.4 million (26.3) on 31 December 2011. According to the cash flow statement, the cash flow from operating activities in 2011 was EUR –7.1 million (–37.2). Growth of the sales inventory for own residential development had a major impact on the cash flow from operating activities. Board of directors report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 85 BUSINESS SECTORS Building construction Key figures, EUR million 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change 1–3/11 4–6/11 7–9/11 10–12/11 Net sales 894.1 770.2 16% 184.2 210.1 211.6 288.2 Operating profit 16.3 25.6 –36% –3.7 2.8 1.6 15.6 Operating margin % 1.8 3.3 –2.0 1.3 0.8 5.4 Order book at end of period 768.5 683.9 12% 750.0 775.0 784.4 768.5 of which unsold 206.3 135.3 53% 192.7 222.6 178.0 206.3 In 2011, net sales from Building Construction grew in by 16%, amounting to EUR Operations in Finland 894.1 million (770.2). Net sales grew particularly due to residential construction in In 2011, Lemminkäinen began the construction of a total of 1,612 (2,252) new Finland and building construction in Sweden. Of the net sales, 81% (76) came from residential units, of which own development accounted for 67% (45). The housing Finland, 7% (7) from Russia, 12% (10) from Sweden and 0% (7) from other countries. market was fairly steady throughout the year, although selling times became slightThe business sector’s operating profit was EUR 16.3 million (25.6). The rely longer around year end. sult for the corresponding period of 2010 includes non-recurring capital gains from equipment sales. Lemminkäinen’s own residential construction saw a clearly higher completion rate, and the housing market remained steady throughout the year. The Lemminkäinen housing result for this sector was, however, burdened by the low profitability of competitive development ¹), Finland 2011 2010 2009 contracting and the rise in the costs of construction. The result for Building ConResidential start-ups (own development) 1,076 1,004 351 struction depended heavily on the last quarter, since more than half of the compaResidential start-ups (contracted development) 536 1,248 1,090 ny’s own residential development projects were completed in December. Housing units sold 914 911 771 At the end of 2011, the order book amounted to EUR 768.5 million (683.9). Completed 1,077 418 533 The order book was boosted particularly by residential construction in Russia, Under construction at end of period 989 991 405 where Lemminkäinen initiated a new residential apartment project in St. Petersof which unsold 483 439 193 burg, comprising approximately 400 apartments. International operations accountCompleted and available for sale at end of period 224 110 263 ed for approximately a quarter of the building construction order book, whereas in ¹) Housing units sold, completed, under construction and available for sale are all own development 2010 their share had been 13%. At the end of the period, the company owned a total of 792,000 m² of unused building rights in Finland, of which 380,000 m² were residential building rights. The company also had binding or conditional co-operation and zoning agreements for 443,000 m², of which 188,000 m² were residential building rights. The balance sheet value of the plots was EUR 104.6 million (90.1) at the end of the review period. In the Jätkäsaari district of Helsinki, the company is building 430 units in four residential blocks. The entity comprises a total of seven buildings, two of which are Hitas projects (price and quality controlled owner-occupied flats). The last units of the residential block are estimated to be completed during 2016. In the field of business and commercial construction, Lemminkäinen initiated numerous projects around Finland. In downtown Helsinki, the company is build86 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report ing three office buildings valued at a total of about EUR 150 million in TöölönlahInternational operations ti. Some of the buildings will also include exclusive residential units. In Sipoo and In Russia, the focus of Lemminkäinen’s operations was in own residential construcVantaa, Southern Finland, Lemminkäinen is building two large logistics centres that tion in the St. Petersburg area. Lemminkäinen sold a total of 194 (276) residenwill be completed in 2012 and are valued at a total of around EUR 45 million. In tial units in St. Petersburg during 2011. The largest number of residential unit sales industrial construction, Lemminkäinen is working on significant, ongoing contracts was concluded during the last quarter of the year. Demand for new apartments was at the Westenergy power plant in Mustasaari, and two turnkey projects in Espoo accelerated by the better availability of consumer mortgages to Russian apartment and Hämeenlinna. In Turku, Lemminkäinen is constructing a Gigantti electronics buyers. Out of Lemminkäinen’s customers, approximately a fifth financed their store for Virtanen Yhtiöt Oy as well as K-Citymarket supermarkets in Kokkola and apartment purchase partly with a mortgage, a practice which in the previous year Mäntsälä for Kesko. had been nonexistent. In building construction renovation, the market situation remained favourable. In the spring of 2011, Lemminkäinen signed a framework agreement for the imIn Helsinki and Porvoo, Lemminkäinen embarked on a renovation contract for a total plementation of a vast residential construction project on Vasily Island in downof 18 apartment buildings, valued at a total of approximately EUR 27 million. In the town St. Petersburg. Under the agreement, Lemminkäinen will build and develop Tapiola centre in Espoo, Lemminkäinen will conduct extensive renovation and conapproximately 2,000 residential units in addition to business and office premises struction works. The value of the project is approximately EUR 27 million, and it is on a 5.6-hectare lot. The total value of the project is approximately EUR 400 milestimated to be completed early in the summer of 2013. lion. Construction is expected to begin in 2012, and last approximately five years. Business operations in the real estate sector were also more active than in the In the last quarter of the year, Lemminkäinen completed a site with 150 residenprevious year. In Tampere, a residential property that will be completed in the spring tial units in northern St. Petersburg. The company also initiated a new site of 400 of 2013 was sold to SATO, one of Finland’s leading corporate investors in housing. residential units on Vasily Island. The value of the inventories that Lemminkäinen The third phase of Polaris Business Park in Leppävaara, Espoo, was sold to a Gerhad tied up in Russia at the end of the review period was EUR 46.8 million (47.9). man property investor. In addition, Lemminkäinen sold a number of smaller individual business premise projects around Finland to both Finnish and foreign property investors. Lemminkäinen’s own housing development, Russia 2011 2010 2009 Residential start-ups (own development) 404 154 0 Housing units sold 194 276 133 Completed 154 498 104 Under construction at end of period 404 154 479 of which unsold 404 154 367 Completed and available for sale at end of period 82 122 22 Building construction in Sweden performed well in 2011, and the future outlook is also positive, due to the order book, which is stronger than before. In 2011, operations in Sweden accounted for 12% of Lemminkäinen’s Building Construction net sales. In Sweden, the Company primarily builds residential units and renovates business premises, particularly public buildings. Board of directors report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 87 Infrastructure construction Key figures, EUR million 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change 1–3/11 4–6/11 7–9/11 10–12/11 Net sales 1,178.8 932.9 26% 85.4 293.7 482.6 317.1 Operating profit 63.9 15.3 yli 100% –7.1 24.3 50.3 –3.6 Operating margin % 5.4 1.6 –8.3 8.3 10.4 –1.1 Order book at end of period 521.8 416.6 25% 598.1 829.6 577.8 521.8 The net sales of the Infrastructure Construction business sector grew by more than During the year, Lemminkäinen began works for three major parking facilities in 25 per cent in 2011, and amounted to EUR 1,178.8 million (932.9). Net sales in Hämeenlinna, Espoo and Tampere. The projects continue in 2012, and their comFinland grew in particular because of special contracting in infrastructure conbined total value is approximately EUR 50 million. Moreover, the company is workstruction, and the concrete business sector. In Norway and Denmark, the paving ing on the excavation and interior contract for the Finlandia Concert and Conference season lasted longer than in the previous year. Volumes were also increased by the Hall parking garage in downtown Helsinki. The value of this project is approximately successful acquisition of Mesta Industri AS in Norway. Net sales in the Baltic counEUR 40 million, and it is estimated to be completed in 2012. tries also grew compared to the previous year. The order book of operations outside The pickup in building construction in Finland also increases the demand for Finland grew by 60% and amounted to EUR 557.5 million (349.2). Infrastructure geotechnical engineering works, concrete products and mineral aggregates. DeConstruction generated 52% (55) of its net sales in Finland, 36% (31) in the other mand was high especially for concrete products. In 2011, the total volume of paving Nordic countries, and 9% (9) in the Baltic states. work in Finland remained at the level of the previous year in or, in some regions, even The business sector’s operating profit quadrupled, totalling EUR 63.9 million declined slightly. The paving market was burdened by the rising prices of raw ma(15.3). The most significant improvements in results could be observed in the operterials, especially bitumen products. In spite of the deteriorating market situation, ations in Norway and Denmark; however, profitability in Finland also surpassed the Lemminkäinen managed to retain the volume and profitability of the paving busilevels of the previous year. In mineral aggregates and the concrete business secness sector at a good level. The company successfully defended itself from the ristor, in particular, profitability was clearly above past levels. Non-recurring items iming bitumen prices with oil derivatives and contractual arrangements. pacting the 2011 result include capital gains of EUR 15.3 for the sale of the roofing business and about EUR 11 million in negative goodwill from the acquisition of International operations Mesta Industri AS, which had a positive impact on the result of the business sector. Early in the summer, Lemminkäinen completed the acquisition of Mesta Industri The comparable year 2010 was burdened by, for example, loss-generating mainteAS in Norway, making it the country’s largest paving contractor in 2011. For the nance contracts in Norway, and the poor market situation in the Baltic countries. first time, the company now racks up greater net sales from paving operations in The order book for Infrastructure Construction grew by 25 per cent, totalling at Norway than in Finland. In Western Norway, Lemminkäinen initiated a hydropowEUR 521.8 million (416.6). Growth in the order book was due mainly to the paving er plant project that is estimated to be completed in the summer of 2013. The total activities in Norway and Estonia, and to special contracting in infrastructure convalue of the contract is about EUR 20 million. Also in Denmark, the paving season struction. International operations accounted for more than a half of the order book, of 2011 was a good one, with Lemminkäinen’s net sales and result growing considi.e. EUR 285.4 (192.6). erably compared to the previous year. In Sweden, Lemminkäinen has, in the past few years, solidified its position as a Operations in Finland major special contractor in infrastructure construction. The company is currently enIn Infrastructure Construction, demand was high in nearly all business sectors. Nugaged in sizeable mine excavation contracts in, for example, the mines of Svartliden merous underground construction projects and mining in Northern Finland providand Kiruna. Moreover, during the current year, Lemminkäinen began the construction ed plenty of work in rock engineering. Lemminkäinen won two major Western Metof bypass route for a power plant in Central Sweden. The value of this project is apro excavation contracts in the Helsinki metropolitan area with a total value of EUR proximately EUR 43 million, and it is estimated to be completed in early 2014. 36 million. The Pahtavaara gold mine in Northern Finland provided continuation for In the Baltic countries, activity in infrastructure construction has gradually inLemminkäinen’s mine excavation contracting, as the company was selected as the creased, but construction volumes are still far from the peak figures of 2007. In the excavation contractor for 2012–2013. The value of this contract is approximatesummer and early autumn, Lemminkäinen landed numerous infrastructure construction ly EUR 20 million, and it includes an option for further excavation projects in 2014. contracts in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, valued at a total of about EUR 48 million. 88 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report Technical building services Key figures, EUR million 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change 1–3/11 4–6/11 7–9/11 10–12/11 Net sales 293.9 269,1 9% 63.6 69.7 75.9 84.7 Operating profit 5.2 4,5 16% 0.7 –1.4 1.6 4.3 Operating margin % 1.8 1,7 1.1 –2.0 2.1 5.1 Order book at end of period 110.0 125,9 –13% 123.5 130.2 123.3 110.0 In 2011, Technical Building Services’ net sales grew by 9%, amounting to EUR 293.9 million (269.1). 83 per cent of the net sales were generated in Finland. The business sector’s operations outside Finland largely comprise the construction of telecom networks in, for example, North and South America. Operating profit improved by 16% and amounted to EUR 5.2 million (4.5). The sector’s profitability improved especially during the second half of the year. The insufficient earnings trend early on in the year was impacted by the weak profitability of contracting and the rise in certain raw material and input prices. The sector implemented various profitability improvement measures, such as improving the efficiency of sales and marketing, productisation of services, and centralised procurement. Process management and follow-up of contracted projects were also developed further. At year end, the order book of Technical Building Services amounted to EUR 110.0 million (125.9). In 2011, Lemminkäinen embarked on various contracted technical building service projects around Finland, both for new and renovation construction. The company won a contract, worth approximately EUR 4 million, for the pipe-laying, electrification and construction works at the Finnish food industry company Atria Plc’s plant in Kauhajoki, western Finland. The construction works will be performed by Lemminkäinen’s building construction sector, and their total value is approximately EUR 6 million. In Turku, the company is currently working on the technical building renovation contracts of Kuntatalo and Linnakiinteistö. The company has also concluded an agreement with Itella, a provider of information and product flow services, on the maintenance and repairs of the ventilation systems of major postal centres and terminals around Finland. Moreover, Lemminkäinen is currently carrying out a large-scale electrification contract at the Kevitsa mine. The contract is valued at about EUR 9 million, and it is Lemminkäinen’s largest individual industrial electrification project. Board of directors report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 89 INVESTMENTS The Group’s business sectors are each responsible for their own research and Gross investments in 2011 amounted to EUR 84.0 million (59.6), representing 3.7 development activities, which focus, for example, on developing the efficiency and per cent (3.3) of the company’s net sales. They were mainly replacement investoperating environment of business activities, and quality assurance. Lemminkäinments in infrastructure construction and individual acquisitions. Lemminkäinen’s en’s Central Laboratory carries out infrastructure construction R&D at Group level. most significant acquisition in 2011 was that of the Norwegian infrastructure conIn 2011, the Group’s research and development expenditure accounted for approxistruction company Mesta Industri AS for the price of around EUR 11 million. mately 0.7% of net sales. ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES Lemminkäinen takes life-cycle and environmental perspectives into account when During the review period, the Group companies had 8,421 employees (8,314) on developing its operations, products and services. The Group’s management of enaverage. Of all employees, 69 per cent (71) were employed in Finland, 14 per cent vironmental affairs and the environmental effects of operations are continuously (12) in other Nordic countries, 9 per cent (10) in Baltic countries and 8 per cent (7) monitored by means of internal monitoring and control programmes. The Group is in other countries. moving ahead with its development programme that aims to define common goals for environmental responsibility, operational models and performance indicators until the end of current strategy period. Environmental reporting is being developed in Personnel on average 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change line with the international GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) framework’s G3 guideHourly paid employees 5,489 5,401 2% lines. In 2011, Lemminkäinen participated for the first time in the international CarSalaried employees 2,932 2,913 1% bon Disclosure Project (CDP) analyses, which evaluates performance in climate-rePersonnel, total 8,421 8,314 1% lated issues. Concurrently, the company initiated a risk assessment on the impact of whom working outside Finland 2,590 2,372 9% of climate change to its operations. Personnel at the end of the financial year 7,929 7,744 2% The Company’s Annual Report and website provide more information on Lemminkäinen’s environmental issues. Personnel by business sector, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT average 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 Change Research and development activities at Lemminkäinen focus on the utilisation of Building Construction 2,228 2,063 8% information technology in construction, environmental and energy efficiency, and Infrastructure Construction 3,914 4,000 –2% service development and productisation. The utilisation of building information Technical Building Services 2,017 2,060 –2% modelling in project planning was developed further in 2011. The productisation of Parent company 261 191 37% services moved ahead particularly in the Technical Building Services sector, which, Group, total 8,421 8,314 1% in January 2012, launched an extensive product family that improves the energy efficiency and safety of buildings. Products and services are developed in long term In Infrastructure Construction, Lemminkäinen gained about 170 new employees collaboration with customers. in connection with the Mesta Industri AS acquisition in Norway. In addition, about In February, Lemminkäinen received a patent in the field of renovation con400 employees left Lemminkäinen’s employ in Finland in early 2011 due to the distruction for its apartment-block-raising method, with which an apartment vestment of the roofing business. block’s additional building rights can be utilised efficiently and without disturIn early 2011, Lemminkäinen centralised its business support functions to crebance to inhabitants. The method also enables installing elevators in older, non-elate Shared services: at this time, employees from business sectors transferred to evator buildings. the parent company. Support functions are handled on a centralised basis by inter90 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report nal competence and service centres, enabling the business functions to focus more be responsible for Building Construction operations in Finland, and Marcus Karsten, effectively on their core operations. M.Sc. (Econ.), Group Executive Board member and Executive Vice President, TechOn 24 October 2011, Lemminkäinen initiated personnel negotiations that impact nical Building Services, will assume responsibility for Finland’s Technical Building the whole Group. As a result of the negotiations, the company will make a reduction of Service operations. a maximum of 300 man-years. All personnel reductions involved will be finalised by the end of 2012. These reductions mainly affect the management and salaried employLEGAL PROCEEDINGS ees in Finland. The negotiations were part of Lemminkäinen’s comprehensive efficienIn 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court (SAC) ordered Finnish asphalt incy programme, seeking annual cost-savings of EUR 50 million from 2013 onwards. dustry companies to pay an infringement fine for violations of the Act on Competition Restrictions. CHANGES IN THE ORGANISATION STRUCTURE In late 2011, a total of 40 claims for damages brought by municipalities and Changes taking effect during 2011 the Finnish state (Finnish Transport Agency) are pending against Lemminkäinen Lemminkäinen’s internal support functions – HR, financial administration, IT, leand other asphalt industry companies in the District Court. The claimants contend gal affairs as well as communications and marketing – were centralised in internal that restrictions of competition have caused them damages. The total amount of competence and service centres that were launched at the beginning of 2011. The damages sought from Lemminkäinen is currently about EUR 117 million. After the Group’s business sectors started using the competence and service centres during Finnish Transport Agency changed its claim, the total amount of claims has risen 2011. The target of shared services is to provide optimal support to business obby approximately EUR 15 million. The claims presented in the statements of claim jectives. The company is seeking a competitive edge and support for growth from differ from each other as regards their amounts and grounds. cost-effective, professional and high-quality internal support services. The ruling rendered by the SAC in 2009 as it stands does not mean that Lemminkäinen or the other asphalt industry companies actually caused any damages to Changes decided on in 2011 and taking effect from the beginning of 2012 the asphalt work clients. The ruling does not concern the individual contracts that On 1 January 2012, Lemminkäinen merged its international business operations inthe claimants cited in support of their claims. Nor does the ruling concern the pricto a new business sector. After the change, Lemminkäinen’s business sectors ining of individual contracts. The SAC has not investigated the contention that inflated clude Building Construction, Infrastructure Construction, Technical Building Serprices that do not correspond to market prices have been charged for the contracts. vices and International Operations. Lemminkäinen’s initial position is that the claims for damages are without Henrik Eklund, M.Sc. (Eng.), who is a member of the Group’s Executive Board, foundation. The claims will be processed in the order and schedule set by the Disstarted out as the Executive Vice President of International Operations on 1 Janutrict Court. Preparatory sessions for the trial began in January 2012, but a more deary 2012. His latest position was Lemminkäinen’s Executive Vice President of Infratailed process and ruling schedule is currently not yet available. structure Construction. Eklund is responsible for Lemminkäinen’s operations outside No provisions have been made in respect of the claims of the municipalities and Finland, where the most significant areas are infrastructure construction in Scandithe Finnish Transport Agency that are pending in the District Court. navia and the Baltic countries, and building construction in Russia and Sweden. Lemminkäinen will provide information on the proceedings in its interim reports Harri Kailasalo, M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA, has been appointed Executive Vice Presor in separate releases, as necessary. ident of Infrastructure Construction and a member of the Executive Board as of 1 January 2012. He is responsible for Infrastructure Construction operations in FinRISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES land. Earlier, Kailasalo was Senior Vice President in Lemminkäinen’s Infrastructure Risk management is an essential part of Lemminkäinen’s business operations. The Construction business sector. target of risk management is to ensure the achievement of strategic and operaJukka Terhonen, M.Sc. (Eng), member of the Group Executive Board and Extional targets, and to increase shareholder value. The Company’s Annual Report and ecutive Vice President, Building Construction, will from 1 January 2012 onwards website provide more information on Lemminkäinen’s major risks and risk manageBoard of directors report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 91 ment policy. A more detailed account of the financial risks is also provided in the Authorisations of the Board of Directors notes to the 2011 financial statements. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Lemminkäinen Corporation, held on 12 NoFluctuations in global economic trends cause uncertainty in the operating envember 2009, decided in accordance with the proposal of the Board of Directors to vironment and complicate efforts aiming at forecasting future change. New conauthorise the Board of Directors to resolve on a share issue and/or an issue of spestruction in Finland is sensitive to economic cycles and therefore poses a market cial rights entitling their holders to shares, as referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of risk. This risk is managed both structurally and operationally. The more stable dethe Finnish Companies Act, in one or more instalments, either against payment or mand for infrastructure construction balances out fluctuating volumes in new dowithout consideration. The Board of Directors is still authorised to issue 1,576,486 mestic construction, as does the growth in maintenance, servicing and renovation. shares and/or special rights entitling their holders to shares. The authorisation is The company’s own housing development involves both sales and price risks. valid for five (5) years after being granted. Unsold residential units tie up capital and therefore the Company starts new housLemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting, which convened on 4 ing construction only if sufficient numbers of the units have been reserved by buyApril 2011, resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase ers in advance. When undertaking own development of business premises, the of a maximum of 1,000,000 own shares in one or several instalments, using the premises are usually sold to real estate investors in the early stages of construction unrestricted shareholders’ equity of the company, subject to the provisions of the at the latest, thereby reducing sales risks. Finnish Companies Act on the maximum amount of own shares in the possession Project-specific risks generally involve changes in input costs and the manageof the company or its subsidiaries. The authorisation will remain in force for a period ment of project implementation. These are managed through systematic project of 18 months from the resolution of the General Meeting. By the end of 2011, the management in both bidding and implementation phases. Weather conditions also authorisation had not been exercised. pose a risk in the construction industry. Unusual or harsh weather can weaken the profitability of our operations by interrupting or delaying projects. Share-based incentive plan Lemminkäinen uses great amounts of oil-based products in asphalt production. The Company has a share-based incentive plan that covers about 40 key employThe price of bitumen is tied to the global price of oil and the Company manages the ees. The plan consists of three a periods, i.e. the calendar years 2010, 2011 and bitumen price risk with oil derivatives and contractual terms. 2012. The Board of Directors decides on the earnings criteria for each period as well Writs of summons filed at district court level by certain municipalities and the as on the targets to be established at the beginning of each earnings period. The reFinnish Transport Agency pose a risk. ward, if any, for 2011 was based on Lemminkäinen Group’s equity ratio and return on investment. SHARES AND SHARE CAPITAL The reward for the earnings period of 2011 will be paid out in 2012 in part in The Company has one share class. Each share carries one vote at a general meeting company shares and in part as money. The share paid out as money covers the deof shareholders and confers an equal right to a dividend. ferred taxes and tax-like payments. The shares may not be transferred during the The listed price of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s share was EUR 26.00 (24.20) commitment period that ends two years after the end of the earnings period. The at the beginning of the financial year and EUR 18.72 (26.00) at the end. Market Company’s CEO and the members of the Group Executive Board must retain owncapitalisation at the end of the period was EUR 367.8 million (510.8). Share turnership of half of the shares granted to them as rewards in the plan for two years afover during the period totalled 3,366,940 (4,171,666). The total value of share ter the end of the commitment period. turnover was EUR 77.0 million (103.2). Lemminkäinen’s share capital is EUR 34,042,500 and the total number of SHAREHOLDERS shares is 19,644,764. Neither the share capital nor number of shares changed durAt the end of the review period, the company had 4,548 shareholders (4,979). ing the review period. Holders of nominee-registered shares and non-Finnish shareholders held 15 (8) per cent of all Lemminkäinen Corporation shares and voting rights. The Pentti fami92 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report ly holds approximately 57 per cent (57) of all company shares. Company ownerBerndt Brunow, Juhani Mäkinen, Mikael Mäkinen, Kristina Pentti-von Walzel, ship and division by sector and scale, largest shareholders, and share ownership of Heikki Räty and Teppo Taberman were re-elected to serve as members of the Board the members of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors are available on the of Directors. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, a firm of authorised public accountants, company’s web pages at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. was re-elected to serve as the company’s auditors, with Kim Karhu, Authorised Public Accountant, as chief auditor. Flagging notifications Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Board of Directors held an organising meeting on On 13 September 2011, Peab AB announced that its holding in Lemminkäinen ex4 April 2011. Berndt Brunow will continue as the Chairman of the Board of Direcceeded 5 per cent. According to the announcement, Peab AB (publ) held 1,140,225 tors, and Juhani Mäkinen as the Vice Chairman. Lemminkäinen Corporation shares, which is 5.80 per cent of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s shares and votes. In addition to this, Peab Invest AS, a fully-owned subsidOUTLOOK FOR THE NEAR FUTURE iary of Peab AB (publ), holds a forward contract of 940,000 shares, which repreFinland sents 4.78 per cent of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s shares and votes. The contract The volume of new building construction is expected to decrease in 2012. Residenwas rolled forward at the end of the review period. Lemminkäinen does not know tial unit start-ups are restrained by the uncertain economic outlook and growth in the new maturity date. new residential unit offering. Factors that support apartment purchasing continue On 2 December 2011, the death estate of Erkki Pentti announced that after to consist of increasing household income, low interest rates, and stable employa partial inheritance distribution, shares in Lemminkäinen Corporation belonging to ment rates. Lemminkäinen estimates that it will start up the construction of about the death estate were divided equally between Heppu Pentti and Anna Pentti. Fol1,000 units in its own residential development in Finland in 2012. lowing this, Heppu Pentti and Anna Pentti transferred their shares in LemminkäinThe real estate market has slowed down, and yield requirements, particularly en Corporation to PNT Group Oy, of which they each own one half, as a contribution for sites outside growth centres, have grown slightly. Demand for commercial conin kind. As a result, the shares held by Erkki Pentti’s death estate in Lemminkäinen struction is weakened by the cautiousness of tenants, who are not eager to get inCorporation reduced from 3,673,956 shares, i.e. around 18.7 per cent of all shares volved in ongoing projects. Lemminkäinen has extensive ongoing business premise and votes in Lemminkäinen Corporation, to zero. PNT Group Oy’s shares in Lemprojects in the Helsinki metropolitan area, and the order book for business premisminkäinen Corporation have risen by the corresponding amount, exceeding 15 per es is satisfactory. The company is preparing commercial building projects in growth cent of all shares and votes in the company. centres, but they have as yet not been green-lighted. The possibility of a slowdown in new building construction reduces demand for Shareholder agreements building technical service projects, although the industry will be impacted by this The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that would only after a delay. The growing need for piping renovations, repairs that improve enhave a significant bearing on using the ownership or voting behaviour at general ergy efficiency and changes in heating methods increase the demand for building meetings of shareholders. technical services and renovation regardless of economic trends. Lemminkäinen’s order book in Technical Building Services is satisfactory, and the margins of the orRESOLUTIONS OF THE der book have clearly become healthier. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of infrastructure construction is not expected to grow in 2012. On 4 April 2011, Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting adopted the Paving volumes are also likely to remain on the 2011 level. Demand for rock encompany’s financial statements for 2010 and granted the members of the Board of gineering is maintained by greater mining activity and underground excavation Directors and the President and CEO discharge from liability. The General Meeting work in the growth centres. A number of new rail and railway projects will also be resolved, in accordance with the Board of Directors’ proposal, to pay a dividend of launched in 2012. Lemminkäinen has various ongoing special contracts in infraEUR 0.50 per share to a total of EUR 9,822,382. The record date for payment of structure construction around Finland, and the order book, in its entirety, exceeds dividend was 7 April 2011 and the dividend was paid on 14 April 2011. that of the previous year. Board of directors report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 93 Other markets EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE REVIEW PERIOD In Sweden, Norway and Denmark, the volume of infrastructure construction is Lemminkäinen has received a flagging notification stating that in a deed of gift growing faster than in Finland. In Sweden, demand is increased by major motorsigned on 4th January 2012, Olavi Pentti bestowed 1,964,480 Lemminkäinen way projects in Stockholm and mining activity Northern Sweden. In Norway and shares to his daughter, Noora Forstén. As a result, the shares held by Olavi Pentti in Denmark, the number of road and rail projects has increased, which also supports Lemminkäinen Corporation is reduced from 3,673,953 shares, i.e. around 18.7 per the demand for paving works. The construction markets of the Baltic countries are cent of all shares in Lemminkäinen Corporation, to 1,709,473 shares, i.e. approxigradually improving along with the recovery of their economies. Lemminkäinen has mately 8.7 per cent of all shares in the company, thereby falling below 10 per cent numerous infrastructure construction projects in progress in Norway, Sweden and of Lemminkäinen Corporation’s shares and votes. Noora Forstén’s shares in the the Baltic countries, which extend until 2012–2013. company have risen from 1,593 to 1,966,073, which corresponds to 10 per cent of In St. Petersburg, Russia, residential construction volumes are expected to reall shares and votes in Lemminkäinen Corporation. main roughly on the level of the previous year. Factors that impact residential unit demand include consumer purchasing power, domestic population shifts, the availability of consumer mortgages, and the general political and economic climate in Helsinki, 8 February 2012 Russia. Good plots are increasingly difficult to obtain, which may, to some extent, hamper new start-ups. Lemminkäinen has initiated a project of about 400 resiLEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATION dential units on the Vasily island in St. Petersburg, and estimates the project will be Board of Directors completed in phases by the end of 2013. Lemminkäinen’n profit guidance for 2012 Lemminkäinen estimates that in 2012, its net sales will remain on the same level as in 2011, and that its pre-tax profit will improve on 2011. This company’s estimate of its net sales and profitability development is based on the year-on-year growth in the order book and its margins. The guidance is also based on the assumption that the market situation will not deteriorate considerably from late 2011. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF PROFIT The distributable shareholders’ equity shown on the balance sheet of the parent company, Lemminkäinen Corporation, amounts to EUR 157,151,029.90, consisting of EUR 82,969,836.31 in retained earnings from previous years and EUR 13,184,493.09 in profit for the accounting period. The Board of Directors will propose to the AGM that, for the financial year ended 31 December 2011, the company distributes a per-share dividend of EUR 0.50 to a total of EUR 9,822,382.00, after which retained earnings would stand at EUR 86,331,947.40. 94 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors report Consolidated income Consolidated statement of statement (IFRS) comprehensive income (IFRS) 1.1.2011– 1.1.2010– 1.1.2011– 1.1.2010– EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Net sales 2,3 2,274,127 1,829,562 Result for the financial year 35,571 1,155 Other operating income 7 20,719 26,824 Translation difference 22 –811 3,894 Increase or decrease in stocks of finished goods and Change in fair value 13, 22 –12 12 work in progress 48,880 –7,752 Cash flow hedge 13, 22 570 460 Production for own use 294 396 Other comprehensive income, total –253 4,366 Use of materials and services 1,505,462 1,124,173 Employee benefit expenses 10 456,523 411,525 Comprehensive income for the financial year 35,318 5,522 Depreciation 9 37,997 35,046 Decreases in value of goodwill 9 73 Comprehensive income for the financial year attributable to Other operating expenses 8 292,331 249,468 Equity holders of the parent company 34,467 4,665 Share of the result of associates 11 1,867 743 Non-controlling interest 851 857 Operating profit 53,501 29,561 Financial income 12 11,446 19,765 Financial expenses 12 30,366 41,735 Result before taxes 34,581 7,592 Income taxes 13 –10,301 –5,819 Result of continuing operations 24,280 1,772 Profit of discontinued operations 5 11,291 –617 Result for the financial year 35,571 1,155 Result for the financial year attributable to Equity holders of the parent company 34,720 299 Non-controlling interest 851 857 EPS attributable to equity holders of the parent company, EUR Earnings per share, dilited and undiluted Continuing operations 1.19 0.05 Discontinued operations 0.57 –0.03 Total 1.77 0.02 Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 95 Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 1.1.2010 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 1.1.2010 ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Tangible assets 15 207,182 175,259 184,613 Share capital 22 34,043 34,043 34,043 Goodwill 16 85,693 84,847 78,265 Share premium account 22 5,675 5,750 5,750 Other intangible assets 16 18,712 14,407 2,698 Hedging reserve 22 –940 –1,510 –1,970 Holdings in associates 11 9,291 7,605 6,251 Fair value reserve 22 12 Available-for-sale financial assets 18 5,992 6,410 6,582 Invested non-restricted equity fund 22 63,220 63,144 Deferred tax assets 13 19,356 17,409 15,702 Translation difference 22 1,385 2,196 –1,698 Other non-current receivables 20 4,765 7,175 7,481 Retained earnings 22 210,591 221,262 231,285 350,991 313,113 301,592 Result for the financial year 22 34,720 299 348,693 325,196 267,410 Current assets Inventories 19 448,467 369,763 374,721 Non-controlling interest 1,708 5,086 23,213 Trade and other receivables 20 407,287 325,975 286,780 Shareholders' equity, total 350,401 330,282 290,623 Income tax receivables 5,616 12,729 13,998 Cash and cash equivalents 21 30,395 26,348 74,400 Liabilities 891,766 734,815 749,900 Non-current liabilities Loans 25 194,643 214,134 290,749 Available-for-sale non-current assets 5 14,097 Deferred tax liability 13 21,727 17,577 18,975 Pension liabilities 23 3,872 508 749 Assets, total 1,242,757 1,062,025 1,051,492 Provisions 24 6,224 2,283 1,762 Other non-current liabilities 26 3,226 3,882 2,390 229,692 238,385 314,626 Current liabilities Loans 25 236,968 161,381 108,397 Provisions 24 7,495 6,437 8,271 Accounts payable and other liabilities 26 416,383 315,956 322,567 Income tax liabilities 1,817 5,203 7,008 662,664 488,976 446,243 Liabilities for available-for-sale non-current assets 5 4,383 Liabilities, total 892,356 731,743 760,869 Shareholders' equity and liabilities, total 1,242,757 1,062,025 1,051,492 96 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Consolidated statement of financial position (IFRS) Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) 1.1.2011– 1.1.2010– 1.1.2011– 1.1.2010– EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Cash flow from business operations Cash flow from investments Result before taxes 34,581 7,592 Investments in tangible and intangible assets –41,961 –32,876 Adjustments 29 Capital gains from the sale of tangible and intangible assets 13,747 34,112 Depreciation and impairment on goodwill 38,070 35,046 Investments in other assets –4 –1 Share of the result of associates –1,867 –743 Capital gains from the sale of other investments 1,450 315 Other non-payment-related income and expenses –8,698 7 Purchases of subsidiary shares less cash and cash Financial income and expenses 18,920 21,969 equivalents at time of purchase 4 –18,532 –11,419 Other adjustments –6,392 –20,558 Sales of subsidiary shares less cash and cash Cash flow before change in working capital 74,614 43,313 equivalents at time of sale 5 28,085 Purchases of shares in associated undertakings –622 Change in working capital Cash flow from investments –17,215 –10,491 Increase (–)/decrease(+) in current business receivables –72,367 –36,596 Increase (–)/decrease(+) in inventories –71,323 771 Cash flow from financing Increase (+)/decrease(–) in current liabilities 82,589 –9,668 Share issue for cash consideration 39,525 Cash flow from operations before Increase (–)/decrease(+) in non-current receivables 2,349 307 financial items and taxes 13,513 –2,181 Short term loans drawn 257,009 244,374 Repayments of short term loans –191,330 –185,988 Interest expenses paid –16,470 –16,102 Long term loans drawn 258,706 83,127 Other financial expenses paid –12,493 –25,379 Repayments of long term loans –276,168 –169,789 Dividends received 390 540 Repayments of finance leasing debts –11,408 –8,693 Interest received 2,576 2,290 Dividends paid –10,791 –2,077 Other financial income received 9,543 15,036 Cash flow from financing 28,367 787 Direct taxes paid –4,167 –11,376 Cash flow from business operations –7,108 –37,172 Increase (+)/decrease(–) in cash and cash equivalents 4,045 –46,877 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 21 26,348 74,400 Translation difference of cash and cash equivalents 2 –1,176 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 30,395 26,348 Consolidated cash flow statement (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 97 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Invested Parent Share noncompany Nonpremium Hedging Fair value restricted Translation Retained shareholders’ controlling Shareholders’ EUR 1,000 Note Share capital account reserve reserve equity fund difference earnings equity interest equity, total Shareholders' equity 1.1.2010 34,043 5,750 –1,970 –1,698 234,512 270,637 23,213 293,849 Adjustment –3,226 –3,226 –3,226 Adjusted shareholders' equity 1.1.2010 34,043 5,750 –1,970 –1,698 231,285 267,410 23,213 290,623 Result for the financial year 299 299 857 1,155 Translation difference 3,894 3,894 3,894 Cash flow hedge 460 460 460 Change in fair value 12 12 12 Comprehensive income for the financial year 460 12 3,894 299 4,665 857 5,522 Share issue to investors for cash consideration 39,525 39,525 39,525 Share issue to non-controlling interest for cash consideration 24,335 24,335 24,335 Transaction expenses of share issues –716 –716 –716 Direct entries, acquisition of non-controlling interest –10,105 –10,105 –10,105 Change in non-controlling interest –17,068 –17,068 Cancellation of dividend liability 82 82 82 Dividends paid 22 –1,915 –1,915 Transactions with owners, total 63,144 –10,024 53,121 –18,983 34,137 Shareholders’ equity 31.12.2010 34,043 5,750 –1,510 12 63,144 2,196 221,561 325,196 5,086 330,282 98 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) Invested Parent Share noncompany Nonpremium Hedging Fair value restricted Translation Retained shareholders’ controlling Shareholders’ EUR 1,000 Note Share capital account reserve reserve equity fund difference earnings equity interest equity, total Shareholders’ equity 1.1.2011 34,043 5,750 –1,510 12 63,144 2,196 221,561 325,196 5,086 330,282 Result for the financial year 34,720 34,720 851 35,571 Translation difference –811 –811 –811 Cash flow hedge 570 570 570 Change in fair value –12 –12 –12 Comprehensive income for the financial year 570 –12 –811 34,720 34,467 851 35,318 Direct entries, acquisition of non-controlling interest –1,147 –1,147 –1,147 Change in non-controlling interest –3,256 –3,256 Dividend distribution 22 –9,822 –9,822 –974 –10,796 Transfers between funds –76 76 Transactions with owners, total –76 76 –10,969 –10,969 –4,230 –15,199 Shareholders’ equity 31.12.2011 34,043 5,675 –940 63,220 1,385 245,311 348,693 1,708 350,401 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 99 Accounting principles applied in the IFRS consolidated financial statements, 31 December 2011 BASIC INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY ured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities assumed, and equity instruLemminkäinen Corporation is a public limited company established under the laws of ments issued by the Group. Any contingent additional acquisition price is measFinland and domiciled in Helsinki. The Company’s registered address is Salmisaarenured at fair value at the time of acquisition and is included in the consideration aukio 2, 00180, Helsinki, Finland. Lemminkäinen Corporation is the parent company paid. It is classified as either a liability or equity. An additional acquisition price of Lemminkäinen Group. The Group operates in all branches of the construction sector. classified as a liability is fair valued on the closing date of each reporting periThe Group comprises the following operating segments: Building Construction, od, and the resulting gains or losses are recognised through profit or loss. An adInfrastructure Construction and Technical Building Services. Building Construction ditional acquisition price classified as equity is not re-measured. Non-controlling and Infrastructure Construction operate mainly in the Nordic countries and Eastern interest in the acquiree is recognised on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis at eiEurope. Technical Building Services operates globally. ther fair value or the amount corresponding to the share of the net assets of the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with acquiree held by non-controlling interests. The amount by which the sum of the the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the IAS and IFRS consideration paid, non-controlling interest in the acquiree, and the fair value of standards and SIC and IFRIC interpretations that were in force on 31 Decemthe prior holding exceed the fair value of the acquired net assets is recognised ber 2011 have been observed in their preparation. The term ‘International Finanas goodwill on the balance sheet. If the total amount of consideration, non concial Reporting Standards’ refers to standards and interpretations of them authortrolling interest in the acquiree, and the prior holding is smaller than the fair valised for use in the European Union in accordance with the procedure prescribed ue of the net assets acquired by the subsidiary, the difference is recognised in the in EU Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as well as in the Finnish Accounting Act statement of comprehensive income. and the provisions laid down pursuant to the Act. The notes to the consolidated fiDirect acquisition costs are recognised as expenses in the income statement nancial statements are also in accordance with Finnish accounting and commufrom the beginning of 2010. All costs arising directly from the acquisition were innity legislation supplemental to the IFRS regulations. The consolidated financial cluded in the acquisition costs until 31 December 2009. statements will be available on the Company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests is the same as from Week 11 of 2012 onward. Printed copies of the consolidated financial statethat of transactions with the Group’s shareholders. When shares are acquired from ments can be ordered from the Company’s Corporate Communications staff: tel. non-controlling interests, the difference between the consideration paid and the +358 20 715 8067 or e-mail info@lemminkainen.fi, from Week 14 onward. carrying amount of the acquired net assets in the subsidiary is recognised in equiThe figures in the financial statements are denominated in thousands of euros. ty. Gains or losses from the sale of shares to non-controlling interests are also recTransactions are treated on the basis of original acquisition costs, with the excepognised in equity. When control or substantial influence is relinquished, the remaintion of financial instruments. The Board of Directors approved the publication of the ing holding, if any, is measured at fair value and the change in the carrying amount consolidated financial statements on 8 February 2012. is recognised through profit or loss. This fair value serves as the original carrying amount when the remaining holding is subsequently treated as an associated comPRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION pany, a joint venture, or financial assets. In addition, the amounts concerning said Subsidiaries company that were previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive inThe consolidated financial statements include Lemminkäinen Corporation and come are treated as if the Group had surrendered the related assets and liabilities. those subsidiaries in which the parent company directly or indirectly controls This means that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income over 50 per cent of the voting rights conferred by the shares or otherwise has items are transferred to profit or loss. the right to define the company’s financial or business principles. Intra-group The goodwill included in the consolidated financial statements is recognised on shareholdings are eliminated by means of the acquisition method. The acquisithe balance sheet in the currency of the acquiring company, and the goodwill arising tion price comprises the consideration paid, the non-controlling interest in the from acquisitions is recognised in the functional currency of the foreign unit. Subsidacquiree, and the fair value of the prior holding. The consideration paid is measiaries acquired during the accounting period are included in the consolidated finan100 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements cial statements from the moment of the Group gaining a controlling interest, and diReportable segment information is generally prepared according to the princivested subsidiaries up until the time that the controlling interest is relinquished. ples applied for the consolidated financial statements. Imputed items are not conIntra-group transactions; unrealised internal margins; and internal receivables, sidered in segment reporting. These items include, among others, depreciation of liabilities, and dividend payments are eliminated on consolidation. The distribution assets acquired by finance leasing, interest separated from payments, warranty of dividends to the shareholders of the parent company and to the non-controlling provisions, and unrealised gains or losses on derivatives. In segment reporting to the interests is presented in connection with the consolidated income statement. On management, finance leasing arrangements are treated as ordinary rental agreethe consolidated balance sheet, the non-controlling interest is included in the toments, in deviation from the accounting principles of IFRS financial statements. tal equity of the Group. Associated companies are combined in segment reporting in proportion to the ownership share using the line-by-line method. In IFRS financial statements, associatAssociated companies and joint ventures ed companies are combined in accordance with the equity method. In segment reInvestments in associated companies (generally 20–50 per cent of the voting porting, inter-segment sales are not allocated to segments, owing to their minimal rights or otherwise considerable influence over the company’s affairs) and joint venmagnitude, and are not reported to the management. tures in which the Group exercises authority jointly with other parties are included in Intra-segment transactions are priced at market prices. The cost plus method, the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. In such cases, the wherein the price of a product or service is determined by addition of an appropriate Group’s share of the result of the associated company corresponding to its ownerprofit mark-up to the costs incurred, is the main transfer pricing method applied. ship stake is included in the consolidated income statements. Correspondingly, the Group’s share of the equity in the associated company, including the goodwill arisPRESENTATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ing from its acquisition, is recorded as the value of its holding in the company on the The Group presents two separate income statements: the consolidated income consolidated balance sheet. If Lemminkäinen’s share of the losses of an associatstatement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The former ined company exceeds the investment’s carrying amount, the investment is assigned cludes the components of profit and loss, and the latter starts with the profit or loss a value of zero on the balance sheet and the excess is disregarded, unless the Group and presents the equity changes that are unrelated to the shareholders. The consolhas obligations related to the associated company or joint venture. idated statement of changes in equity itemises the transactions with shareholders. Unrealised capital gains arising in connection with business and fixed asset transactions between the Group and associated companies or joint ventures are FOREIGN CURRENCY ITEMS eliminated in proportion to the ownership share. The amounts are deducted from The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is also the functhe Group’s retained earnings and non-current assets. The eliminated capital gain tional and presentation currency of the Group’s parent company. The figures relating is recognised through profit or loss as it is realised. to the result and financial position of Group companies are initially recognised in the Shares of the results of associated companies are included in operating profit functional currency of their operating environment. Transactions in foreign currensince they belong to the operations of reporting business segments. cies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign curOPERATING SEGMENTS rencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. ExIFRS 8 Operating Segment Reporting requires that reported segment information change rate differences resulting from operating activities are recorded as adjustbe based on internal segment reporting to the management, which in Lemminkäinments to the corresponding items above the operating profit. Exchange rate gains en Group means the president of Lemminkäinen Corporation, who is the chief opand losses related to financing are recognised as financial income and expenses. erative decision-maker. Internal segment reporting to the management covers net Income statements of Group companies outside the euro area are translated insales, depreciation, operating profit, fixed assets, inventories, and trade receivables. to euros in line with the average exchange rates for the accounting period. All balThe figures reported to the management are accurate to the nearest EUR 1,000. ance sheet items, with the exception of the profit or loss for the accounting period, Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 101 are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. When assets classified as available-for–sale financial assets are sold or impairThe translation differences resulting from the translation of the income statement ment is recognised, accumulated changes in the fair value recognised in equity are and balance sheet at different exchange rates and from the elimination of the acincluded in the income statement under other operating income or expenses. quisition cost of subsidiaries outside the euro area are recognised in equity and the changes presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. When LOANS AND RECEIVABLES foreign subsidiaries are divested, the translation difference accrued in equity is recLoans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinaognised through profit and loss as part of capital gains or losses. ble payments, and are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables of the Goodwill arising from the acquisition of foreign currency subsidiaries as well as Group also include trade and other receivables on the balance sheet. Loans and refair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of the ceivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction expenses and subseforeign subsidiaries in connection with acquisition are treated as assets and liabilquently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. ities of the foreign subsidiaries in question and are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds, bank-account balances and liqFINANCIAL ASSETS uid money-market investments with original maturities of less than three months. Financial assets are recognised on the transaction date. In connection with initial recognition, the Group classifies financial assets into the following categories: fiIMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS nancial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, On every closing date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence and loans and receivables. The category is determined in accordance with the purof impairment of the value of a financial asset or a group of financial assets. If there pose for which the financial asset has been acquired. Financial assets are derecogis objective evidence of impairment, the amount recoverable from the financial asnised once the Group has lost the contractual right to their cash flows or when it set, which is the fair value of the asset, is estimated and the impairment loss is rechas substantially transferred their risks and returns to a party outside the Group. ognised wherever the book value exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for tradFINANCIAL LIABILITIES ing or financial assets that are initially classified as financial assets at fair value Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value, with the transaction costs through profit or loss. This category also includes all derivative contracts that do deducted. Subsequently, all financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost usnot meet the conditions set for hedge accounting in IAS 39. Currency and interest ing the effective interest rate method. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilrate derivatives that do not meet the conditions set for the above-mentioned hedge ities are capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and amortised over the accounting are entered in this category by the Group. Derivatives are carried at fair period of the facility to which it relates. values based on market prices and generally accepted valuation models. Changes in The Group has non-current and current financial liabilities, and they may be inthe fair values are recognised in the Group’s financial items. terest-bearing or non-interest-bearing. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CAPITALISATION OF BORROWING COSTS Available-for-sale financial assets are financial assets, other than derivative conThe Group capitalises the borrowing costs of obtaining an asset as part of its acquisitracts, that are specifically designated as such on initial recognition or that are not tion cost when qualifying projects and percentage-of-completion construction projects. classified in any other category. The Group’s available-for-sale financial assets include property, housing-company and other shares, as well as short term investQualifying assets ments in the financial market. Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at A qualifying asset is one that takes longer than a year to prepare for its intended fair value. Changes in the fair values are recognised in equity and presented in other purpose. A qualifying asset may be a fixed or movable asset, an inventory item, or an comprehensive income. If a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment intangible asset. is recognised at cost less impairment. The dividends from equity instruments included in available-for-sale financial assets and the interest from fixed-income inCosts of borrowing for the purpose of acquisition of an asset struments are recognised under financial items. When borrowings are made expressly for the purpose of financing a qualifying as102 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements set, the capitalised borrowing costs are the allocated financing expenses arising of derivatives meeting the hedging conditions are entered in the fair value reserve of from the actual borrowings less the financial income received from the temporary equity and presented in other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion is recinvestment of such borrowings. After an asset has been made ready, the unpaid ognised under financial items in the income statement. The cumulative change in amount of the borrowings for the project is transferred to general borrowings. fair value is transferred from equity and recognised in the income statement for the periods in which the hedged item affects the result. General borrowings When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or the hedge no longer meets the The Group’s borrowings are always considered to be the primary form of financing criteria for hedge accounting, the hedge accounting is terminated. Any accumulateven if the cash flow would be sufficient to cover the cost of a qualifying asset. When ed profit or loss from the hedging instrument remains in equity until the anticipated general borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset, the amount of the capitaltransaction is realised and recognised in the income statement. If the anticipated ised costs is determined through application of a capitalisation rate to the expenditransaction is no longer expected to take place, any profit or loss recognised in equitures on that asset. The capitalisation rate is the weighted average of those borrowing ty is immediately transferred to financial items in the income statement. costs applicable to the Company’s borrowings outstanding during the period, other Derivatives that do not meet the conditions set for hedge accounting are classified than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. as current assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised in financial income and expenses with the exception of commodity derivatives Prepayments which changes in fair values are recognised in other operating income and expenses. In calculation of the amount of a project’s borrowing costs, project-related prepayments received from the customer are included in the net position arising from the INCOME RECOGNITION PRINCIPLES contract. If inclusion of the borrowing costs leads to a situation in which the net Recognition of income from the sale of manufactured goods position of the project is positive for the entire construction period, the borrowing The Group recognises income from the sale of its manufactured products at the costs are not capitalised at all. If the net financing position of the project changtime when the essential risks and benefits associated with product ownership are es from positive to negative during the construction period, the borrowing costs are transferred to the buyer and the Group no longer has any authority or control over the capitalised in respect of the periods during which the net position was negative. product. As a rule, this means the time when the product is handed over to the customer in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of delivery. The fair value Commencement and cessation of capitalisation income received, adjusted for direct taxes, discounts given and exchange rate differCapitalisation commences when the Company first incurs expenditures for a qualences on foreign currency sales, is presented in the income statement as net sales. ifying asset giving rise to borrowing costs, and when it undertakes activities that are necessary for preparation of the asset for its intended use or for sale. CapitalisaRecognition of income from services tion is suspended when effective production is halted. Capitalisation ceases when Income from services is recognised when the outcome of the relevant business all activities necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use or sale have transaction can be reliably estimated. Recognition is based on the degree of combeen carried out. pletion on the closing date. The same rules are applied as for recognition of construction projects under the percentage-of-completion method. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING Derivatives are recognised initially at the time of acquisition at fair value on the balRecognition of income from construction projects ance sheet and subsequently measured at fair value. Entries resulting from changPercentage of completion es in the fair value are affected by whether or not the derivative has been specified When recognising income from long term construction projects, the Group obas a hedging instrument in accordance with IAS 39 and the type of item the instruserves the percentage of-completion method on the basis of the degree of comment is hedging. pletion if the project in question possesses the characteristics of a negotiated conThe Group applies hedge accounting for hedging cash flows of certain variatract. In such contracts, the buyer can decide on the primary structural or functional ble-rate loans. The hedging relationship between the hedged item and the hedgcharacteristics of the project before or during construction. ing instruments, as well as the Group’s risk management objective and strategy, is The degree of project completion is calculated as the ratio of actually incurred documented by the Group upon the inception of the hedging arrangement. The efcosts to estimated total costs. If it is likely that the total costs needed for complefectiveness of the hedging relationship is assessed at inception and then at regular tion of a project on the order book will exceed the total income receivable from the intervals at least on every reporting day. Changes in the value of the effective share project, the anticipated loss is immediately recognised in its entirety as an expense. Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 103 When the costs incurred and recognised profits are greater than billing based The depreciation of property, plant and equipment items is discontinued when on the project’s progress, the difference is presented in the balance sheet item the asset in question is classified as available for sale as defined in IFRS 5, ‘Non‘Trade and other receivables’. If the costs incurred and recognised profits are less current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’. than the billing based on the project’s progress, the difference is presented in the Normal maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. Significant imbalance sheet item ‘Accounts payable and other current liabilities’. provements or additional investments are capitalised and depreciated over the reIn the recognition of income from projects with lease liability commitments, the maining useful economic lifetime of the asset to which they pertain, provided that impact of the estimated realisation of these lease liabilities is taken into consideration. it is likely that the Company will derive future economic benefit from the asset. Capital gains on the sale of a tangible asset are presented in ‘Other operating inRecognition on completion come’, and losses in ‘Other operating expenses’. The Group expenses the interest Income from own building developments sold is recognised on completion in accordcosts of tangible assets’ acquisitions, unless the project meets the requirements ance with delivery principles, because such projects do not fulfil the criteria set for long for capitalisation of borrowing costs, in which case they are capitalised as part of term construction projects; these criteria include bearing the risks and rewards of ownthe acquisition cost. ership as well as the owner having control, which are not transferred to the buyer while construction is still in progress. Intangible assets Goodwill Recognition of life-cycle projects Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of acquiring a company exceeds the In life-cycle projects, the operator – that is, the service provider – builds the infraGroup’s interest in the net fair value of its identifiable assets, liabilities and continstructure used for service provision or improves and maintains said infrastructure. gent liabilities at the time of acquisition. Goodwill on consolidation of business opThe Group recognises income from construction and improvement services on the erations prior to 2004 is the carrying amount determined in accordance with earbasis of the percentage of completion. lier accounting standards, which is used as the IFRS deemed cost of acquisition. Goodwill is not amortised. Goodwill is regularly tested for impairment. In the impairRecognition of interest and dividends ment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. Goodwill is recognised Interest income is recognised on a time basis by means of the effective interest rate on the balance sheet at cost less impairment, which is expensed on the income method. Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established. statement. The holding of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree is measured either at fair value or the amount corresponding to the share of the identifiable net VALUATION AND DEPRECIATION OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS assets of the acquiree attributable to the non-controlling interests. The measureTangible assets ment principle is specified separately for each acquisition. The Group companies’ tangible assets are shown on the balance sheet at cost less depreciation and impairment. Land is not subject to depreciation. Tangible assets Research and development expenditure are depreciated over their estimated economic lifetimes, which are as follows: Research and development expenditure is expensed as incurred, with the exception of development expenditure satisfying the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38, which is –– Buildings and structures 10–40 years recognised on the balance sheet and amortised through profit or loss over its use–– Machinery and equipment 4–10 years ful economic lifetime. –– Mineral aggregate deposits depreciation based on material depletion –– Other tangible assets 10 years Other amortised costs Intangible assets include amortised costs that are not related to tangible assets A tangible asset is subject to depreciation from the time that it is ready for service. and have economic effects lasting longer than one year. These amortised costs Depreciation is charged over the period from the asset’s introduction to use until include, for example, the costs of making basic repairs to leased premises. These the end of its useful economic life. The residual value and economic lifetime of ascosts would be amortised over the term of the lease. sets are reviewed in connection with the preparation of each set of annual financial statements and, if necessary, these are adjusted to reflect any changes that Other intangible rights may have occurred in the economic benefit expected. When depreciation charges Assets such as patents and software licence payments, as well as prepayments reare made according to plan, the residual value of the asset is zero. lated to them, are also classified as intangible assets. Other intangible assets are 104 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements recognised at cost on the balance sheet and amortised over their useful economic LEASING AGREEMENTS WHEREIN THE GROUP IS THE LESSEE lifetime. The amortisation times of intangible assets are as follows: Leasing agreements that pertain to tangible assets in which substantially all risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are classified as finance –– Software licence payments 5 years leasing agreements. Finance leasing agreements are recognised as assets on the –– Other intangible rights 5–10 years balance sheet at a value equal to the fair value of the leased item on the date of the lease’s commencement or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payThe asset is subject to depreciation from the time that it is ready for service. Deprements. Corresponding liability is recognised in current and non-current loans. ciation is charged over the time from the asset’s introduction into use until the end Assets leased under finance leasing agreements are depreciated over the useful of its useful economic life. When depreciation charges have been made according economic lifetime of the asset class or a shorter period as the lifetime of the lease to plan, the residual value of the asset is zero. elapses, and impairment losses are recognised as required. Annual leasing payments are divided into financial expenses and debt amortisation instalments over Financial assistance received the lifetime of the lease so that the same interest rate is applied to the outstanding Financial assistance received from the Finnish State or some other public-sector debt in every accounting period. source is recognised as income on the income statement at the same time as corLeasing agreements in which the rights and risks of ownership are retained by responding costs are expensed. Investment grants are deducted from the value of the lessor are treated as other leasing agreements. Payments under other leasing the asset in question. agreements are treated as leasing expenses, and they are recognised on the income statement in equal instalments over the lifetime of the lease. Impairment The carrying amount of an asset is assessed on each reporting date for determinaVALUATION OF INVENTORIES tion of whether there are indications of impairment. If indications of impairment are Flats and other real property included in inventories are recognised on the balance found, the ‘recoverable amount’ for the asset in question is assessed. Annual imsheet at cost or, if lower, their net realisable value. The net realisable value is the espairment tests are always made for goodwill. The recoverable amount for an asset timated selling price that may be obtained in an active market in the normal course is either its fair value less costs to sell or, if higher, its value in use. In the measureof business, less the costs of selling and the costs necessary for completion of the ment of value in use, expected future cash flows are discounted to their present valproduct in question. Materials and supplies are valued according to the FIFO (firstue with discount rates that reflect the country’s average capital costs before taxes. in, first-out) principle. The value of inventories includes all of the variable costs Market risk and non liquidity premiums are taken into consideration in the setting of arising from their acquisition and production as well as the proportion of fixed and the discount rates. If it is not possible to calculate the recoverable cash flows for an general costs of manufacture that is attributable to them in conditions of normal individual asset, the recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit to which the production. The costs of selling are not included in the valuation of inventories at asset belongs is determined. An impairment loss is recognised on the income statecost. Neither are financing costs included in the valuation of inventories at cost, exment if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. cept in the case of a project that meets the requirements set for capitalisation of The carrying amount of an asset is adjusted on the basis of impairment tests borrowing costs. made annually and whenever it may be concluded that there is need to do so. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units in a rational and consistent manner. In the TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES impairment tests, the recoverable amount from the business of a cash-generating Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value less transaction unit is derived from value-in-use calculations using forecast cash flows based on costs, and later at amortised cost. They are subject to impairment testing in concomprehensive profitability plans confirmed by the management for a specific perinection with the preparation of the annual financial statements. Recognised doubtod as well as other justifiable estimates of the future outlook for the cash-generatful receivables are assessed on a case-by-case basis. If there is objective evidence ing unit and its business sector. that the value of trade or other receivables is impaired, the credit losses are recImpairment losses related to tangible assets and intangible assets other than ognised as an expense on the income statement. When a debtor is in significant goodwill are reversed if the estimates used for determination of the recoverable amount financial difficulties, any probable bankruptcy, delinquent payments, or payments of the asset have changed. The biggest reversal allowed equals the carrying amount of that are more than 90 days overdue constitute evidence of the impairment of the the asset less depreciation if impairment was not recognised in earlier years. trade receivables. Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 105 TREATMENT OF OWN BUILDING DEVELOPMENTS financial payment or would result in financial loss, and that the amount of liabiliExpenditure committed to own building developments is capitalised on the balance ty can be reliably measured. Provisions have to do with warranties, onerous work or sheet as part of current assets and receivables. Liabilities and prepayments related contracts and landscaping and other environmental liabilities. They are generally reto companies under construction are included in current liabilities. alised in the beginning or following accounting period and their discounting to preThe share of loans obtained that corresponds to the unsold proportion of flats sent value has no essential bearing on the correctness of the financial statements. that are still under construction as well as the proportion of loans for completed but Provisions for construction warranties are calculated on the basis of the levunsold flats is included in current interest-bearing liabilities. el of warranty expenses actually incurred in earlier accounting periods and are recognised when income from a completed project is recognised on the income stateEMPLOYEE BENEFITS ment. If the Group will receive reimbursement from a subcontractor or material Pension obligations supplier on the basis of an agreement in respect of anticipated expenses, the future The pension schemes of Group companies operating in different countries are gencompensation is recognised when its receipt is, in practice, beyond doubt. erally defined contribution plans. Payments in respect of defined-contribution plans Provision is made for onerous work or contracts when the amount of expendare expensed on the income statement for the accounting period to which they apiture required by the agreement to fulfil the obligations exceeds the benefits that ply. In the case of a defined-benefit plan, a pension liability is recognised to the exmay be derived from it. tent that the plan gives rise to a pension obligation. If a defined-benefit plan gives A landscaping provision is made in respect of those sites where landscaprise to a pension surplus, it is recognised in prepayments and accrued income on ing is a contractual obligation. The amount of the provision is based on the use of the balance sheet. ground materials. The pension costs of a defined-benefit plan are measured by means of the proTen-year liabilities related to own building developments are included as a provijected unit credit method. The amount of pension liability is calculated by deduction sion in the financial statements to the extent that their realisation is considered likely. of the fair value of the assets belonging to the pension scheme on the balance sheet In the recognition of income from projects with lease liability commitments, the date from the present value of the future pension obligations on the balance sheet impact of the estimated realisation of these lease liabilities is taken into consideration. date. The pension obligations are expensed on the basis of actuarial calculations for the duration of employee service. The actuarial gains and losses arising from these INCOME TAXES pension obligations are recognised on the income statement over the expected avTaxes calculated on the basis of the taxable profit or loss of Group companies for erage remaining length of service of the participating employees to the extent that the accounting period, adjustments to taxes for earlier accounting periods, and they exceed 10% of the defined-benefit obligation or, if greater, the fair value of the change in the deferred tax liability and assets are recognised as taxes on the conplan’s assets. The discount rate applied is the interest rate payable on low-risk finansolidated income statement. The tax effect associated with items recognised dicial securities with maturities corresponding to the duration of the pension liability. rectly in equity is recognised correspondingly in equity. The change in deferred tax is calculated from the temporary differences beManagement remuneration programmes tween taxation and accounting, with either the tax rate in force on the balance The management remuneration programme has three elements: salary and fringe bensheet date or a known tax rate that will come into force at a later date. However, a efits, short term remuneration and long term remuneration. Short term remuneration deferred tax liability is not recognised in respect of a temporary difference that ariscomprises annual performance related bonuses earned for exceeding predefined peres from the initial recognition of an asset or liability (other than from a business formance targets. Long term remuneration consists of not only pension remuneration combination) and affects neither accounting income nor taxable profit. A deferred but also rewards in the form of shares. The performance targets for share-type rewards tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is likely that there will be future are always set one year in advance. Any performance related bonuses and share-type taxable profit against which the temporary difference may be utilised. The most rewards are paid out in the following year, once the results have been confirmed. significant temporary differences arise from appropriations, the income recognition The expenses of other management remuneration programmes are recognised practice for construction projects, internal capital gains from sales, finance leasing on the income statement as personnel expenses as they arise. arrangements, provisions, unused tax losses, measurements of fair value made in connection with acquisitions, and pension obligations. PROVISIONS Confirmed tax-deductible losses are treated as a tax asset to the extent that it is A provision is made when the Group has a legal or de facto obligation based on likely that the Company will be able to utilise them in the near future. Deferred tax is not some past event and it is likely that freedom from liability either would require a recognised in respect of non-tax-deductible goodwill when it is probable that the tem106 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements porary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. A deferred tax liability is reccasts and assumptions used in impairment tests, and the setting off of deferred tax ognised in respect of the undistributed profits of subsidiaries only if payment of the tax assets against future taxable profit. is expected to be realised in the foreseeable future. Economic lifetimes of tangible and intangible assets DISTRIBUTION OF DIVIDENDS The management apply estimates and judgements when considering the economThe dividend payment proposed by the Board of Directors to a general meeting of ic lifetimes and depreciation methods for productive goods. The factors considered shareholders is not recognised as a deduction from distributable equity until it has in estimation of economic lifetimes include the purpose of a productive asset, the been approved by the general meeting. effects of wear, maintenance and repair stemming from use of the asset, the duration of the asset’s technical usability, limitations or obligations arising from leasing EARNINGS PER SHARE or other agreements, and the magnitude of any residual value. The undiluted earnings per share are calculated by division of the profit for the accounting period attributable to the shareholders of the parent company by the Leasing agreements wherein the Group is the lessee weighted average number of shares outstanding during that period. In calculation The management have had to make judgements when classifying leasing agreeof the diluted earnings per share, the diluting effect stemming from the conversion ments as either finance leasing agreements or other leasing agreements. The of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into shares must be taken into account in the classification of leasing agreements is made in accordance with generally acceptweighted average number of shares outstanding. ed standards for definition of finance leasing agreements, and it is based on the actual content of the agreement. According to the definition of a finance leasTREASURY SHARES ing agreement, essentially all of the economic risks and rewards of ownership are If the Company or its subsidiaries acquire the Company’s treasury shares, the Comtransferred to the lessee. The classification is always made at the lease’s inceppany’s equity is reduced by the amount of consideration paid for the shares plus tion. The provisions of a leasing contract can be amended by agreement with the transaction costs after taxes until such time as the treasury shares are cancelled. lessor, in which case the classification may have to be revised. A change taking If treasury shares are sold or reissued, the consideration is recognised in equity. No place in an estimation criterion – e.g., a change in the present value of minimum gains or losses are recognised in respect of purchases, sales, issuance, or cancellalease payments relative to the fair value of the leased asset – does not constitute tion of the Company’s own equity instruments. grounds for reclassification. MANAGEMENT JUDGEMENT AND ESTIMATES Recognition of income from construction projects The use of judgement and estimates When recognising income from long term construction projects, the Group folWhen preparing the financial statements, the Company’s management have to lows the percentage of completion method on the basis of the extent of complemake accounting estimates and assumptions about the future, as well as judgetion if the project in question fulfils the criteria for a negotiated contract. In such ment-based decisions on the application of the accounting principles. These esticontracts, the buyer can decide on the primary structural or functional characterismates and decisions affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and tics of the project before or during construction. Costs actually incurred include onexpenses for the accounting period as well as the recognition of contingent items. ly those costs that correspond to work already carried out. Management estimates The estimates and judgements are based on experience-based and other justifiable are necessary for reliable determination of the total costs that will be incurred for assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the prevailing circumstanccompletion of a project. All project costs are itemised and measured as accuratees. Information on key aspects of the financial statements for which management ly as possible, to facilitate comparison with earlier values. If the management asjudgement and estimates have been necessary is presented below. sess a project to be onerous (i.e., total costs exceed total income), the loss is immeThe Company’s management have had to make judgements when determining diately expensed. If the management are unable to make a reliable determination of the economic lifetimes of tangible and intangible assets, and when classifying leasthe total income from a construction project, the income is recognised in accordes into finance leasing agreements and other leasing agreements. The estimates ance with delivery. and forward-looking assumptions made on the balance sheet date mainly pertain to income recognition in accordance with the percentage of contract completion, the Recognition of provisions recognition of provisions, the valuation of assets belonging to acquired companies On the basis of the historical evidence available, the management estimate whethand their realisability, the formulae used to calculate employee benefits, the foreer it is likely that the settlement of a present obligation will result in an outflow of Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 107 resources embodying economic benefits from the Group. If such a condition exists Taxes and a reliable estimate as to the amount and the timing of the obligation can be The most essential estimate made by the management pertains to the principles made, then it is recognised as a provision in the financial statements. for recognition of deferred tax assets. The reversal of a tax-deductible temporary difference reduces the taxable profit in future accounting periods. The most comValuation at cost mon tax-deductible temporary difference between accounting and taxation is a Valuation of an acquired subsidiary’s shares at cost is based on the fair value of confirmed tax loss. The management must judge whether there will be sufficient its identifiable assets and liabilities. When measuring fair value, the management taxable profit in the future for the purpose of making use of remaining tax losses. A use estimates based on their experience and, if necessary, the assistance of experts deferred tax asset arising from unused tax losses is recognised only to the extent of specialising in the balance sheet items in question. The estimates and assumptions the likelihood that there will be future taxable profit against which the unused tax made in accordance with the management’s views are sufficiently accurate to enlosses may be utilised. sure the correctness of cash flows associated with balance sheet items. The estimates are based on the management’s best judgement, but actual outcomes may differ from the estimates used in the financial statements. Employee benefits In calculation of obligations related to employee benefits, the factors requiring NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS management estimates include the expected returns on the assets of defined-benStandards and interpretations that became effective in 2011 efit pension plans, the discount rate used for calculation of pension liabilities and The standards and interpretations that became effective in 2011 have no material pension expenses for the accounting period, the future development of pay levels, impact on the consolidated financial statements. the rising level of pensions, durations of employee service, and the trend of inflation. The following amendments to standards and interpretations have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements: IFRS 3 (amendments), IFRS 7 Impairment testing (amendment), IAS 1 (amendment), IAS 24 (revised), IAS 27 (amendment), IAS 32 The carrying amounts of assets are examined by means of impairment tests, which (amendment), IAS 34 (amendment), IFRIC 13 (amendment), IFRIC 14 (amendare performed at least yearly – and whenever deemed necessary. Goodwill is alloment) and IFRIC 19 (amendment). cated to cash-generating units in a rational and consistent manner. In impairment tests, the amount recoverable from a cash-generating unit’s business is based on Standards and interpretations that became effective at the beginning of 2012 value-in-use calculations. The cash flow forecasts used for these calculations are The following amendments to standards and interpretations will have no matebased on profitability plans approved by the business’s management for a cerrial impact on the consolidated financial statements: IAS 12 (amendment) and tain period of time and on other justifiable estimates of the prospects for the busiIFRS 7 (amendment). ness sector and the cash-generating unit. In connection with impairment tests, the management must estimate whether the fair value of an asset has decreased during the accounting period, whether significant adverse changes have occurred in the operating environment, whether it is necessary to change the discount rate applied in value-in-use calculations, and whether the carrying amount of a company’s net assets is lower than its fair value. On the basis of these and possibly other indicators both within and outside the Company, the management must continuously assess whether there is any need to perform additional impairment tests on asset items between the annual tests. A more detailed description of the estimates and assumptions concerning goodwill impairment testing is given in the Notes to the Financial Statements. 108 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Accounting principles of the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 1 2 3 4 1 AMENDMENTS CONCERNING EARLIER FINANCIAL YEARS 2 INFORMATION BY BUSINESS SECTOR The company has adjusted a claim for compensation that was recognised early Lemminkäinen Group’s main business sectors were reorganised starting 1.1.2011 to 5 from the assets for the comparison year in 2008. This adjustment diminishes the three business sectors: building construction, infrastructure construction and tech6 retained earnings by EUR 3.2 million and the trade and other receivables by EUR nical building services. Functions outside the business sectors are reported under 7 4.4 million and increases deferred tax assets by EUR 1.1 million. The opening balunallocated items. 8 ance sheet dated 1 January 2010 and the notes have been adjusted accordingly. 9 Building Construction (Lemminkäinen Talo Oy) Changes to the consolidated balance sheet The business sector engages in residential construction, commercial and office con10 struction, industrial and logistics construction, and sports and recreational construction. 11 Balance sheet 12 31.12.2010 before Adjusted EUR 1,000 adjustment Other changes balance sheet Infrastructure Construction (Lemminkäinen Infra Oy) 13 Deferred tax asset 16,275 1,134 17,409 The business sector engages in the construction and maintenance of road, street and 14 Trade and other receivables 330,335 –4,360 325,975 railway networks as well as rock, concrete and geotechnical engineering. The compa15 Assets, total 1,065,252 –3,226 1,062,025 ny has its own asphalt, concrete and mineral aggregate production. 16 Retained earnings 224,488 –3,226 221,262 Technical Building Services (Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy) 17 Shareholders' equity, total 333,509 –3,226 330,282 The company’s business areas are technical building services, technical facility servic18 es and industrial services, and telecommunications network construction. The compa19 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities, total 1,065,252 –3,226 1,062,025 ny provides installation, contracting, servicing and maintenance services. 20 Unallocated items 21 Unallocated items on the consolidated income statement include expenses that are 22 not allocated to the operating segments. Unallocated assets include mainly finan23 cial receivables. 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 109 Operating segments Technical 1.1.–31.12.2011 Building Infrastructure Building Other Segments Reconciling Group EUR 1,000 Construction Construction Services operations Eliminations total items total, IFRS Net sales 894,070 1,178,839 293,887 31,013 –90,434 2,307,375 –33,248 2,274,127 Depreciation and impairment on goodwill 676 35,620 943 3,111 40,350 –2,280 38,070 Operating profit 16,284 63,940 5,205 –16,620 68,809 –15,308 53,501 The reconciling items for net sales comprise EUR –29.5 million from the equity share treatment of associates and EUR –3.8 million from discontinued operations. The reconciling items for operating profit comprise EUR 0.7 million in personnel expenses, EUR 0.3 million from the IFRS treatment of finance leasing, EUR –1.0 million from the equity share treatment of associated companies and EUR –15.3 million in other closing entries. Technical 1.1.–31.12.2010 Building Infrastructure building Other Segments Reconciling Group EUR 1,000 construction construction services operations Eliminations total items total, IFRS Net sales 770,217 932,904 269,087 11,383 –72,576 1,911,015 –81,453 1,829,562 Depreciation 2,070 34,801 939 958 38,768 –3,722 35,046 Operating profit 25,622 15,276 4,455 –15,634 29,719 –158 29,561 The reconciling items for net sales comprise EUR –18.5 million from the equity share treatment of associates and EUR –62,9 million from discontinued operations. The reconciling items for operating profit comprise EUR –1.1 million in personnel expenses, EUR 2.5 million from the IFRS treatment of finance leasing, EUR –0.7 million from the equity share treatment of associated companies, EUR –1.4 million in other closing entries and EUR 0.5 from discontinued operations. EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Assets by operating segment Building Construction 505,503 440,086 Infrastructure Construction 363,656 317,845 Technical Building Services 46,971 44,452 Other operations 50,788 46,217 Segments, total 966,918 848,600 Assets not allocated to segments and group eliminations, total 275,839 213,425 Group total, IFRS 1,242,757 1,062,025 110 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 3 INFORMATION BY MARKET AREA Geographical segments 1 2 1.1.–31.12.2011 Eastern Europe and 3 EUR 1,000 Finland Other Nordic countries the Baltic states Other countries Total Net sales 1,493,845 525,611 216,115 38,557 2,274,127 4 Assets 840,589 227,733 145,458 28,977 1,242,757 5 Investments 43,120 36,402 4,378 77 83,976 6 7 1.1.–31.12.2010 Eastern Europe and 8 EUR 1,000 Finland Other Nordic countries the Baltic states Other countries Total Net sales 1,286,097 327,285 178,351 37,828 1,829,562 9 Assets 735,555 153,217 142,509 30,744 1,062,025 10 Investments 32,914 19,420 7,111 134 59,579 11 12 Revenues are allocated to segments according to the location of customers and assets according to their geographic location. 13 14 15 16 4 ACQUIRED BUSINESSES 17 2011 18 On 1 January 2011 the capital stock of Ylivieskan Putkiasennus Oy was acquired in goodwill recognised on this acquisition comprises an increase in market share as 19 its entirety. The company is engaged in the installation of heating, piping and venwell as cost-savings in procurements, logistics and production. The acquisition 20 tilation. Acquisition costs allocated to customer accounts and margins of the order price will be settled in accordance with the agreed payment programme within book were booked in intangible assets in connection with the acquisition. The acthree years of the time of the acquisition. The current value of the unpaid share was 21 quisition entails contingent additional acquisition prices, owing to which the final recognised as a liability in the balance sheet. 22 acquisition price will be confirmed within four years of the time of acquisition. The On 31 May 2011 Lemminkäinen acquired Mesta Industri AS. The company spe23 current value of the additional acquisition prices was recognised as a liability in the cialises in asphalt and mineral aggregates business. Acquisition costs allocated to 24 balance sheet. customer accounts and margins of the order book were booked in intangible as25 On 26 May 2011 Lemminkäinen acquired Sotkamon Sora ja Sepeli Oy. The sets in connection with the acquisition. The acquisition generated negative good26 company is engaged in earth construction, crushing of mineral aggregates and conwill due to assets and liabilities being measured at fair value. The negative goodwill crete, selling mineral aggregates and public road maintenance contracting. The was recognised in other income from business operations in the income statement. 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 111 In the year 2011 the recognised fair values of the acquired business operations after On the consolidation of the acquired business operations, EUR 105.0 million has merging are presented in the table below. been recognised in net sales and EUR 5.6 million in operating profit. Full-year net sales of the acquired business operations in 2011 amounted to about EUR 117.6 Fair values recognised after million and operating profit to about EUR –1.0 million. If the acquirees had been EUR 1,000 merging 2011 consolidated as from the beginning of the year, consolidated net sales would have Assets been EUR 2,286.8 million and operating profit EUR 46.9 million. Tangible assets 24,629 Intangible assets 1,886 2010 Investments 1,023 On 21 April 2010, the Company acquired 75,0% of the outstanding in Asfalt ReDeffered tax asset 4,816 mix AS, a company specialising in the cold milling of asfalt. The goodwill recognised Inventories 7,294 on this acquisition comprises an increase in market share as well as cost-savings Current receivables 12,665 in procurements, logistics and production. In addition, acquisition costs allocatCash and cash equivalents 270 ed to customer accounts have beem booked in intangible assets. The acquisition Assets, total 52,584 includes the option to redeem shares from non-controlling shareholders at a value based on average post-tax earnings for the past three years and the change in Liabilities shareholders’ equity. The redemption price is determined on the basis of these two Pension liabilities 2,831 components to its present value on the closing date and recognised as a liability. Deferred tax liabilities 359 On 9 June 2010, the Company acquired 90.1% of the shares outstanding Risa Provisions 4,740 Rock AS and renamed it Lemminkäinen Anlegg AS. The acquiree specialises in tunLoans 396 nel excavation. The goodwill recognised on this acquisiton comprises an increase Other liabilities 18,957 in market share as well as cost-savings in procuremets, logistics and production. In Liabilities, total 27,283 addition, acquisition costs allocated to customer accouts and the order book have been booked in intangible assets. The acquisition includes the option to redeem Net assets 25,301 shares from non-controlling shareholders at a valuea based on average EBITDA over a period of four years, adjusted with working capital. The redemption price is deterAcquisition price paid in cash 14,361 mined on the basis of this component and it iis discounted to its present valuea on Share of purchase price booked as liability 641 the closing date and recognised as liability. Acquisition cost, total 15,002 On 4 October 2010, the Company acquired all the shares outstanding in UAB Žvyrkasyba, a company that owns and sells gravel assets. Most of the consolidation Goodwill –10,298 difference of this acquisiton is allocates to gravel assets. The recognised goodwill Recognised in balance sheet goodwill 768 comprises synergy benefits and the cost-savings achieved in procurements. Negative goodwill recognized during the financial –11,067 On 26 October 2010, the Company acquired all the shares outstanding in Suonenjoen Sementtituote Oy, a company that manufactures concrete elements Transaction price paid in cash 14,361 for construction. The consolidation difference from this acquisition has been alloCash funds of acquired subsidiary 270 cated to the building transferred in the transaction. The recognised goodwill comCash flow effect 14,092 prises synergy benefits from the acquisition of the company. Expensed acquisition expenditure 563 112 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) In the year 2010 aggregated information on these acquisitions is presented in the 5 DISCONTINUED BUSINESS OPERATIONS following table. The Group sold its roofing business to Axcel in January 2011. The Group decided on sale in December 2010. Roofing business was categorised as discontinued opera1 Fair values recognised tion in the interim report in 31 March 2011. The result of operations of the sold unit, 2 EUR 1,000 after consolidation 2010 the capital gains from its sale and its part of cash flows were as follows: 3 Assets Tangible assets 7,272 4 1.1.–31.1. 1.1.–31.12. Intangible assets 3,835 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 5 Investments 5 The result of the roofing business 6 Inventories 372 Income 3,787 62,936 7 Current receivables 2,125 Expenses –5,642 –63,770 8 Cash and cash equivalents 5,147 Profit before taxes –1,855 –834 Assets, total 18,757 Taxes 482 217 9 Result for the financial period –1,373 –617 10 Liabilities 11 Deferred tax liabilities 1,576 Pre-tax capital gains from the sale of the roofing business 17,114 12 Loans 7,019 Taxes –4,449 13 Other liabilities 2,487 Capital gains after taxes 12,664 14 Liabilities, total 11,081 Result for the period from discontinued operations 11,291 –617 15 Net assets 7,676 Cash flow from business operations –1,904 16 Cash flow from investments –54 17 Acquisition price paid in cash 11,384 Cash flow from financing 1,958 18 Discounted present value of the redemption option recognised as a liability 2,071 Cash flows, total 0 19 Acquisition cost, total 13,455 20 Goodwill, total 5,779 EUR 1,000 31.1.2011 21 The impact of the sale of roofing business to groups’ financial position 22 Expensed acquisition expenditure 172 Property, plant and equipment 1,986 23 Receivables 7,909 24 Contingent liabilities recognised on redemption options Inventories 5,245 Contingent liabilities at time of acquisition 2,870 Accouts payable and other liabilities –4,169 25 Contingent liabilities at time of acquisition if predicted to be Assets and liabilities, total 10,971 26 10 percentage points higher 3,157 27 10 percentage points lower 2,583 Cash considerations 28,085 28 29 On the consolidation of the acquired business operations, EUR 17.4 million has 30 been recognised in net sales and EUR 0.6 million in operating profit. Full-year net 31 sales of the acquired business operations in 2010 amounted to about EUR 23.0 million and operating profit to about EUR 0.7 million. If the acquirees had been 32 consolidated as from the beginning, consolidated net sales would have been EUR 33 1,898.1 million and operating profit EUR 29.2 million. 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 113 Available-fo-sale non-current assets in 2010 The financier owns the current buildings and land. The service provider will renovate Assets and liabilities related to the roofing business are presented as held for sale afthe properties and construct new buildings as set out in the turnkey agreement made ter the Group signed an agreement on 15 December 2010 to sell its roofing business. with the financier. The City of Kuopio will gain possession of the buildings after handover. Lemmikäinen PPP Oy will manage the buildings for about 25 years pursuant to the EUR 1,000 31.12.2010 service agreement. Kuopio will serve as the contract agreement client for the sites it fiNon-current assets held for sale nanced and as the representative of the financier. The contracts are fixed-price and are Property, plant and equipment 1,950 tied to the cost of construction index and reference rate. The financier will pay the conIntangible assets 8 tract prices in instalments as set out in the contract agreements. The service providAvailable-for-sale financial assets 0 er shall not have the right to use any of the properties or to organise supplementary use. Inventories 6,242 The City of Kuopio shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a sixOther current assets 5,898 month period of notice if the sum of the reductions in usability and service level for Total 14,097 the 12 months prior to the inspection period at one or more of the properties is no less than 50% of the annual service fees of said property/properties. The City of Liabilities related to non-current assets held for sale Kuopio shall have the right to terminate the agreement after the 10th and 20th Other current liabilities 4,383 years of the agreement, that is, in 2021 and 2031. The service provider shall have the right to terminate the agreement with a sixmonth period of notice, if the financier or the City of Kuopio neglect their payment 6 INFORMATION ON CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS obligations for 90 days. EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Percentage-of-completion method Recognition of project income by the percentage-of-completion method 1,833,335 1,639,744 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Incurred costs and recognised net profits of work in progress EUR 1,000 2011 2010 (less booked losses) 1,163,371 1,111,954 Capital gains on sale of tangible assets 6,335 21,336 Payments received in advance (for work not yet done) 10,657 17,149 Capital gains on sale of investments 220 121 Gross project-related receivables from clients 55,490 52,841 Rental income 318 385 Gross project-related debts to clients 92,478 79,336 Net income from hedging purchases and sales 1,736 23 Financial aid and accident compensation received 661 1,566 Completed-contract method Negative goodwill 11,014 Income recognised as revenue on delivery from own building developments 276,587 170,965 Others 436 3,394 Inventories recognised from own building developments 170,421 131,755 20,719 26,824 Advance payments recognised for own building developments 26,331 55,202 8 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Service concession arrangements In 2011, the Group had one ongoing life-cycle project, Kuopio life-cycle project. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. The company established for this life-cycle project, Lemminkäinen PPP Oy (the EUR 1,000 2011 2010 service provider), signed the agreement with Kiinteistö Oy Kuopion koulutilat (the Capital losses on sale of tangible and intangible assets 173 527 financier) on 14 December 2009. The project comprises new construction and renCapital losses on sale of investments 132 2 ovation works for four schools and one day-care centre. The service provider is reVoluntary personnel-related expenses 13,162 14,387 sponsible for building management and maintenance for a period of 25 years. The Rental expenses 42,169 37,608 total value of the project is EUR 93.5 million. All construction work in the project Direct acquisiton costs 563 172 must be completed by autumn 2013. Other production expenses 175,771 135,598 Other fixed expenses 60,361 61,175 292,331 249,468 114 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 9 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 2011 2010 2 Depreciation of tangible assets Average number of employees 3 Buildings and structures 1,648 2,275 Salaried staff 2,932 2,913 Machinery and equipment 18,298 19,300 Hourly paid workers 5,489 5,401 4 Leased assets 10,917 10,079 8,421 8,314 5 Other tangible assets 2,953 1,808 6 33,816 33,463 Personnel by business segment 7 Building Construction 2,228 2,063 8 Depreciation of intangible assets Infrastructure Construction 3,914 4,000 Software licences 762 765 Technical Building Services 2,017 2,060 9 Other intangible rights 3,350 752 Parent company 261 191 10 Other intangible assets 70 66 8,421 8,314 11 4,182 1,584 12 Pension commitments 13 Depreciation, total 37,997 35,046 The members of Lemminkäinen Group’s Executive Board can retire at 60 years of 14 age. The members of the Executive Board are Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Presi15 dent and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Human Resources 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. and Information Technology, Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Devel16 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 opment, as well as the heads of the business sectors. 17 Impairment 18 Goodwill 73 19 11 SHARE OF THE RESULTS OF ASSOCIATES 20 10 PERSONNEL AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 21 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 22 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Share of the results of associates 23 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Share of the profits of associates 1,881 884 24 Personnel expenses Share of the losses of associates –13 –141 Wages and salaries 370,839 332,571 1,867 743 25 Pension expenses 54,926 51,056 26 Other personnel-related expenses 30,758 27,898 27 456,523 411,525 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 28 Shares in associates 1.1. 7,605 6,251 29 Management salaries and emoluments Translation difference 38 358 30 Salaries and fees paid to Board members and the managing directors 3,944 6,095 Increases 1,942 1,381 Decreases –294 –385 31 Pension expenses are dealt with in greater detail in section 23 of the notes and Shares in associates 31.12. 9,291 7,605 32 management remuneration schemes in section 33. 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 115 Major associates (information presented in full) EUR 1,000 Group’s ownership, % Assets Liabilities Net sales Result for the financial year 2011 Finavo Oy, Finland 47.5 2,289 1,179 453 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 607 158 247 55 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 9,297 3,921 7,745 1,035 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 17,647 10,717 36,529 2,157 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 3,266 206 14,446 190 2010 Finavo Oy, Finland 47.5 1,075 1,059 5,475 –1 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 587 217 417 24 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 9,266 4,956 6,133 834 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 12,898 8,166 24,888 487 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 3,121 343 5,599 –283 12 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Exchange rate differences recognised in the income statement 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2011 2010 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Financial income EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Interest income from loans and receivables 2,287 2,549 Exchange rate differences on sales 29 1,249 Interest incom from available-for-sale financial assets 53 Exchange rate differences on purchases 435 1,185 Dividend income from available-for-sale financial assets 96 155 Exchange rate differences on financial items –2,405 –829 Capital gains from available-for-sale financial assets 75 Exchange rate differences, total –1,941 1,605 Foreign exchange rate gains 8,670 16,523 Gains on the change in fair value of interest rate derivatives 421 Other financial income 264 118 Financial income, total 11,446 19,765 Financial expenses Interest expenses for financial liabilities recognised at amortised cost 17,375 15,449 Foreign exchange rate losses 11,076 17,351 Losses on the change in fair value of interest rate derivatives –343 607 Other financial expenses 2,823 8,811 Financial expenses, total 30,931 42,219 Capitalisation of borrowing costs of qualifying assets –565 –484 Financial expenses, total 30,366 41,735 Financial income and expenses, total –18,920 –21,969 116 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 13 TAXES Deferred taxes The taxes of Finnish Group companies for their result for the 2011 financial year were recognised at the tax rate of 26%, which was the corporate tax rate in force EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 1 on the balance sheet date. Deferred tax was recognised in Finnish companies with a Deferred tax assets 2 tax rate of 24.5%, which was approved by Parliament on 13 December 2011 as the Internal margin on fixed assets 469 544 3 new corporate tax rate. Landscaping provision 610 702 Confirmed losses 15,124 10,700 4 Fair valuation 308 510 5 Income taxes Other temporary differences 2,846 4,953 6 19,356 17,409 7 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 8 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Deferred tax liabilities Income taxes on normal business operations –3,620 –9,854 Accumulated depreciation differences 12,587 9,654 9 Income taxes in respect of previous years –684 –1,137 Revaluations 775 823 10 Deferred taxes –5,997 5,171 Recognition of income from long term projects 4,337 2,821 11 –10,301 –5,819 Fair valuation 1,959 2,042 12 Other temporary differences 2,068 2,238 13 Reconciliation of taxes on the income statement and taxes calculated at the Finnish tax rate 21,727 17,577 14 Result before taxes 34,581 7,592 Taxes calculated on the above at the Finnish tax rate –8,991 –1,974 15 According to Group strategy, it will be possible to utilise the deferred tax assets recDiffering tax rates of foreign subsidiaries –1 –426 ognised from losses, EUR 15.1 million (EUR 10.7 million in 2010) in full from future 16 Tax-exempt income in income statement 3,047 137 taxable profit. In 2011, EUR 0.3 million (EUR 0.2 million in 2010) of deferred tax 17 Non-deductible expenses in income statement –3,519 –1,683 assets was left unrecognised from tax losses. 18 Deductible non-income statement items 334 353 No deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of the undistributed profits of for19 Taxable non-income statement items –375 –733 eign subsidiaries because the funds are permanently invested in operations abroad. Use of unrecognised earlier tax losses 69 20 Loss-making results for the financial year –162 21 Effect of change in the corporate tax rate –52 Other comprehensive income items 22 Other items –62 –265 23 Taxes for the previous financial year –684 –1,137 24 Taxes on the income statement, total –10,301 –5,819 EUR 1,000 Before taxes Taxes After taxes 2011 25 Translation difference –811 –811 26 Cash flow hedges 771 –200 570 27 Fair value change –17 4 –12 28 –57 –196 –253 29 30 2010 Translation difference 3,894 3,894 31 Hedging of net investments 622 –162 460 32 Cash flow hedges 17 –4 12 33 4,532 –166 4,366 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 117 14 DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Dividend paid during the financial year Per share for the previous year, EUR 0.50 0.00 In total for the previous year, EUR 1,000 9,822 0.00 Proposed for approval by the AGM Per share for the financial year, EUR 0.50 0.50 In total for the financial year, EUR 1,000 9,822 9,822 15 TANGIBLE ASSETS Advance Buildings and Machinery and Other payments and EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment tangible assets work in progress Total Acquisition cost, 1.1.2011 13,499 50,611 343,638 38,651 2,558 448,958 Translation difference 9 34 192 43 0 279 Increases 323 560 38,653 2,978 4,831 47,344 Increases from acquired businesses 2,085 475 18,163 5,577 26,300 Decreases –2,041 –2,051 –50,932 –3,473 –367 –58,863 Transfers between items –271 1,198 274 –1,205 –4 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2011 13,604 49,631 350,912 44,051 5,817 464,014 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2011 –33,809 –218,780 –21,110 –273,699 Translation difference –45 –116 –35 –196 Accumulated depreciation on increases –1 –87 –87 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 1,971 45,642 3,353 50,967 Depreciation for the financial year –1,648 –29,215 –2,953 –33,816 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2011 –33,532 –202,555 –20,745 –256,832 Carrying amount, 31.12.2011 13,604 16,099 148,357 23,305 5,817 207,182 Carrying amount, 1.1.2011 13,499 16,802 124,858 17,541 2,558 175,259 118 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Buildings and Machinery and Other tangible Advance payments EUR 1,000 Land structures equipment assets and work in progress Total Acquisition cost, 1.1.2010 13,369 55,461 351,275 34,499 3,671 458,275 1 Translation difference 59 224 2,513 302 15 3,114 2 Increases 114 1,315 26,033 2,810 2,113 32,385 3 Increases from acquired businesses 32 1,645 5,065 1,175 7,917 Decreases –42 –4,858 –33,915 –392 –1,357 –40,563 4 Discontinued operations –54 –1,935 –10,052 –136 –12,177 5 Transfers between items 21 –1,242 2,720 257 –1,749 7 6 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2010 13,499 50,611 343,638 38,651 2,558 448,958 7 Accumulated depreciation, 8 1.1.2010 –34,798 –219,474 –19,390 –273,661 9 Translation difference –200 –1,860 –169 –2,229 10 Accumulated depreciation on increases –112 –397 –10 –519 11 Accumulated depreciation 12 on decreases 2,344 23,218 383 25,945 Accumulated depreciation from 13 discontinued operations 1,228 8,999 10,227 14 Transfers between items 3 114 –117 15 Depreciation for the financial year from continued and discontinued 16 operations –2,275 –29,379 –1,808 –33,463 17 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2010 –33,809 –218,780 –21,110 –273,699 18 19 Carrying amount, 31.12.2010 13,499 16,802 124,858 17,541 2,558 175,259 20 Carrying amount, 1.1.2010 13,369 20,664 131,801 15,109 3,671 184,613 21 The Group has no capitalised interest expenses. 22 23 24 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Assets acquired under finance lease agreement are included in machinery and equipment as follows: 25 Acquisition cost, 1.1. 119,243 114,022 26 Translation difference 135 711 27 Increases 15,822 9,064 28 Decreases –34,475 –4,554 29 Acquisition cost, 31.12. 100,725 119,243 30 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12. –43,670 –65,380 Carrying amount, 31.12. 57,055 53,863 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 119 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other capitalised EUR 1,000 Goodwill Intangible rights expenditure Advance payments Total Acquisition cost, 1.1.2011 84,847 8,798 8,492 5,978 108,116 Translation difference 150 –1 27 176 Increases 32 1,103 955 5,507 7,598 Increases from acquired businesses 736 8 1,880 2,624 Decreases –579 –5 –827 –1,411 Transfers between items 770 6,691 –7,457 4 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2011 85,766 10,099 18,041 3,202 117,108 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2011 –6,707 –2,155 –8,861 Translation difference 1 –11 –11 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 424 424 Depreciation for the financial year –832 –3,350 –4,182 Impairments –73 –73 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2011 –73 –7,114 –5,516 –12,703 Carrying amount, 31.12.2011 85,693 2,985 12,526 3,202 104,405 Carrying amount, 1.1.2011 84,847 2,092 6,338 5,978 99,255 Other capitalised EUR 1,000 Goodwill Intangible rights expenditure Advance payments Total Acquisition cost, 1.1.2010 78,265 8,035 2,125 193 88,618 Translation difference 803 1 31 835 Increases 895 6,453 5,954 13,302 Increases from acquired businesses 5,779 76 5,856 Decreases –380 –73 –453 Discontinued operations –12 –22 –35 Transfers between items 183 –21 –169 –7 Acquisition cost, 31.12.2010 84,847 8,798 8,492 5,978 108,116 Accumulated depreciation, 1.1.2010 –6,233 –1,422 –7,656 Translation difference –67 18 –49 Accumulated depreciation on increases –10 –10 Accumulated depreciation on decreases 359 51 411 Accumulated depreciation from discontinued operations 10 17 27 Depreciation for the financial year from continued and discontinued operations –765 –818 –1,584 Accumulated depreciation, 31.12.2010 –6,707 –2,155 –8,861 Carrying amount, 31.12.2010 84,847 2,092 6,338 5,978 99,255 Carrying amount, 1.1.2010 78,265 1,802 703 193 80,963 120 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Goodwill impairment tests are made at least once a year and whenever there are indications of possible impairment. The tests are carried out as value-in-use calculations of individual businesses in accordance with the smallest cash-generating unit principle. The calculations are prepared in accordance with the management’s estimates of business development and the future outlook. The management’s estimates are based on its knowledge and long experience of the Company’s business sectors as well as on develop1 ment forecasts generally available for them. 2 3 4 Goodwill is allocated to the following operating segments: 5 Other Eastern Europe and Market areas, Common to 6 EUR 1,000 Finland Nordic countries the Baltic states total segment ¹) Total 7 31.12.2011 8 Building Construction 5,840 244 587 6,671 6,671 Infrastructure Construction 12,069 16,094 1,322 29,485 23,986 53,471 9 Technical Building Services 25,550 25,550 25,550 10 43,459 16,338 1,909 61,707 23,986 85,693 11 12 13 Other Eastern Europe and Market areas, Common to 14 EUR 1,000 Finland Nordic countries the Baltic states total segment ¹) Total 31.12.2010 15 Building Construction 5,856 244 660 6,760 6,760 16 Infrastructure Construction 11,098 16,261 1,322 28,681 23,903 52,584 17 Technical Building Services 25,503 25,503 25,503 18 42,456 16,506 1,982 60,944 23,903 84,847 19 ¹) The goodwill reported in the ”Common to segment” column has arisen from the acquisition of Danish and Norwegian asphalt businesses. It is allocated to the whole paving and mineral aggregates cash generating unit because 20 it is Lemminkäinen’s strategy to operate broadly in countries of the Baltic Rim region. This goodwill has been tested at the level of the whole paving and mineral aggregates cash generating unit, in addition to which the goodwill allocated to each business area of infrastructure Construction has been tested separately for each country. 21 22 23 In impairment testing the discounted present value of the recoverable cash flows The Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC), calculated for each individu24 of each cash-generating unit is compared with the carrying amount of the unit in al unit, is used as the discount factor. WACC takes into account the risk-free in25 question. If the present value is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is terest rate, the liquidity premium, the expected market rate of return, the indus26 recognised through profit or loss as an expense in the current year. try’s beta value, and the debt interest rate, including the interest rate margin. These Cash flow statements of the business units are prepared for a planning period components are weighted according to the fixed, average target capital structure 27 covering the next 5 years in accordance with the management’s estimates. Cash of the sector. Pre-tax WACC is determined unit-specifically in testing. In the tests 28 flow forecasting beyond that planning period is cautious and based on the assumpfor 2011, long term risk-free interest rate levels remained exceptionally low as in29 tion that there will be no real growth of the business. vestors sought safety from government bonds with good credit rating, keeping dis30 count rates at a low level. In addition, the interest rate margin of liabilities was lower 31 compared with the previous year. 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 121 The sector-specific weighted averages of the key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations: ¹) Building Construction Infrastructure Construction Technical Building Services 2011 Discount rate, % (before taxes) 7.3 7.4 7.5 Average growth rate of net sales, % 11.5 3.7 4.5 Long term average growth rate, % 1.0 1.0 1.0 2010 2) Discount rate, % (before taxes) 7.8 8.3 8.1 Average growth rate of net sales, % 6.1 6.4 6.5 Long term average growth rate, % 1.0 1.0 1.0 ¹) The figures should not be regarded as forecasts for the entire business sector since the averages are calculated for only the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The differences in the size of the cashgenerating units are taken into account by weighting the figures according to the net sales of units when calculating the average. The forecasts are based on cautious outlooks so as to ensure the reliability of the test results. ²) The figures for the comparative period adjusted according to the new group structure in effect from 2011. Lemminkäinen recognised an impairment of goodwill of less than EUR 0.1 million The sensitivity analyses indicated that variations in key assumptions considered in connection with testing in the third quarter of 2011 in relation to the decision to generally relevant, reasonable and customary for Lemminkäinen’s business sectors shut down the company in the Talo business sector that carried on project managewould not give rise to the need for impairment. Most of the Group’s goodwill is alment operations in Hungary. For the other cash generating units, goodwill impairlocated to the Infrastructure Construction business sector due to its acquisition of ment tests made during the third quarter of 2011 indicated that the present value of Nordic paving operations as well as to the Technical Building Services business seccash flows exceeded the carrying amount in all of the business units. Therefore there tor. The margins between the present value and carrying amount of the cash flows was no need to recognise any further impairment of goodwill. of the Nordic paving operations of Infrastructure Construction and of the TechniIn connection with the impairment tests, sensitivity analyses are made to decal Building Services business sector are large, and not even major changes in the termine how possible changes in key assumptions of the unit-specific impairment outlook would be enough to necessitate goodwill impairment. Of the cash-generattests would affect the results of those tests. The key assumptions affecting the preing units tested, the Lithuanian paving operations are showing the greatest sensitivsent value of cash flows are the development of market and competitive conditions, ity, with impairment risk allocated for a share of EUR 0.8 million of goodwill if prosthe scope and profitability of the tested business, and the discount factor. In the pects weaken or the interest rate rises considerably. If necessary, additional tests will sensitivity analyses the calculation variables affecting these assumptions are varied be carried out if the results of sensitivity analyses and changes in the outlook give and the effects of the changes on the margin between the carrying value and precause. The long term predictability of Lemminkäinen’s business sectors is reasonasent value of the cash flows are examined. bly good and the goodwill impairment risk small in all business cycles. 122 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Figures describing the goodwill impairment risk of units subject to impairment testing by business sector EUR 1,000 Building Construction Infrastructure Construction Technical Building Services 1 2011 2 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 6,671 53,471 25,550 3 Ratio of present value to carrying amount ¹) 4.92 3.22 3.60 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the 4 long term were 1 percentage point lower 0 0 0 5 long term were 2 percentage points lower 0 996 0 6 Goodwill impairment if the borrowing cost 7 were 1 percentage point higher 0 0 0 8 were 2 percentage points higher 0 202 0 9 10 EUR 1,000 Building Construction Infrastructure Construction Technical Building Services 11 2010 ²) 12 Goodwill allocated to the business sector, total 6,760 52,584 25,503 13 Ratio of present value to carrying amount ¹) 4.67 3.24 15.76 14 Goodwill impairment if annual growth over the long term were 1 percentage point lower 492 0 0 15 long term were 2 percentage points lower 492 0 0 16 Goodwill impairment if the borrowing cost 17 were 1 percentage point higher 492 0 0 18 were 2 percentage points higher 492 0 0 19 ¹) Net-sales-weighted average of the business sector’s cash-generating units subject to impairment testing. Ratio less than 1 would lead to impairment. 20 ²) The figures for the comparative period adjusted according to the new group structure in effect from 2011. 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 123 17 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CLASS Financial assets/ liabilities recognised Financial liabilities Derivatives at fair value through Loans and Available-for-sale recognised subject to hedge Balance sheet EUR 1,000 Note profit and loss receivables financial assets at amortised cost accounting value Fair value 31.12.2011 Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 18 5,992 5,992 5,992 Other non-current receivables 20 4,765 4,765 4,765 Current financial assets Trade and other receivables 20 407,023 407,023 407,023 Derivative contracts 20 264 264 264 Cash and cash equivalents 21 30,395 30,395 30,395 Financial assets total 264 442,183 5,992 448,439 448,439 Non-current financial liabilities Loans 25 194,643 194,643 190,698 Other non-current liabilities 26 3,226 3,226 3,226 Current financial liabilities Loans 25 236,968 236,968 236,968 Accounts payable and other financial liabilities ¹) 26 279,209 279,209 279,209 Derivative contracts 26 1,192 1,244 2,436 2,436 Financial liabilities total 1,192 714,047 1,244 716,483 712,538 ¹) Accounts payable and other financial liabilities do not include statutory obligations or prepayments received, as these are not classified as financial liabilities under IFRS. 124 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Financial assets/ 1 liabilities recognised Financial liabilities Derivatives at fair value through Loans and Available-for-sale recognised subject to hedge Balance sheet 2 EUR 1,000 Note profit and loss receivables financial assets at amortised cost accounting value Fair value 3 31.12.2010 4 Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 18 6,410 6,410 6,410 5 Other non-current receivables 20 7,175 7,175 7,175 6 Current financial assets 7 Trade and other receivables 20 325,576 325,576 325,576 8 Derivative contracts 20 399 399 399 9 Cash and cash equivalents 21 26,348 26,348 26,348 Financial assets total 399 359,099 6,410 365,908 365,908 10 11 Non-current financial liabilities 12 Loans 25 214,134 214,134 211,428 13 Other non-current liabilities 26 3,882 3,882 3,882 14 Current financial liabilities Loans 25 161,381 161,381 161,381 15 Accounts payable and other 16 financial liabilities ¹) 26 192,543 192,543 192,543 17 Derivative contracts 26 1,756 2,040 3,796 3,796 18 Financial liabilities total 1,756 571,939 2,040 575,735 573,030 19 ¹) Accounts payable and other financial liabilities do not include statutory obligations or prepayments received, as these are not classified as financial liabilities under IFRS. 20 21 22 23 24 Measurement of fair values 25 Other non-current receivables include interest-bearing loan receivables, and their balance sheet values correspond to their fair values. The carrying amount of trade and other receivables 26 is equal to their fair value due to their short maturity. The fair value of the bond included in non-current liabilities is based on the market price, and the fair value of other non-current liabilities has been calculated through discounting of the future cash flows to the present value by the interest that the Group would receive on corresponding loans on the accounting date, 27 consisting of the risk-free interest rate plus a risk premium. The discount interest rates used vary between 2.5 and 4.5% (2.8 to 4.1%). The balance sheet value of current financial liabil28 ities is assumed to be close to their fair value. 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 125 The Group has classified financial instruments recognised at fair value by using a three-level hierarchy of fair values. Financial instruments belonging to Level 1 are subject to active trading on the market, and, therefore, their fair values are available from active and efficient markets. The fair values of instruments recorded at Level 2 are based on verifiable market data and generally accepted valuation methods but are not directly quoted on the markets. Fair values at Level 3 are based not on verifiable market data but on quotations provided by brokers and market valuation reports. a fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value EUR 1,000 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31.12.2011 Assets Derivative receivables 105 159 264 Liabilities Derivative liabilities 2,436 2,436 EUR 1,000 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31.12.2010 Assets Derivative receivables 113 286 399 Liabilities Derivative liabilities 981 2,816 3,796 126 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) There is a statement reconciling the difference between the opening and closing balances for the fair-valued financial instruments recognised at fair value recorded in Level 3. The changes that occurred during the period are presented separately in the reconciliation statement. 1 Level 3 reconciliation statement 2 3 Financial instruments recognised Financial instruments recognised EUR 1,000 at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through other comprehensive income items 4 Fair values 1.1.2011 –487 –2,040 5 Transfers from/to Level 3 607 2,040 6 Gains and losses, total 7 on the income statement 40 8 on the statement of comprehensive income Fair values 31.12.2011 159 9 10 Financial instruments recognised Financial instruments recognised 11 EUR 1,000 at fair value through profit or loss at fair value through other comprehensive income items 12 Fair values 1.1.2010 –421 –2,815 13 Transfers from/to Level 3 14 Total gains and losses in the income statement –67 315 15 in comprehensive income 460 16 Fair values 31.12.2010 –487 –2,040 17 18 19 18 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 19 INVENTORIES 20 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 21 Balance sheet value, 1.1. 6,410 6,582 Materials and supplies 42,774 39,941 22 Translation difference 0 0 Building plots and real estate 123,441 107,346 23 Increases 961 7 Housing under construction 90,779 68,297 24 Change in fair value 17 Commercial property under construction 39,428 21,698 Decreases –1,378 –196 Work in progress 28,157 32,437 25 Transferred for sale 0 Prepayments 9,083 8,717 26 Balance sheet value, 31.12. 5,992 6,410 Completed housing companies 65,667 44,154 27 Completed commercial property 6,256 10,528 28 Available-for-sale financial assets include non-quoted shares. The fair value of unProducts and goods 42,883 42,889 29 quoted shares cannot be reliably determined, and thus they are presented at cost 448,467 376,005 30 less impairment. Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –6,242 31 448,467 369,763 32 33 Collateral notes for uncompleted properties included in inventories are used as col34 lateral security for the debts of companies included in inventories to the value of 35 EUR 82.0 million (EUR 62.1 million in 2010). Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 127 20 NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT RECEIVABLES 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Non-current receivables Cash in hand and at banks 30,395 26,348 Interest-bearing Loan receivables 4,264 5,784 Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank account balances and liquid deposits Other receivables 131 with maturities of less than three months made in solvent partner banks. 4,264 5,915 Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 501 238 Other receivables 1,022 501 1,260 Non-current trade and other receivables, total 4,765 7,175 Current receivables Interest-bearing Loan receivables 202 944 Non-interest-bearing Trade receivables 264,640 207,145 Project income receivables 73,486 69,724 Interest receivables 355 591 Personnel expenses 2,311 2,892 Capitalised financial expenses 111 Other prepayments and accrued income 34,568 21,690 Receivables from derivative instruments 264 399 Receivables from real estate companies under construction 1,364 10,273 Other receivables 30,095 18,103 407,085 330,928 Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –5,898 Current trade and other receivables, total 407,287 325,975 Non-current loan receivables include mainly receivables from Tieyhtiö Ykköstie Oy. The balance sheet values of current and non-current interest-bearing loan receivables correspond to their fair values. Trade receivables amounting to EUR 0.2 million (EUR 1.4 million in year 2010) were recognised as credit losses during the financial year. 128 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 22 NOTES CONCERNING SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Shares and share capital Lemminkäinen Corporation has one share class. On 31 December 2010, the Company had 19,644,764 shares. All issued shares are fully paid up. The Group does not pos1 sess any treasury shares. 2 The Board of Directors was authorised to decide on an issue of 1,576,486 shares on 31 December 2011. The authorisation is valid for five years after the conclusion of 3 the general meeting held on 12 November 2009, at which the original authorisation was granted. 4 5 Number of shares Invested unrestricted 6 EUR 1,000 (1,000 shares) Share capital Share premium account equity reserve Total 7 1.1.2010 17,021 34,043 5,750 39,793 8 Share issue to investors for cash consideration 1,700 39,525 39,525 Share issue to non-controlling interest for cash 9 consideration 924 24,335 24,335 10 Transaction expenses of share issues –716 –716 11 31.12.2010 19,645 34,043 5,750 63,144 102,937 Transfers between funds –76 76 12 31.12.2011 19,645 34,043 5,675 63,220 102,937 13 14 15 Share premium account Translation Hedging 16 Share premiums are recognised in the share premium account. EUR 1,000 difference reserve Total 17 1.1.2010 –1,698 –1,970 –3,668 18 Invested non-restricted equity fund Translation difference 3,894 3,894 19 The invested non-restricted equity fund includes the subscription prices of shares Cash flow hedge 460 460 31.12.2010 2,196 –1,510 686 20 to the extent that they are not entered into share capital on the basis of a separate decision. Translation difference –811 –811 21 Cash flow hedge 570 570 22 Translation differences and hedging reserve 31.12.2011 1,385 –940 445 23 The translation differences include the differences arising from the translation of 24 the financial statements of foreign units. Gains and losses on hedges of net invest25 ments in foreign units are also included in the translation differences when the reRetained earnings 26 quirements set for hedge accounting are met. Changes in the effective part of derivatives falling within the scope of hedge EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 27 accounting are recognised in the hedging reserve. Retained earnings, 1.1. 221,561 231,285 28 Result for the financial year 34,720 299 29 Dividends paid –9,822 30 Direct entries, minority acquisition –1,147 –10,105 Cancellation of dividend liability 82 31 Retained earnings, 31.12. 245,311 221,561 32 33 Share of appropriations in retained earnings, 31.12 26,379 22,170 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 129 23 PENSION OBLIGATIONS EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year Recognised expenses relating to defined benefit pension plans Beginning of year 21,776 15,941 Pension costs based on service in the financial year 1,133 1,894 Translation difference 78 703 Interest cost of obligation stemming from benefits 751 808 Current service cost 1,133 1,894 Expected yield on funds belonging to the plan –312 –750 Past service cost 2,141 Actuarial gains and losses –379 910 Interest cost 751 808 Costs based on past service –317 Actuarial losses and gains –2,378 1,461 1,192 2,545 Gains/losses from curtailments of benefit arrangement –6,627 –742 Benefits paid –795 –430 Increases from acquired businesses 7,736 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 End of year 21,674 21,776 Assets and liabilities related to the plans over five years Defined benefit obligation 21,674 21,776 15,941 12,419 11,255 The movement in the fair value of plan assets of the year Fair value of plan assets –13,376 –15,961 –12,553 –10,164 –9,911 Beginning of year 15,961 12,553 8,298 5,815 3,388 2,254 1,344 Translatation difference 57 531 Expected return on plan assets 586 750 Actuarial losses and gains –2,131 –327 The pension schemes of group companies operating in different countries are genCurtailment –5,179 erally defined contribution plans. Payments in respect of defined contribution plans Employer contributions 2,399 2,641 are expensed on the income statement in the accounting period during which they Benefits paid –790 –185 are made. Group pensions for which the present value of the associated obligations Increases from acquired businesses 2,472 is determined by a method based on future benefits and for which the funds beEnd of year 13,376 15,961 longing to the plan are fair valued on the accounting date are classified as defined benefit pension plans. The actuarial gains and losses arising from these pension Present value of funded obligations 21,674 21,776 provisions are recognised on the income statement over the expected average reFair value of funds –13,376 –15,961 maining working lives of the participating employees to the extent that it exceeds 8,298 5,815 10% of the present value of the defined benefit obligation or, if greater, 10% of the Unrecognised actuarial gains and losses –2,581 –5,822 fair value of plan’s assets. Unrecognised costs of past service –1,845 –474 Payments to be made to defined benefit pension plans in Lemminkäinen Group Defined benefit pension plan obligation (+) / asset (–) 3,872 –481 during 2012 are estimated at EUR 1.9 million. Pension plan obligations on the balance sheet 3,872 508 Pension plan assets on the balance sheet –989 The pension plan assets are recognised as a deferred income on the balance sheet. 130 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 Finland 31.12.2011 Abroad 31.12.2010 Finland 31.12.2010 Abroad 1 The most important actuarial assumptions 2 Discount rate, % 4.5 3.3 4.8 4.4 3 Expected yield on funds, % 5.8 4.6 6.0 5.6 Future pay rise assumption, % 3.5 3.8 3.5 4.0 4 Future pension rise assumption, % 2.1 0.9 2.1 1.3 5 Inflation rate, % 2.0 2.5 2.0 3.8 6 7 8 24 PROVISIONS 9 EUR 1,000 Warranty provisions Landscaping provisions Other provisions Total 31.12.2011 Total 31.12.2010 10 Provisions, 1.1. 6,100 864 1,756 8,720 10,033 11 Translation differences 1 1 3 5 24 12 Increases in provisions 1,417 75 3,215 4,707 2,651 13 Expensed provisions –2,252 –647 –1,540 –4,439 –2,951 14 Reversals of unused provisions –4 –13 –17 –1,037 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries 2,843 1,899 4,743 15 Provisions, 31.12.2011 8,105 2,180 3,434 13,719 16 Provisions, 31.12.2010 6,100 864 1,756 8,720 17 18 19 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Provisions categorised as 20 Long term 6,224 2,283 21 Short term 7,495 6,437 22 13,719 8,720 23 24 25 A provision is made when the Group has a legal or de facto obligation based on some past event and it is likely that freedom from liability will either require a financial pay26 ment or result in financial loss, and that the amount of liability can be reliably measured. Provisions for construction warranties are calculated on the basis of the level of warranty expenses actually incurred in earlier accounting periods. If the Group will re27 ceive reimbursement from a subcontractor or material supplier on the basis of an agreement in respect of anticipated expenses, the future compensation is recognised 28 when its receipt is in practice beyond doubt. Provisions in respect of landscaping obligations are made according to the use of ground materials. 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 131 25 LOANS 31.12.2011 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 Balance sheet values Fair values Balance sheet values Fair values Non-current Loans from credit institutions 44,213 43,306 39,871 39,871 Pension loans 44,116 41,696 70,755 68,980 Finance lease liabilities 46,257 46,257 42,944 42,944 Bonds 59,763 59,145 60,000 59,070 Other non-current liabilities 295 295 564 564 194,643 190,698 214,134 211,428 Current Loans from credit institutions 20,246 20,246 15,169 15,169 Pension loans 22,759 22,759 19,035 20,390 Finance lease liabilities 12,897 12,897 11,726 11,726 Chequing accounts 7,171 7,171 8,663 8,663 Commercial papers 119,910 119,910 75,100 74,679 Liabilities of housing companies under construction 53,939 53,939 30,851 30,851 Other current loans 46 46 837 837 236,968 236,968 161,381 162,315 Measurement of fair values of loans is explained in Note 17. Loans by currency 31.12.2011 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 Non-current loans Current loans Non-current loans Current loans EUR 158,107 218,376 195,008 148,262 DKK 7,888 6,124 9,287 4,924 EEK 537 236 LTL 11 3 32 2,992 NOK 28,637 9,030 9,269 4,670 SEK 3,436 297 194,643 236,968 214,134 161,381 132 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Finance lease liabilities EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 1 Finance leasing debts and interest on them is due as follows 2 In one year or earlier 14,787 13,455 3 Over one year, but less than five years 40,239 35,339 Over five years 10,479 12,193 4 65,505 60,988 5 6 Present value of minimum leases 7 In one year or earlier 12,897 11,726 8 Over one year, but less than five years 36,343 31,516 Over five years 9,914 11,428 9 59,154 54,670 10 11 Accumulated future financial expenses from finance leasing debts 6,351 6,318 12 13 14 26 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER LIABILITIES 15 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 16 Non-current 17 Other non-current liabilities 3,226 3,882 18 19 Accounts payable and other current liabilities Prepayments received 99,406 102,777 20 Debts to owners of housing under construction 7,226 15,228 21 Accounts payable 101,127 69,257 22 Project expenses 36,644 17,400 23 VAT 35,331 21,222 24 Interest debts 1,616 1,275 Amortisations of personnel expenses 85,913 68,327 25 Other accrued liabilities 27,610 12,174 26 Derivative liabilities 2,436 3,796 27 Other current liabilities 19,074 8,881 28 416,383 320,338 29 Transferred to non-current assets held for sale –4,383 30 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 416,383 315,956 31 Non-current and current accounts payable and other liabilities 419,609 319,837 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 133 27 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk In its business operations, Lemminkäinen Group is exposed to financial risks, mainly The following assumptions are made when calculating the sensitivity caused by a interest rate, exchange rate, funding, liquidity and credit risks. The aim of the Group’s change in the level of interest rates: financial risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the possible impacts that changes in value on the financial markets could have on the Group’s result, cash –– the interest rate change is assumed to be 1 percentage point flow and value. The management of financial risks is based on principles approved by –– the position includes variable-rate financial liabilities, variable-rate financial the Board of Directors. The treasury policy defines the principles and division of rereceivables and interest rate derivatives sponsibilities with regard to financial activities and the management of financial risk. –– all factors other than the change in interest rates remain constant The policy is reviewed and if necessary updated at least annually. –– taxes have not been taken into consideration when calculating sensitivity Execution of the treasury policy is the responsibility of the Group Treasury, which is mainly responsible for the management of financial risks and handles the Group’s treasury activities on a centralised basis. The Group’s treasury policy defines the division of responsibilities between the Group Treasury and busiOther Other Income Income comprehencomprehenness units in each subarea. The Group companies are responsible for providing the statement statement sive income sive income Group Treasury with up-to-date and accurate information on treasury-related matEUR 1,000 +1 % –1 % +1 % –1 % ters concerning their business operations. The Group Treasury serves as an internal 31.12.2011 bank and co-ordinates, directs and supports the Group companies in treasury matVariable-rate liabilities –3,038 3,038 ters such that the Group’s financial needs are met and its financial risks are conVariable-rate receivables 304 –304 trolled effectively in line with the treasury policy. Interest rate derivatives 72 –74 334 344 –2,663 2,661 334 344 Interest rate risk The aim of Lemminkäinen Group’s interest rate risk management is to minimise changes affecting the result, cash flows and value of the Group due to interest rate Other Other Income Income comprehencomprehenfluctuations. The Group Treasury manages and monitors the interest rate position. statement statement sive income sive income The Group’s interest rate risk primarily comprises fixed-rate and variable-rate loan and EUR 1,000 +1 % –1 % +1 % –1 % leasing agreements, interest-bearing financial receivables and interest rate deriva31.12.2010 tives. Interest rate changes affect items in the income statement and balance sheet. Variable-rate liabilities –2,257 2,257 The interest rate risk is decreased by setting the average interest rate fixing peVariable-rate receivables 263 –263 riod of Group’s liabilities to the same as the interest rate sensitivity of its business. Interest rate derivatives 165 –165 641 –649 The interest rate sensitivity position of the Group’s business is estimated to be about –1,829 1,829 641 –649 15 months. The treasury policy thus defines the Group’s average interest rate fixing period as 12–18 months. The Group also aims to keep 40–65 per cent of its liabilities per currency hedged. The Group can take out both variableand fixed-rate long term loans. The ratio of fixedand variable-rate loans can be changed by using interest rate derivatives. In 2011, the Group has used interest rate swaps and applied hedge accounting to two interest rate swap agreements. Interest rate fluctuations in 2011 did not have any unusual effect on the Group’s business, but a significant rise in the level of interest rates may have a detrimental effect on the demand for housing. 134 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Currency risk 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 The aim of exchange rate risk management is to reduce uncertainty concerning the EUR 1,000 Income statement Income statement possible impacts that changes in exchange rates could have on the future values of EUR/USD +/–10% –142/+173 –332/+406 1 cash flows, business receivables and liabilities, and other balance sheet items. ExEUR/RUB +/–10% –529/+647 –427/+522 2 change rate risk mainly consists of transaction risk and translation risk. 3 4 Translation risk consists of exchange rate differences arising from the translation Funding and liquidity risk of the income statements and balance sheets of foreign group companies into the The Group seeks to optimise the use of liquid assets in funding its business op5 Group’s home currency. In practice, the Group’s reportable translation risk is caused erations and to minimise interest and other financial expenses. The Group Treas6 by equity investments in and the retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the efury is responsible for managing the Group’s overall liquidity and ensuring that ad7 fects of which are recorded under translation differences in shareholders’ equity. equate credit lines and a sufficient number of funding sources are available. It also 8 Lemminkäinen Group has foreign net investments in several currencies. In accordensures that the maturity profile of the Group’s loans and credit facilities is spread 9 ance with the treasury policy, Lemminkäinen Group protects itself from translation sufficiently evenly over coming years as set out in the treasury policy. The Group’s risks primarily by keeping equity investments in foreign companies at an appropriliquidity management is based on monthly forecasts of funding requirements and 10 ately low level, and thus does not use financial instruments to hedge the transladaily cash flow forecasting. 11 tion risks. According to the treasury policy, the Group’s liquidity reserve shall at all times 12 match the Group’s total liquidity requirement, and it must be accessible within five 13 Transaction risk arise in foreign currency denominated transactions from operationbanking days without any additional charges being incurred. The Group’s total li14 al and financial activities. The Group seeks to hedge it’s transaction risk of business quidity requirement consists of the liquidity requirement of day-to-day operations, 15 operations primarily by operative means. The remaining transaction risk is hedged by risk premium needs and the strategic liquidity requirement. using instruments such as foreign currency loans and currency derivatives. Due to the nature of the Group’s business operations, the importance of sea16 The group companies are responsible for identifying, reporting, forecasting and sonal borrowing is great. The effect of seasonal variation on short term liquidity is 17 hedging their transaction risk positions internally. The Group Treasury is responsible controlled by using a commercial paper programme, committed credit limits and 18 for hedging the Group’s risk positions as external transactions in accordance with bank overdraft facilities. The total amount of the Group’s commercial paper pro19 the treasury policy. The general rule is that the major net positions forecasted for gramme is EUR 300 million (EUR 300 million), of which EUR 119.9 million (EUR 20 the 12 months following the review date are hedged, with a hedging ratio ranging 75.0 million) was in use at 31 December 2011. At that time, the Group had unused from 25–100 per cent and emphasising the first six months. committed credit facilities totalling EUR 140.7 million (EUR 160.0 million). 21 The key currencies in which the Group was exposed to transaction risk in 2011 The main principle in liquidity management is to use excess liquidity of busi22 were US-dollar and russian rouble. These transaction risk positions were mainly due ness operations to repay debt. The Group’s excess liquidity is collected by means 23 to sales, procurements, receivables and liabilities. In 2011 the Group did not apply of internal deposits and cash pools. The amount of cash and cash equivalents at 31 24 hedge accounting to transaction risk hedging. December 2011 was EUR 30.4 million (EUR 26.3 million). 25 26 Sensitivity analysis of transaction risk The following assumptions have been made when calculating the sensitivity 27 caused by changes in the euro/dollar and euro/rouble exchange rates: 28 29 –– the exchange rate change is assumed to be +/–10% 30 –– the position includes financial assets and liabilities denominated in roubles 31 and dollars –– the position does not include forecasted future cash flows 32 –– taxes have not been taken into consideration when calculating sensitivity 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 135 Cash flows of financial liabilities and derivatives based on agreements EUR 1,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Total 31.12.2011 Loans 231,391 61,341 90,605 2,682 598 782 387,398 Finance lease liabilities 14,787 13,041 10,542 8,350 8,305 10,479 65,505 Interest rate derivatives 891 460 70 1,421 Foreign exchange derivatives Cash flows payable 71,076 71,076 Cash flows receivable –69,928 –69,928 Commodity derivatives Cash flows payable Cash flows receivable –159 –159 Other financial liabilities 176,071 2,011 341 524 178,948 Accounts payable 101,127 101,127 Total 525,256 76,854 101,558 11,556 8,903 11,261 735,388 EUR 1,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016Total 31.12.2010 Loans 152,697 43,869 41,993 90,738 7,984 395 337,675 Finance lease liabilities 13,455 10,891 9,758 7,426 7,265 12,193 60,988 Interest rate derivatives 1,577 1,090 604 122 3,393 Foreign exchange derivatives Cash flows payable 49,209 49,209 Cash flows receivable –48,794 –48,794 Commodity derivatives Cash flows payable 169 169 Cash flows receivable Other financial liabilities 121,951 487 25 12 122,475 Accounts payable 69,257 69,257 Total 359,522 56,336 52,380 98,297 15,249 12,588 594,372 Credit risk Credit risks arise when a counterparty is unable to meet its contractual obligations, casusing the other party to suffer a financial loss. Lemminkäinen has defined a credit policy for customer receivables that aims to boost profitable sales by identifying credit risks in advance and controlling them. Most of the Group’s business is based on established and trustworthy customer relationships and on contractual terms generally observed in the industry. The credit policy sets the minimum requirements concerning trade credit and collections for Lemminkäinen Group. The Group’s credit control function defines credit risks and the business units are responsible for managing them. In the prevailing economic situation, the importance of credit control is underlined, and the Company’s credit control processes have been enhanced. The Group is exposed to credit risk through all of the Group’s trade receivables and receivables associated with deposits and receivables. The maximum amount of credit risk is the combined total of the balance sheet values of the aforementioned items. The amounts and due dates of the Group’s trade and loan receivables are presented in the next table. 136 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) The Group does not have any significant credit risk concentrations as trade receivables are distributed among many different customers in a number of market areas. The business unit that made the contract actively monitors the receivables situation. If the business units renegotiate the terms of the receivables, they must do so in accordance with the requirements of the Group’s credit policy. The risk of credit losses can be reduced by means of guarantees, mainly bank guarantees and bank deposits. Lem1 minkäinen’s credit losses have been minimal in relation to the scale of its operations. The main risks in this respect are associated with business in Russia. As a general rule, 2 construction projects in Russia are only undertaken against receipt of advance payments. If, in exceptional situations, a credit risk is taken, the amount permitted is always 3 proportional to the expected margin on the project in question. Written-down financial assets represent credit losses. Receiveables transferred for legally enforceable col4 lection are recognised as credit losses. The Group Treasury is responsible for the management of the Group’s counterparty and credit risks related to cash, financial investments and financial transactions. The 5 Group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing liquid assets and using derivative instruments. Liquid assets are invested in short term bank deposits, certificates of de6 posit issued by solvent partner banks, and commercial papers issued by corporations with a good credit rating. The treasury policy specifies the approved counterparties and 7 their criteria. At the end of 2011, the counterparty risk was considered to be low. 8 9 Ageing analysis of trade and loan receivables 10 11 Past due Past due Past due Past due 12 EUR 1,000 Not due 1–30 days 31–60 days 61–90 days over 90 days Total 13 31.12.2011 14 Non-current receivables Trade receivables 501 501 15 Loan receivables 4,264 4,264 16 Current receivables 17 Trade receivables 217,797 26,923 7,347 4,033 8,541 264,640 18 Loan receivables 202 202 19 222,763 26,923 7,347 4,033 8,541 269,607 20 21 Past due Past due Past due Past due 22 EUR 1,000 Not due 1–30 days 31–60 days 61–90 days over 90 days Total 23 31.12.2010 24 Non-current receivables Trade receivables 238 238 25 Loan receivables 5,784 5,784 26 Current receivables 27 Trade receivables 169,559 21,965 4,041 1,469 10,111 207,145 28 Loan receivables 944 944 29 176,526 21,965 4,041 1,469 10,111 214,112 30 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 137 Commodity price risk 28 DERIVATIVES The Group’s paving operations are exposed to bitumen price risk. The price of bitumen is determined by the world market price of oil. The Group protects itself against Fair value Fair value Fair value the bitumen price risk with fixed purchase prices and derivatives that are not subEUR 1,000 Nominal value positive negative net ject to hedge accounting. By the closing date, the group companies had used bitu31.12.2011 men derivatives to hedge, in total, 7,600 Mt (21,350 Mt) of bitumen purchases. Foreign exchange derivatives 70,977 105 –928 –823 Interest rate derivatives 35,740 –1,508 –1,508 Management of capital and the capital structure Commodity derivatives 3,493 159 159 Capital means the equity and interest-bearing liabilities shown on Lemminkäinen’s consolidated balance sheet. 31.12.2010 Lemminkäinen Group’s capital management attempts to ensure cost-effecForeign exchange derivatives 48,902 113 –981 –868 tively that all of the Group’s business sectors maintain their business viability at a Interest rate derivatives 58,072 –2,647 –2,647 competitive level in all cyclical conditions, that risk-carrying capacity is adequate, Commodity derivatives 7,888 286 –169 117 for example, in construction contracts, and that the Company is able to pay a good dividend and service its loans. The fair value of derivative contracts is the gain or loss arising from closure of the The amount of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities is affected by factors contract based on the market price on the accounting date. such as business expansion, seasonal changes in production, acquisitions, and inHedge accounting as defined in IFRS standards has not been applied to all devestments in or the sale of production equipment, buildings and land. The Comparivative instruments. Nevertheless, these derivative instruments have been utilised ny continuously monitors the amount of debt, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, and for hedging purposes. The derivatives are used in order to reduce business risks and the equity ratio. to hedge balance-sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in the Some of the Group’s borrowing facility arrangements include two financial covfair value of derivatives outside hedge accounting are recognised through profit and enants that are measured quarterly: the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and the equity loss in accordance with their nature either in financial items or as other operating ratio. The terms of the other covenant were not met during the first quarter, but the income and expenses. lenders accepted a temporary amendment to the term of the covenant in question while the financing arrangements will remain unchanged with respect to the other parts. In the course of the year, the terms of the covenants were restored to their 29 ADJUSTMENTS TO CASH FLOWS FROM BUSINESS OPERATIONS original levels. The Company also follows the development of equity by means of the return on 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. investment. A long term average in excess of 18% is regarded as a good return. The EUR 1,000 2011 2010 return on investment in 2011 was 10.8 % (7.0 % in 2010). Depreciation and impairment on goodwill 38,070 35,046 Change in obligatory provisions 258 –1,338 Change in pension obligations 3,031 –289 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Credit losses on trade receivables 174 1,413 Interest-bearing liabilities 431,611 375,514 Financial income and expenses recognised on an accruals basis 18,920 21,969 Cash and cash equivalents 30,395 26,348 Capital gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets as well as other non-payment income and expenses –17,904 –20,744 Interest-bearing net debt 401,216 349,166 Share of the results of associates –1,867 –743 Equity attributable to the equity holders of parent company 348,693 325,196 Translation differences –649 407 Equity, total 350,401 330,282 40,033 35,721 Equity ratio, % 30.8 35.2 Gearing, % 114.5 105.7 Return on investment, % 10.8 7.0 138 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 30 OTHER RENTAL COMMITMENTS 32 LITIGATION In 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court (SAC) ordered Finnish asphalt inEUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 dustry companies to pay an infringement fine for violations of the Act on Compe1 Minimum leases of irrevocable rental agreements tition Restrictions. 2 One year or less 12,983 15,152 In late 2011, a total of 40 claims for damages brought by municipalities and 3 Over one year, but less than five years 30,796 30,357 the Finnish state (Finnish Transport Agency) are pending against Lemminkäinen Over five years 13,397 17,525 4 and other asphalt industry companies in the District Court. The claimants contend 57,175 63,035 that restrictions of competition have caused them damages. The total amount of 5 damages sought from Lemminkäinen is currently about EUR 117 million. After the 6 Other rental commitments include the following rental liabilities Finnish Transport Agency changed its claim, the total amount of claims has risen 7 One year or less 6,465 8,153 by approximately EUR 15 million. The claims presented in the statements of claim 8 Over one year, but less than five years 10,936 9,818 differ from each other as regards their amounts and grounds. Over five years 357 430 9 The ruling rendered by the SAC in 2009 as it stands does not mean that Lem17,758 18,401 minkäinen or the other asphalt industry companies actually caused any damages to 10 the asphalt work clients. The ruling does not concern the individual contracts that 11 Irrevocable rental commitments are mainly rental agreements concerning real esthe claimants cited in support of their claims. Nor does the ruling concern the pricing 12 tate and leased machines. of individual contracts. The SAC has not investigated the contention that inflated 13 prices that do not correspond to market prices have been charged for the contracts. 14 Lemminkäinen’s initial position is that the claims for damages are without 15 31 GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES foundation. The claims will be processed in the order and schedule set by the District Court. Preparatory sessions for the trial began in January 2012, but a more de16 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 tailed process and ruling schedule is currently not yet available. 17 No provisions have been made in respect of the claims of the municipalities and 18 Other mortgages and securities for own commitments the Finnish Transport Agency that are pending in the District Court. 19 Business mortgages 420 Bonds pledged as security 17 263 20 Deposits 61 21 17 745 22 23 Pledges on behalf of others 24 Pledged securities 90 90 25 Mortgages and pledged securities, total 26 Business mortgages 420 27 Pledged securities 107 353 28 Deposits 61 29 107 835 30 Guarantees 31 On behalf of associates 20,337 32 On behalf of others 18,863 25,763 33 39,200 25,763 34 35 Investment purchase commitments 7,154 7,147 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 139 33 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related-party salaries, fees Lemminkäinen Group’s related parties include associated companies and senior and other short term employee benefits management. Senior management comprises the Board of Directors, the CEO, Executive Board and the internal audit manager. Business with associates is conduct1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. ed at market prices. EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Board of Directors Business with related parties Berndt Brunow 126 127 Mikael Mäkinen 42 43 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. Kristina Pentti-von Walzel 44 46 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Heikki Räty 46 46 Sales of goods and services Teppo Taberman 41 45 To associates 635 295 Juhani Mäkinen 44 46 Purchases of goods and services Executive Board From associates 13,565 4,051 Timo Kohtamäki 491 646 Other members of the Executive Board 1,224 1,668 Related-party salaries, fees and other short term employee benefits 2,056 2,666 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Balance of purchases/sales of goods and services Trade receivables Remuneration of the Board of Directors From associates 1 6 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s Annual General Meeting elects each year the members to serve on the Company’s Board of Directors and decides their fees. The term Accounts payable of office of the board members ends at the conclusion of the first Annual General To associates 611 69 Meeting held after their election. The 2011 Annual General Meeting decided that the Chairman would be paid a fee As of 31 December 2011, the Group had granted EUR 0.1 million in loans to associof EUR 10,000 (2010: 10,000) per month and the board members would each reates (EUR 0.1 million in 2010). Related-party transactions with associates involve ceived a fee of EUR 3,000 (3,000) per month. The board members also receive an mainly asphalt contracts and mineral aggregate deliveries. A list of investments in attendance fee of EUR 500 per meeting. In addition, the chairman of the Audit Comsubsidiaries and associates can be found in Section 35 and additional information mittee be paid an attendance fee of EUR 1,000 and the members of the Audit Comon associates in Section 11. mittee be paid an attendance fee of EUR 500 for each meeting of the Committee. The members of Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors do not belong to the sharebased incentive scheme, and they are not employees of Lemminkäinen Corporation. Remuneration of the Group Management On the basis of a proposal submitted by the Remuneration Committee, the Lemminkäinen Board of Directors decides on the basic salary and fringe benefits of the president and CEO and of the Executive Board and on both short term and long term remuneration. Management remuneration The Lemminkäinen Group complies with the management remuneration policy approved by the Board of Directors. According to this policy, the remuneration given to the president and CEO, members of the Group’s Executive Board, and other 140 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) management personnel consists of a fixed basic salary plus payments in kind, other scope of the scheme. The Lemminkäinen Board of Directors decides on the distribenefits, and longand short term bonuses. bution of shares to key personnel. The key economic goals of Lemminkäinen’s strategy are profitable growth and 1 strengthening of the Group’s financial position. The Board of Directors decides an34 EVENTS AFTER THE ACCOUNTING DATE 2 nually on the shortand long term remuneration metrics and their values used to As of 1 January 2012, Lemminkäinen’s business operations are organised into four 3 support the reaching of Lemminkäinen’s strategic goals. branches: International Operations, Building Construction, Infrastructure Construc4 Fixed basic pay refers to a person’s monthly salary, which is determined by the tion and Technical Building Services. business value of the job as well as the performance and experience of the person 5 doing the job. In addition to the use of a company car, mobile phone, and meal ben6 efit, management personnel have extended insurance cover for accidents and trav7 el in their leisure time. 8 9 Short term reward scheme Short term rewarding is based on the possibility of receiving an annual perfor10 mance-linked bonus. Performance-related pay is earned by exceeding performance 11 targets, and the associated values are specified at the beginning of each year. Lem12 minkäinen’s management are divided into four performance-related pay groups, 13 with the classification determining the maximum performance-related pay per14 centage applicable for each individual. Membership of a performance-related pay 15 group is based on the individual’s position in the organisational hierarchy, as well as the business value and impact of the person’s job. 16 For all members of the Executive Board, the performance-related reward possi17 ble for 2011 will be based on Lemminkäinen Group’s result before taxes and the im18 plementation of the strategic programme. The performance-related rewards for the 19 heads of the four branches will be based on not only the above-mentioned criteria 20 but also the operating result of each branch as well as the final balanced scorecard for the branch, and for the other members of the Executive Board they are based on 21 the associated balanced scorecard in addition to the above. Reaching of the perfor22 mance-related reward targets will be assessed at least biannually. 23 The maximum performance-related reward payable to Lemminkäinen’s president 24 and CEO in 2011 will be 80% of his annual salary. The corresponding percentage for 25 the other members of the Group’s Executive Board will be 60% of their annual salary. 26 Long term reward scheme 27 Lemminkäinen’s long term reward scheme is a share-based incentive plan with 28 three earning periods: calendar years 2010, 2011, and 2012. The commitment pe29 riod is two years. The Lemminkäinen Board of Directors decides on the earning cri30 teria for each earning period and on the targets set for them at the beginning of 31 each earning period. Fulfilment of the earning criteria will be examined at least biannually. The earning criteria for the 2011 long term reward will be the Group’s re32 turn on investment and the Group’s equity ratio. 33 In addition to the president and CEO and the other members of Lemminkäin34 en’s Executive Board, approximately 40 further persons are included within the 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 141 35 SHARES AND HOLDINGS Parent company Shareholding of other shareholding, Group undertakings book value book value Consolidated Parent company Parent company Finnish GAAP, Finnish GAAP, Company shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares EUR 1,000 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 Group undertakings Lemminkäinen Talo Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 2,183,663 73,922 Lemminkäinen Infra Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 1,338 36,711 Lemminkäinen Talotekniikka Oy, Espoo 100.0 100.0 2,138,147 43,226 Lemminkäinen Rakennustuotteet Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 250 6,230 Lemcon Networks Oy, Helsinki 100.0 100.0 392,000 2,383 UAB Lemcon Vilnius, Lithuania 100.0 100.0 UAB Lemminkäinen Lietuva, Lithuania 99.9 99.9 3,737,272 3,526 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy International, Helsinki 100.0 5 Lemminkäinen Talo Oy Russia, Helsinki 100.0 155 Lemminkäinen PPP Oy, Kuopio 100.0 3 ICM International Construction Management, Hungary 100.0 684 Lemminkäinen Co., Ltd, China 100.0 72 Lemminkäinen Construction (India) Private Limited, India 100.0 853 Lemcon HR Oy, Helsinki 100.0 60 OOO Lemcon Invest, Russia 100.0 2,284 Lemcon Polska Sp.Z O.O, Poland 100.0 1,576 Lemminkäinen Ehitus As, Estonia 100.0 3 OOO Lemminkäinen Service, Russia 100.0 13 OOO Lemminkäinen Stroy, Russia 100.0 864 Rekab Entreprenad Ab, Sweden 80.0 243 ZAO Lemminkäinen Rus, Russia 100.0 14,629 Lemcon (Philippines) Inc, Philippines 100.0 222 Lemcon (Thailand) Ltd, Thailand 100.0 51 Lemcon Argentina S.R.L, Argentina 100.0 5 LEMCON Baumanagement GmbH, Germany 100.0 26 Lemcon Bauprojekt-Management GmbH, Austria 100.0 28 Lemcon Bulgaria EOOD, Bulgaria 100.0 3 Lemcon Canada Ltd, Canada 100.0 1 Lemcon Chile Ltda, Chile 100.0 14 Lemcon Columbia Ltda, Columbia 100.0 3 Lemcon do Brasil Ltda, Brasil 100.0 22 Lemcon Építöipari Kft, Hungary 100.0 28 142 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Parent company Shareholding of other 1 shareholding, Group undertakings book value book value 2 Consolidated Parent company Parent company Finnish GAAP, Finnish GAAP, 3 Company shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares EUR 1,000 EUR 1,000 Lemcon Network Services Ltd, UK 100.0 19 4 Lemcon Networks Mexico S.de R.L.De C.V. Mexico 100.0 5 Lemcon Norge As, Norway 100.0 12 6 Lemcon Pte Ltd, Singapore 100.0 7 7 Lemcon Servicos de Planejamento de Engenharia Ltda, Brasil 100.0 20 8 Lemcon USA Corporation, United States 100.0 1 Lemcon Venezuela C.A., Venezuela 100.0 8 9 LEMCON ECUADOR SA, Ecuador 100.0 1 10 Pasila Telecom Oy, Helsinki 100.0 8 11 Private Company lemcon Ukraine, Ukraine 100.0 8 12 PT Lemcon Networks, Indonesia 100.0 75 13 Asfalt Remix AS, Norway 75.0 5,320 14 ICS Lemminkainen Infra Oy SRL, Moldova 100.0 15 Lemminkäinen A/S, Denmark 100.0 18,972 16 Lemminkäinen Anlegg AS, Norway 90.1 3,951 17 Lemminkäinen Industri AS, Norway 100.0 10,556 18 Lemminkäinen Eesti AS, Estonia 91.7 3,894 19 Lemminkäinen Norge AS, Norway 100.0 11,799 Lemminkäinen Sverige Ab, Sweden 100.0 12 20 Lohketööd Oy, Salo 85.0 3 21 Oü Järva Paas, Estonia 44.2 3 22 Oü Lõhketööd, Estonia 85.0 1,192 23 SIA Lemminkainen Latvija, Latvia 100.0 1,835 24 Tolarock Oy, Kajaani 100.0 3,048 ZAO Lemminkäinen Dor Stroi, Russia 100.0 544 25 Tekmanni RusService Oy, Espoo 100.0 3 26 Tekmen SPB, Russia 90.0 192 27 28 Lembet Oy, Helsinki 100.0 10.0 1 1 5 29 ZAO Lemruf, Russia 100.0 3 30 Total 165,999 83,334 31 32 33 34 35 Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 143 Parent company Shareholding of other shareholding, Group undertakings book value book value Consolidated Parent company Parent company Finnish GAAP, Finnish GAAP, Company shareholding, % shareholding, % shareholding, shares EUR 1,000 EUR 1,000 Associated undertakings Finavo Oy, Helsinki 47.5 476 Genvej A/S, Denmark 50.0 202 Lemcon Likusasa Africa Pty, South-Africa 50.0 NHK Rakennus Oy, Helsinki 35.0 622 Martin Haraldstad AS, Norway 50.0 793 Nordasfalt AS, Norway 50.0 613 Ullensaker Asfalt ANS, Norway 50.0 580 MultiMore AB. Sweden 25.0 52 Vuokatin Betoni Oy, Sotkamo 33.1 13 Total 3,352 Other shares and holdings Housing shares 327 209 Property shares 793 3,066 Other shares and holdings 646 950 Total 1,766 4,225 144 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes of the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Parent company income Parent company statement (FAS) balance sheet (FAS) 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 Note 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 Note 2011 2010 ASSETS Net sales 1.1 32,307 20,895 Non-current assets 2.1 Production for own use 290 Intangible assets 2.1.1 9,057 5,313 Other operating income 1.2 4,216 24,496 Tangible assets 2.1.2 12,317 12,772 Materials and services 1.3 320 252 Holdings in Group undertakings 2.1.3 165,999 161,680 Personnel expenses 1.4 20,048 14,851 Other investments 2.1.3 1,766 2,062 Depreciation 1.5 3,112 958 189,139 181,828 Other operating expenses 25,718 21,346 Current assets 2.2 Deferred tax asset 2.2.1 1,755 3,279 Operating profit/loss –12,385 7,983 Non-current receivables 2.2.1 4,264 4,613 Current receivables 2.2.2 351,908 323,594 Financial income and expenses 1.6 3,990 –7,095 Cash in hand and at banks 1,073 4,586 359,000 336,071 Profit before extraordinary items –8,395 889 548,140 517,899 Extraordinary items 1.7 22,900 14,000 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Result before taxes 14,505 14,889 Shareholders’ equity 2.3 Share capital 34,043 34,043 Direct taxes 1.8 –1,321 2,698 Share premium account 5,675 5,675 Result for the financial year 13,184 17,587 Invested non-restricted equity fund 60,997 60,997 Other funds –940 –1,510 Retained earnings 82,970 75,206 Result for the financial year 13,184 17,587 195,929 191,996 Liabilities 2.4 Deferred tax liability 2.4.1 1,358 1,441 Non-current liabilities 2.4.2 140,398 159,598 Current liabilities 2.4.3 210,456 164,864 352,211 325,903 548,140 517,899 Parent company financial statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 145 Parent company cash flow statement (FAS) 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2011 2010 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 Cash flow from business operations Cash flow from financing Result before extraordinary items –8,395 889 Increase(–)/decrease(+) in non-current receivables 348 370 Extraordinary items 22,900 14,000 Share issue for cash consideration 39,525 Adjustments Group contributions received 14,000 14,000 Depreciation according to plan 3,112 958 Change in Group receivables/liabilities –20,475 –79,140 Financial income and expenses –3,990 7,095 Short term loans drawn 214,266 229,600 Other adjustments –4,314 –24,130 Repayments of short term loans –175,532 –158,564 Cash flow before change in working capital 9,313 –1,189 Long term loans drawn 258,706 82,800 Repayments of long term loans –273,937 –156,933 Change in working capital Dividends paid –9,822 Increase(–)/decrease(+) in current interest-free Cash flow from financing 7,553 –28,342 business receivables –14,227 32,262 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in current interest-free liabilities 2,934 2,852 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in cash and cash equivalents –3,535 –7,690 Cash flow from operations before financial items and taxes –1,980 33,925 Cash and cash equivalents at begining of financial year 4,586 12,186 Corporate restructuring 22 90 Interest and other financial expenses paid –20,208 –24,663 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 1,073 4,586 Dividends received 5,761 1,741 Interest and other financial income received 17,481 15,092 Direct taxes paid –105 –18 Cash flow from business operations 949 26,077 Cash flow from investments Investments in tangible and intangible assets –6,421 –4,750 Capital gains from the sale of tangible and intangible assets 51 108 Investments in other assets –4 Capital gains from the sale of other investments 178 91 Purchases of subsidiary shares –5,842 –875 Cash flow from investments –12,037 –5,426 146 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Parent company financial statements (FAS) Parent Company’s Accounting Principles, 31 Dec. 2011 Lemminkäinen Corporation’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with agreements used as hedges is recognised directly in the hedging reserve in equiFinnish accounting standards (FAS). ty to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective. The ineffective part of the change is entered in interest expenses in the income statement. Changes in fair Foreign currency items value accumulated in equity are recognised through profit and loss in interest exTransactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functionpenses in the accounting period when the hedged item produces a profit or loss. al currency using the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date. On the closing date, receivables and liabilities on the balance sheet are translated using the exValuation and depreciation of fixed assets change rates on that date. Fixed assets are shown on the balance sheet at their original acquisition costs less planned depreciation over their expected economic lifetimes. In addition, the values Derivatives of some land, buildings and shareholdings include revaluations, against which no Derivatives are measured at fair value. depreciation is charged. The depreciation periods are as follows: Forward foreign exchange contracts are measured on the closing date using the forward foreign exchange rates on that date. Forward foreign exchange contracts –– Buildings and structures 10–40 years are used to hedge against changes in predicted foreign currency-denominated cash –– Machinery and equipment 4–10 years flows and the exchange rates of receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies. The –– Other fixed assets 4–10 years fair values of interest-rate swap agreements are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. Interest-rate swap agreements are used for the variable to fixed Pension liability rate conversion of the Company’s loans from financial institutions. The income and The pension security of employees, inclusive of additional benefits, is covered by expenses from these assets and liabilities entered in the income statement are prepolicies taken out from a pension insurance company. sented under financial items in the income statement and in section 1.6 of the notes to the financial statements. Research and development expenses R&D expenditure is expensed in the year during which it occurs. Hedge accounting The Company has applied hedge accounting to interest-rate swap agreements Direct taxes used to hedge variable-rate loans. The agreements are defined as cash flow hedgTaxes calculated on the basis of the result for the financial year, adjustments to the es and they provide protection against fluctuations in loan interest payments due to taxes of earlier financial years, and the change in the deferred tax liability and asset changes in market interest rates. The change in fair value of the interest-rate swap are recorded as direct taxes on the income statement. Parent Company's Accounting Principles – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 147 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) 1 INCOME STATEMENT 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2011 2010 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 1.1 NET SALES BY MARKET AREA 1.4 NOTES CONCERNING PERSONNEL, MANAGEMENT AND BOARD MEMBERS Finland 32,288 20,843 Personnel expenses Nordic countries 19 33 Salaries, wages and emoluments 15,365 11,249 Eastern Europe and Baltic countries 0 19 Pension expenses 4,159 3,005 32,307 20,895 Other staff costs 524 597 20,048 14,851 1.2 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Management salaries and emoluments Profit on the sale of fixed assets 43 45 Board Members and Managing Director 932 998 Gain on merger 4,158 24,421 Others 15 30 Average number of employees 4,216 24,496 Salaried employees 261 191 261 191 1.3 MATERIALS AND SERVICES Pension commitments concerning Board Members and Managing Director Purchases during the financial year The retirement age of the Managing Director of Lemminkäinen Corporation is 60 years. External services 320 252 320 252 1.5 DEPRECIATION Intangible rights 349 362 Other capitalised expenditure 2,242 22 Buildings 343 347 Machinery and equipment 117 165 Other tangible assets 62 62 3,112 958 148 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. 1.1.–31.12. EUR 1,000 2011 2010 EUR 1,000 2011 2010 1.6 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 1.7 EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS Dividend income Extraordinary incomes, Group contributions 22,900 14,000 From Group undertakings 5,760 1,740 22,900 14,000 From others 1 1 1.8 DIRECT TAXES 5,761 1,741 Income taxes on normal business operations –1,215 –50 Other interest and financial income Income taxes in respect of previous years –105 2,748 From Group undertakings 14,501 11,604 –1,321 2,698 From others 4,137 5,716 18,638 17,320 Interest expenses and other financial expenses To Group undertakings –1,658 –2,453 To others –18,751 –23,703 –20,409 –26,156 Net financial income/expenses 3,990 –7,095 Financial imcome and expenses include: Exchange gains and losses (net) –1,426 –387 Change in fair value of currency derivatives (net) 330 –320 Change in fair value of interest rate derivatives (net) 153 –153 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 149 2 BALANCE SHEET EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 2.1 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 2.1.2 Tangible assets 2.1.1 Intangible assets Land and water Intangible rights 1,684 349 Acquisition cost 1.1. 3,191 3,191 Other capitalised expenditure 4,848 205 Decreases –18 Advance payments 2,526 4,759 Acquisition cost 31.12. 3,173 3,191 9,057 5,313 Revaluations 3,087 3,087 Book value 31.12. 6,261 6,278 2.1.2 Tangible assets Land and water 6,261 6,278 Buildings Buildings 5,345 5,690 Acquisition cost 1.1. 14,672 14,900 Machinery and equipment 310 346 Increases 26 Other intangible assets 397 459 Decreases –320 –254 Advance payments and work in progress 5 Acquisition cost 31.12. 14,351 14,672 12,317 12,772 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –11,384 –11,360 Revaluations 2,378 2,378 2.1.3 Investments Book value 31.12. 5,345 5,690 Holdings in Group undertakings 165,999 161,680 Other shares and holdings 1,766 2,062 Machinery and equipment 167,765 163,742 Acquisition cost 1.1. 1,052 1,458 Increases 81 106 2.1.1 Intangible assets Decreases –125 –512 Intangible rights Acquisition cost 31.12. 1,008 1,052 Acquisition cost 1.1. 2,014 1,861 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –698 –706 Increases 1,683 377 Book value 31.12. 310 346 Decreases –33 –224 Acquisition cost 31.12. 3,663 2,014 Other tangible assets Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –1,980 –1,664 Acquisition cost 1.1. 1,364 1,359 Book value 31.12. 1,684 349 Increases 7 Decreases –5 –2 Other capitalised expenditure Acquisition cost 31.12. 1,358 1,364 Acquisition cost 1.1. 327 259 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –961 –905 Increases 6,886 68 Book value 31.12. 397 459 Acquisition cost 31.12. 7,212 327 Accumulated depreciation 31.12. –2,364 –122 Advance payments and construction in progress Book value 31.12. 4,848 205 Acquisition cost 1.1. 26 Increases 5 Advance payments Decreases –26 Acquisition cost 1.1. 4,759 193 Acquisition cost 31.12. 5 Increases 5,378 4,735 Decreases –7,611 –169 Acquisition cost 31.12. 2,526 4,759 150 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 2.1.3 Investments 2.2.2 Current receivables Holdings in Group undertakings Amounts owed by prties outside the Group Acquisition cost 1.1. 161,680 164,688 Accounts receivable 220 19 Increases from mergers 32,273 Other receivables 189 752 Increases 5,842 22,347 Prepayments and accrued income 669 1,116 Decreases from mergers –1,524 –57,628 1,079 1,887 Acquisition cost 31.12. 165,999 161,680 Amounts owed by Group undertakings Merger difference has been allocated to acquisition cost of received subsidiary shares and to other operating income. Accounts receivable 9,902 2,076 Other receivables 339,141 317,669 Other shares Prepayments and accrued income 1,787 1,963 Acquisition cost 1.1. 1,986 2,031 350,830 321,707 Increases 5 Decreases –296 –50 Current receivables, total 351,908 323,594 Acquisition cost 31.12. 1,690 1,986 Revaluations 76 76 Items included in prepayments and accrued income Book value 31.12. 1,766 2,062 Interest receivables 249 590 Deferred personnel expenses 63 2.1.4 Revaluations Deferred financial expenses 309 111 Others 48 415 Land 669 1,116 Value 1.1. 3,087 3,087 Value 31.12. 3,087 3,087 2.3 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY Buildings Share capital 1.1. 34,043 34,043 Value 1.1. 2,378 2,378 Share capital 31.12. 34,043 34,043 Value 31.12. 2,378 2,378 Share premium account 1.1. 5,675 5,675 Shares Share premium account 31.12. 5,675 5,675 Value 1.1. 76 76 Value 31.12. 76 76 Invested non-restricted equity fund 1.1. 60,997 Increases 60,997 2.2 CURRENT ASSETS Invested non-restricted equity fund 31.12. 60,997 60,997 2.2.1 Non-current receivables Hedging reserve 1.1. –1,510 Loan receivables 4,264 4,613 Increases 796 –2,040 Deferred tax asset 1,755 3,279 Transfer to deferred tax liability –226 530 6,019 7,891 Hedging reserve 31.12. –940 –1,510 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 151 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 EUR 1,000 31.12.2011 31.12.2010 Retained earnings 1.1. 92,792 75,124 Items included in accruals and deferred income Distribution of dividend –9,822 Interests 1,543 1,184 Transfer from revaluations reserve 82 Accrued personnel expenses 5,477 2,690 Retained earnings 31.12. 82,970 75,206 Others 180 278 7,200 4,152 Result for the financial year 13,184 17,587 2.5 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity, total 195,929 191,996 Pledges given on behalf of others Distributable funds 31.12. 157,151 153,789 Securities pledged 90 90 90 90 2.4 LIABILITIES Mortgages and pledges, total Securities pledged 90 90 2.4.1 Deferred tax liability 90 90 From revaluations 1,441 1,441 From timing differences –83 Guarantees given 1,358 1,441 On behalf of Group undertakings 334,574 254,915 On behalf of associated undertakings 20,337 2.4.2 Non-current liabilities On behalf of others 18,863 25,763 Loans from credit institutions 36,519 28,597 373,774 280,679 Pension loans 44,116 70,755 Bonds 59,763 60,000 Leasing liabilities Other non-current liabilities 246 Payable next year 6,938 4,678 140,398 159,598 Payable in subsequent years 26,354 24,794 33,292 29,472 2.4.3 Current liabilities Derivative contracts Loans from credit institutions 12,696 11,423 Forward foreign exchange contracts Pension loans 22,759 19,035 Nominal value 81,577 48,902 Commercial paper 119,910 75,100 Fair value –283 –868 Accounts payable 1,847 1,269 Accounts payable to Group undertakings 325 115 Interest rate swap contracts Other liabilities to Group undertakings 42,525 48,778 Nominal value 28,597 48,072 Other liabilities 3,195 4,991 Fair value –1,313 –2,193 Accruals and deferred income 7,200 4,152 210,456 164,864 152 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements (FAS) Financial indicators (IFRS) EUR million 2011 2010 ¹) 2009 ¹) ²) ³) 2008 ¹) ³) 2007 Net sales 2,274.1 1,829.6 1,965.5 2,477.4 2,174.1 Exports and operations outside Finland 780.3 543.5 527.6 676.7 581.6 % net sales 34.3 29.7 26.8 27.3 26.8 Operating profit 53.5 29.6 23.2 117.6 127.2 % net sales 2.4 1.6 1.2 4.7 5.8 Result before taxes 34.6 7.6 –10.2 85.4 111.2 % net sales 1.5 0.4 –0.5 3.4 5.1 Result for the financial year 4) 34.7 0.3 –26.2 51.7 72.9 % net sales 1.5 0.0 –1.3 2.1 3.4 Non-current assets 5) 351.0 313.1 301.6 290.1 272.1 Inventories 5) 448.5 369.8 374.7 398.2 330.9 Financial assets 5) 437.7 352.3 375.2 722.1 465.9 Shareholders’ equity 4) 348.7 325.2 267.4 309.9 295.5 Non-controlling interest 1.7 5.1 23.2 27.8 23.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 431.6 375.5 399.1 586.5 357.0 Interest-free liabilities 5) 458.9 346.6 361.7 486.2 392.8 Balance sheet total 1,242.8 1,062.0 1,051.5 1,410.4 1,069.0 Return on equity, % 10.5 0.4 –7.6 18.1 27.5 Return on investment, % 10.8 7.0 5.5 17.0 20.7 Equity ratio, % 30.8 35.0 30.7 26.0 32.7 Gearing, % 114.5 105.7 111.7 99.6 87.2 Interest-bearing net liabilities 401.2 349.2 324.7 336.4 278.5 Gross investments 84.0 59.6 41.5 60.2 61.4 % net sales 3.7 3.3 2.1 2.4 2.8 Order book 31.12. 1,400.4 1,226.4 1,064.5 1,064.5 1,414.1 Average number of employees 8,421 8,314 8,626 9,776 9,201 1) The figures include an adjustment made to receivables in 2011. 2) As from 1 January 2010, Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate in its Reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with the interpretation. 3) The figures include a liability noted in an additional report on a consortium. 4) Attributable to the equity holders of the parent company. 5) The figure includes assets held for sale or related liabilities. Non-current assets held for sale and related liabilities are presented in note 5. Group financial indicators – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 153 Share-related financial indicators (IFRS) 2011 2010 ¹) 2009 ¹) ²) ³) 2008 ¹) ³) 2007 Earnings per share (EPS), EUR 1.77 0.02 –1.54 3.04 4.29 Equity per share, EUR 17.75 16.55 15.71 18.21 17.36 Dividend per share, EUR 0.50 4) 0.50 0.00 0.90 1.80 Dividend to earnings ratio, % 28.3 over 100 0.0 29.6 42.0 Effective dividend yield, % 2.7 1.90 0.0 6.9 5.7 Price/earnings ratio (P/E) 10.6 1,664.4 –15.7 4.3 7.4 Share price, EUR mean 22.86 24.73 21.38 27.40 44.88 lowest 17.08 21.21 13.30 12.53 31.03 highest 27.37 30.00 30.30 37.55 55.61 at end of financial year 18.72 26.00 24.20 13.05 31.50 Market capitalisation, EUR mill. 367.8 510.8 411.9 222.1 536.2 Shares traded, 1,000 3,367 4,172 1,918 3,185 5,204 % of total 17.1 21.8 11.3 18.7 30.6 Number of shares average for the period, 1,000 19,645 19,124 17,021 17,021 17,021 at end of period, 1,000 19,645 19,645 17,021 17,021 17,021 1) The figures include an adjustment made to receivables in 2011. 2) As from 1 January 2010 Lemminkäinen observes the interpretation IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate in its Reporting. The comparative figures for 2009 have also been calculated in accordance with the interpretation. 3) The figures include a liability noted in an additional report on a consortium. 4) Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM. 154 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Group financial indicators Formulae for the financial indicators RETURN ON INVESTMENT, % EQUITY PER SHARE Result before taxes + interest and other financial expenses Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company x 100 Balance sheet total (average) – interest-free liabilities (average) Issue-adjusted number of shares at the end of the period RETURN ON EQUITY, % DIVIDEND PER SHARE Result for the financial period Dividend fot the financial period x 100 Shareholder’s equity, total (average) Issue-adjusted number of shares at the end of the period EQUITY RATIO, % DIVIDEND TO EARNINGS RATIO, % Shareholder’s equity, total Dividend fot the financial period x 100 x 100 Balance sheet total – advances received Result for the financial period – non-controlling interest GEARING, % EFFECTIVE DIVIDEND YIELD, % Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Dividend per share x 100 x 100 Shareholder’s equity, total Issue-adjusted share price at the end of the period INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT P/E RATIO Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Issue-adjusted share price at the end of the period Earnings per share EMPLOYEES Sum of monthly employee headcount ISSUE-ADJUSTED MEAN SHARE PRICE Number of months in the financial period Trading value or total share turnover in euros Issue-adjusted number of shares traded during the period EARNINGS PER SHARE Result for the financial period – non-controlling interest MARKET CAPITALISATION Issue-adjusted number of shares (average) Number of shares x final share quotation Group financial indicators – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 155 Board of directors’ proposal for the distribution of profit Distributable shareholders’ equity shown on the parent company balance sheet at The board of directors will propose to the AMG that, for the financial year ended 31 31 December 2011 amounts to EUR 157,151,029.90, consisting of retained earnDecember 2011, the company a per-share dividend of EUR 0.50 to a total of EUR ings EUR 82,969,836.31 and the profit for the financial year EUR 13,184,493.09. 9,822,382.00, after which retained earnings would stand at EUR 86,331,947.40. Helsinki, 8 February 2012 Berndt Brunow Juhani Mäkinen Mikael Mäkinen Kristina Pentti-von Walzel Heikki Räty Teppo Taberman Timo Kohtamäki Managing Director 156 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Board of directors’ proposal for the distribution of profit Auditor’s Report* To the Annual General Meeting of ments and on the report of the Board of Directors based Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Lemminkäinen Corporation on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply Statements We have audited the accounting records, the finanwith the requirements of professional ethics. We conIn our opinion, the consolidated financial statements cial statements, the report of the Board of Directors ducted our audit in accordance with good auditing pracgive a true and fair view of the financial position, fiand the administration of Lemminkäinen Corporatice in Finland. Good auditing practice requires that we nancial performance, and cash flows of the group in tion for the year ended 31 December, 2011. The finanplan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assuraccordance with International Financial Reporting cial statements comprise the consolidated statement ance about whether the financial statements and the Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. of financial position, income statement, statement of report of the Board of Directors are free from material comprehensive income, statement of changes in equimisstatement, and whether the members of the Board Opinion on the Company’s Financial ty and statement of cash flows, and notes to the conof Directors of the parent company or the Managing DiStatements and the Report of the solidated financial statements, as well as the parent rector are guilty of an act or negligence which may result Board of Directors company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash in liability in damages towards the company or whether In our opinion, the financial statements and the report flow statement and notes to the financial statements. they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act of the Board of Directors give a true and fair view of or the articles of association of the company. both the consolidated and the parent company’s fiResponsibility of the Board of An audit involves performing procedures to obtain nancial performance and financial position in accordDirectors and the Managing Director audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in ance with the laws and regulations governing the The Board of Directors and the Managing Directhe financial statements and the report of the Board preparation of the financial statements and the report tor are responsible for the preparation of consolidatof Directors. The procedures selected depend on the of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in ed financial statements that give a true and fair view auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with in accordance with International Financial Reporting risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud the information in the financial statements. Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for or error. In making those risk assessments, the audithe preparation of financial statements and the report tor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s Helsinki, 23 February 2012 of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view preparation of financial statements and report of the in accordance with the laws and regulations governing Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in orPricewaterhouseCoopers Oy the preparation of the financial statements and the der to design audit procedures that are appropriate Authorised Public Accountants report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The Board in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of exof Directors is responsible for the appropriate arrangepressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the comKim Karhu ment of the control of the company’s accounts and fipany’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluAuthorised Public Accountant nances, and the Managing Director shall see to it that ating the appropriateness of accounting policies used the accounts of the company are in compliance with and the reasonableness of accounting estimates the law and that its financial affairs have been armade by management, as well as evaluating the overranged in a reliable manner. all presentation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. Auditor’s Responsibility We believe that the audit evidence we have obOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the finantained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis cial statements, on the consolidated financial statefor our audit opinion. * Translation from the Finnish original Auditor's report – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 157 Shares and shareholders Lemminkäinen’s share and share capital conferred by them. The holdings of Lemminkäinen’s In December 2011, Lemminkäinen received a flagThe Company has one share class. Each share carpublic insiders are updated in real time on the Compaging notification announcing that the shares in Lemries one vote at a general meeting of shareholders and ny’s website at www.lemminkainen.com/investors. minkäinen belonging to the estate of Erkki Pentti had confers an equal right to a dividend. On 31 Decembeen divided between Anna Pentti and Heppu Pentber 2011, the Company had 19,644,764 shares. The Flagging notifications ti. Following this, Anna Pentti and Heppu Pentti transCompany’s share capital is EUR 34,042,500. In September 2011, Lemminkäinen received a flagging ferred their shares in Lemminkäinen to PNT Group Oy, notification stating that Peab AB’s holding in the comof which they each own one half, as a contribution in Share price and turnover pany had exceeded 5 per cent. According to the notikind. As a result, the shares held by Erkki Pentti’s esThe price of Lemminkäinen’s share on the last trading fication, Peab AB (publ) held 1,140,225 Lemminkäintate in Lemminkäinen decreased from 3,673,956 day of 2011 was EUR 18.72 (26.00). The share price en shares on 13 September 2011, which corresponds shares and votes to zero, while PNT Group Oy’s shares increased by 28 per cent during the report year. The to 5.80 per cent of Lemminkäinen’s shares and votes. in the Company rose by the corresponding amount. highest share price quoted was EUR 27.37 in April and Peab Invest AS, which is a fully-owned subsidiary of the lowest EUR 17.08 in August. The average price in Peab AB (publ), also holds a forward contract for a fur2011 was EUR 22.86 (24.73). The year-end market ther 940,000 shares, which represents 4.78 per cent More information on shares and shareholders capitalisation was EUR 367.8 million (510.8). of Lemminkäinen’s shares and votes. Lemminkäinen is in the Board of Director’s report 2011 on pages During 2011, share turnover on NASDAQ OMX Helnot aware of the due date for this contract. 92–93. sinki Ltd totalled 3,366,940 shares (4,171,666) with a total share turnover value of EUR 77.0 million. Lemminkäinen has a Liquidity Providing (LP) agreement with Nordea Bank Finland Plc. According to the agreement, Nordea Bank Finland Plc must quote both bid and offer prices for Lemminkäinen’s share such that the prices do not deviate from each other by more than 4 per cent, calculated on the bid price. Lemminkäinen’s share (LEM1S) Shareholders At the end of 2011, Lemminkäinen had 4,548 shareListing: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki holders (4,979). The Pentti family owned about 57 Listing date: 1 June, 1995 per cent (57) of the company’s shares. About 15 per Trading currency: EUR cent (8) of shares were in foreign ownership or regisSegment: Mid Cap tered in a nominee’s name. Sector: Industrials At the end of 2011, the members of the Group ExTrading code: LEM1S ecutive Board and the Board of Directors held a total ISIN code: FI0009900336 of 749,958 Lemminkäinen shares, representing 3.8 Reuters ID: LEM1S.HE per cent of the Company’s shares and the voting rights Bloomberg ID: LEM1S FH 158 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Shares and shareholders major shareholders, 31.12.2011 shareholders by number of shares 31.12.2011 Name of shareholder number of shares % of total shares Number of % of Number of % of PNT Group 3,673,956 18.70 shareholders shareholders shares shares Pentti Olavi 3,673,953 18.70 1–100 1,922 42.3 103,045 0.5 Estate of Heikki Pentti 1,906,976 9.71 101–500 1,796 39.5 466,140 2.4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 723,727 3.68 501–1,000 413 9.1 329,495 1.7 Pentti-Kortman Eva Katarina 635,660 3.24 1,001–10,000 350 7.7 1,048,960 5.4 Pentti-Von Walzel Anna Eva Kristina 635,660 3.24 10,001–100,000 49 1.0 1,431,201 7.3 Pentti Timo Kaarle Kristian 635,660 3.24 100,001–500,000 9 0.2 1,962,124 10.0 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 432,687 2.20 500,001– 9 0.2 14,293,114 72.8 Mandatum Life Insurance Company Limited 283,711 1.44 Common accounts 0 0 10,685 0.1 Maaja Vesitekniikan Tuki ry. 250,000 1.27 Total 4,548 100.0 19,644,764 100.0 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 204,310 1.04 Laakkonen Mikko Kalervo 154,601 0.79 shareholders by sector 31.12.2011 ODIN Finland 151,934 0.77 Alfred Berg Mutual Fund 130,153 0.66 Number of % of Number of % of Nordea Pro Suomi Mutual Fund 108,563 0.55 shareholders shareholders shares shares 15 largest in total 13,601,551 69.23 Foreign and nominee registered owners 25 0.55 2,853,105 14.5 Nominee registered 2,853,105 14.50 Finnish private investors 4,117 90.52 9,599,953 48.9 Other shareholders 3,190,108 16.27 Public sector institutions 10 0.22 1,460,839 7.4 Total 19,644,764 100.00 Financial and insurance institutions 20 0.44 849,157 4.3 Corporations 306 6.73 4,317,312 22.0 Non-profit institutions 70 1.54 553,713 2.8 Common accounts 0 0 10,685 0.1 Total 4,548 100.0 19,644,764 100.0 share Price develoPment and share turnover 70 eur thousand shares 1,400 60 1,200 market caPitaliZation, eur million 50 1,000 600 40 800 500 30 600 400 20 400 10 200 300 0 0 200 100 Lemminkäinen Corporation omX Helsinki Cap 0 omX Helsinki Share turnover, monthly y07 y08 y09 y10 y11 07 08 09 10 11 Shares and shareholders – financial statements – Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 159 Information for shareholders and investors General Meeting Payment of 2011 dividend sentatives of the capital markets and financial media Lemminkäinen Corporation’s 2012 Annual GenerLemminkäinen’s Board of Directors will propose to during the three-week period prior to the publication al Meeting will be held at 2 p.m on Monday, 2 April the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR of the financial statements and interim reports. 2012, at the High Tech Center, HTC Helsinki Auditori0.50 per share be paid for the 2011 financial year. um, Tammasaarenkatu 1–5, Helsinki, Finland. Dividends will be paid to shareholders who are reInvestment research Each shareholder who is recorded on 21 March corded in the shareholder register maintained by EuAccording to the information available to the Com2012 in the Company’s shareholder register (mainroclear Ltd on the record date, 5 April 2012. The divpany, analysts in the service of at least the followtained by Euroclear Finland Ltd) has the right to paridend payout date proposed by the Board of Directors ing banks and brokerage firms have made investticipate in the General Meeting. A shareholder whose is 16 April 2012. ment analyses of Lemminkäinen: Carnegie Securities, shares are registered in his/her personal Finnish bookEvli Bank, E. Öhman J:or Securities Finland, FIM Bank, entry account is registered in the Company’s shareFinancial reporting 2012 Inderes Oy, Pohjola Bank, SEB Enskilda, Swedbank holder register. 9 Feb 2012 2011 Financial Statement Bulletin and Ålandsbanken. Contact information for these week 10 Annual Report (pdf online) analysts is provided on Lemminkäinen’s website at Registration week 13 Annual Report (printed version) www.lemminkainen.com/investors. Shareholders must register for the AGM no later than 3 May 2012 Interim Report, 1 Jan – 31 Mar 2012 4.00 p.m. on 28 March 2012 either: 2 Aug 2012 Interim Report, 1 Jan – 30 Jun 2012 Contact information –– online at www.lemminkainen.fi 1 Nov 2012 Interim Report, 1 Jan – 30 Sep 2012 Lemminkäinen Corporation –– by email to pirjo.favorin@lemminkainen.fi Investor Relations –– by phone +358 2071 53378 Publication orders P.O. Box 169, 00180 Helsinki, Finland –– by mail to Lemminkäinen Corporation, Pirjo The Company publishes its financial reports, investor@lemminkainen.fi Favorin, P.O. Box 169, 00181 Helsinki, Finland stock exchange releases and press releases in both Finnish and English. All releases can be orWhen registering, shareholders should provide their dered directly to email at Lemminkäinen’s website, Katri Sundström name, personal identification number, address and www.lemminkainen.com/investors. Printed copy of Vice President, Investor Relations telephone number, as well as the name and personal the Annual Report can be ordered at Lemminkäinen’s Tel. +358 2071 54813 / +358 400 976 333 identification number of any assistant. Notices of inwebsite or by emailing info@lemminkainen.fi. katri.sundstrom@lemminkainen.fi tention to attend must be received before the registration deadline. Any instruments of proxy must also Investor Relations be submitted with the registration. The Notification Lemminkäinen’s investor relations seek to support the of Annual General Meeting can be read in full on the correct valuation of the Company’s share by providing Company’s website at www.lemminkainen.com. capital markets with current information on the Company’s business, strategy and financial position. The Dividend policy information must be objective and simultaneously In accordance with Lemminkäinen’s dividend polidisclosed to all market participants. The Company ancy, the company seeks to pay its shareholders a divswers questions from analysts and investors by phone idend of at least 40 per cent of the profit for the fiand email, as well as by holding meetings with invesnancial year. tors. Lemminkäinen refrains from contact with repre160 Lemminkäinen annual report 2011 – financial statements – Shares and shareholders LEMMINKÄINEN corporation Corporate communications production Salmisaarenaukio 2 Kati Suurmunne P.O. Box 169 Senior Vice President, Communications and Marketing Concept, graphic design and production: FI-00180 Helsinki, Finland kati.suurmunne@lemminkainen.fi Miltton Oy tel. +358 20 715 000 www. lemminkainen.com Photographs: Environment Inside: Katja Lösönen, except pages 10, 76 and 79 Tomi Parkkonen Johanna Aarnio and page 80 Sini Pennanen Director, Environment and Safety Cover: Katja Lösönen johanna.aarnio@lemminkainen.fi In the cover photo: Markku Hiltunen, Finnpark Oy, Heikki Keränen, Lemminkäinen. human resources Paper: Tiina Mellas Multi Art Silk 300 g Executive Vice President, HR and ICT Multi Art Silk 130 g tiina.mellas@lemminkainen.fi Multi Art Silk 100 g Printing: finance Libris Oy 2011 Robert Öhman CFO robert.ohman@lemminkainen.fi investor relations Katri Sundström Vice President, Investor Relations katri.sundstrom@lemminkainen.fi This Annual Report has been printed using vegetable-based inks with a low environmental load, and its raw materials meet the strict standards of the Swan ecolabel. All paper is PEFC-certified, which means that its wood raw materials have come from sustainably managed forests. Libris Oy has been granted the Swan ecolabel and complies with international quality and environmental standards (ISO 9001/ISO 14001). effective high-quality The best way customer-oriented to build reliable responsible www.lemminkainen.com
