0. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 Two Ravinia Drive, Suite 500 ∙ Atlanta, GA 30346 www.ecotechtimber.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EcoTech cutti ng Timber mai n Inc. (“EcoTech”) is committed to the principles articulated in the United Nations t ruck Global Compact initiative (UNGC), which we joined in May 2011. Subsequently thereafter, we further confirmed our strong conviction for supporting a cleaner environment by becoming a signatory to UN’s environmental initiative, Caring for Climate. The UN’s principles for sustainability (the UN Global Compact) are an important point of reference for all our Company’s activities. The principles are also firmly incorporated in our Company’s governance framework and fully integrated into EcoTech’s daily management. EcoTech was founded on the premise of accomplishing a positive “Triple Bottom Line,” whereby social and environmental targets are pursued equally to financial targets. Our business is the environment and protection thereof is paramount when we measure our success. In 2011, our main focus was to introduce the UNGC principles to our staff and stakeholders, which included introduction of these principles to many facets of the government in our host country. Since our Company is in its infancy, we used the UNGC principles as a catalyst for drafting various provisions during the development of our of Corporate governance documents. The principles are integral in all aspects of our organizational objectives. The next critical step for EcoTech was full compliance of the principles throughout our organization and the development of measurement tools so that we could ensure total compliance. Our ultimate goal was to impart real attitude change within our staff, not simply impose principles via fear of repercussion. It continues to amaze us how infectious support for the UNGC principles has become; not only within our organization, but with all stakeholders associated with our project. Thus, on behalf of EcoTech, I reaffirm our commitment to compliance with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. I hope you will find this Communication on Progress informative and I invite you to visit our website by going to www.ecotechtimber.com for more information about our Company. Sincerely, William C. Schuman President & CEO, EcoTech Timber Page 2 of 7 Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-Corruption OWNIA Human Labor Environment Corruption Rights Rights PAUL  AntiUN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 Human Rights Commitment: EcoTech bases its actions on the values of professionalism, respect, honesty and dedication. Understanding and accepting different cultures, beliefs, disabilities, gender issues, and other social differences is a key element in our organization as is complying with local and international laws. We strive to create a corporate culture so that our activities are regarded as the “best in the business” wherever we operation. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Processes Targets 2011 Actions 2011 Performance 2011 Targets 2012 EcoTech Integrate the UNGC Developed operational 75% answered Increase exposure of Values principles into all manuals and held positive when asked EcoTech’s values and governance documents workshops to educate “I believe in support for the UNGC and educate staff and other EcoTech’s Corporate principles. Increase stakeholders on stakeholders on the values and fully workshops in the principles and the UNGC principles and support the UNGC communities focusing Company’s values. EcoTech’s corporate principles” on these topics. values. (80% of direct stakeholders and 100% of staff participated in survey) Staff Survey Develop survey for staff Engaged in education 0% negative Increase outreach and and that focuses on personal workshops in Kono, responses when expand educational Measurement experiences with Sierra Leone. asked “I am treated workshops to include Efforts freedom to provide Survey also distributed equally regardless of 100% of staff and constructive responses in paper format in age, race/ethnic other community without fear of English and Krio. origin/religion, sex, members. repercussion. sexual orientation and disability” Participation rate:92% Health, Safety Implementation of OSHA Development of HSE 100% of local level Continued & and ISO 14001 standards operational policies and policies developed implementation of Environmental in EcoTech’s HSE policies procedures and and communicated OSHA and ISO 14001 (HSE) Policy and procedures. conducted educational and action plans in standards. workshops for staff place. members. This is an ongoing activity. Page 3 of 7 Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-Corruption UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 Labor Rights Commitment: EcoTech is committed to secure compliance with all relevant labor laws and regulations in order to secure a fair and non-discriminative workplace for all employees. EcoTech exercises the right to freedom of association and we do not engage in or condone forced, compulsory or child labour. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Processes Targets 2011 Actions 2011 Performance 2011 Targets 2012 Remuneration All business units to Remuneration system is Remuneration policy Expand business units Policy have an approved and developed in all Business & system approved and continue to implemented local level units. in all business units improve salaries and Remuneration policy All salaries are over and communicated benefits in all business and system. minimum wages levels. locally. units as we grow. All salaries are adjusted All salaries are to exceed according to benchmark the recommended salary or an individual scale per local development plan is in regulations. place. Establish full Develop compliance and Engaged in education Established Implemented more Human performance tools to workshops in Kono, employee manual accurate follow-up Resources ensure that all labor Sierra Leone. with clear indications system to measure Department policies and laws are Distributed operational of EcoTech’s labor compliance; more and Develop strictly adhered too. manuals in paper format principles. Full staff individual reviews Compliance an Develop all human in English and Krio. exposure on instead of group Performance resource policies and Established Human principles and reviews. Measurement procedure manuals. Resources department procedures. Tools Distribute literature and with grievance manager educate staff on all to assist staff with any procedures and problem areas. principles. Staff Survey Improvements in various Developed job specific 100% of local level Increase training and and areas such as benefit training programs and policies developed exposure of ILO Measurement package and training procedure and communicated principles and Efforts programs. documentation. and action plans in standards. Develop Survey for Staff Distributed Staff Survey place. Satisfaction and in English and Krio. Survey indicated that Knowledge. 100% of personnel understand and support EcoTech’s labor principles. Page 4 of 7 Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-Corruption UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Commitment: EcoTech is committed to making significant tangible improvements to the environment and local ecosystems, not merely focus on low impact. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Processes Targets 2011 Actions 2011 Performance 2011 Targets 2012 Health, Safety Develop Environmental Commenced Completed 85% of Conclude all & Management Plan. development of EcoTech’s Environmental Plans Environmental Environmental Environmental and Impact Policy Management Plan and Management Plan Assessments and Environmental Impact and commenced increase workshop Assessment. Environmental outreach to all Impact Assessment. stakeholders. Engaged in workshops aimed at increasing Workshop activities community knowledge are ongoing. of unsustainable and environmentallydevastating practices and presented Corporate programs that provide alternative activities and improved tangible results. Page 5 of 7 Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-Corruption UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 Anti-Corruption Commitment: EcoTech does not tolerate corruption of any kind. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Processes Targets 2011 Actions 2011 Performance 2011 Targets 2012 EcoTech Establish throughout the Engaged in workshops Workshop activities Continue educating Values organization a clear and training sessions are ongoing, but staff members on understand that the with all staff focusing engaged 100% of all possible corruption Company does not solely on corrupt staff members on scenarios and tolerate and will not practices and EcoTech’s anti-corruption appropriate action engage in corrupt zero tolerance stances policies. plans. practices at any level. on engaging in corrupt practices. Develop practical tests Implement clear policies for staff members on and procedures anti-corruption throughout the situations and organization, including appropriate decision establishing strict stance making if confronted. on staff engaging in corrupt practices. Risk Development and Drafting of Risk Developed Risk 100% Risk Management adoption of local level Management policy and Management policy Management Policy Policy Risk Management engaged in educational and engaged 100% of compliance policies covering workshops with all staff all staff members. throughout the organization. to introduce principles organization. Monitoring: Company and procedures. audit by Risk Management Manager of the implementation and compliance. Employment To clearly articulate All Employee Contracts 100% of staff Improve exposure of Procedure EcoTech’s zero tolerance and other public employed under UNGC principles to all for corrupt practices documents clearly employment community within the organization. reference the UNGC contracts that stakeholders and principles and are express EcoTech’s government officials expressly included in the zero tolerance. Antiin Sierra Leone. contracts for new corruption policies employees and in the reiterated in all induction for new EcoTech’s public employees in the Head documents and Office. expressly Anti-Corruption policies communicated with expressed in all training all stakeholders. workshops and constantly reiterated. Page 6 of 7 Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-Corruption UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2011 EcoTech Timber – Changing Lives and Landscapes For more information, visit: www.ecotechtimber.com Directors: William C. Schuman, BS – President and CEO Glenn S. Klein – Director of Corporate Finance Gregory S. Smith, MEM – Director of Energy Technologies Casper van der Tak, Ph.D. – Director of Carbon Development Komba David Sandi, MA – Country Director and Director of Community Programmes David S. Sargent, J.D. – Director of US Legal and Environmental Affairs Kevin Skinner, MBA – Director of Business Development and Security Affairs Julius Nye Cuffie, LLB – Director of Sierra Leone Legal Affairs We support the UN Global Compact and Caring for Climate! Email: info@ecotechtimber.com Page 7 of 7 Human Rights  Labor Rights  Environment  Anti-Corruption
