COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Period Content Message from the President 3 About Bersay Communications Group 4 Why we participated 4 Progress after participation 4 Mission, vision and values 5 Service approach 6 Group companies 7 Bersay Communications Consultancy 7 Saydam Communication and Event Management 9 Kesisim Publishing and Design Services 10 Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication 11 Bersay Communications Institute 13 Support Units 18 Memberships 23 UN Global Compact Principles 24 Performance Indicators 27 Communication on Progress 2011 |2 Message from the President Celebrating its 22nd year in the industry, Bersay is one of the longest established groups of communication companies in Turkey. As the new President of the Board, I‟m proud to have completed my 20 years of working experience at Bersay. Contrary to its deep roots in the history of communications in Turkey, I believe Bersay is still a very young, constantly learning and continuously progressing organisation. Since signing the UN Global Compact protocol in 2007, together with our improvements in the organisational structure in line with 10 principles, we took many steps for bringing both Bersay and the communication practices in Turkey to a much higher level. Among them, comes first the Bersay Communications Institute (BIE), Turkey‟s one and only communications institute which I took the chance to be among the founders in 2008 and which all Bersay Communications Group employees are proud to be a part of. We enjoy developing ourselves professionally, deepening our world view and having fun at the numerous events, conferences, workshops and exhibitions that are held at BIE, as well as providing scholarships with its profits to communications master and doctorate students. In 2011, we pushed the button to initiate the first Corporate Perception Index of Turkey at BIE. Together with our solution partners that focus on perception researches and media analysis, we developed a new perception research model for our clients in order to enable them to compare themselves with their major competitors in a shorter period of time, with a relatively low budget. This is complementary to our Communications Engineering model that we have started during the previous year, in which we take measurement as a part of every phase of the communications planning. It is my pleasure to present you our corporate responsibility activities for the year 2011 and declare our commitment to UN Global Compact principles once more with this report. Arın Saydam President of the Board Communication on Progress 2011 |3 About Bersay Communications Group Having its roots from the Bersay Communications Consultancy established in 1990, Bersay Communication Group was founded in 2005 to meet the communication needs of its clients from a single source through integrated solutions approach. Together with Bersay Communication Consultancy, the Group is comprised of Saydam Communication and Event Management, Kesisim Publishing and Design Studio, Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication, and Bersay Communication Institute. Bersay Communications Group is a member of Ketchum, one of the leading global communication consultancy networks. Why we participated to UN Global Compact As Bersay Communications Group, we have joined UN Global Compact in 2007 depending on our vision of taking corporate responsibility at the heart of all business practices. We not only conduct our business fully in line with Global Compact‟s main principles, but also encourage our clients to transform their practices accordingly. We are among the pioneers in the Turkish communications industry in bringing the international service standards as well as adopting the universal principles. Progress after participation After signing The Global Compact on 13th of December, 2007, we have put all our efforts in the spread of the 10 principles of UN Global Compact together with our ecosystem including our employees, clients and solution partners. We believe we have created in-depth awareness among our stakeholders on conducting business in a more responsible manner and about the main principles of Global Compact. Progress after participation After signing The Global Compact on 13th of December, 2007, we have put all our efforts in the spread of the 10 principles of UN Global Compact together with our ecosystem including our employees, clients and solution partners. We believe we have created in-depth awareness among our stakeholders on conducting business in a more responsible manner and about the main principles of Global Compact. We‟re also keen on fulfilling the GRI indicators that are in line with the Global Compact principles. In 2011, our major contribution to communications sector was Turkish Corporate Perception Index. We also became a corporate member of TEID (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society). Communication on Progress 2011 |4 Our Mission Creating value for our clients locally, nationally and internationally through communication solutions that rely on knowledge and creativity, and effective application services; thus contributing to the development of the industry. Our Vision To be the most influential communications group of Turkey in the national and international markets, by integrating the universal understanding of communications with local culture and values through our expertise. Our Values • We are proud and excited to be a member of Bersay Communications Group, • We believe in the power of knowledge and creativity, • We believe in continuous development and innovation, • We understand the differences and respect them, • We act socially responsible, • We understand local and universal values, and the relation between them, and develop our intellectual capital accordingly, • We believe in “growing together” with our clients and industry. Companies that create their own corporate values upon the traditional values of their society and place these values in the heart of their corporation can transform both themselves and the world. What makes corporations stronger and provides them with competitive edge is their strict loyalty to these values. When determining our corporate value system, we as Bersay Communications Group believed that it should re-define, re-interpret and re-direct the deep-rooted value system inherited from the ancient history of Turkish society. For Bersay, this value system is the guide for every decision taken by the corporation and its employees. Bersay is essentially human-centered, and its corporate structure is human oriented. Guided by the principle that the employees are its “assets”, Bersay conducts all its business, relations and communications processes in accordance with the human values that are part of its corporate value system. Bersay Communication Group employees establish relationships with their clients that depend on mutual understanding of each other regardless of different world views and life styles. Bersay Communication Group employees: • Fully understand their clients‟ needs and attributes, • Have highly efficient communication skills, Communication on Progress 2011 |5 • Are team players and team builders, • Possess good planning and problem solving skills, • Have excellent project management capabilities, • Love learning continuously, motivate and influence each other. Service Approach We adopted “integrated communications” approach to offer various communications disciplines (Consultancy, Public Relations, Event Management and Organization, Corporate Publishing, Advertising and Design, and Training) from a single source. Communication on Progress 2011 |6 Our Companies Bersay Communications Consultancy Bersay Communication Consultancy was established in 1990 by industry pioneer Ali Saydam. Always attempting to raise the quality standards in the communication industry, Bersay is a member of ICCO (International Committee of Public Relations Consultancies Association) and IDA (Communication Consultancies Association), its representative in Turkey. Bersay became the first company in Turkey in 1999 to receive ISO 9002 certificate in the communications industry. In order to realize the business objectives of its clients, Bersay strategically plans, manages, and applies the communications within the Reputation Management framework. With its result-oriented communications approaches and solutions, Bersay provides its clients the opportunity to be unique and supports them in gaining competitive advantage. Providing services to leading companies in Turkey and around the globe for more than twenty years, Bersay Communication Consultancy develops evaluation models on how communications activities contribute to the businesses of its clients. Services 1. Consultancy Services (Communication Engineering) Strategic perspective of communications is based on a five-stage process that includes the following steps: analysis, planning, implementation, measurement and evaluation. Within the framework of Bersay‟s proprietary Communication Engineering approach, measurement now becomes an integral and integrated element of each of the other stages. This approach encompasses output (e.g. media coverage) as well as outcomes related to business objectives (purchasing trends, perception management, etc. in the target demographic) and is the foundation in every step of the planning and implementation stages. Previous communication performance is analyzed and the measurable performance criteria of future communication proposals are defined. By these, every detail of communication strategy is measured down to the micro criteria. This approach ensures that right strategy, appropriate planning and efficient implementation takes place. It adds more communication value to clients/brands. Analyzing the results at every stage, along with highly effective management of the return on the communication investment, provides our clients with an advantage: maximizing limited resources of money, time and human resources. Below are the services provided under Consultancy: Communication on Progress 2011 |7  Strategic Communications Planning  Leadership Communication Planning  Investor Relations Management  International Projects Consultancy  Corporate Responsibility 2. Applied Communication Solutions  Media Relations  Marketing Communications  Issue Management  Crisis Communications  Sponsorship Projects Communication  Internal Communications  Event Management  Financial Communications 3. Online Communication Consultancy Social networks are increasingly becoming more and more important for companies and brands. However, short history of online communication is full of failures of brands that take this discipline only in terms of creative digital marketing projects. Bersay Consultancy is committed to managing corporate and brand perceptions through not only strategic planning but also online networks. We conduct detailed analysis and reporting over the online data of our clients and create strategies based on these analyses.  Online Communications Management  Online monitoring  Project Creations and Management  Blogger Relations Management Communication on Progress 2011 |8 Saydam Communication and Event Management Established in February 2005, Saydam Communication and Event Management offers expert services in the areas of communication management, event management, design and application services. Saydam is a member of both ICCO and IDA. Services 1. Communication Management • Reputation Management • Leadership Communications • Brand Management • Marketing Communications • Crisis Communications • Issue Management • Internal Communications • Sponsorship Management • CSR Communications • IPO Communications • Media Relations • Content Consultancy 2. Event Management Event and Concept Consulting: Event design, planning and application consulting; events for brand recognition; marketing events; in-house communication events; events for sales improvement; sponsorships relations management Event Applications: New product and project launches; VIP events; press conferences; dealer meetings; internal communication activities; sales and motivation meetings; press trips; congress and seminars; road shows; concerts; show groups organizations; performer, celebrity and announcer organizations; product promotion activities; fair and exhibition stands; competitions Production Services: Stage/stand/showroom design and production; space decoration; branding activities; sound, video and lightning systems; technical equipment and office systems; digital printing materials; video / animation / documentary / trailers; custom design and production giveaways; promotion materials; graphically designed and printed materials; Logistic Services: Delivering invitations and RSVP follow up; team organization Communication on Progress 2011 |9 (cleaning, catering, hostess, security, animation etc.); camera and photo shooting; transfer and transportation services; shipping services; direct posting services. 3. Design & Application Services Corporate Identity: Corporation/brand name works, logo design, slogans, determining the design standards of all kinds of printed materials and creating corporate identity manuals. Interactive Solutions: Creating the content of website, mailing and flash animation works, design and software of those. Corporate Introductory Film: Writing scenario of corporate introductory films, production and post-production works. Press Campaigns: Design of newspaper and magazine advertisements; preparing radio spots and TV advertisement films; and media purchasing. Outdoor: Designing and renting of billboard, megaboard, racket, on-car and on-wall advertising etc. Promotion works: Creating and producing of promotion materials that are suitable for all kinds of projects. Printed promotional materials: Creating, designing and producing of all kinds of printed promotional materials like catalogues, brochures, activity reports, posters etc. Event designing: Creating concepts; designing and producing the branding, stage, stand materials that will be used for all kinds of events. Kesisim Publishing and Design Services Having 15 years of experience in advertising and publishing industry, Kesisim is a custom publishing company with its expert editorial and design team. Kesisim provides B2B corporate magazines, prestige books, e-books and e-magazines, newsletters, and annual reports for corporate clients, using creative techniques and original layouts. Kesisim offers the followings as a “full service advertising agency”: • Creating corporate identity, • Creating advertising campaigns including TV commercials, radio spots, press ads, outdoor and indoor advertisements, etc, • Preparing promotional materials such as brochures, flyers, advertorials, • Creating promotional POP and POS products, • Developing web sites and interactive solutions. Communication on Progress 2011 | 10 Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication was established in January 2010 under the leadership of Dr. Aydın Dortok, a medical doctor who has expertise in communications for 20 years, under Bersay Communication Group. Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication; • aims to introduce a new perspective to healthcare communications, • has the international and local expertise necessary for such a specific field of activity, • implements project-based sustainable business models with Bersay Communication Group‟s quality standards, making best use of measurable methods, • operates as an affiliate of Bersay Communication Group, and is part of the Ketchum network. Sectors we offer services The increase in the average life expectancy, diversifying needs for health care and unhealthy living conditions give rise to an increase in chronic diseases, makes it a priority for individuals to live longer, maintain a high quality of life, and aging healthier. Under these circumstances people expect various institutions to bear responsibility in meeting their needs regarding their wellness and health priorities. These are: • Public Institutions • Governments • Health Institutions/Healthcare Units • Non-Governmental Organizations • Physicians and Scientists • Pharmaceutical Industry • Food Industry • Personal Health Care Industry • Wellness Sector • Health Tourism These are the areas of activity where Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication is committed to offer its value-added consultancy services. Communication on Progress 2011 | 11 Services Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication provides customized healthcare communication consultancy and application services to all institutions, organizations and individuals active in the healthcare industry. Dortok & Bersay Health and Wellness Communication portfolio covers all types of communication services that a business or an institution carrying out activities in the healthcare industry may need. 1. Communication Management • Corporate Reputation Management • Corporate Identity • Social Responsibility • Issue Management • Internal Communication and Training Programs • Public Affairs • Stakeholder Relations • Crisis Communication • Leadership Communication • Event Management 2. Media Relations • Media Relations Management • Local Media Relations • Media Training 3. Marketing Management • Marketing Strategies Management • Product Communication and Brand Management • Sponsorship Relations Management • Event Management in Marketing • Advertising Services • Social Media Consultancy and Applications 4. Training Programs • Executive Training • Employee Training 5. Corporate Publications • Prestige Books • Corporate Magazines • Periodical Bulletins • Scientific Publications Communication on Progress 2011 | 12 Bersay Communications Institute Bersay Communications Institute (BIE) was established in January 2008 within the Group as a nonprofit organization. We aim to respond to the qualified human resources need of the sector through conferences and training programs. BIE also offers its business profits as a scholarship opportunity to master and doctorate degree students. Bersay Communications Group‟s reputation entity BIE has undertaken the duty and responsibility of becoming a pioneering organization with the activities focused on communications professionals, newly graduates and young candidates. Services • Certificate Programs • Seminars and Conferences • Panels and Meetings • Personal Development Trainings • Performances • Stand-up Shows • 4 Seminar/Meeting Rooms • BIE Multi-purpose Hall with a Capacity of 115 People Researches A new research model by BIE: Corporate Perception Index of Turkey Collaborating with ERA, a research company focused on perception studies, and AVD, a research company focused on media‟s influence on perception, BIE created a new and practical approach on communications research. The Corporate Perception Index of Turkey (with Turkish abbreviation as TKAE) evaluates how a company is perceived by its major stakeholders and whether the media coverage contributes to this perception or not. Shortening the period of the research to maximum 6 weeks and decreasing the budget significantly, TKAE also provides a revolution in research reporting and addresses recipients from all professions with its user-friendly language and length of maximum 10 pages. Our Training Programs Excellence in Communication Program: Outliers The title of the Excellence in Communication Program in its third year is “Outliers”. Communication on Progress 2011 | 13 With this program BIE gathered together the names, who have created differences with their world views and who have prominent character types. Speakers of the program: 1. Cem Yilmaz (Comedian) 2. Prof.Dr. Mikdat Kadioglu (Academic Member, Istanbul Technical University) 3. Prof. Dr. Sevil Atasoy (Academic Member, Istanbul University) 4. Nihat Gokyigit (Founder and Chairman of Board of Trustee, The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) 5. Kursat Basar (Writer) 6. Nasuh Mahruki (Founder Member and Chairman, Search and Rescue Association) 7. Prof. Dr. Celal Sengor (Academic Member, Istanbul Technical University) 8. Erdil Yasaroglu (Caricaturist) 9. Yilmaz Erdogan (Director, Performer, Writer) 10. Levent Erden (CEO, Euro RSCG Turkiye) 11. Kerem Erginoglu (Architect) 12. Prof. Dr. Osman Muftuoglu (Medical Advisor, Founder, Yasasin Hayat Clinique) 13. Ayse Ege (Fashion Designer) 14. Ece Sukan (Fashion Designer) 15. Mehmet Turgut (Photographer) Political Communications Consultancy BIE and Istanbul Bilgi University organized a training program tailor-made for professionals at political parties, ministries, municipalities, governmental authorities and other related bodies. The participants had the opportunity to have lectures from the leading experts in this area. IDA – Communications Consultancy Certificate Program Regular trainings of IDA that address new graduate and young communications professionals are hosted by BIE. Media Relations Management Program Executed by former expert journalists, this program aims to give basic media knowledge to spokesperson candidates. During 2001, BIE provided the training to executives from Philips, Ittifak Holding, Tiryaki Holding, Gama Enerji, Istanbul Akvaryum, Türkiye Finans, SES, Adese and Tetra Pak. Communication on Progress 2011 | 14 Bahcesehir CO-OP Project Consultants of Bersay Communications Group are also the lecturers of the CO-OP Education Model applied by Bahcesehir University with BIE support. The program included major communication disciplines like Reputation Management, Stakeholders and Target Audience, Crisis Management, Media Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Financial Communications, Online Communications, Event Management, Celebrity Communications and Leadership Management, Issue Management and Agenda Setting. Cinema Conversations with Ali Saydam Second year of the program started in August 2011 and will continue until July 2012 with its 15 participants that enjoy how to evaluate life, arts, human beings and history over detailed analysis of the movies. During the first year of the program, the participants analyzed 60 films, 4 documentary series, and 5 books. Conferences and Workshops “Culture Code” by Dr. Clotaire Raphaille “Creativity” by Ketchum trainer Petra Sonner “Understanding new Turkey” by Bekir Agirdir (Konda‟s General Manager) “Awareness on Breast Cancer” by Dr. Sevil Oz “Designing the smile” by Dentist Arzu Yalnız “Turkish Media and PR in Turkey” to George State University students Exhibitions “Green Steps” by environmental training association Yesil Adimlar “Cattoman Empire” by artist Efsun Gunes “IETT in 140 Years” – History of Istanbul‟s public transport “Spirits seeking love” by artist Barbaros Ayvaz “Third Eye” by artist Kamer Nesrin Gumusayak Books Profits of the recently published “communication bestsellers” of Ali Saydam, Honorary President of Bersay Communications Group, are granted to BIE. BIELOG BIELOG is a meeting platform for communications sector; which is open to articles of all Bersay Communications Group employees as well as guest writers. www.bielog.com Articles One of the priority targets of BIE is to create knowledge, to realize research and to Communication on Progress 2011 | 15 share all with the sector. During 2011, the articles of Bersay consultants prepared with the support of BIE continued to be published in leading sector magazines.  “Urgent action plan for food sector: Health and wellness communications” by Gulden Ohri, BrandAge magazine, January 2011  “Fashion designers creating identities: Martin Margiela case study” by Merve Gungul, BrandAge magazine, March 2011  “Social networks beat consumption: Age of sharing” by Asli Tosuner, Fortune Turkey, November 2011  “How successful was the USA in managing the perception at Iraq war” by Seckin Cetin, Fortune Turkey, December 2011 Facilities Library Bersay Communication Institute (BIE) Library has been established to meet information needs of the communication professionals, academicians, and students by adding eligible and up-to-date information resources to its collection. In our collection, there are about 6.500 materials including 2696 books, 682 DVDs, 43 magazine subscriptions, and 3040 online books/articles, related with communication areas such as communication consultancy, public relations, marketing communication, media, advertising, and event management. In 2011, we added 427 new books and 207 new DVDs to our collection. During the year, Bersay employees borrowed 1487 of our resources. Besides Bersay employees, the library is open to communications professionals, our clients, students, academicians in the field of communication, media members, and the attendants of BIE training programs. The library has 350 external active members who borrowed a total of 336 in 2011. BIE Meeting Rooms BIE Meeting Rooms provide exclusive opportunities for companies who would like to organize meetings in a spacious and respectable atmosphere and host their guests or clients in the best manner possible. Each one of 4 rooms with 8, 10, 12 and 14people capacity offers a Board, A4 Printer, Wireless Internet, Plasma TV and Air-conditioner. Communication on Progress 2011 | 16 BIE Multi-Purpose Hall With a capacity of 115 people, BIE Multi-Purpose Hall is available for music, cinema, theater shows and activities as well as training, seminary, meeting and presentation purposes. BIE Multi-purpose Hall is fully-equipped with technical fixtures and personnel. BIE provides place for its clients‟ any activities and rents its conference rooms and hall, the income of which are donated for scholarships. However BIE also provides its rooms for free for exhibitions, meetings and other activities that contribute to the development of awareness in environmental issues and to the society. (Principle 8-9). During 2011, BIE hosted the meetings of Xerox, Deutsche Bank, Novartis, Oyku Lojistik, AIFD Diabetes and Hepatitis Working Groups, Kultur Kolej, Istanbul Erkek Lisesi, TUYID and Girls in Tech initiative. Scholarships BIE is the main corporate social responsibility initiative of Bersay Communications Group. BIE scholarships aim to support not the people themselves but their researches and thesis studies. At the beginning of 2010, BIE started providing scholarships to 6 thesis studies on communications, 4 of which are graduate and 2 of which are doctorate theses. BIE continued its scholarships with 6 studies in 2011. BIE scholarships No NamePost University / Post Thesis Subject Surname Graduate/ GraduateDoctorate Doctorate Program 1 Asli Post Istanbul University Social Increasing the Knowledge Tosuner Graduate Sciences Institute / Public Through Social Media Means Relations to Change the Role of Knowledge in Consumption and Consumer Behavior in More Productive Way 2 İlgin Post Marmara University Social The Effect of Brand Balance Cakiroglu Graduate Sciences Institute / of Political Parties to Voting Production Management Intention and Marketing 3 Ozge Post Marmara University Social Changing Family Values in Gursoy Graduate Sciences Institute Respect of Reflection to Visual Media 4 Ozlem Doctorate Istanbul University Social Turkish Journalists in the Taskent Sciences Institute / Field of European Union Erkmen Journalism Media – The Effect of National Area to Journalism Practices 5 Seckin Post Presidency of General Perception Management in Cetin Graduate Stuff War Academy / Intelligence and Counter Strategic Researches Intelligence Institute Department 6 Selin Doctorate Ege University Social Social Marketing and Bitirim Sciences Institute Communication in Creating Social Benefit Communication on Progress 2011 | 17 Our Support Units Human Assets Department Bersay has always played a pioneer role for its sector and had implemented different practices for its employees‟ welfare since its foundation. In 2010, with the understanding that „human is an asset”, Bersay led the way and transformed Human Resources Department into Human Assets Department. Bersay Communication Group guides its clients about this concept and represents a role model for its suppliers, clients and stakeholders (Principle 1-2). Employee Satisfaction As a communication consultancy group, Bersay gives importance to its internal communications and aims to get feedback from its employees in terms of working conditions, job descriptions, career plans, relations with management etc. For this purpose, Bersay conducts a survey annually and measures the satisfaction of its employees (Principle 1-2). The survey is executed by a third party research company and the answers are kept confidential so employees feel free to answer the questions truly (Principle 1). After receiving the results, Bersay takes actions for business improvement activities according to the results. In March 2011 an internal communication survey had been carried out to measure the satisfaction of our employees for the year 2010. The survey was implemented to 94 employees. According to the results the average satisfaction ratio of our employees is over 70%. 2011 survey is still in progress to be completed at the end of May 2012. Recruitment In Bersay Communications Group recruitment process is determined clearly and the related procedures are applied strictly. When writing the recruitment process it has been given a lot of importance to treat every employee candidate fairly (Principle 1-2). In addition, our employee advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age. Our employees are free to report incidents of workplace discrimination. In Bersay we do not discriminate our employees by their gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, color, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, organizational membership, opinion, health status, sexual orientation, marital status, birth or civic, social or political characteristics (Principle 6). Bersay provides equal employment opportunities. 65% of our employees are women (Principle 6). Bersay does not recruit anybody below the legal age of 18. Bersay is against the child labor and complies with the minimum age provisions of Turkish labor laws and Communication on Progress 2011 | 18 regulations (Principle 5). Bersay is strictly against forced labor, which is also considered as a potential risk in the service sector. Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts cannot be against the labor law. The contracts state the actual working terms and conditions and their rights clearly. In addition to employment contracts, our employees are given a booklet which includes all administrative processes, discipline code, dress code and other employee related issues, by Human Assets Department at the beginning of their recruitment process. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights (Principle 4). During the recruitment process we pay attention to answer the job application timely and properly. In 2011 our application responding rate was 93% (Principle 1-2). Reward System Bersay employees are rewarded for their works through the finder fee and success fee processes and career plans (Principle 1-2). Bersay employees receive bonuses at a specified ratio of service charge when they find new business or accomplish successful work for their current clients. Bersay Communications Group has a proper promotion system and evaluates its employees in every 6 months through its performance assessment system. The employees who create difference, succeed and show good performance are promoted accordingly. In addition to this, the employees working as „consultant‟ and „client director‟ for at least 3 years have the right to be a shareholder if they show outstanding performance. Every year, shareholders get an increasing percentage of company shares. The annual profit is apportioned among the shareholders according to their share rate. Internships In Bersay we give degree and graduate students internship opportunities and we have a written internship procedure. The students who complete their internship within Bersay Communications Group get the opportunity to make their academic knowledge into practice in place. The purpose and content of internship programs include matters that support the development of students. The students have the rights provided in Labor Law. In 2011, 35 students did internships in Bersay Communications Group companies. Trainings In Bersay Communications Group, there is a system which will be used as a base for supporting the individual development of all employees (Principle 1-2). There are two types of training programs in the system: 1) The training programs supplied from third Communication on Progress 2011 | 19 parties (Corporate trainings), 2) Optional trainings (Individual based trainings). While employees do not pay for corporate trainings, the company pays only half of the cost of optional trainings. The corporate trainings are determined at the end of the performance assessment terms according to the results by Human Assets Department. This means that in Bersay, training needs‟ analysis is realized twice a year (at the end of the each performance assessments). In 2011, we organized 27 corporate trainings and 4 workshops for our employees. Internal Communication As a group of communication companies, internal communication activities are highly important for our management team and all employees. We organize dinners, activities and create social networking opportunities. On the other hand, to enable internal communication, we built an online platform called „BIG Journal‟ from which our employees can make and follow up some demands and which includes internal and external agenda. Bersay Group aims to create a platform for its clients‟ employees to share internal information, and to create a system that explains the principles and methods regarding this aim. For this purpose, all Bersay Communication Group employees gather to share their ongoing agenda and case studies BIE Meeting Hall between 08.30-10.00 am every Friday. The Group starts to the new working year with a big opening event called „kick-off‟. Bersay kick-off meetings are organized every year in January. The purpose of this meeting is for the group companies to share the cases, analysis and financial situation of the past year and announce the targets for the next year. Wages and Benefit Package In Bersay Communications Group, salaries depend on the job description and experience of the employees. There is no difference between the basic salaries of men and women (Principle 6). In Bersay the weekly working hours is 40 and our employees are given reasonable breaks and rest periods (Principle 1). The company has a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee. The company grant employees paid holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in accordance with national law. In addition to this, on the day called “quilt vacation” all Bersay employees have right to take one day off in addition to their annual leave. Bersay maintains a policy of strong commitment on health and safety issues (Principle 1). Although all Bersay employees are covered with governmental social security insurance policy, we supply extra private health insurance policy for the employees Communication on Progress 2011 | 20 who completed their first year within the company. Due to our company‟s data in 2011, 65 of our employees were insured and in 2012 we target to insure 85 of our employees. We can list the other items of Bersay benefit package as written below: • Coiffeur: There is a hairdresser who serves for half of the day for our female employees. • Lunch: We have a cafeteria that gives free lunch service for all of our employees every day between 12.00 am – 02.00 pm. • Transportation: There are private vehicles and drivers at our employees‟ disposal so that our employees can make their business visits comfortably. • Mobile phone: We provide smart phones to all our employees with which they can use for business purposes for free. • Cafe: Our employees are served hot and cold drinks during working hours. Operational Processes Client Satisfaction It is aimed to question and develop the positive aspects of the service quality and client satisfaction of Bersay Communication Group companies, to take precautions for the negative situations timely and efficiently, to take proper steps for keeping the client satisfaction and service quality optimized. For this purpose, we were conducting client satisfaction surveys every year. In 2010 we revised our client satisfaction assessment process. According to the revised process, every beginning of the year a top executive of Bersay Communications Group makes face-to-face interviews with high level executives of the client to get feedback. Timesheet Bersay has a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee per clients and job descriptions called „Timesheet‟. All Bersay Communication Group employees fill out their timesheets weekly. Human Assets Department prepares an efficiency report based on mentioned timesheet logs using the data like personnel costs, fees and working hours. Administrative Affairs One of the priorities of Bersay Communication Group is to create environmental awareness first for our employees and for our clients, suppliers and stakeholders. Administrative Affairs Department of our group is responsible for electricity, water, paper, natural gas usage and waste handling processes and application of the environment friendly technologies (Principle 9). Our Honorary President Ali Saydam discusses these issues in his columns at the daily Aksam newspaper and bi-weekly sectoral Marketing Turkiye magazine. Also Communication on Progress 2011 | 21 environment issues are mentioned by our editors at the journals that Kesisim prepares. Bersay encourages its clients to adapt environment projects as appropriate (Principle 8). Paper Usage Bersay encourages its staff to communicate via electronic devices and to use less paper. In 2011, we started printing and photocopying with employee entry cards, which led to a decrease of over 80 percent in paper consumption, compared to the previous year. Electricity Usage We apply energy conservation techniques in all our bathrooms and the batteries are being recharged by administrative affairs. Water Usage In 2011 we started using washing machines in our cafeteria areas and preferred to use flooding system for washing the company cars. Natural Gas Usage We decreased our natural gas usage slightly by applying maintenance to related equipment. Waste Bersay waste are clustered into categories according to their raw materials. Glass, plastic, battery and metal recycling bins are placed in the company. These bins are collected by the Sisli Municipality weekly. Our waste oils are put in sealed bags and delivered to Sisli Municipality daily. (Principle 7). Security Our building is protected by a private security firm. We also have an alarm system and security cameras at each floor (Principle 2). Information and Document Management Corporate Memory Bersay Communications Group gives importance to keeping the information safely and effective document management. Thus we make investments and put efforts for developing our corporate memory continuously. It is aimed that all kinds of documents are recorded, classified, and archived regularly and accessed when needed. (Principle 12). Our Memberships ICCO (International Communications Consultancy Organization) Our group companies Bersay Communications Consultancy and Saydam Communication on Progress 2011 | 22 Communication and Event Management are members of ICCO (International Communications Consultancy Organization). ICCO adopts IPRA‟s Charter on Media Transparency. Due to the charter, Bersay is committed to ethical behavior, objectivity and accuracy. As a result of the membership, both companies are audited in every two years in respect of being suitable to Consultancy Management Standard (CMS). CMS combines elements of ISO 9000 and Investors in People with criteria specific to public relations consultancy. Developed by the Public Relations Consultants Association of the UK, it was introduced in 1997 as the industry‟s first quality certification system for public relations firms and is now being rolled out worldwide. The assessment process is conducted by independent auditor and covers 8 key business areas: • Leadership & Communications • Business Planning • Business Improvement • Financial Systems • Campaign Management • Client Satisfaction • New Business • People Management The re-assessment period for maintaining CMS certification is every two years. In 2010 both Bersay Communication Consultancy and Saydam Communication and Event Management went under audit. After a 2 days audit for each company, the results were satisfying: Bersay Communications Consultancy achieved an average success of 94,9 and Saydam Communication and Event Management achieved an average success of 95,1%. http://www.iccopr.com TEID (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society) Founded in May 2010, TEID is a non-profit organization aiming to develop and encourage adherence to universally recognized business ethics principles and disseminating those in Turkish Business environment. TEID not only acts as a point of reference for the private sector companies assisting them to implant the principles of business ethics but also works closely with the legislators in the pursuit of a socioCommunication on Progress 2011 | 23 economic environment where companies act in compliance with those principles do not lose their competitiveness but gain advantages. Another important aspect of TEID‟s mission is to underline how reputation, as a result of ethical behavior, affects the company value. TEID is a member of European Business Ethics Network (EBEN). In 2011, BIE became a corporate member of TEID and will sign the Ethics Declaration in 2012. IDA (Communication Consultancy Companies Association) Our group companies Bersay and Saydam are active members of IDA. http://www.ida.org.tr/ TUHID (Turkey Public Relations Association) / (Individual Based Memberships) Four Bersay partners are members of TUHID (Turkey Public Relations Association) individually. http://www.tuhid.org/tr/ TBV (Turkey Informatics Foundation) / (Individual Based Memberships) Main objective of the foundation is to contribute to prepare substructure for helping Turkey to become an information society, and for enabling the informatics sector to have a bigger share from the economy to make economic and social practices, create projects and try to enable them to be applied by realizing scientific research and developments. Our founder Ali Saydam is a member of TBV individually. www.tbv.org.tr/ TUSIAD (Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association) / (Individual Based Memberships) TUSIAD aims to prevent the attitude and behaviors which do not comply with business ethics and argues that the sensibility of all members of society and public/private enterprises should be increased. TUSIAD has issued the report titled as „Business Ethics‟ in 1992 and has been leader in this field by adding business ethics principles in its regulation. Our founder Ali Saydam became a member of TUSIAD individually in 2010. www.tusiad.org/ Communication on Progress 2011 | 24 UN Global Compact Principles GC GRI Definition Bersay Approach Bersay Practices Bersay Communications Recruitment process Group believes that every Rewarding system Business should people has right to work, HR1, HR2, (Finder/Success Fee) support and respect choose his/her job, freedom HR3, HR4, Employee satisfaction the protection of of expression, liberty and 1 HR5, HR6, survey internationally security, health care and HR7, HR8, Health insurance proclaimed human equality. Bersay also HR9 Trainings rights consults its suppliers and Internal Communication clients to support the same Internship Program principles. Bersay policies on Business should Employee satisfaction harassment, employment ensure that they are survey 2 HR1, HR2 equity, safety and health not complicit in human Employee contracts and ensure that basic human rights confidentialty rights are firmly respected. Accessable management team Bersay policy on Business should Bielog communication employment equity ensures LA2, LA4, uphold the freedom of platform the provision of good LA5, LA13, association and Weekly regular group 3 working conditions in which LA14, effective recognition of meetings all HR4, HR5 the right to collective Participative management employees could express barganining Information sharing their ideas. Profit sharing Bonuses Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts can not Business should Bersay is strictly against be against the labor law. support the elimination forced labor considered as a The contracts state the 4 HR7 of all forms of forced potential risk also in service actual working terms and and compulsory labor sector. conditions and their rights clearly. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights. Bersay is against the child Business should labour and complies with Bersay does not recruit 5 HR6 support the effective the minimum age provisions anybody below the legal abolition of child labor of Turkish labor laws and age of 18. regulations. Bersay believes every Business should individual has to be support the elimination treatened fairly without LA2, LA13, Recruitment process 6 of discrimination in considering what their LA14, HR6 Discipline code respect of employment gender is, what their and occupation contract type is, what their job is and so on. Communication on Progress 2011 | 25 Bersay, like the rest of the society, faces the global challenge of ensuring a Business should healthy and sustainable support a environment in the future. precautionary Waste handling applications 7 4.11 By signing the Global approach to Decreasing paper usage Compact Bersay commits environmental itself to approach more challenges carefully to environmental issues. Bersay will also sign the Ethics Declaration. Bersay developes either EN2, EN5, Corporate Social EN6, EN7, Responsiblity projects and EN10, One of the priorities of the projects aiming to EN13, Business should Bersay Communication promote greater EN14, undertake initatives to Group is to create environmental 8 EN18, promote greater environmental awareness responsibility. The clients EN21, environment first for our employees and are encouraged to apply EN22, responsibility for all of our clients, those projects as their EN26, suppliers and stakeholders. environmental and EN27, Corporate Social EN30 Responsibility projects. EN2, EN5, Business should EN6, EN7, encourage the Water, Paper, Electricity, Bersay encourages its staff EN10, development and Natural Gas, Energy Saving 9 to use environmentally EN18, diffusion of Supporting Recycling friendly techonologies. EN26, environmentally Process EN27 friendly techonologies Bersay‟s employment agreement states that unethical business practice Business should work is a reason for ending Bersay is against all forms SO2, SO3, against corruption in employment contract. 10 of corruption, including SO4 all its forms, including Bersay Memberships: ICCO, extortion and bribery. extortion and bribery IDA, TEID Individual Based Memberships: TUHID, TBV, TUSIAD Communication on Progress 2011 | 26 Performance Indicators Actions Aims 2011 Targets 2011Results 2012 Targets Survey for 2010 is To have satisfied implemented to 94 and motivated employees and over Sustain the Employee Satisfaction employees who 70% employee 70% employee employee Survey are happy with satisfaction satisfaction is satisfaction level their working and achieved. 2011 living conditions survey is still in progress. To have satisfied and motivated Total of 118.000 TL We will sustain To sustain the fair employees who bonus is presented our fair and Rewarding System and proper policy are happy with to BIG employees proper policy in in 2011 their rewards for during 2011 2012 their work 100% job 100% job 93% job application Recruitment Process Fair treatment application application responding rate responding rate responding rate 10 corporate 27 corporate To give indiviual trainings 10 corporate trainings development 15 optional trainings Human Rights Training 18 optional opportunites to trainings 15 optional trainings our employees BİE meetings and trainings 4 workshops training programs 12 monthly dinner Motivation / organizations with 1 year end 1 year end Participation to COO / 1 year end organization / organization / Internal company organization / Weekly Bizbize Weekly Bizbize Communication processes / Weekly Bizbize Meetings / 1 year Meetings / 1 year Information Meetings / 1 year end Kick-off end Kick-off sharing end Kick-off To give students opoortunities to To continue To continue develop creating 35 internships (two creating Internships themselves and internship months for each) internship find job opportunities opportunities opportunities One-to-one To satisfy our 80% client meetings with client Over 80% client Client Satisfaction clients with satisfaction executives are held satisfaction qualified services for feedback To have an accessable, The process is To keep all data effective and revised for data of Sustain the action Corporate Memory under classified functional 2009, 2010 and appropriately records corporate 2011 memory Communication on Progress 2011 | 27 To report our To report our efficiency report efficiency report To have a system and to make The process is and to make to plan, record business revised and an business Timesheet and monitor improvement action plan was improvement hours worked by activities created activities each employee according to the according to the results if required results if required Revised Discipline Discipline Code is To sustain the fair Non-Discrimination Fair treatment Code revised and proper policy Labour Standards Increase the ratio Number of Woman 65% of our of women To sustain the fair Employees / Number Fair treatment employees are employees and proper policy of Total Employees women (63.24% in 2010) Employees' Health Care: 85 65 employees are 85 employees to Benefit Packages welfare and employees will be insured be insured motivation insured To sustain the fair Fair and proper To sustain the fair Wages Fair treatment and proper policy policy is sustained and proper policy To sustain the Ethical approach in To sustain the Anti-Corruption Ethical Business ethical approach employment ethical approach Employment Contract Practices in employment contracts is in employment contracts sustained contracts To sustain the Ethical Business ethical approach TEID membership To sign the Ethics Memberships Practices in business completed Declaration practices Water Usage Environment To reduce To reduce Paper Usage Environmentally consumption and consumption and Electricity Usage friendly Total 30% continue continue applications and reduction Natural Gas Usage supporting the supporting the less consumption Waste recycling process recycling process For our nonprofit 8 scholarships / 6 scholarships / 400 8 scholarships / enterprise BIE to 400 TL for each TL for each scholar 400 TL for each Scholarships deliver its first scholar by month by month for 12 scholar by month scholarships for 12 months months for 12 months Excellence in Volunteer Activities Communication / Outliers IDA To create and sell Communications training programs Consultancy 5 training 5 training Training Programs of which profits Certificate Program programs programs will be given as Media Relations scholarships Management Bahcesehir CO-OP Project Cinema Conversations with Ali Saydam Communication on Progress 2011 | 28 To publish nonprofit books 2 books of Ali and magazines Book: Outliers Sustaining the Saydam supporting the Magazine: NPQ ongoing book, Publications 2 issues of NPQ development of Online platform: magazine and Sustaining of the sector and to BILEOG BIELOG plannings BILEOG donate their income “Culture Code” by Dr. Clotaire Raphaille“Creativity” by Petra Sonner To support the “Understanding development of new Turkey” by sector by Bekir Agirdir organizing “Awareness on Conference and seminars, 6 meetings Breast Cancer” by 6 meetings Meetings conferences, Dr. Sevil meetings for free Oz“Designing the and to produce smile” by Dentist depth knowledge Arzu Yalnız “Turkish Media and PR in Turkey” to George State University students “Urgent action plan for food sector: Health and wellness communications” by Gulden Ohri “Fashion designers creating identities: Martin Margiela case study” by To produce depth Merve Gungul Articles knowledge for the 3 articles 5 articles “Social networks sector beat consumption: Age of sharing” by Asli Tosuner “How successful was the USA in managing the perception at Iraq war” by Seckin Cetin To make donations and grants to the Donation of Ali All editions of Ali Sustaining the sector through Saydam's 'How to Saydam's book's ongoing book Donations and grants our individual and Loose Wife and revenues are revenue corporate social Client?' revenues donated to BIE donations responsibility activities Communication on Progress 2011 | 29 Exhibitions: “Green Steps” by environmental training association Yesil Adimlar“Cattoman Empire” by artist Efsun Gunes“IETT in 140 Years” – 4 activities History of Istanbul‟s To support other Library: (2800 public transport 6 activities social books,450 “Spirits seeking Increase the responsibility DVD,50 magazine love” by artist Facilities number of library activities by subscriptions,440 Barbaros Ayvaz sources and providing facilities internal and “Third Eye” by artist members for them for free external Kamer Nesrin members) Gumusayak Public Library: 6.500 materials including 2696 books, 682 DVDs, 43 magazine subscriptions, and 3040 online books/articles,90 internal and 350 external members Communication on Progress 2011 | 30
