ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ABOUT US more... A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO more... ANNUAL REVIEW more... CONTENTS ABOUT US 1 GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND RESPECTING RIGHTS 12 BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND FINANCE 15 WORKPLACE 24 COMMUNITY 32 ENVIRONMENT 38 GRI AND UNGC INDEX 44 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Paciﬁc Hydro Pty Ltd’s fourth annual Sustainability Report, covering the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012. This is the ﬁrst year we have combined the Annual Review with our Sustainability Report into one document. This report covers the sustainability performance of Paciﬁc Hydro Pty Ltd and its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries, including the assets and ofﬁces in Australia, Brazil and Chile that we operate. The performance of joint ventures (JV) and consortiums not operated by Paciﬁc Hydro (a total of 371MW installed capacity) are excluded from the scope of this report. However, summary information on the excluded joint ventures has been provided in recognition of their material impact on our business (see p.6–7). Previously JV data was reported by exception. As we are no longer reporting by exception, our abatement and generation ﬁgures will appear to have decreased. This, and prior sustainability reports dating back to 2009, are available at paciﬁchydro.com All dollar amounts are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines and the Electric Utilities Sector Supplement have been applied to a B Level and checked by the GRI. The report is not externally assured, but work towards obtaining external assurance continues as part of our long-term sustainability strategy. x Not achieved Follow the links when you see this symbol 9 Achieved to ﬁnd out more o Ongoing FRONT & BACK COVER IMAGE CHACAYES HYDRO PLANT ABOUT US COMPANY PROFILE Paciﬁc Hydro is a leading renewable energy company, With hydro, wind, solar and geothermal power producing clean power from natural resources. projects at varying stages of development, construction and operation in Australia, Brazil and Chile, we continue For 20 years we have lived our vision – powering a cleaner to provide strong returns for the environment, local world – by identifying, delivering and operating renewable communities and investors. energy projects and providing clean power and carbon abatement products and services to customers across the globe. RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ABATED 1.8 MILLION MEGAWATT HOURS 1.2 MILLION TONNES REVENUE INVESTED IN COMMUNITIES $197 MILLION $377,000 OPERATING ASSETS EMPLOYEES 15 278 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY EMPLOYEE TRAINING FREQUENCY RATE AND DEVELOPMENT SPEND 7.2 $642,000 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 1 VISION OUR LEADING VALUES POWERING A CLEANER WORLD. LEADERSHIP DEDICATION Having the courage to lead We are dedicated to ensuring a and innovate. healthy and safe environment for our employees, the sustainability of our ENERGY business and positive outcomes for Helping to meet the world’s energy our communities. MISSION needs while making a positive and lasting difference to the environment. INCLUSION We are committed to promoting TO PRODUCE ELECTRICITY ACTION a work environment where PROFITABLY THROUGH Achieving our goals by inclusion and diversity are valued. THE INNOVATIVE working together, with integrity COMMERCIALISATION OF and an entrepreneurial spirit. CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES. A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN This year Paciﬁc Hydro is celebrating Paciﬁc Hydro is an important part of 20 years of clean energy. the IFM Australian Infrastructure Fund, which has delivered net returns of The platform established by all the 12.13% per annum since its inception hard work of the employees and (to 30 June 2012) to more than ﬁve management of Paciﬁc Hydro over million Australian members of industry these 20 years has put the company superannuation funds. in a great position. Paciﬁc Hydro continues to deliver A number of achievements for the sustainable infrastructure investment past year are highlighted in the report. opportunities, enhancing energy However, we also faced challenges security and reducing carbon due to extended outages at our joint emissions through its renewable venture assets in Chile, which have energy projects. impacted on the overall performance of the group for almost the full ﬁnancial The pursuit of these opportunities year. During this time, I am pleased to will ensure a very bright future for report that the Board and our owner, Paciﬁc Hydro. Industry Funds Management (IFM), remained fully committed to the long term value of the business. GARRY WEAVEN 2 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO WELCOME TO OUR FIRST COMBINED ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, AN IMPORTANT STEP TOWARDS IMPROVING THE COMMUNICATION OF OUR BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS. The 2011–12 Australian ﬁnancial Operationally, our assets in Australia year saw us continuing to live our vision and Brazil performed well with high – powering a cleaner world – through the levels of availability and efﬁciency. One development, delivery and operation of of Paciﬁc Hydro’s longest running assets, renewable energy projects. the Ord hydro plant in Western Australia, delivered its highest generation ever Our core strategy of investing in three and well-above-average wind resources A partnership recently formed with of the strongest combined renewable in the second half contributed to good Vale, the world’s second-largest mining energy markets and GDP growth countries performance in Brazil. company, in Brazil , will see us jointly – Australia, Brazil and Chile – continues build, own and operate two wind farms to generate growth opportunities and In Chile, our 111 megawatt (MW) in Brazil’s Northeast. shareholder value. Chacayes run-of-river hydro plant was completed on time and has delivered In Chile, we will continue to work together More than 1.8 million megawatt hours excellent operational performance since with SN Power, our joint venture partner, (MWh) of clean, renewable energy were commencing commercial operations to ﬁnalise the works in progress and to generated by our assets, leading to the despite continued dry hydrological resume operations at Tinguiririca Energía. abatement of over 1.2 million tonnes of conditions. However, an extended outage We are also focussed on developing our greenhouse gas emissions. of our two hydro projects at our Tinguiririca ﬁrst wind farm in the north of the country Energía joint venture, caused in part by the and continuing to develop our run-of-river Health and safety remained a priority collapse of a small section of the tunnel hydro project pipeline. for us and we achieved two of our at La Higuera, had a material impact on three key performance indicators. Due Paciﬁc Hydro’s overall group results. I hope you enjoy reading about our to the number of reportable incidents business and sustainability achievements that occurred during the year, we failed Despite these challenges, the year ahead over the last ﬁnancial year and have the to achieve our Total Recordable Injury is looking promising for Paciﬁc Hydro as opportunity to discover how we powered Frequency Rate target. we celebrate 20 years of clean energy. a cleaner world over the last 20 years at Throughout the year, we continued to paciﬁchydro.com.au/20years. Our three core markets – Australia, work and support our host communities Brazil and Chile – are all resource-based globally through our community investment economies which are expected to continue funds and a range of community relations beneﬁting from demand from China and activities. India for their mineral and energy products. As these three economies grow, so too ROB GRANT We continued to support and promote will their demand for clean and secure the ten principles of the United Nations energy supplies. Paciﬁc Hydro will play Global Compact throughout our business, a signiﬁcant role in meeting that demand further aligning our operations and for new clean energy. strategies with these key areas. In late 2011, Paciﬁc Hydro was recognised for its In Australia, we are becoming a clean corporate social responsibility efforts in energy retailer, offering solutions for Chile, ranking tenth out of 40 companies medium and large commercial and industrial in the prestigious PROhumana Foundation organisations looking for a reliable, ﬂexible, Corporate Social Responsibility ranking. and cost-effective service to meet their electricity supply needs. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 3 ANNUAL REVIEW The Paciﬁc Hydro group achieved many important milestones despite signiﬁcant challenges faced during the reporting year. We made signiﬁcant enhancements to our revenue forecasting and risk framework and saw the rollout of a new SAP ﬁnance system in Australia. However, the roll out to Chile and Brazil has been delayed. Market conditions for new renewable energy projects in Australia and Brazil continued to be a challenge for our business. In Chile, our focus was on the completion of existing construction projects. The ongoing ﬁnancial support received from our owner, IFM, clearly demonstrated their commitment to Paciﬁc Hydro’s long term strategy. At the end of the ﬁnancial year, the AUSTRALIA signing of a consortium agreement with Vale to jointly build and The move to become a clean energy We also maintained our focus operate two wind farms in the retailer in Australia was approved by on technology and geographic Northeast of Brazil was an crucial the Board in 2011. diversiﬁcation. The planning strategic step for us as we application of our Keyneton wind continue to grow our business in As a retailer, our solutions will help farm in South Australia was lodged South America. medium and large organisations to and we continue to work with meet their sustainability and carbon community members to address A diversity and inclusion strategy reduction objectives, building on our concerns about the project. We also was developed and implemented track record of helping Australian further progressed plans to jointly across the business to further electricity retailers and large energy develop conventional geothermal strengthen our values. Voluntary consumers to meet their green projects with exploration company turnover reduced by 3% since the energy needs over the last 20 years. GreenRock Energy. previous year to 10.8%. With a focus on operational While the Moree Solar Farm excellence, we implemented a project was unsuccessful under new operations and maintenance the Federal Government’s Solar agreement for our Portland assets Flagships Program, the New South and fully transitioned our Codrington Wales project continues to be wind farm to in-house maintenance. developed with partner Fotowatio Renewable Ventures. 4 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 HYDRO WIND SOLAR GEOTHERMAL CHILE The ﬁrst generation from our 111MW Chacayes run-ofriver hydro plant in late 2011 was the most important achievement for Paciﬁc Hydro in the reporting period. Already awarded BRAZIL Environmental Initiative of the Year for the sustainable With a population of 190 million development measures put in people and increasing electricity demand place in its early design stages, created by a growing middle class, the Chacayes was chosen by wind power led Brazilian renewable Chilean President Sebastián energy market presents exciting growth Piñera as the location to prospects for Paciﬁc Hydro. announce Chile’s National Early in 2011, we made a strategic Energy Policy in March 2012. decision to pursue opportunities in the Since commencing commercial Brazilian unregulated clean energy operations, Chacayes has market to build on our wind farm project delivered excellent operational development pipeline and supply performance despite continued clean electricity to large industrial and dry hydrological conditions that resources companies. have also impacted our other In June 2012, we signed a Consortium assets in Chile. Agreement with Vale, the world’s In June 2012, we second-largest mining company, to jointly submitted the Declaration build, own and operate two wind farms in of Environmental Impact of our Brazil’s Northeast. Under the partnership, ﬁrst wind project in Chile, the each company will have 50% ownership Punta Sierra wind farm, to the of the wind farms and Vale will be the Environmental Assessment sole off-taker for 20 years. Service of the Coquimbo Operationally, the business unit Region, an important step achieved an availability of 97.5% for our in Paciﬁc Hydro’s technology operating assets, despite the impact of expansion strategy in the corrective maintenance on underground country. cables at Vale dos Ventos, delivering CONTINUED PG.6 positive results. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 5 ANNUAL REVIEW TINGUIRIRICA ENERGÍA BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND FINANCE La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia generated over While the Tinguiririca Energía Joint Venture in Chile is not 190,000MWh of clean energy during the reporting included in the scope of this report, its social, environmental period, which abated over 117,000 tonnes of carbon and economic performance has a material impact on our dioxide equivalent (C02 -e). business. A performance summary has been provided as part our Annual Review. The two hydro plants are registered under the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism, a scheme Tinguiririca Energía is co-owned (50%) by Paciﬁc Hydro allowing projects which reduce emissions to earn certiﬁed and Norwegian company SN Power. The two run-of-river emission reduction credits, or CERs, which can then be plants, La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia, are located in the sold or traded with industrialised countries. La Higuera was Tinguiririca Valley, in the sixth region. The stations add registered under CDM in 2006 and La Conﬂuencia in 2011. more than 310MW to Chile’s electricity generation capacity. Tinguiririca Energía’s thermal back-up power station Colmito, La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia received capital funding in the ﬁfth region of Chile, opened in 2008 and has an from both shareholders and were debt ﬁnanced by a installed capacity of 57MW. consortium of international banks. The consortium, led by the International Finance Corporation, includes DNB, It was a difﬁcult year for Tinguiririca Energía due to Nordea, SEB and Santander. All the commercial banks an extended outage resulting from the collapse of a are signatories to the Equator Principles. The banks chose 20 metre section of the 17 kilometre tunnel at the 155MW to model the Equator Principles on the environmental La Higuera project. While remedial works are progressing standards of the World Bank and the social policies of the well, the outage signiﬁcantly impacted ﬁnancial performance International Finance Corporation. for the reporting period. Tunnel remediation works are continuing as planned and the plant will be operational During the completion of La Higuera in October 2010, in 2013. a number of construction and mechanical failures occurred. As a result of these delays, a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial cost was incurred by Tinguiririca Energía relating to, amongst other things, lost revenue, increased and unplanned costs and additional repair costs. Since June 2011, an arbitration process has been underway between La Higuera and contractor Queiroz Galvão. TINGUIRIRICA VALLEY, CHILE 6 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 WORKPLACE – HEALTH AND SAFETY More broadly, community engagement creates value for both Tinguiririca Energía and the community. Meetings Tinguiririca Energía achieved a TRIFR of 6.7 with no are held in different locations with community leaders, fatalities occurring during the reporting period. A continued neighbourhood councils and other organisations to share focus remained on improving health and safety performance, information, maintain communication, strengthen trust with a number of initiatives implemented to promote safe and identify opportunities. The ‘open door’ policy in the behaviour. One such program was the fourth annual road San Fernando ofﬁce encourages visitors and addresses safety campaign to promote safe driving on the roads concerns or queries from interested community members. that lead to the La Higuera and La Conﬂuencia hydro plants. Brochures and CD’s were handed out and movie Over $100,000 was invested in the local community screenings held for employees, locals and tourists to through the community investment program, Tinguiririca support the message. Participa. As well as providing funding opportunities for locals living in the Tinguiririca Valley, the program WORKPLACE – HUMAN RESOURCES works with community and grassroots leaders, proving training and assisting with preparation of social and Overall, Tinguiririca Energía has 89 employees, 83 staff community needs assessments. and 6 managers. There are 13 female staff and 70 male staff, while there is 1 female manager and 5 male managers. ENVIRONMENT In 2010, a scholarship program was developed to encourage further professional development through vocational or All three Tinguiririca Energía assets operate under an academic pathways. In 2012, 12% of the total workforce Environmental Management System (EMS) based on the participated in the program. Total staff turnover was 8.9% ISO 14001 standard. Annual audits against the EMS occur for the reporting period. to demonstrate compliance against national legislation and as a requirement of the lenders. Waste and emissions are Employees of Tinguiririca Energía are entitled to participate monitored at all three sites. During the reporting period, in the collective bargaining process and 42% of employees La Conﬂuencia emitted 7 tonnes of C02 -e, La Higuera are covered by collective bargaining agreements. emitted 110 tonnes of C02 -e and Colmito emitted 699 tonnes of C02 -e. COMMUNITY Minimum ecological ﬂows are required to preserve aquatic One of the major stakeholder groups is the local irrigators life and river-bank dwelling species. Our water management who use the Tinguiririca River for irrigation and agriculture. system includes monitoring to measure water quality and The Water Users Association have raised concerns regarding ensure ecological ﬂow requirements are met. Results are the hydro operations upstream and Tinguiririca Energía are reported to local environmental regulators periodically and working closely with them to achieve long term solutions we received no ﬁnes for environmental incidents during the for optimal water management in the Tinguiririca Valley. reporting period. Tinguiririca Energía have also committed to supporting improvements to the irrigation infrastructure in the Valley. Monitoring programs exist for the most signiﬁcant wildlife Some of the initiatives include an online monitoring system species native to the area, with results showing that no for irrigator intakes, evaluating alternatives for improving species have suffered negative impacts as a result of our water efﬁciency, cloud seeding to stimulate rain and presence in the region. providing support to improve canal irrigator organisations such as the Water Users Association. Tinguiririca Energía provided funds for maintenance of a major road, the I-45, to improve the infrastructure in the area. The road was also watered daily to minimise dust pollution and annoyance for locals. tinguiriricaenergia.cl PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 7 WHAT SUSTAINABILITY MEANS TO US OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY To enhance the integration of sustainability into our business practices, Our commitment to sustainability our Sustainability Strategy has been supports our vision of powering a embedded within the corporate 2012–17 cleaner world. It enables us to support Business Plan. The Sustainability Strategy our neighbouring communities, enhance outlines our sustainability objectives, our supply chain relationships and attract strategies and deliverables. It focuses and retain the best staff. It also allows us on setting consistent and cohesive to focus on long-term sustainable business sustainability objectives to support the four opportunities, manage risks, enhances pillars of our Sustainability Framework (see our corporate reputation and provides diagram below) across the Australia, Brazil, a competitive advantage. Chile and Corporate business units. Results from our materiality assessment and internal consultation feed into the development of sustainability objectives. THE PORT BROUGHTON GOLF CLUB IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA RECEIVED FUNDING THROUGH OUR SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES FUND OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY BUSINESS DISCIPLINES STAKEHOLDERS BUSINESS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE OPERATIONS & FINANCE IMPLEMENTATION & MANAGEMENT MEASUREMENT & PERFORMANCE IMPACT 8 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OUR STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER GROUP METHODS AND FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT We deﬁne our stakeholders as Shareholders (Owner) Monthly Board and quarterly Committee individuals and groups who are impacted meetings; periodic Industry Funds by our activities or those who can impact Management investor brieﬁngs; annual our future development. Due to their ﬁve year business planning process; diverse interests, we adapt our approach regular strategy reviews and engagement activities to suit each situation. The table to the right shows Banks and ﬁnanciers Regular formal and informal meetings; the stakeholder groups who have been ad-hoc reports, written correspondence identiﬁed as the key audiences for this and phone calls; occasional site visits; report, as well as how we have engaged health, safety, sustainability and operational with them during the past year. All of these reporting as required groups were invited to contribute to our Communities and landholders Formal and informal community materiality assessment survey, which consultation sessions and work tables assisted in the identiﬁcation of topics as required; one-on-one meetings as to include in this report. required; occasional site visits; ongoing interaction with community and landholder liaison ofﬁcers; regular newsletters; regular community engagement and investment activities Employees Monthly online CEO update; monthly line manager communications; monthly lunchtime forums hosted by CEO, general managers or functional teams; six monthly and annual performance reviews; regular social functions and events; annual Organisational Alignment and Engagement Survey; regular intranet news updates Contractors and suppliers Expressions of Interest; quotations and tender processes; regular meetings; Sustainable Supplier Assessments as required; contracts across the project lifecycle – development, delivery and operations Customers Regular meetings; ongoing written communications and phone conversations with existing customers; on-going relationship development with a range of prospective customers through meetings, attendance at market events and sponsorship of market-related seminars and conferences Government authorities – local, state Regular meetings; regular written and federal submissions as required; occasional site visits; ongoing formal participation and representation on industry associations and other bodies PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 9 DETERMINING REPORT METHODOLOGY Following this, an ‘internal ranking’ of topics was conducted, based upon an CONTENT AND MATERIALITY We apply the Global Report Initiative’s assessment of company policies and deﬁnition of materiality as being topics business strategies, risk framework and This report aims to present the “that reﬂect the organisation’s signiﬁcant registers, stakeholder feedback, peers and sustainability topics that are most economic, environmental and social business norms. important to our business and our impacts, or that would substantively stakeholders. inﬂuence the assessments and decisions The results of the internal and external Each year, we conduct a materiality of stakeholders.” rankings are shown on the following page. assessment to determine the topics A line was drawn to highlight the topics This year, the external element of our that received a high internal and external of most interest, or materiality, to our assessment comprised an anonymous ranking and could be considered priority stakeholders. This exercise enables written survey with a total of 29 questions, areas in the development of sustainability us to determine key areas to be taken with a number of additional questions strategies and the content of sustainability into account during the business planning asked of speciﬁc stakeholder groups. reports. All key topics identiﬁed through process so that sustainability strategies Stakeholders were asked to list topics or this process have been addressed in this and deliverables can be set as well as issues they thought were important for year’s report and are referenced below. identifying topics to be included in annual Paciﬁc Hydro to address. We received 53 sustainability reports. responses and allocated topics an ‘external ranking’ based on the number of times the topic was mentioned by stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY PILLAR TOPIC LOCATION IN REPORT COMMUNITY Relationships with communities Developing Communities, p.33 Impacts, p.33–37 Consultation and engagement Community engagement and consultation, with communities p.33 ENVIRONMENT Environmental impacts Environment, p.39–43 of Paciﬁc Hydro activities WORKPLACE Internal communications and alignment Inclusion and Diversity, p.27, 29 Employee engagement, p.30 BUSINESS OPERATIONS Responsible power generation Products and Services, p.16–17 AND FINANCE Response to Climate Change, p.18 Operational Excellence, p.20 Governance and transparency Board, p.12 Risk Management, p.13 Compliance, p.13 Ethical Behaviour, p.13–14 Delivering value Economic performance, p.16 Products and services, p.16–17 Government lobbying and public policy Public Policy Advocacy, p.21–22 10 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL MATERIALITY RANKING HIGH BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND FINANCE ENVIROMENT IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS WORKPLACE COMMUNITY RESPONSIBLE POWER GENERATION SUPPORT FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PH ACTIVITIES GOVERNANCE & RELATIONSHIP TRANSPARENCY WITH COMMUNITIES INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS & ALIGNMENT CONSULTATION AND ENGAGEMENT WITH MEDIUM COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEE PROCUREMENT ENGAGEMENT, PRACTICES WELLBEING & SATISFACTION DELIVERING VALUE GOVERNMENT LOBBYING AND PUBLIC POLICY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF RENEWABLE ENERGY COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AND SPENDING WATER EDUCATION OF DEVELOPMENT THE COMMUNITY AND PROMOTION OF RENEWABLE ENERGY TRAINING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY ON TARGETS OF EMPLOYEES CLIMATE CHANGE, GHG AND ENERGY BUSINESS CASE MANAGEMENT FOR SUSTAINABILITY SITE PLANNING DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IMPACTS ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND PARTNERSHIPS NOISE AND LOW VISUAL IMPACTS LOW MEDIUM IMPORTANCE TO PACIFIC HYDRO HIGH PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND RESPECTING RIGHTS OWNER As at 30 June 2012, the board consisted paciﬁchydro.com/our-board of seven non-executive members from Paciﬁc Hydro is a wholly-owned subsidiary diverse backgrounds, professions and paciﬁchydro.com/ourof the Industry Funds Management working environments, including three management (IFM) Australian Infrastructure Fund. representatives from IFM along with four paciﬁchydro.com/corporateThe investment management company independent Directors. This structure governance specialises in the management of ensures robust governance and investment products across private equity, continuous disclosure to our shareholder. infrastructure, debt and listed equities Kate Spargo, who has been a Director GENERAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE portfolios, and is wholly owned, through of Paciﬁc Hydro for eight years, retired Our General Management Committee Industry Super Holdings Pty Ltd, by a large effective 30 June 2012. (GMC) is charged with developing and number of Australian superannuation funds. implementing long-term strategy within the Three permanent committees (Health, policy parameters agreed with the Board. ifm.net.au Safety, People and Sustainability; Audit, Comprised of our CEO and his eight direct Finance and Risk; and Projects and reports, the GMC are directly responsible BOARD Operations) meet at least quarterly and for the performance of geographical are responsible for considering and giving business units and functional disciplines Our Directors are committed to principles direction on speciﬁc areas on behalf within the organisational structure. They of sustainability and are responsible for of the Board. are supported by a team of experienced ensuring that the company maintains The Health, Safety, People and and highly-skilled executive managers. an appropriate corporate governance structure. This protects and enhances Sustainability Committee has speciﬁc The GMC works closely with the Board shareholder value by ensuring the integrity responsibilities for sustainability to manage the affairs of the company, of reporting and by maintaining appropriate performance and related issues. including strategic development, corporate internal controls. The Board receives a monthly report governance and performance against key from management that includes qualitative and quantitative objectives. information on our social, economic and environmental performance. BOARD MEMBERS NAME POSITION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS Garry Weaven Chairman and Owner’s Representative (IFM) Audit, Finance and Risk Projects and Operations Geoff Coffey Independent Non-Executive Director Audit, Finance and Risk (Chair) Projects and Operations Roger Gill Independent Non-Executive Director Health, Safety, People and Sustainability Projects and Operations (Chair) Brett Himbury Non-Executive Director and Owner’s Representative Health, Safety, People and Sustainability (IFM) Audit, Finance and Risk Kyle Mangini Non-Executive Director and Owner’s Representative Audit, Finance and Risk (IFM) Projects and Operations Anita Roper Independent Non-Executive Director Audit, Finance and Risk (since August 2012) Health, Safety, People and Sustainability (Chair from 1 July 2012) Kate Spargo Independent Non-Executive Director Health, Safety, People and Sustainability (Chair until 30 June 2012) 12 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE CORRUPTION AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR Sustainability is embedded in our As a responsible clean energy company, Enterprise Wide Risk Management we are committed to complying with all All managers and employees who Framework (EWRMF) and is crucial relevant laws, regulations and standards. regularly deal with overseas counterparties to achieving the company’s vision Various compliance mechanisms are built receive periodic training on corruption. and mission, delivering corporate into our Enterprise Wide Risk Management The training explains the policies and objectives and providing greater Framework. procedures relevant to the jurisdictions certainty and conﬁdence to our in which we operate. shareholder and other stakeholders. Management responsibility for compliance is reinforced by an Annual In addition to this, during the reporting The enterprise-wide approach Compliance Report prepared by each period in Australia, managers were incorporates strategic development general manager addressing the state provided with training with respect to the and commercial sustainability, risk of compliance within the areas of their Competition and Consumer Act 2010 proﬁle and review, governance, controls management responsibility. Any and its implications for the business and and compliance and assurance identiﬁed non-compliances are subject how people should conduct themselves. mechanisms to manage key risks to a rectiﬁcation plan and opportunities across all business units. The General for avoidance of similar non-compliance Our Whistleblower Disclosure and Management team are responsible for in future are identiﬁed. Investigation Procedure investigates any implementing risk-mitigating strategies reports of improper or corrupt conduct, in accordance with the EWRMF, while breaches of company policy, the Code the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR of Conduct and any relevant laws. There oversees and reviews the effectiveness were no reported incidents of corruption of the framework. CODE OF CONDUCT or anti-competitive behaviour during the reporting period. Risk assessments are undertaken Our Code of Conduct provides guidance periodically across all our business units on ethical behaviour for our employees for all development opportunities, delivery and directors globally and outlines our and operations. approach and responsibilities to customers, landholders, commercial partners, shareholders and the ﬁnancial community. All new employees receive training in and are required to sign the Code of Conduct, which also details the company’s standards and position on issues including bribery, anti-competitive behaviour and discrimination and applies to all employees and contractors. SURVEYING ROADS IN CHILE BIRD MONITORING AT CHACAYES HYDRO PLANT PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 13 DONATIONS There were no identiﬁed incidents involving human rights or indigenous rights While monetary donations to political during the reporting period. We have parties are prohibited under our Code of been requested by the Brazilian authority Conduct, we do occasionally participate IPHAN (the Brazilian National Cultural in political fundraising activities to enable Heritage Institute) to provide additional direct communication with policy makers. information relating to the Cultural Heritage study presented for our Vale dos HUMAN RIGHTS Ventos and Millennium wind farms. An We respect the rights of our employees, archaeology consultant has been engaged contractors and the broader community. and we expect to collect and present the We comply with all relevant laws relating requested information during FY 2012–13. to human rights and our human rights Refer to p.31 for more information about commitments are covered by the following Respecting Rights at Work. policies: EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS 1 Equal Opportunities Policy We continued to strengthen our 2 Code of Conduct commitment to the principles of the 3 Whistleblowers Disclosure and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Investigation Procedure further integrating considerations of environment, anti-corruption, labour and 4 Health, Safety and Sustainability human rights into our business operations (HSS) Policy and strategies. Information regarding our progress against the UNGC principles 5 Community Charter is included throughout this report. Indigenous heritage is protected under paciﬁchydro.com/sustainability/ Federal and State legislation in Australia sustainability-reports as well as through our HSS Policy, which ensures that land and resources under our care are managed with sensitivity and that we have due care for cultural heritage, local conditions and concerns. FIRE SAFETY TRAINING IN CHILE 14 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND FINANCE OUR APPROACH We have a clear strategy to deliver long term value to Best practice and continuous improvement is sought our shareholders and partners in a transparent, ethical in the management of our development, construction and economically sustainable way. and operation of sites and is governed by internal management systems and Asset Management Framework. Our strategy for sustainable economic growth involves: Our Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework incorporates strategic development and commercial Optimising the operational efﬁciencies and earnings sustainability; risk proﬁle and review; governance; controls from existing assets; and compliance; and assurance mechanisms to manage Developing a diversiﬁed portfolio of renewable energy key risks across all business units. assets through development or acquisitions that deliver As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, growth and economic value; we advocate for responsible business practices within Reviewing and capturing appropriate emerging our sphere of inﬂuence. We are committed to supporting renewable developments and acquisitions; and local suppliers, as demonstrated by our voluntary participation in the Sello Pro Pyme initiative. Developing vertical integration opportunities that complement our operations and development of new projects. PROGRESS AGAINST GOALS FOR 2011–12 STRATEGIES PROGRESS ON DELIVERABLES ECONOMIC RETURNS Maximise shareholder returns x Australian and Brazilian energy generation was on budget, however Chile was below due to joint venture outages and dry hydrology in the Cachapoal region. This in turn led to reduced ﬁnancial returns compared to plan. (p.16) RENEWABLE ENERGY POLICY AND ADVOCACY Develop policy and regulatory positions for the company 9 Active participant in the carbon price debate (p.21–22) and pursue these positions via appropriate channels 9 Maintained engagement with governments and opposition (p.21–22) 9 Pursued policy and regulatory outcomes that enhance the further adoption of clean energy (p.21–22) SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN Review and improve our supply chain assessment processes 9 The assessment survey was reviewed and the process was adopted and rolled out across all business units for multiple suppliers. (p.23) PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 15 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Sales revenue was $197 million for the reporting period, We sell a range of products associated with the generation an increase of 29 per cent on the previous year. The increase from our wind farm and hydro power assets. These products was driven primarily by the Chacayes hydro plant in Chile include electricity, electricity derivative products and energy commencing commercial operations in October 2011. In related environmental products, such as European Union Australia and Brazil, there was an increase in revenue following Certiﬁed Emission Reduction credits (CERs), Large Generation improvements in generation volumes, which was partially offset Certiﬁcates [formerly known as Renewable Energy Certiﬁcates] by lower spot energy prices in Australia. and GreenPower. Our customers include energy retailers, mining companies and large consumers such as businesses The economic impacts exclude Paciﬁc Hydro’s equity accounted and government. investments except where otherwise stated. DIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT $AUD Australia Brazil Chile Corporate FY FY FY FY $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2011–12 2010–11 2009–10 2008–09 Total $’000 Total $’000 Total $’000 Total $’000 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Revenue 95,334 25,426 75,800 – 196,560 151,904 114,836 118,767 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED Operating costs (Cost of Sales)* 27,050 6,533 17,257 – 50,840 45,376 38,192 32,935 Employee wages and beneﬁts 7,159 1,144 9,170 10,796 28,269 26,474 18,930 17,066 Earnings Before Interest Tax – – – – 112,023 81,179 86,759 75,132 Depreciation and Amortisation** OTHER CASH (OUT)/IN FLOWS Interest payments to providers 15,538 8,830 26,810 – 51,178 56,677 39,470 19,673 of ﬁnance Payments of income tax – – 3,503 16,999 20,502 8,144 3,224 5,904 Community fund investment 242 15 118 – 377 353 339 325 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Project Development 4,594 2,022 6,929 – 13,545 10,725 7,621 16,341 Expenditure*** Construction and minor capital 4,212 475 28,715 1,503 34,905 141,480 204,438 390,517 Shareholders’ Equity**** – – – – 862,451 896,384 1,029,537 934,597 * OPERATING COSTS INCLUDES THE PORTION OF EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS AMOUNTS CHARGED *** RELATES TO PRE-CONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE IN ORDER TO PROGRESS TO OPERATING ASSETS. EACH PROJECT’S TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL ELEMENTS. ** EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST TAX DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION (EBITDA) IS CALCULATED BY **** INCLUDES SHAREHOLDER LOANS AND EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS TAKING RESULTS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES ADJUSTED FOR DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION AND FOREIGN CURRENCY GAINS AND LOSSES. 16 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CERTIFIED EMISSION REDUCTIONS Certiﬁed Emission Reductions (CERs) are an international carbon PACIFIC HYDRO COMMITS TO SMALL based instrument that can be utilised by countries that have AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES committed to carbon emission reduction targets through the Kyoto Protocol, or by companies required to reduce emissions under Many of the suppliers engaged by Paciﬁc Hydro mandated schemes such as the European Emissions Trading Chile are classiﬁed as small and medium sized Scheme. enterprises (SMEs). One of the greatest challenges for SMEs is maintaining an adequate cash ﬂow, LARGE GENERATION CERTIFICATES which provides the foundation for business growth and development opportunities. Sello Pro In Australia, all electricity retailers and some large electricity Pyme is an initiative of the Chilean Ministry of consumers are required to purchase a minimum amount of Economy, designed to provide improved ﬁnancial electricity from renewable sources under the Large-scale conditions for SMEs. Receiving the Sello Pro Pyme Renewable Energy Target (LRET). These companies meet the certiﬁcation, or stamp, demonstrates a commitment, requirement by procuring Large Generation Certiﬁcates (LGCs) – usually made by large organisations, to pay their [formerly known as Renewable Energy Certiﬁcates, or RECs]. All suppliers within a 30 day period. Paciﬁc Hydro of Paciﬁc Hydro’s Australian renewable energy projects was one of the ﬁrst companies to receive this commissioned after January 1997 are qualiﬁed to produce LGCs. certiﬁcation, just one of the many ways we support GREENPOWER the development of corporate social responsibility throughout the Chilean economy. Today more than 700,000 Australian households and businesses support renewable energy by purchasing GreenPower “This certiﬁcation ensures that we are doing electricity products. This voluntary action adds to the demand our share to support small and medium sized for renewable electricity created by the mandatory Australian entrepreneurs,” said Noortje Magis, Chief Financial Renewable Energy Target and illustrates the widespread support Ofﬁcer, Chile. “These business partners provide for increasing the level of renewable energy generation in essential services to our value chain and this Australia. All of Paciﬁc Hydro’s Australian renewable energy is another avenue to express our company’s projects commissioned after January 1997 qualify as GreenPower commitment to sustainability, and a new step generators. towards a model of business that considers the sustainable development of all our stakeholders.” Patricio Silva, a Paciﬁc Hydro supplier and local RETAIL entrepreneur from Chacayes said: “My family’s During the reporting period, we moved towards becoming quality of life has improved signiﬁcantly. I started a clean energy retailer in Australia. Since mid-2012, we have with a very old truck called ‘La Joyita’ and today offered solutions for medium and large organisations looking I have two vans and a truck for myself and my team. for a reliable, ﬂexible, and cost-effective service to meet their I am very proud of what I have achieved and I am electricity supply needs. very thankful for the initial support I received from Paciﬁc Hydro”. Over the last 20 years, we developed an impressive track record in fostering positive, long-standing relationships with Sello Pro Pyme certiﬁcation recognises our local communities – and that’s how we will do business Paciﬁc Hydro’s long-standing approach towards with our retail customers. As a retailer, we remain dedicated working with small businesses. We continue to to our vision – powering a cleaner world – so we’ll only sell look for further opportunities to support and electricity to customers who are committed to buying a strengthen relationships with our small, but vital, minimum 10% GreenPower. business partners. ABOVE SELLO PRO PYME CEREMONY, HELD AT LA MONEDA PALACE IN SANTIAGO, CHILE PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 17 RESPONSE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Our commitment to powering a cleaner world reﬂects our dedication to addressing climate change. We endeavour CELEBRATING THE OPENING OF CHACAYES to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while meeting growing INAUGURATION global energy needs. There are four key components to our response to climate change: In October 2011, we celebrated the inauguration of the 111MW Chacayes run-of-river hydro plant in 1 Developing more new renewable energy projects Chile’s Alto Cachapoal Valley, approximately 120 km to help reduce the global reliance on fossil fuels; south of Santiago, at a formal ceremony attended by 2 Helping our customers address their climate change Chile’s Minister for Energy. mitigation obligations and reach their voluntary targets At an investment of over US$450 million, the by providing suitable products and services; plant will contribute 111MW of installed capacity to 3 Advocating for government action to reduce carbon Chile’s national grid, enough clean energy to supply emissions; and more than 300,000 local homes. Its operations are estimated to abate over 340,000 tonnes of 4 Minimising our own carbon footprint. CO2 -e per year – the equivalent to taking more than 130,000 vehicles off the road. Our development pipeline of renewable energy projects, including run-of-river hydro plants, wind farms, conventional CELEBRATING WITH OUR HOST COMMUNITIES geothermal projects and a large-scale solar farm, will allow us to improve our products and services to meet the current and Prior to the ofﬁcial Chacayes inauguration, a future needs of our customers. celebration was held with our host communities and local staff. A family function was held at We advocate policy and industry responses to climate change. the Chacayes camp with games, music and This occurs in a range of ways, from working with governments entertainment. to address regulatory market issues impacting renewable energy generation, to lobbying for the transition to a low-carbon economy. The guests had the opportunity to watch a play about our environmental and sustainability values, This year our carbon footprint reduced by 6 per cent, primarily and a video that paid homage to the support of our due to the completion of our Chacayes hydro plant in Chile and host communities and all the work that has been we have set a global reduction target for our own electricity done since the project’s inception. consumption over the next two years. “We are very pleased to celebrate this important Climate change presents signiﬁcant opportunities as well as milestone with our host communities,” said Paciﬁc considerable risk to our business. Changes to long-term climatic Hydro Chile General Manager José Antonio Valdés. conditions such as the number of extreme weather events have “Without the support of these communities we the potential to impact our revenue and operating costs. Climate wouldn’t have been able to celebrate the opening change risks are addressed through our Risk Management of Chacayes today and this is a way to recognise Framework, knowledge gathering from weather forecasting our joint work.” services and risk management practices. Regulatory changes related to climate change in areas such as carbon, electricity and governance, pose potential risks and opportunities. Our business model will allow us to act on opportunities to expand our geographic spread and diversify into other renewable technologies. In addition, we are well placed to increase business and community awareness of climate change through our stakeholder relationships. ABOVE OFFICIALS AT THE OPENING OF THE CHACAYES HYDRO PLANT 18 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 INSTALLED CAPACITY ASSET LOCATION PHASE OWNERSHIP TECHNOLOGY CAPACITY (MW) The Drop Australia Operations 100% Hydro 2 Glenmaggie Australia Operations 100% Hydro 4 Eildon Pondage Australia Operations 100% Hydro 5 William-Hovell Australia Operations 100% Hydro 2 Ord Australia Operations 100% Hydro 30 Challicum Hills Australia Operations 100% Wind 53 Codrington Australia Operations 100% Wind 18 Portland Wind Energy Project Australia Operations 100% Wind 30 (PWEP I) – Yambuk PWEP II – Cape Bridgewater Australia Operations 100% Wind 58 PWEP III – Cape Nelson South Australia Operations 100% Wind 44 Clements Gap Australia Operations 100% Wind 57 Millennium Brazil Operations 100% Wind 10 Vale dos Ventos Brazil Operations 100% Wind 48 Coya & Pangal Chile Operations 100% Hydro 76 Chacayes Chile Operations 73% Hydro 111 La Higuera Chile Operations 50% Hydro 155 La Conﬂuencia Chile Operations 50% Hydro 158 Colmito Chile Operations 50% Thermal Backup 58 GENERATION GIGAWATT HOURS (GWH) 2008–12 PERENIA PTY LTD Perenia, a joint venture between Paciﬁc Hydro and SMEC, 2,000 provides complete carbon solutions for companies looking to GWh respond to the opportunities and challenges associated with 1,800 the impact of climate change. Perenia has developed a diverse portfolio of Certiﬁed Emission Reductions (CERs) from projects in both developing and industrialised countries, operating 1,600 throughout Australia and Asia. 1,400 pereniacarbon.com 1,200 1,000 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 19 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Operational excellence is sought in the management of all our Our longest serving met mast stands at Cape Sir William Grant, operational assets and is governed by our Asset Management our ﬁnal development project in Portland, Victoria. Standing at Framework and management systems. The framework and over 50 metres in height, the met mast has taken accurate wind systems ensure the operational aspects are managed giving readings for over ten years. We have begun to investigate new greater certainty of operating costs, short and long-term technologies for measuring wind conditions that offer increased availability, reliability, and safety of our generation assets. They safety measures, provide greater economies of scale and allow are also considered during the development and delivery phase, us to investigate more potential sites. to ensure that the lifecycle costs are optimised. Four asset management benchmarking exercises and operations performance reviews were conducted during the reporting period. These initiatives evaluate the effectiveness of our systems and processes, asset performance and condition. The outcomes of these studies form the basis of our strategic decisions in relation to the use, maintenance and expectations of the assets lifetime performance. Our Operations and Engineering Services teams work to identify opportunities to improve asset performance and reliability. During the year, our Operations team in Australia implemented systems to signiﬁcantly reduce turbine stoppages and made improvements to cleaning and maintenance activities. In Brazil, we implemented a remote system to control and respond to electrical faults using iPhones. While being relatively minor changes, the initiatives increased productivity and availability and decreased manual handling risks, environmental spill risks and man power required, as well as improving response times. We endeavour to be ahead of the curve in our systems and asset operations to allow us to anticipate, adapt and respond to meet changing standards in electrical systems and health and safety. We take on work experience students, ﬁnal year engineering students and apprentices to support local employment, industry TRICAHUE PARROTS, CHILE growth and enable cross sharing of information and experiences between the students and our employees. We also work to better understand climatic conditions. In the planning stages of wind projects, our engineers collate long-term data from meteorological sources with our internal readings to estimate wind conditions in any given area. Our internal data comes from meteorological masts, or met masts, which are erected at one or more points within a proposed project. These met masts measure wind speed, turbulence, direction, temperature and pressure. For accurate correlation and analysis of our data with Bureau of Meteorology data, the quality and reliability of our internal measurement is critical. Met masts are designed, installed and operated according to wind monitoring industrial standards. Data from met masts is subject to quality control checks. GEARBOX CHANGEOUT AT CHALLICUM HILLS WIND FARM, AUSTRALIA 20 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY Our involvement in public policy development reﬂects our view that policies in renewable energy are both a major opportunity for our business and one of the key risks that we face. Key issues in which we play a policy advocacy role are listed on the following pages. AUSTRALIA During the year we played a key role in advocacy for the renewable energy industry as an independent company and as a member of a number of industry bodies. In all arenas we highlight the beneﬁts of renewable energy and proactively sought opportunities to provide informed advice to local, state and federal policy makers and regulatory bodies. LANE CROCKETT, GENERAL MANAGER AUSTRALIA, ENGAGING WITH OUR HOST COMMUNITIES PUBLIC POLICY ISSUE OUR POSITION Carbon pricing We support a price on carbon. Australia’s Carbon Price Legislative Package is a long-term foundation policy to assist Australia’s transition to a low carbon economy. Working alongside the carbon price, the Renewable Energy Target will remain the key driver of investment in clean energy to 2020 in Australia. During the year we contributed to the debate on carbon pricing through discussions with industry groups, authorities, politicians, communities and the media. Energy reform We advocate for reforms to transmission and interconnector investment frameworks, transmission project funding reforms and emissions standards for new generation plants. We seek a complementary reform package in energy policy and regulation in order to ensure the country’s long-term goals to transform the stationary energy sector to clean, renewable energy can be achieved. Wind farm planning regulations We support the development of community engagement guidelines and toolkits for wind farms. During the year, we made a number of submissions regarding changes to South Australian and Victorian wind farm planning regulations. Renewables and retail energy prices Strong interest in electricity retail price rises has recently focussed on the cost of renewables to retail customers, even though large scale renewables are a very small component of retail bills. We have emphasised that around 90% of retail energy bills are driven by network costs, generation costs and retail margins. This position is backed by recent Government reports such as the Australian Energy Market Commission’s report on future retail prices, which predicts that the impact of large scale renewable energy on price rises is small. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 21 BRAZIL We continued to advocate for improvements to the electricity grid in the Northeast of Brazil through the joint commissioning of a study with Vale and other engagement activities. PUBLIC POLICY ISSUE OUR POSITION Transmission limitations for wind power generation We support the proposal of a prioritisation scheme for grid reinforcement in Northeast Brazil. The proposal, supported by a study undertaken by Paciﬁc Hydro and Vale, will be presented to the National Operator of the System (Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico) and the National Planning Agency (Empresa de Pesquisa Energética). It addresses investor concerns relating to a systemic crisis in the energy sector, where energy not transmitted is idle, thus increasing energy costs and sector risk for investors. CHILE We continued to contribute to the development of the renewable energy industry, focusing on engagement with political authorities, energy and industry associations, technical bodies and environmentalists. PUBLIC POLICY ISSUE OUR POSITION Non-Conventional Renewable Energy Law Currently, only hydro power plants with an installed capacity of below 20MW are classiﬁed by law as Non-Conventional Renewable Energy (NCRE) generators. As it stands, this law precludes larger scale run-of-river hydro projects from beneﬁting from Chile’s renewable energy law. We believe the limit should be removed for run-of-river hydro power plants, to promote development of larger renewable energy projects which are better placed to efﬁciently utilise Chile’s abundant water resources and which will stimulate further investment. We also support the removal of the words ‘Non-Conventional’ from the law to prevent confusion when considering energy alternatives that have been previously deﬁned as “non-conventional”. Such amendments will allow our own Chilean assets that trade and commercialise carbon credits in international markets, to be classiﬁed as renewable generators domestically and be eligible for the same beneﬁts as small hydros. Transmission system and connection The ongoing development of energy projects is a key factor to addressing the energy security goals in Chile. Currently, the construction and approval process for transmission lines is delaying the incorporation of new energy projects to the transmission system. We have continued to work with energy sector authorities and the Generators Association to pursue solutions, as well as preparing an ofﬁcial position statement with regard to this issue. 22 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUPPLY CHAIN We recognise our impacts on people, the environment and the economy are driven not only by our direct activities, but also by activities in our supply chain. Our sustainable supplier survey and evaluation tool identiﬁes key sustainability risks and opportunities across areas such as governance, safety, labour standards, local content and environmental management. This year 27 supplier surveys were evaluated including, for the ﬁrst time, six survey responses from suppliers in Latin America. CONSTRUCTION WORKERS IN CHILE MILLENNIUM WIND FARM, BRAZIL LOOKING AHEAD: STRATEGIES FOR 2012–17 2012–13 2013–17 ECONOMIC RETURNS To achieve above benchmark economic returns Maximise shareholder returns for shareholders DEVELOPMENT Continue project development to bring new clean Continue to embed sustainability principles and practices energy supply to each of our markets into organisation processes and behaviours CLEAN ENERGY POLICY ADVOCACY Inﬂuence legislation and market mechanisms favourable to clean energy investment PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 23 WORKPLACE OUR APPROACH Our people are critical to the success and longevity of our We provide a safe and healthy workplace for staff, business, and ensuring their health, safety and wellbeing is and support initiatives which improve their wellbeing. our top priority. Employees at all levels are given industryInclusion is one of our core values, supporting our leading training and development opportunities, which help culture of innovation and diversity. us to develop as a business. PROGRESS AGAINST GOALS FOR 2011–12 STRATEGIES PROGRESS ON DELIVERABLES HEALTH AND SAFETY Achieve a real year-on-year improvement for both leading o There were no fatalities and we achieved a TRIFR of 7.2, and lagging health and safety key performance indicators no change from the previous year. The target was 6.1 (15% reduction). 9 Total percentage of corrective actions closed out was 95% against a target of 85%. 9 100% of employees participated in at least one health and safety activity per quarter. Benchmark construction and operational assets against 9 Benchmarking activities were completed resulting in the relevant industry benchmarks deployment of 12 global health, safety and environmental standards to achieve industry best practice. (p.26) Develop and deliver health and safety leadership training 9 Completed (p.26) EMPLOYEES Attract, recruit, develop and retain employees to ensure 9 Training and development programs implemented, equating the achievement of business goals to over $2,000 per employee. (p.28–29) 9 Over 80% of approved Organisation Alignment Survey (OAS) workshop initiatives were implemented. 9 Voluntary turnover was 10.8%, a 3% decrease on the previous year. (p.28) Develop and implement a global diversity strategy 9 Our Inclusion and Diversity Strategy was launched and “Inclusion” was added to our Leading Values. (p.27, 29) 24 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2008–12 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS REPORTED Dedication to ensuring a healthy and safe environment for our employees is one of our core values. Our Health, Safety and NUMBER OF INCIDENTS 400 LOST TIME INJURY Sustainability (HSS) Policy outlines our commitments to ensuring MEDICAL TREATMENT INJURY FIRST AID TREATMENT INJURY a healthy and safe environment for our employees. Each year, NEAR MISS 300 corporate HSS objectives are set with the aim of decreasing injury rates, improving management systems and increasing employee engagement. Performance against these objectives is directly 200 linked to each employee’s performance appraisal and short-term incentive payment. 100 2008–12 OVERALL TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY RATE 0 (TRIFR) 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 TRIFR 12 TARGET We follow ILO standards in each of our countries of 10 operations in classifying and responding to incidents. 8 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) ACTUAL is calculated as such: (Number of Lost Time Injuries 6 + Number of Medical Treatment Injuries) ÷ Number of Hours Worked x 1,000,000. 4 ‘Lost Time’ refers to number of scheduled work days lost. 2 0 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 DISASTER AND EMERGENCY PLANNING Coordinated emergency management plans, including emergency evacuation programs, are in place at all operational 2008–12 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (TRIFR) and development project sites. These systems are tested BY BUSINESS UNIT annually via desktop reviews and mock exercises. A number of community planning bodies are consulted during the development and/or testing of our emergency plans to ensure appropriate and adequate training is provided to all response personnel. TRIFR 25 Mock exercises are attended by employees, contractors, local AUSTRALIA 20 emergency response services and other community members. We are in the process of building a heights training facility at 15 one of our regional ofﬁces in Victoria to provide a controlled CHILE environment in which to test and train employees in heights safety. 10 All site-based leading hands receive ﬁre warden training. 5 All Melbourne staff were given the opportunity to complete BRAZIL ﬁre extinguisher and hose reel training with the Melbourne 0 Metropolitan Fire Brigade. 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 Periodic ﬁre evacuation exercises are undertaken at each of our ofﬁces to ensure our employees are evacuated quickly and safely. * FROM 1 JULY 2011, THE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS UNIT INCLUDED CORPORATE HOURS AND INCIDENTS. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 25 GOALS HSS POLICY GROUP STANDARDS BU PROCEDURES FORMS/CHECKLISTS/WORK INSTRUCTIONS REGISTERS HEALTH AND WELLBEING Looking after the health and wellbeing of our employees improves productivity and engagement within our business. We HEALTH AND SAFETY SYSTEMS have a broad range of strategies within our health and wellbeing Ensuring the health and safety of our employees, program, which are designed to prevent serious conditions and contractors and other stakeholders will always illnesses in employees. be our primary concern. One of the challenges A formal Health and Wellbeing Policy is currently under of having operations in three distinct geographic development and will be supported by a range of initiatives. regions is achieving consistency in our approach A number of core initiatives are already implemented globally, to managing health and safety. While being such as the daily provision of fresh fruit, annual health checks, geographically diverse, our projects and assets in ﬂu shots, audiometric testing and pre-placement health Australia, Chile and Brazil can be similar in terms screening for relevant staff, periodic ergonomic assessments of activities performed, and related risks. All three of work stations and language lessons (English classes in Chile business units operated under an effective groupand Brazil, and Spanish classes in Australia). Health and safety wide Health, Safety and Sustainability Policy and leadership training sessions were held in each business unit, successful Health, Safety and Environmental which all employees were encouraged to attend. Employee (HSE) procedures and processes in each country. Assistance Programs are available in Australia and Chile. Other However, we identiﬁed an opportunity to develop initiatives are country speciﬁc. For example, employees in Chile and implement a consistent, group-wide HSE can participate in company-sponsored sporting events, such as management system. long distance cycling, mountain climbing, fun runs and a women’s A set of Paciﬁc Hydro’s Group Health and Safety soccer tournament held between major energy companies in Standards were developed after an extensive Santiago. Brazilian employees have access to health insurance, consultation process that included corporate and a dental plan and subsidised meal vouchers. The Australian business unit health and safety teams and a review business unit received a $10,000 grant from the Victorian of industry best practices. The standards were Government to be used for health and wellbeing initiatives developed at a group level above the business to support existing programs. One of these was an initiative units and act as a framework to drive alignment that aims to prevent work-related psychological injuries and of the business unit management systems. They occupational stress. are also fully integrated with our Enterprise Wide In Australia and Chile, we have also implemented health Risk Management system to ensure that strategic and safety awards to recognise and reward employees for development, governance, compliance and risks outstanding behaviour or identifying improvement opportunities cover health and safety impacts. to systems, processes or equipment to reduce risks relating Looking forward, guidance documents will be to health and safety. developed to identify minimum requirements and to ensure consistency. An audit tool has also been developed and will be implemented in a three year staged approach. The tool will assist business units to comply with the standards and promote continual improvement. ABOVE PACIFIC HYDRO’S HEALTH SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FRAMEWORK 26 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 HUMAN RESOURCES INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE TYPE AND GENDER We see the promotion of inclusion and diversity within our organisation as a way of embracing and leveraging from our % OF EMPLOYEES 100% differences to enhance our competitive advantage. We are proud 86 FEMALE 15 5 of our inclusive and diverse culture and have taken steps to 75 strengthen this through the launch of our comprehensive Inclusion and Diversity Strategy. Equal employment opportunity and anti50 176 MALE 7 discrimination are speciﬁcally addressed in our Code of Conduct. 25 Our workplace is family friendly and we encourage employees to manage family commitments with work responsibilities through 0 1 a host of initiatives. Opportunities such as part-time employment, FULL TIME PART TIME CONTRACT job sharing, working from home and staggered start and ﬁnish times are offered to employees, where appropriate, in an effort to achieve work/life balance. Our Maternity and Paternity Leave Policies were merged during the year into a Parental Leave Policy, which goes beyond statutory requirements relating to parental EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE LEVEL AND GENDER leave rights in each of our countries. % OF EMPLOYEES 100% EMPLOYEE PROFILE AS AT 30 JUNE 2012 78 FEMALE 16 4 3 1 75 EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER* 50 109 MALE 41 21 6 5 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 140 25 105 48 FEMALE 40 0 STAFF MANAGER EXECUTIVE GENERAL DIRECTOR 70 MANAGER MANAGER 77 MALE 87 35 13 0 13 EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE LEVEL AND AGE AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE % OF EMPLOYEES 100% 10 >50 YRS 14 5 2 4 75 EMPLOYEES BY AGE AND GENDER* 130 30-50 43 19 7 YRS 50 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 200 25 70 47 <30 YRS 2 150 0 1 100 STAFF MANAGER EXECUTIVE GENERAL DIRECTOR MANAGER MANAGER 50 26 FEMALE 129 5 0 22 MALE 26 <30 YRS 30–50 YRS >50 YRS *EMPLOYEE PROFILE STATISTICS EXCLUDE DIRECTORS AND CONTRACTORS. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 27 TURNOVER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Total voluntary turnover for the reporting period was 10.8%, Developing our staff to their full potential allows us to meet a 3% decrease on the previous year. our business needs, fulﬁl personal aspirations of employees and exceed shareholder expectations. We provide a broad 2011–12 TURNOVER BY GENDER AND REGION spectrum of internal training courses that are offered to all ofﬁce and site-based employees. Employees are also given generous funding support to attend external training or to pursue further NO. OF LEAVERS 16 education opportunities. These training and development 12 2 programs equip our staff with the necessary knowledge, skills, behaviours and commitment to drive business performance 7 FEMALE 12 and enable growth and success. Our training and development 8 spend for the reporting period was $642,000, which equates to over $2,000 per employee. 4 3 4 MALE We continue to invest heavily in internal and external training 0 2 speciﬁc to health and safety matters. We have implemented a AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE variety of training courses, including hazard and risk identiﬁcation, 9% 19% 11% incident investigation, monthly online training courses on a variety of issues including manual handling and slips, trips and falls. All employees receive annual performance appraisals, in 2011–12 NEW HIRES BY GENDER AND REGION which performance targets are set in line with our business plan. Six-monthly reviews are held to assess performance against targets before the annual performance appraisals. Professional NO. OF NEW HIRES 25 development opportunities are formally identiﬁed and discussed during employee performance appraisals. 20 11 FEMALE 10 Our education sponsorship program was designed to help 15 employees develop their skills through part time, long-term 10 study and provide the opportunity to earn or improve a formal 11 MALE 10 qualiﬁcation. Each business unit has a tailored program to meet 5 5 regional and staff requirements and have established their own 0 2 assessment criteria. Currently, there are eight employees in Australia, ﬁve in Brazil and 11 in Chile participating in the program. AUSTRALIA BRAZIL CHILE We encourage movement between business units as a way of developing employees, sharing skills and improving cultural awareness between our countries of operation. Previously, most transfers were Australians moving to Chile as the Chilean business unit expanded rapidly. In the past year, however, a number of Chileans were successfully seconded to Australia in key roles. We will continue to look for opportunities to transfer employees between business units. Where required, restructuring processes are managed in Australia through our Redundancy Policy. Statutory requirements in Chile and Brazil include similar provisions for employees in those regions. A Retirement Transition Policy is currently under development and will be launched later this year. 28 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT SPEND 2008–12 CELEBRATING WORLD DAY TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT $ 1,000,000 FOR CULTURAL DIVERSITY In May 2012, we celebrated our ﬁrst World Day for Cultural Diversity. It was an opportunity to share 800,000 what diversity means to Paciﬁc Hydro and formally announce our new Inclusion and Diversity Strategy and Statement: 600,000 Paciﬁc Hydro is committed to promoting a work environment where inclusion and diversity are valued and where people in each of our 400,000 geographic business units are involved, supported, 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 respected and treated fairly. We believe that having people with diverse capabilities, ways of thinking and experience will beneﬁt our workplace and create a competitive advantage. To achieve this we will develop a culture that includes, attracts and retains a broad range of personal backgrounds and attributes in the company. The statement was developed using feedback provided from internal employee workshops. The strategy will initially focus on cultural diversity, work/life ﬂexibility and gender diversity. Each ofﬁce shared presentations to learn about the cultures of Australia, Brazil and Chile. In Australia, the Melbourne ofﬁce hosted a lunch, with national dish contributions from over 15 countries, while in our regional ofﬁces in Portland and Yambuk, staff got into the spirit by enjoying some sweets from Chile and Brazil. In Brazil, the team used video conference to link its two ofﬁces (in Natal and São Paulo), enjoying a morning tea and a variety of juices from different regions in the country. Staff in Chile shared dishes from around the world, including England, Canada, Australia, Malaysia, Holland, Venezuela, Panama, Nicaragua and Chile, and many chose to dress up in their national dress. AN EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATING IN HEIGHTS TRAINING IN AUSTRALIA ABOVE EMPLOYEES CELEBRATING DIVERSITY DAY IN CHILE PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Since 2006, we have conducted annual staff surveys to assess DRIVEN HIGH employee satisfaction and identify areas for improvement. In PERFORMANCE response to feedback from employees about the length and complexity of the survey, and to gain a deeper understanding of employee engagement and alignment with our business strategies ALIGNMENT and objectives, we changed to an Organisational Alignment and Engagement Survey. While maintaining a few core questions, the new survey uses different methodology and thus results cannot accurately be compared to previous years. The diagram to the right shows our alignment and engagement results. The results indicate that our employees are passionate LOW PERFORMANCE PASSIONATE and engaged, but we recognise areas for improvement to raise our alignment score. Results are displayed as a percentage of ENGAGEMENT employees who scored statements as agree or strongly agree on a seven-point rating scale. The colour-coding indicates how RESULTS OF THE ORGANISATIONAL ALIGNMENT AND ENGAGEMENT SURVEY SHOWN GRAPHICALLY our average raw score compares to other organisations in the benchmark database (yellow is bottom decile, light yellow is bottom quartile, light blue is second and third quartile, light green is top quartile and dark green is top decile. The results indicate that our Overall Global Alignment score was 51%, which sits in the second and third quartile when compared to the benchmark database. Our Overall Global Engagement score was 66%, also in the second and third quartile, and only 5% below the top quartile. Although revealing areas for improvement, the response rate of 84% demonstrates the value that employees place on this exercise. Whilst the overall scores are made up of a number of indicators, two strategic areas – senior leadership and overall alignment – have been identiﬁed as areas for further attention. We have set a Key Performance Indicator to increase scores in those areas to STAFF AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS AT A TREE PLANTING DAY IN PORTLAND, VICTORIA move into the next quartile. Targeted initiatives and programs will continue to be implemented to address issues raised during the survey process. LUIS AGUILAR AND ALVARO MENA, MEMBERS OF THE CHILE OPERATIONS TEAM IN THE CHACAYES POWER STATION 30 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 RESPECTING RIGHTS AT WORK REMUNERATION AND BONUSES We comply with all applicable laws, regulations and other legal Our Remuneration Policy aims to attract, motivate, and retain requirements with respect to labour laws. In Australia, 5.6% of employees by aligning team and individual rewards with business employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. performance and ultimately value creation for shareholders. It No direct employees in Chile are covered by collective bargaining ensures employees are remunerated in a way that is both market agreements and employees in Brazil are covered under relevant competitive and consistent with best practice. Global consistency legislation. We have not identiﬁed any risks at any of our of our remuneration structure and rewarding both ﬁnancial and operations relating to the rights of employees to freedom of non-ﬁnancial performance are key aspects of the policy. association or collective bargaining. We did not employ any entry-level employees during the reporting Employee grievances are covered by our Grievance Procedure, period, but our minimum wage levels across all our regions meet Whistleblower Disclosure and Investigation Procedure, Equal or exceed legal minimums. Opportunity Policy and Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures encourage employees to seek and use appropriate All beneﬁts provided to full-time employees are granted to all mechanisms to address any grievances. Any issue not adequately part-time employees on a pro-rata basis. addressed through these internal provisions can be taken to our Employee Assistance Program or relevant external organisations. All employees in Australia and Chile complete annual training in our Equal Opportunity (EO) Policy. Two complaints under the EO Policy were made during the reporting period. Both incidents were investigated under the EO Policy guidelines, appropriate disciplinary action was taken, and both incidents are now resolved. We are currently developing similar policies for our Brazil ofﬁce. There were no reported incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. LOOKING AHEAD: STRATEGIES FOR 2012–17 2012–13 2013–17 HEALTH AND SAFETY Build and sustain a strong health and safety culture within To have zero harm to employees and others the company and have zero harm to employees and others EMPLOYEES Attract, recruit, develop and retain employees through the Continue to measure, maintain and improve employee Human Resources Framework to maximise performance satisfaction and alignment Promote an inclusive culture that embraces diversity PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 31 COMMUNITY OUR APPROACH As an employer, neighbour, customer and supplier, we We do this by: have a multi-faceted role in the local communities which we operate in around the world. communicating openly and constructively with our local communities; We aim to develop mutual trust and respect with our local communities through honest and open communication. becoming involved in and supporting projects and events near our project sites so we can better Our goal is to deliver community programs and initiatives understand and become part of our host communities; that provide clear beneﬁts and meaningful outcomes that and make a lasting difference to our host communities and that are aligned ultimately with our own corporate objectives. leveraging off our areas of expertise to address community needs. PROGRESS AGAINST GOALS FOR 2011–12 STRATEGIES PROGRESS ON DELIVERABLES COMMUNITY RELATIONS Engage openly with our local communities and maintain 9 A wide range of activities were undertaken throughout the our community relations programs year to enable us to better understand, support and enhance our host communities. (p.33–37) COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Continue and enhance our community investment programs 9 Our community investment programs continue, including (eg Sustainable Communities Fund in Australia and Creciendo an external review which was undertaken to ensure that Juntos in Chile) they continue to provide maximum beneﬁt to our local communities. (p.33) 32 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND CONSULTATION IMPACTS Our approach to community consultation ensures stakeholders are COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PROGRAMS both well informed and have the opportunity to provide feedback in the development of proposed projects. Consultation styles Our aim is to operate in a socially responsible way, maintaining are adapted to suit the needs of the local community and other good relations and promoting social development and cohesion stakeholders. The methods of consultation and engagement in our host communities. Local community engagement, impact range from formal and informal community consultation sessions, assessments and development programs have been implemented newsletters and surveys, to community investment activities and at all of our operations, except our Australian hydro plants. dedicated community relations staff. Community investment funds have also been established at each of our operations, except our Australian hydro plants, and are Our Community Charter aims to ensure our approach to tailored to the needs of each different community. Through each communities is consistent across the globe. Additionally, our fund, a portion of proﬁts made by each project are invested back Community Affairs Policy in Brazil provides further guidance on into local communities through a number of grants in education, developing and sustaining relationships with local communities health and safety, environment, sport, culture and the arts. in the region. While the investment programs are tailored to each site to DEVELOPING COMMUNITIES best address the needs of each community, we have been very successful in knowledge-sharing between business units In Australia, we participated in the Future Leaders of Industry to improve how the programs operate. Through the funds, we program, providing opportunities for young people in rural areas strategically promote innovative, creative solutions to local issues, to gain hands-on experience in their chosen industry or career. encouraging organisations to create partnerships delivering Students in the program are appointed a mentor, and spend a full community services. In this way, we hope to work towards day in the workplace, learning about the industry, job roles and achieving positive, long term outcomes that have broader potential educational pathways. Participants also work on personal community outcomes. skills development, leadership skills, presentation development, communication and goal setting. In Australia, the Challicum Hills Sustainable Communities Fund provided $5,000 to implement a mentoring program for at risk Our wind farms in Brazil host regular education sessions with youth. This innovative program trains volunteers as mentors who high schools, technical institutes and universities through our then spend regular time with children at risk of neglect or abuse. Open Doors program. Students from local primary and secondary The mentors offer a supportive, non-judgemental relationship to schools, indigenous schools and technical institutes, as well as the parent(s) and the child offering practical guidance and help other visitors to the wind farms learn about energy generation, in accessing social and recreational activities. particularly renewable energy, and its impact on the Brazilian electrical system. Depending on their educational requirements, Our Brazilian business unit continues to develop their fund, they also learn about operations systems and processes, some providing training and development to community leaders and technical activities, our environmental obligations and activities, other key ﬁgures, including teachers and business owners, in as well as general concepts of sustainability. how to successfully develop funding applications. We continued our partnership with OTIC (Organismo Técnico One of the projects supported by Creciendo Juntos, our Intermedio de Capacitación O’Higgins), an intermediate technical community investment program in Chile, was to put a roof on training agency, and the Hope Corporation (Corporación La the Chacayes local gymnasium. Three different groups prepared Esperanza) in Chile. This year the partnership provided training to separate applications, all relating to the gym roof, all of which 36 people from the local communities of Coya, Chacayes Termas were successful. Due to the support of Paciﬁc Hydro, the de Cauquenes, on leather craft, wood carving and catering. These applicants were able to secure additional funding from other topics were decided through community consultation sessions sources, including the local government. Since completion, the to determine areas of development interest within the local area. gym has become a hub for one of the communities of the Alto Since 2007, over 380 local residents have received training Cachapoal Valley (Chacayes), hosting social gatherings and through this program. town meetings as well as sporting activities. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 33 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT FUND SPEND We provided funding for a language teacher at a rural Chilean school, giving local teachers and students the opportunity to develop valuable foreign language skills. The Colegio San Lorenzo (San Lorenzo Primary School), located in the Machalí township, INVESTED IN COMMUNITIES $300,000 near our Chacayes, Coya and Pangal hydro power plants, now 250,000 AUSTRALIA has an in-house English teacher who takes classes for both students and teachers. We also provide support with maintenance 200,000 and watering of the roads around our host communities to avoid real or potential impacts of trucks on local roads. We have also 150,000 assisted local community members in Chile to apply to a program 100,000 that promotes ecotourism within the Reserva Nacional Rio de los CHILE Cipreses, located close to our hydro plants. The program is jointly 50,000 run by the Chilean environmental and tourism bodies, CONAF BRAZIL and SERNATUR. Paciﬁc Hydro helped community members to 0 identify and deﬁne potential projects, and to develop and submit 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 applications for funding. Some of the projects we helped develop are to provide healthy food items for visitors, develop an area at the reserve entrance for souvenir trade, provide a service of local guides for tours in the reserve and to develop a camping site. In all our countries of operation, we also provide training and other INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT assistance to individuals and community groups. Examples include in health, safety, environmental matters, sustainability, marketing Often our projects are located in rural areas with small populations and public relations, cultural and indigenous heritage, and other and low economic activity. In addition to our standard community sessions as required. Old electrical hardware, including printers, investment activities, a useful way for us to have a positive impact computers and laptops are also donated to community groups is by assisting with the development of infrastructure or provision where possible. of support in areas such as education. In isolation these may seem small initiatives, but collectively they In Australia, our Community Relations team provide in-kind make a powerful impact, as each one results in positive outcomes support to many of our partner organisations. One of these for our host communities. groups is the Portland Young Professionals Network, comprised of around 70 residents aged from 20 to 35. The group is auspiced by the Committee for Portland and aims to address some of the challenges around attracting and retaining young professionals in regional areas. It offers social, personal and professional development opportunities for members as well as supporting local events through volunteering. Paciﬁc Hydro has supported the group by providing staff with expertise in areas like social media to share that knowledge with network members. Local staff also provide some administrative and communications support and event facilitation. Two unsealed roads connect residents of the small township of Barra do Camaratuba with the larger municipality of Mataraca City. During the wet season, road conditions deteriorate quickly, preventing children from Barra do Camaratuba from attending school and community members from accessing medical facilities and other essential services. We engaged a local road works company to grade and level the road, allowing the lives of these MAKING IMPROVEMENTS TO LOCAL ROADS IN BRAZIL community members to return to normal. 34 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 JOB OPPORTUNITIES AND LOCAL SOURCING Although our policies and procedures do not speciﬁcally CELEBRATING MATARACA CITIZENS DAY mandate using locally based contractors and suppliers, or IN BRAZIL directly employing locally, we endeavour to support local communities wherever possible. We deﬁne local as the region Every Brazilian resident is required to possess in which a project or asset is located. a birth certiﬁcate and personal identiﬁcation card as legal proof of their identity. However, not all In Australia, we continue to actively seek and engage local residents of Mataraca City and the surrounding suppliers and contractors where they are competitive in price, district (the community that hosts our Vale dos quality and service. In Ararat, Victoria, over $250,000 was spent Ventos and Millennium wind farms in Northeast during the reporting period with local engineering companies Brazil), are able to travel to a doctor to register through the manufacturing of turbine parts. In Portland, Victoria, their children, or can afford the notary fees to over $600,000 was spent on maintenance activities performed obtain personal identiﬁcation cards. This means by local labour and maintenance contractors. Supporting local these citizens are not legally recognised by the workers and local industry provides beneﬁts, not only to our own Brazilian Government, are unable to gain legal organisation, but to the sustainable development of the region. employment and cannot fully participate in and contribute to community life. In the Northeast of Brazil, our two development projects, Paraiso Azul and Paraiso Farol, are moving towards construction phase. For the second consecutive year, Paciﬁc Hydro, In preparation for this, we have partnered with a local technical along with the Mataraca City Hall and a number institute to provide skills training to local residents in a number of of other sponsors, organised the Mataraca areas. Participation in this program will not guarantee employment Citizenship Day. Around 1,500 residents from once the projects reach construction, but provides them with the city and surrounding areas participated in the the skills required to apply for available positions, either with our free event, receiving legal documentation such as projects or for other organisations. It also provides an increase birth certiﬁcates, personal identiﬁcation cards and of skilled workers in the region. electoral cards. Medical and oral health checks, nutritional information sessions, including cooking In Chile, our Chacayes hydro plant moved from construction demonstrations and environmental education and to operations phase, signiﬁcantly reducing the workforce awareness training, were also provided. Programs required. We have worked closely with employment groups like the Mataraca City Citizenship Day allow us representing workers from the Chacayes area to ensure where to make a tangible difference to the lives of those local workers have the necessary skills and qualiﬁcations, living near to our operations. they be given opportunity to apply for and receive employment at our asset. In each of our business units, we have employed apprentices as part of our commitment to developing young workers in rural and regional areas. For employees, apprenticeships recognise existing skills, provide a combination of training and employment and experience and lead to nationally recognised qualiﬁcations. They also offer local employment opportunities to assist with the prevention of population decline in regional areas. ABOVE LOCAL COMMUNITY MEMBERS ATTENDING THE MATARACA CITIZENS DAY PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 35 VISUAL AMENITY We recognise that developing and operating a wind farm creates changes to the visual landscape of an area. In Australia, as part of COMMUNITY ATTITUDES TO WIND FARMS our planning application process and environmental assessment, IN AUSTRALIA independent landscape and visual impact assessments are conducted. This includes production of a series of photomontages In November 2011, we commissioned an depicting how the wind farm will look from a number of different independent research company, Qdos, to conduct local viewpoints. These montages are made available during the community polling on attitudes to wind farms and community consultation process and form part of the planning renewable energy. application documentation. The telephone survey interviewed one thousand residents across Victoria, New South Wales and At Keyneton Wind Farm in South Australia, we trialled a new South Australia, in areas where wind farms are feedback methodology that included comments from community already in existence or under development. “We members on their values and relationship with the landscape. were especially interested to hear what local As part of our community engagement processes the landscape communities living close to existing and proposed architect undertook a cognitive mapping exercise where wind farms had to say,” said Lane Crockett, participants were asked to analyse a series of qualitative values General Manager, Paciﬁc Hydro Australia. relating to landscape surrounding the proposed wind farm, and also complete a landscape survey. The outcomes of this exercise The key ﬁndings included: were included within the landscape and visual impact assessment – Community support for wind energy remains included within the planning application. strong, both nationally and in each state, with 83% nationally, 84% in Victoria, 90% in South The ﬁndings from the landscape value assessment, along with Australia and 77% in New South Wales. those from the cultural heritage assessment and environmental and biodiversity considerations, were signiﬁcant enough for us to – Support in Victoria for wind farms remains revise the turbine layout. This includes the removal of 18 turbines almost unchanged with 2010 results at 83% to minimise the impact on the community and the environment. per cent and 2011 results at 84%. While there is opposition to this project within the Keyneton – Nationally, over 7 in 10 people support wind community, we welcome communication and continue to engage farms being built nearby and over 8 in 10 agree community members throughout the entire development process. that “wind farms are an important part of our clean energy future”. Once projects reach operations, we work with impacted land holders to minimise their visual impact through a series of The results conﬁrm that the majority of regional measures. Our visual screening program in Portland was Australians support wind generation and continue completed during the reporting period with all cooperating to have positive attitudes towards wind farms in landholders. their local communities. It also conﬁrms that wind energy is overwhelmingly more popular than nonIn Brazil, a questionnaire was developed for the Touros community renewable forms of energy. to assess attitudes towards the local lighthouse. The results will The results of the poll coincided with the release of assist us in understanding the value given to visual amenity in the a report from the CSIRO on “Exploring community area, and how our proposed turbines might affect this. Further acceptance of rural wind farms in Australia” and assessment and discussion will be undertaken should ﬁndings conﬁrm the headline ﬁnding that there is stronger indicate additional landscape characteristics were important to community support for the development of wind the community. farms than might otherwise be assumed from media coverage. www.paciﬁchydro.com.au/ﬁles/2012/01/ 2011-Community-Polling-PresentationResults.pdf ABOVE LANDHOLDERS AT THE CODRINGTON WIND FARM, VICTORIA 36 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 HEALTH INFRASOUND There has been signiﬁcant debate and media coverage on Infrasound is a naturally occurring phenomenon which is the effects of wind farms on health, wildlife and amenity. In constantly present in the atmosphere and can be emitted naturally relation to perceived health concerns we rely on the advice in the human body, generated by natural sources such as waves from Governments and reputable health organisations. There are and waterfalls. It can also be emitted from man-made sources now 17 international reviews on the risks of health impacts from such as vehicles, air-conditioning systems and wind farms. wind farms. The ﬁndings are consistent in that there is no credible evidence in the peer reviewed published scientiﬁc literature that The Queensland Department of Environment and Resource there are any direct adverse physiological health effects from Management sets the common audibility threshold for infrasound exposure to wind turbines. noise level at 85 dB(G). This threshold allows an acceptable level of infrasound in the environment from a noise source to protect To inform ourselves and the community, we commissioned an against the potential onset of annoyance. independent acoustics consultancy, Sonus, to measure the levels of infrasound near two of our wind farms, as infrasound is often Independent studies show that infrasound generated by wind cited as the potential cause of ill-health. The measurements turbines is well below such established thresholds of perception indicate the levels of infrasound from the wind farms are below and is similar to levels produced by other natural and man-made human perception levels and are lower than those found at the sources. beach, in the city and near a gas ﬁred power station. www.paciﬁchydro.com.au/ﬁles/2011/10/ However, poorly designed wind farms can cause annoyance to Sonus-Report.pdf some nearby neighbours if the audible noise levels are too high. See p.42 for more information on wind farms and noise. Renewable power is safer, cleaner and healthier than fossil fuel based generation. We have called for a review of the health impact from all forms of power generation so that policy makers and communities can make informed choices on the best technologies for the future. We have also called for health impact assessments to be included in the planning decisions for new power generation plant. LOOKING AHEAD: STRATEGIES FOR 2012–17 2012–13 2013–17 COMMUNITY RELATIONS Develop, implement and manage programs that positively Further enhance community relations engage local communities COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Promote and improve our community investment programs Further enhance community investment programs PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 37 ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH We aim to provide a net beneﬁt to our planet by producing understanding that reducing the impacts of climate renewable energy with minimal impact on biodiversity, change begins with our own activities and working natural resources and our climate. to reduce our own carbon footprint; and We do this by: regularly engaging policy makers, local communities and the general public on renewable energy and implementing environmental management systems and broader climate change issues and advocating continuously improving our environmental performance; climate change policies in our areas of interest. PROGRESS AGAINST GOALS FOR 2011–12 STRATEGIES PROGRESS ON DELIVERABLES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Maintain environmental management systems 9 All operational sites operate under an Environmental and meet compliance obligations Management System (EMS) and we received no environmental ﬁnes. (p.39) CARBON MANAGEMENT Develop a carbon strategy and value proposition 9 A carbon strategy and value proposition was developed including corporate goals and targets and endorsed by the General Management Committee. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Incorporate sustainability metrics (eg International 9 Sustainability metrics were incorporated into our Asset Hydropower Association Sustainability Assessment Management Framework and Benchmarking Exercise. Protocol) into annual operations performance reviews 38 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND OUR In Brazil, our First Steps biodiversity program, developed for our Paraiso Azul and Paraiso Farol wind farms will help us to identify ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM site biodiversity, potential impacts of our activities and the most We aim to be an industry leader in environmental management, appropriate ways to minimise and mitigate these impacts. The continually striving to improve our environmental performance First Steps program will ensure adequate controls are in place in and practices. We conduct our business in accordance with terms of required documentation, compliance with relevant legal the spirit and letter of all applicable environmental laws and requirements and demonstrate our commitment to responsible, regulations. Our Health, Safety and Sustainability (HSS) Policy sustainable development. includes our environmental aims and the manner in which we In Chile, we continue to work on a cumulative impact assessment seek to achieve those aims. It is applicable to all employees and to better understand social and environmental impacts occurring in directors, as well as contractors and visitors to our sites or ofﬁces. the Cachapoal Valley, where our Coya, Pangal and Chacayes hydro The HSS Policy is implemented in part through our plants are located. The information gathered includes data on Environmental Management System (EMS). Every operational current use of and activities occurring in the Valley, and will allow site operates under an EMS, which is based upon or certiﬁed to for more comprehensive planning and decision-making related the international standard in environmental management systems, to current and future projects in the area. We also continued our ISO 14001. Regular internal and external audits occur to ensure partnership with the Alto Cachapoal Scientiﬁc Fund to promote compliance against ISO 14001, the responsibility for which lies research and knowledge related to the Cachapoal Basin. with country-level environment managers and Health, Safety and Environment teams. NATIVE VEGETATION During the reporting period we recorded one spill classiﬁed While we take a precautionary approach to all our development, as ‘signiﬁcant’ under our EMS, which was a sulphur hexaﬂuoride construction and operating activities, occasionally some tasks (SF6) gas leak of 0.740 grams. require us to remove or otherwise interfere with native vegetation. We abide by all local and national legislative requirements No ﬁnes were received during the reporting period relating concerning native vegetation and we minimise interference and to non-compliance with any environmental laws or regulations. damage through systematic site surveys, careful environmental We received two non-monetary sanctions in Chile. planning and appropriate offsetting arrangements. Over 60 hectares of land within the Upper Cachapoal Valley were BIODIVERSITY used during construction of Chacayes for tasks such as access, working platforms and temporary sites ofﬁces. To date, more Biodiversity is a major consideration during the early phases of than 75% of the affected land has been restored with 14 species project development. We undertake extensive site assessments native to the area, and the remaining land will be completed during and surveys of both ﬂora and fauna, including species of concern FY2012–13. to stakeholders such as avifauna (birds and bats), terrestrial fauna, ﬂora and threatened species. THREATENED SPECIES Assessments of species were recently carried out as part of the While our operations do not directly impact any conservationenvironmental assessment at our proposed Keyneton Wind Farm signiﬁcant species, any such species or habitats that may in Australia. Following these assessments, and in accordance potentially be affected by our operations are identiﬁed during our with the ecological consultants’ recommendations, a number of environmental assessments and appropriate mitigation measures modiﬁcations to the proposed turbine layout were made. These put in place within site Environmental Management Plans. These included removing or relocating turbines in order to avoid habitat include regular monitoring, timely restoration of disturbed areas or respect buffer zones around ecologically sensitive areas. and establishing habitat diversity within reclaimed areas. PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 39 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND ENERGY USE 2009–12 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 AND 2) BY COUNTRY This year Paciﬁc Hydro’s assets generated more than 1.8 million megawatt hours of clean, renewable energy, leading to the abatement of more than 1.2 million tonnes of greenhouse 1,527 2,767 144 2011–12 gas emissions. AUSTRALIA TOTAL 4,440 CHILE During the reporting period, 4,440 tonnes1 of greenhouse gas BRAZIL 116 4,480 146 emissions were generated through construction, operation and 2010–11 ofﬁce-based activities and 41,982 gigajoules of energy consumed. TOTAL 4,743 The construction of the Chacayes run-of-river hydro project 340 7,169 76 accounted for 52% of the company’s total greenhouse 2009–10 gas emissions and 67% of energy consumption during the TOTAL 7,586 reporting period, mainly resulting from vehicle diesel consumption. The project reached completion during the reporting period, 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 resulting in a 41% decrease in emissions from the project which tCO2-e in turn reduced the company’s total emissions by 6% from the previous year. Emissions were 19% lower across our other assets and ofﬁces 2009–12 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 AND 2) in Chile. BY SOURCE In Australia, greenhouse emissions increased from 117 tonnes 153 2,050 2,154 2011–12 to 1,528 tonnes, although 1,332 tonnes of this increase was TOTAL 4,357 due to changing the way we report emissions from purchased electricity use. In previous years we reported zero emissions 1,285 3,292 127 because we use 100% GreenPower, sourced from our renewable 2010–11 energy assets. This year, while we still use 100% GreenPower, TOTAL 4,704 we have aligned our reporting methods with the Australia NGERs legislation, which does not recognise the actual source, 1,380 5,693 481 2009–10 but instead attributes a state based emissions factor to all TOTAL 7,554 electricity consumption. In Brazil, emissions were 1% lower than the previous year. 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 The majority of emissions were generated from electricity tCO2-e consumption and transport vehicles. STATIONARY ENERGY (DIESEL, LPG, PETROL) – SCOPE 1 TRANSPORT ENERGY (DIESEL, E-25, PETROL) – SCOPE 1 Scope 3 emissions reduction initiatives implemented during PURCHASED ELECTRICITY – SCOPE 2 the year included reducing air travel, increasing length of trips and promoting the use of video conferencing. Data collection is improving and we anticipate that we will be able to include ﬂight emissions data in next year’s report. EMISSIONS INTENSITY OF OPERATIONS (TONNES C02-E/MWH) The emissions intensity of our operations is signiﬁcantly lower COUNTRY EMISSIONS INTENSITY than conventional electricity generators, because our power stations utilise zero-emission sources of fuel such as wind and Australia 0.00102 water rather than higher emission sources such as coal and gas. Brazil 0.00081 Chile 0.00082 (*NOTE: THIS CALCULATION CONSIDERS OPERATIONS EMISSIONS OF ASSETS ONLY, NOT CORPORATE OFFICES) 1 Includes scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions of assets and ofﬁces over which Paciﬁc Hydro has operational control, regardless of who owns the assets. 40 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (SCOPE 1) BY PRIMARY SOURCE ANDEAN CONDOR CONSERVATION PROGRAM The Andean Condor is a Chilean national symbol, 1,870 26,010 1,250 currently listed as ‘near threatened’ on the 2011–12 International Union for the Conservation of Nature TOTAL 29,532 (IUCN) Red List. While our projects do not have an impact on Andean Condors or their habitat, we recognise the 11,490 41,810 2,000 2010–11 signiﬁcance of this iconic species to Chilean TOTAL 62,286 people and our local communities. This has inspired us to work together with the Chilean Ornithological Association to support the 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 rehabilitation of injured condors. GIGAJOULES STATIONARY ENERGY – DIESEL The Andean Condor conservation program TRANSPORT ENERGY – DIESEL rehabilitates injured condors and takes condors TRANSPORT ENERGY – PETROL born in captivity through a complex process of medical recovery, socialisation and muscle development. Injured condors that have previously TOTAL INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (SCOPE 2) lived in the wild usually require minimal assistance. BY PRIMARY SOURCE However, birds born in captivity require a long, complex and costly rehabilitation. In March 2012, we achieved a special milestone, 10,840 1,610 2011–12 releasing ﬁve condors back into the wild in the Alto ELECTRICITY – RENEWABLE TOTAL 12,450 Cachapoal Valley, close to our Chacayes run of ELECTRICITY – NON-RENEWABLE river hydro plant. Prior to release, condors are ﬁtted with microchips, 21,820 780 wing bands and radio or satellite transmitters to 2010–11 allow comprehensive and ongoing monitoring of TOTAL 22,600 the birds’ reintegration back into the environment. The conservation program also provides educational materials and activities to promote the 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 work being undertaken. GIGAJOULES 2008–12 ABATEMENT (TONNES C02 EQUIVALENT) MILLION tCO2-e 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 ABOVE VICTOR LOPEZ, EXECUTIVE MANAGER, OPERATIONS IN CHILE RELEASING 0.8 ONE OF THE REHABILITATED CONDORS 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 41 WIND FARMS AND NOISE Noise levels at dwellings near to our wind farms are modelled, measured and ultimately restricted in accordance with government RECYCLED ART AT BARRA DO CAMARATUBA regulations and planning conditions. PRIMARY SCHOOL IN BRAZIL In Australia, we communicate with landholders, neighbours and Over the last few years, we have partnered with the communities about wind farm noise emissions generated by our Barra do Camaratuba Primary School to work on wind farms from the design stage through to planning application, projects to beneﬁt the school. This year, grade ﬁve construction and operation. We commission independent acoustic students suggested an environmental initiative that consultants to provide noise impact assessments, including not only would beneﬁt the environment, but would background noise monitoring, to demonstrate compliance with leave a lasting reminder of their time at the school. the government regulations and planning conditions. Their idea was to upgrade the school’s facade as After commissioning, testing of noise levels occurs to the name of the school had become faded and dull demonstrate compliance with regulatory requirements. Wind farm over time. Engaging students from other year levels noise may be audible at times depending on house location and at the school, as well as the rest of the Barra do factors such as the number of turbines operating, wind speed and Camaratuba community – around 900 residents – wind direction and other atmospheric conditions like temperature the children collected thousands of polyethylene or humidity. We continue to work with individual community terephthalate (PET) plastic bottle caps. The caps members to address their concerns. were then stuck onto the wall, repainting the school name in a bright and colourful design. PET bottle We have a formal complaints procedure which can be used caps cannot be recycled at many sorting by members of the community if they have concerns relating and recycling facilities and often end up in landﬁll, to Paciﬁc Hydro, including issues relating to noise. so collecting and using the caps for something useful addresses an environmental issue in a very creative way. Not only did the project give the school facade a facelift, it provided the students and residents of the community an opportunity to think about waste creation, innovative ideas about recycling opportunities and about the concept of sustainability in a broader context. Paciﬁc Hydro is proud to participate in projects that engage local youth, promote environmental sustainability and add value and bring together local communities in this way. ABOVE IMPROVING THE BARRA DO CAMARATUBA SCHOOL WALL 42 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 WATER WASTE We rely on water to power our hydro plants in Australia and Chile. In Australia, we measured performance against three initiatives In all cases, water is diverted from a river or pre-existing storage identiﬁed as areas of importance and achieved mixed results: source, through our power stations and then returned to the adjacent river system. This method ensures minimal ﬂooding, has 1 Improving lighting: The initiative was postponed and will occur low environmental impact and requires only non-consumptive during the 2012–13 ﬁnancial year. water rights. 2 Reducing bottle waste: We were not able to see a reduction Our operational wind farms consume only minimal volumes of in waste produced by plastic bottles due to potential manual water sourced from on-site rain water tanks. In Brazil, we measure handling risks identiﬁed in purchasing larger bottles. our water use. However, in Australia, we do not have systems in 3 Reducing paper consumption: A joint initiative between place to measure water use at many sites as we have chosen to the Health and Safety and Information Technology teams focus on other aspects of resource use, namely paper use, energy signiﬁcantly reduced the amount of printing and waste paper consumption and waste generation. collected by implementing a swipe system requiring employees In Chile, we monitor water levels to ensure water ﬂow is adequate to use their building pass to trigger printing. to preserve aquatic life and river-bank dwelling species. Water We continue to monitor and improve our waste management quality is also monitored at Chacayes Liquid Industrial Waste processes and have set targets around operational activities, Treatment plant to minimise the risk of contaminated water including improving waste management in the Melbourne ofﬁce affecting the environment or communities. and developing cultural heritage registers for some sites. Progress The Cachapoal River, the source for our Chacayes hydro plant, against these targets will be reported next year. is used by a number of other stakeholders in the Cachapoal Valley In Brazil, our commitment to waste management has assisted including mining organisations, other hydro plants, irrigators and local small business. For example, we were able to support a water sanitisers. The Irrigators Association of the Cachapoal Valley resident of the Barra do Camaratuba community, Luis Amaral da has implemented a collaboration and participation model to ensure Silvaa’s small recycling business. Our Natal ofﬁce and Vale dos that all major players are represented and their interests heard. Ventos and Millennium wind farms provided almost 14 kilograms The design and implementation of the model was led by Paciﬁc of unavoidable paper, cardboard and aluminium waste products Hydro and our Resources Manager, Patricio Correa, has been to his business during the reporting period. appointed as Director of the Association. The Chilean Government has observed the success of this model and has implemented The completion of construction at our Chacayes hydro plant in similar models in other catchment basins. Chile and the associated decommissioning and demolition of temporary works, generated 1,051,496 kilograms of domestic, industrial and hazardous waste. Waste management, sorting, transport and disposal processes are implemented at each site, including the Santiago ofﬁce. LOOKING AHEAD: STRATEGIES FOR 2012–17 2012–13 2013–17 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Maintain environmental management systems and meet Develop a corporate environmental audit program compliance obligations Improve data collection to enable full ecological footprint calculation CARBON AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT Implement carbon strategies and management plans, Continue implementation of carbon and energy strategies including achieving a reduction in ofﬁce electricity consumption PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 43 GRI AND UNCG INDEX THE INDEX BELOW PROVIDES PAGE NUMBERS FOR THE GRI INDICATORS AND UNGC PRINCIPLES CONTAINED WITHIN THIS REPORT. A DETAILED INDEX CAN BE FOUND AT PACIFICHYDRO.COM/SUSTAINABILITY/SUSTAINABILITY-REPORTS. DISCLOSURE/ CATEGORY REPORTED REPORT SECTION UNGC PAGE INDICATOR PRINCIPLE PROFILE 1.1 – 1.2 Strategy and analysis Full A Message from our CEO COP, 1–9 3 Determining Report Content and Materiality 10, 11 Risk Management 13 Progress against goals (Community, Workplace, Environment 15, 24, 32, and Business Operations and Finance) 38 Supply Chain 23 2.1 – 2.10, EU1 Organisational proﬁle Full About this Report Inside Cover Company Proﬁle 1 Governance, Ethics and Respecting Rights: Owner 12 Products and Services, Installed Capacity 16-17, 19 Detailed GRI & UNGC Index Online 3.1 – 3.4 Report parameters Full About Us 1 Report Scope and Health and Safety Performance 25 boundary Detailed GRI & UNGC Index Online 3.5 Full Determining Report Content & Materiality 10–11 Our Stakeholders 9 3.6 – 3.8, 3.13 Full About this Report Inside Cover 3.9 – 3.12 Full Detailed GRI & UNGC Index Online 4.1 – 4.10, Governance, Full Vision, Mission, Values 2 4.12 – 4.13 commitments Board, Code of Conduct, External commitments 12–14 and engagement Employee Proﬁle 27 Detailed GRI & UNGC Index Online 4.11 Full Native Vegetation 39 4.14 – 4.17 Full Our Stakeholders, Determining Report Content and Materiality 9–11 EC1, EC2 Economic performance Full Direct economic impact 7–9 16 Operational Excellence 20 Response to Climate Change 18 EC5, EC6 Market presence Full Remuneration and Bonuses 6 31 Job Opportunities and Local Sourcing 35 EC7 Partial Job Opportunities and Local Sourcing 35 EC8, EC9 Indirect economic Full Indirect economic impact 1 34 impacts Job Opportunities and Local Sourcing 35 EU6 Availability Partial Operational Excellence 20 and Reliability EN3, EN4 Energy Full Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Use 40, 41 EN6, EN7 Partial Products and services 16, 17 Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Use 40, 41 EN9 Water Partial Water 43 EN12, EN13 Biodiversity Partial Biodiversity 7, 8 39 Andean Condor Conservation Program 41 EN14 Full Biodiversity and Native Vegetation 39 EN16, EN23 Emissions, efﬂuents and Full Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Use 40, 41 waste Environmental Compliance and our Environmental 39 Management System EN18, EN22 Partial Waste 8 43 Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Use 40, 41 44 PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The Sustainability team would like to thank all the people, too numerous to mention, who have assisted with and supported the development of this report. It would not have been possible without your input. DISCLOSURE/ CATEGORY REPORTED REPORT SECTION UNGC PAGE INDICATOR PRINCIPLE Environmental Compliance and our Environmental 39 Management System EN18, EN22 Partial Waste 8 43 Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Use 40, 41 EN28 Compliance Environmental Compliance and our Environmental 39 Management System LA1, LA3 Employment Full Employee Proﬁles 1–6, 10 27 Remuneration and Bonuses 31 LA2 Partial Turnover 28 LA4 Labour/management Full Respecting Rights at Work 3 31 relations LA7, LA8, EU16 Occupational health Partial Health and Safety Performance 25 and safety Health and Wellbeing 26 Disaster and Emergency Planning 25 Health and Safety Systems 26 LA10 Training and education Partial Training and Development 28 LA11, LA12 Full Training and Development 28 LA13 Diversity and equal Full Inclusion and Diversity 6 27, 29 opportunity Employee Proﬁles 27 HR3 Investment and Partial Code of Conduct 13 procurement practices HR4 Non-discrimination Full Respecting Rights at Work 6 31 HR5 Freedom of association Full Respecting Rights at Work 3 31 and collective bargaining HR9 Indigenous rights Full Human Rights 14 HR11 Remediation Full Human Rights 1–10 14 Respecting Rights at Work 31 SO1 Local communities Full Community Investment Programs 33 EU19 Partial Community: Our Approach 32 Community Engagement and Consultation 33 Visual Amenity 36 SO2, SO4 Corruption Full Corruption and Anti-competitive Behaviour 13 Respecting Rights at Work 31 Compliance 13 SO3 Partial Code of Conduct 1–6, 10 13 Corruption and Anti-competitive Behaviour 13 SO5, SO6 Public Policy Full Public Policy Advocacy 7 21, 22 Donations 14 SO7 Anti-competitive Full Corruption and Anti-competitive Behaviour 13 behaviour SO8 Compliance Full Compliance 13 EU21 Disaster/Emergency Full Disaster and Emergency Planning 25 Planning & Response PR1 Customer health and Partial Operational Excellence 20 safety PR2 Full 2012 Full GRI & UNGC Index Online PR4 Product and service Full 2012 Full GRI & UNGC Index Online labelling PR7 Marketing Full 2012 Full GRI & UNGC Index Online communications PR8 Customer privacy Full 2012 Full GRI & UNGC Index Online PR9 Compliance Full 2012 Full GRI & UNGC Index Online PACIFIC HYDRO ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 45 CONTACT US Feedback on this report can be sent to sustainability@paciﬁchydro.com AUSTRALIA Level 11, 474 Flinders Street Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Australia T +61 3 8621 6000 | F +61 3 8621 6111 BRAZIL Alameda Santos, 700–Cj. 62 – Condomínio Ediﬁco Trianon Corporate Cerqueira César – São Paulo – SP CEP 01418-100 – Brazil T +55 11 3149 4646 | F +55 11 3149 4649 CHILE Av. Isidora Goyenechea 3520, Piso 9, Las Condes Santiago, Chile T +56 2 519 4200 | F +56 2 519 4240 PACIFICHYDRO.COM FIND US ON
