yara Impact review 2011 building on its unique position, Yara is dedicated to green growth based on its extensive knowledge, Yara is engaged in global challenges Scan code to see video animation Yara is positioned to create impact: In a world presenting our Creating Impact approach market influenced by global megatrends / page 8 /, we seek solutions. Yara employs its core business, industrial experience and agronomic expertise to engage in policy processes and industry developments in the global arena. Inviting partnerships and launching initiatives / page 7 /, Yara aims at unlocking business opportunities / Financial report /, benefitting the company as well as society; creating value. Yara is set to create value: In a society impacted by global challenges / page 2 /, we deliver on our mission: better yield. Engaging throughout the value chain / page 6 /, we create value. Delivering crop nutrition concepts, we improve productivity / page 14 /; developing environmental solutions, we help reduce emissions, safeguarding the environment / page 20 /; creating impact. CreaTiNG iMPaCT STOry: Yara International ASA was established by a demerger from Norsk Hydro in 2004, carrying forward strong traditions in industrial health, safety and environmental protection. Recognizing its role in global agriculture, Yara has since increasingly engaged in improving agricultural productivity, reducing emissions from the food chain and de­ veloping environmental solutions. This timeline depicts the evolution of Yara’s novel strategic framework, Creating Impact. 1990s 1999 Strong health, Presented first environment and Plantmaster 1988 crop nutrition guides and safety scheme Started development of N-Sensor protoype N2O catalyst technology 1980 1990 1980s 1990s 1995 1999 Started collaboration Introduced catalyst Launched Authored with Bioforsk Apelsvoll concept in Yara N-Tester tool “Agriculture, Porsgrunn Fertilizers & the 1995 Launched Environment” Policy book PetroCare Products and solutions and Nutriox Projects and initiatives solutions Who we are yara delivers solutions for sustainable agriculture and the environment. Our fertilizers and crop nutrition programs help produce the food required for the growing world population. Our industrial products and solutions reduce emissions, improve air quality and support safe and efficient operations. Founded in Norway in 1905, Yara has a worldwide presence with sales to 150 countries. Safety is always our top priority. What we do uPSTreaM is the backbone of Yara’s manufacturing system. It includes SuPPly aNd Trade mass production of ammonia, urea, nitrates and other nitrogen­based products is a global function res­ as well as phosphoric acid. ponsible for optimization dOwNSTreaM offers a complete fertilizer portfolio to growers worldwide. of energy and raw mate­ It provides knowledge and tools to secure the right nutrients and optimize rial purchases, ammonia application and yield with minimal environmental impact. trade and shipping, mari­ iNduSTrial is a reliable partner in chemical products. It enables innovative time logistics, third­party solutions based on ammonia production and knowledge, and helps customers sourcing, and feed reach compliance with environmental legislation. phosphates. What we offer aGriCulTural iNduSTrial eNvirONMeNTal PrOduCTS: We PrOduCTS: We SOluTiONS: We BACK BACK BACK offer a complete offer a wide range offer complete 600 kg NPK 600 kg portfolio of fertilizers of nitrogen and solutions for NOx covering all neces­ specialty chemicals abatement, odor sary nutrients for in addition to CO2, control, water treat­ any crop. dry ice and civil ment and corrosion explosives solutions. prevention. BACK BACK BACK BACK BACK BACK 2005 Established the 600 kg NPK 600 kg 600 kg NPK 600 kg Africa Program 2004 Developed platform for 2005 sustainable agriculture 2004 Awarded first 2003 Launched Yara Prize Committed to the NOxCare EFMA Product solution Stewardship program 2000 2005 2004 Established Authored scientific paper 2004 sponsorship on LCA method tailored Unveiled N2O catalyst 2005 of Millennium to crop production Launched Villages technology Policy Air1 brand for AdBlue/DEF Products and solutions Projects and initiatives d / Yara in brief Yara Impact Report 2011 Where we are GlObal Player: As the industry’s FerTilizer SaleS only global player, we have production Yara plants 2011 by reGiON 2011 Europe: 9,300 on six continents, operations in 51 Joint venture plants 2011 Thousand tons North America: 2,887 countries – and sales to about 150 Sales offices 2011 Latin America: 3,798 countries. Sales 2011 Africa: 1,188 Development programs Asia: 2,276 R&D units 2006 2008 2009 Committed to the Launched Crop Co-hosted international UN Global Compact Nutrition concept seminar for a cleaner initiative Baltic Sea 2008 Entered 2006 WarmCO2 2009 Entered strategic 2007 partnership Joined the World 2009 cooperation with Adopted corporate in the Economic Forum Participated in UN World Bellona citizenship approach Netherlands as Industrial Summit on Food Security Partner 2007 Extended NOx 2009 2006 abatement 2007 2008 Presented TraP Published first stand-alone solution to prevent Hosted first African Green solutions to Launched concept of corporate citizenship report phosphorus leakage Revolution conference maritime segment Agricultural Growth Corridors from fields Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 1 Review contents 2011 in brief / page 2 Interview with CEO / page 3 Strategy / page 5 Resources / page 9 Scan code to see Food / page 13 the CEO’s video Environment / page 19 presentation of the annual report Sustainability performance / page 24 Product stewardship / page 27 Ethics and compliance / page 27 About the report / page 28 YARA REPORTING: This Impact Review, together with supplementary information online and the separate Financial Report, constitutes Yara’s annual report 2011. The Impact Review and Financial Report are both available in print and on Yara’s website: www.yara.com 2010 Adopted new HR strategy 2010 2011 Started Environment Launched Creating and Climate Compatible 2011 2010 Agriculture (ECCAg) Established Impact concept Launched company-wide partnership with Innovation 2011 Syngenta platforms Launched Pure Nutrients campaign Ethics Program documenting benefits of nitrates 2010 2012 Yara continues to engage in global challenges. The company presents its case for green growth at the 2012 World Economic Forum in Davos, 2010 2011 Co-chaired African launches a partnership to develop a Sahara Forest Joined PepsiCo’s project Union’s “Grow Africa Project test site and prepares for the Rio +20 conto reduce carbon footprint 2011 Task Force” ference. At the same time, Yara implements and of Tropicana orange juice Participated in operationalizes its Creating Impact approach. development of the WEF New Vision for 2011 2010 Participated in Agriculture Launched Carbon Footprint COP17 in Durban Guarantee for fertilizers 2 / 2011 in brief Yara Impact Review 2011 2011 in brief Impacts on the ground Impact on company Global megatrends, policy issues and Impact on society Strategic decisions, public interventions market conditions influence the business environment in which and corporate activities, influence Yara’s business environment Yara operates – impacting on the company. – impacting on society. The impact is mainly within three key areas, linking global chal­ The impact is mainly through three core areas, offering business lenges and business opportunities: solutions to global challenges: REsOuRCE mANAgEmENT AgRICuLTuRAL pROduCTIvITY Scarcity of natural resources vital for agriculture, such as land Yara continued involvement in improving resource management, and water, and limited reserves of energy, featured prominently launched innovation platforms on water scarcity and resource in the global dialogue, for example at the G20 summit. efficiency, and carried out field trials for, among other things, improving plant nutrient uptake. LOREm FOOd sECuRITY IPsum Global food price increases, with demand for food driven FOOd pROduCTION by population growth and resource scarcity, combined with Yara engaged in increasing yields, for example, by initiating value climate concern, led to calls for green growth by the OECD chain partnerships, promoting green growth, contributing to the and others. WEF’s New Vision for Agriculture, and supplying tailored crop nutrition solutions. ENvIRONmENTAL IssuEs Climate change remained a key policy issue, with calls for a CARbON FOOTpRINT low-carbon, resource-efficient green economy encompassing Yara concerned itself with global processes aimed at reducing agriculture made at the COP17 conference, and others. climate change effects, offering solutions to reduce harmful emis­ sions and easing the carbon footprint of agriculture. Key figures Notes 1) Yara currently has no share-based compen­ 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 sation program that results in a dilutive effect Financial performance on earnings per share. 2) TRI: Number of total recordable injuries per Revenue and other income NOK million 80,352 65,374 61,418 88,775 57,486 million hours worked. 2007–2009 figures Net income after are for Yara employees only; 2010–2011 also non-controlling interests NOK million 12,066 8,729 3,782 8,228 6,037 include contractors. 3) GHG emissions adjusted for new plants. Earnings per share 1) NOK 41.99 30.24 13.08 28.27 20.60 Health and safety Employees Number at year-end 7,627 7,348 7,629 7,971 8,173 TRI rate 2) Per million hours worked 4.0 3.8 2.7 3.5 3.3 Environmental performance GHG emissions 3) Million ton CO2 eq. 11.2 13.1 12.5 16.0 16.4 Energy use Petajoule 219 223 208 207 191 Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 3 Scan code to see the CEO’s video presentation of the annual report 2011 Creating value: Yara recorded its most profitable year so far Creating edge: Yara leveraged its knowledge to support green growth Creating impact: Yara continued driving agricultural productivity Yara advocates better resource efficiency. By combining its position, knowledge and solutions, Yara creates impact. Through engaging in agricultural development for highly productive, environmentally friendly farming, Yara develops a sustainable competitive edge. sustainable profit Green growth in agricultural markets In 2011, agriculture was an emerging topic at the COP17 climate negotiations. Yara’s President and CeO, Jørgen Ole Haslestad, believes global policies will increase pressure for more sustainable and efficient farming – providing business opportunities for the company. 4 / Interview with CEO Yara Impact Review 2011 CEO Jørgen Ole Haslestad Q: How can stricter environmental policies become business gas (GHG) emissions from agriculture. Improving farm produc­ opportunities for Yara? tivity will reduce pressure on existing forests. a: Yara is uniquely positioned with our knowledge, high-quality In Africa, our engagement in the Agricultural Growth Corridors product portfolio and global presence. No company can match is set to increase yield levels, improving food supply. In Tanzania Yara’s solutions for improved productivity and green growth in we conduct research in collaboration with Syngenta and two the agricultural sector. universities, to define how modern farm practices impact on the environment, climate change and the economy. Q: Yara’s solutions for green growth – what are they? Q: What progress do you see in the growth corridors? a: We have expert knowledge on crop nutrition, which enables us to provide advice on how to maximize yields while minimizing a: I am not fully content – there is an urgent need to step up environmental impact and losses. We have a full range of crop the pace. We do see concrete investments being made in Mozam­ nutrients – with a low carbon footprint from production as well as bique. And both the construction of Yara’s fertilizer terminal and from use in the field. Adding in our local market knowledge and on-the-ground management of the growth corridor are on track agronomic tools, we are a complete solutions provider. in Tanzania Q: How can a product portfolio drive green growth in an President Kikwete of Tanzania displays impressive leadership entire sector? on agricultural development. Through his championship the African Union’s “Grow Africa Task Force” has been established, a: Yara is engaged beyond delivery of products. We participate in where Yara is honored to have a co-chair position. This task force partnerships and forums at the global level, where we consistently is designed to develop investment plans and engage private inves­ advocate solutions for green growth. By leveraging our position tors in order to achieve the goals set out in country level plans for and knowledge, we create impact. sustainable agricultural development. Q: Can you describe how you engage at the global level? Q: Apart from the external engagements – what is the key progress of Yara as a company, in terms of sustainability? a: For example, French President Sarkozy put food security high on the agenda for the G20 Summit in 2011. Yara was part of the a: We are ahead of schedule and still improving on greenhouse private sector task force which provided input. We addressed gas emissions. But a key point is that having zero emissions would how food security can be ensured while also improving agri­ not have any impact – unless we are also winners in the market culture’s impact on global warming. At the global level, we also place. Our new approach, Creating Impact, is a framework for keep our commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative, identifying areas where Yara is positioned to create value – for implementing and living up to its principles throughout our shareholders, employees, stakeholders and society at large. This operations. in turn will translate into a competitive edge for Yara – allowing us to expand our impact. Q: More food with less impact on climate change – how can Yara make that happen? At the global level we leverage Yara’s position to drive our initia­ tives and establish partnerships, engaging along the value chain a: It is a task beyond a single company, but we know that deforesta­ to improve performance. We will create sustainable profits – also tion due to expansion of farmland is the main source of greenhouse through driving green growth. President of Tanzania, Dr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, and Yara CEO Jørgen Haslestad at the launch ceremony for the fertilizer terminal in Dar es Salaam. Yara Impact Review 2011 strategy / 5 strategic ambition: Creating Impact Yara has chosen Creating Impact as its strategic ambition and approach, aiming at improving its competitive edge through creating value both for shareholders, stakeholders and society at large. ATING IMPACT CRE Creating Impact is a strategic at the World Economic Forum, framework for identifying how the G20 summits and other highbusiness solutions and societal level forums. Here, Yara utilizes interests intersect. It defines its position to drive initiatives three focal areas in which Yara and business partnerships, sup­ TING COM CREA has a unique position, enabling ported by the Creating Impact it to develop business strategies framework. PE BUSINESS E VALU beneficial to both the company MODEL ING and society. Yara’s potentially substantial T EA impact in society is primarily CR Yara consistently implements TIT related to the three focal areas; IV E a strategy of profitable and ED resources, food, and the environ­ sustainable growth; a roadmap G E ment (see page 7). In particular, for industry shaper performance Yara engages to identify busi­ and long-term value creation. ness solutions addressing food The strategy is based on the com­ security and climate change pany’s unique business model, Impact logic: By creating value for shareholders and soci­ simultaneously. extensive knowledge base and ety alike, Yara develops sustainable competitive advantages unrivalled global position. As a global company, Yara can – improving its position, strengthening Yara’s ability to create impact and value. launch initiatives and invite The scope of Creating Impact partnerships, engage in both Creating Impact is a business approach building on Yara’s is to create value for sharehold­ unique business model and three interlinked dimensions, global dialogues and local value ers, customers, employees and mutually reinforcing each other in a virtuous cycle: Creating chains. Yara’s crop nutrition solu­ society at large. This translates competitive advantages – creating value – creating impact. tions help improve agricultural into sustainable competitive productivity and the company’s advantages for Yara, enabling it to further strengthen its impact. industrial solutions minimize harmful emissions. Employing its Yara leverages its knowledge, global presence and business model core business and expertise, Yara creates value – creating impact. 6 / strategy Yara Impact Review 2011 Competitive edge Added value Yara has a strong global position. Yara is positioned to create value. Yara intends to retain and reinforce this position, in the value chain Yara is determined to retain and strengthen its value creation by and in the global market, by building sustainable competitive advan­ executing its strategy for sustainable, profitable growth. Building tages. With its agronomic and industrial expertise, Yara is positioned on its strong global platform, Yara creates added value for key to set standards for industry performance and to create advantages in stakeholders. all parts of the value chain. Creating edge supports Yara’s ability for creating Creating value, Yara strengthens its ability to value – throughout the entire value chain. create impact – within the industry and in society. Yara’s business model is unique in the industry, extending from Yara’s competitive edge includes products and solutions with a strong extraction and sourcing of raw materials all the way to marketing position in world markets; crop nutrition solutions helping to improve and customer education activities. With operations worldwide and agricultural productivity; industrial solutions reducing emissions. an extensive knowledge base, Yara is well-equipped to maneuver in a In the face of global challenges, Yara looks to enhance the value of changing global environment. Backed by a strong brand and financial its broad portfolio. For agriculture, this involves ways to mitigate solidity, Yara uses its knowledge and first-hand experience in the and adapt to climate change and make the most of scarce resources, market to provide solutions to some of the major challenges facing contributing to food security. For industries and transportation, Yara agriculture and industries today – adding to the company’s edge. offers technologies to reduce negative environmental impacts and improve efficiency. Creating competitive advantages reinforces Yara’s optimization of operations along the value chain. On this basis Yara is positioned By engaging in global challenges, developing solutions, Yara is creat­ to drive improvements in the industry’s overall performance, and ing value – driving its competitive edge. These challenges also offer to contribute solutions to major global challenges, impacting on opportunities, increasing demand for Yara’s products, and underpin society and delivering on the company mission. Creating noticeable, future value creation. positive impacts adds to the company’s competitive edge in a strategic perspective, spurring further growth and value creation. YARA’s vALuE ChAIN PREsENCE YARA Worldwide marketing and farmer Production on six continents and operations in more than 50 countries education activities Market insight and R&D form basis for innovative solutions and technologies Sourcing Production Shipping Storage Wholesale Retail Application Fragmented – some big players Highly fragmented – many small players INdusTRY Yara Impact Review 2011 strategy / 7 Global impact Yara is positioned to create impact. Resources With its unrivalled global presence, its history of R&D supporting Food Environment a drive for innovation, and its strategic approach, Yara is creating impact, edge and value. Creating impact, Yara reinforces its competitive Yara impact areas: Yara is uniquely positioned to advantages – strengthening its global position. make a substantial impact correlated to major global challenges within the three interconnected areas; Yara’s global position allows for policy dialogue participation, resources, food and environment. and serves as a platform for forging partnerships and presenting initiatives – such as developing the WEF roadmap ‘New Vision for REsOuRCEs Agriculture’, and launching the agricultural growth corridor concept. Challenge: To sustain global growth and increased demands for Through global engagement, developing technologies and knowledge products dependent on the use of limited natural resources, including sharing, Yara impacts on policy frameworks, industry processes and critical inputs for food production, especially land and water, as well management practices, contributing to green growth. as key raw materials. Resource scarcity. By linking key issues related to the company’s core business, in par­ Contribution: Yara offers agronomic solutions enhancing resource use ticular connecting food security and climate change, and by offering efficiency considerably, improving agricultural productivity and raising solutions to help improve agricultural productivity, Yara adds to its yields, including solutions for increased water use efficiency and phos­ competitive advantages and value creation, strengthening its global phate uptake. Increasing resource efficiency. position. Playing an active role in key arenas, Yara leverages this global position from several vantage points – to create impact. FOOd Challenge: To meet the demand for fiber, fodder and fuel from agriculture, at the same time as producing enough food, with balanced nutritional value. Food security and obesity must be addressed to meet the demands of a growing world population – with increased con­ sumption arising from improved prosperity. Food production. Contribution: Yara offers crop nutrition solutions supporting sustainable agriculture through a value chain approach, lifting Value chain: Building food production and enhancing food quality, contributing to food on its unique business security. Improving agricultural productivity. model and unrivalled global presence, Yara creates impact throughout the entire value ENvIRONmENT chain. Challenge: To sustain further growth in ways that minimize detrimental impacts on the environment, especially the emission of Creating Impact pertains greenhouse gases which drive global warming, causing climate change, to all steps of the value chain, including the sphere beyond which is already impacting on society. Climate change. Yara’s direct control: Products and solutions impact through Contribution: Yara offers crop nutrition solutions tailor-made to customers’ use – guided increase yields sustainably, which is imperative to reduce land use by the company’s sharing change and GHG emissions. Providing tools for increased precision of knowledge. improves resource efficiency and reduces nitrogen leakage. Yara is also a leading global provider of industrial solutions minimizing harmful emissions. Reducing carbon footprint. 8 / strategy Yara Impact Review 2011 Global trends Yara is influenced by major global Population growth increases the demand 7 billion: World trends playing a crucial role in devel­ for food, directly influencing Yara’s busi­ population tipped ness. In 2050, world population is set to another threshold opments pertaining to food security reach about 9.1 billion. in late 2011, adding and climate change. another billion Economic growth stimulates changes since 1999. These trends tie company in diet, i.e. increased consumption of and society together. They especially meat, which raises the demand By 2050, the UN projects the number impact on global market for grain and fertilizers. will peak at about 9 billion. The largest conditions and drive relative increase will occur in Sub-Saharan demand for Yara’s mineral World urbanization affects diet, food Africa, set to more than double its fertilizer andindustrial systems and creates environmental population from today’s one billion plus. products, while affecting challenges, strengthening the market India is expected to catch up with China by living conditions in all parts of the world: for Yara’s environmental solutions. 2025; each with about 1.4 billion people Global environment In 2011, the critical connections In its 2011 report with recommen­ between food production, dations, the independent Global Com­ resource management and mission on Sustainable Agriculture environmental stress, under and Climate Change urgently called for pressure from world population investments and innovation to support growth, were further emphasized a climate-resilient agricultural produc­ in the global arena, demanding tion with efficient resource use – and concerted action. for simultaneous actions by public and private sectors alike. Combined challenges call for cross­ cutting approaches. Green growth Business is identified as a key player requires all sectors of society to sustainin solving the most pressing global ably balance future demand and supply. challenges; helping to increase proImproving productivity and enhancing ductivity in a sustainable manner, resource use efficiency are key issues. increasing resource use efficiency throughout the supply chain, reduc­ Global agriculture has increasingly been seen as a key sector in ing carbon intensity towards a low-emission, climate-compatible meeting the interconnected food security and climate change agriculture. Calls for green growth argue that there need not be issues, and furthermore: in creating growth and alleviating a conflict between growth and the environment if government poverty in developing parts of the world. policies provide the appropriate frameworks, aligning economic, environmental and social goals. Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 9 Vital resources: Land Water Raw materials Resources The R factor: Economic growth extends the extraction of finite resources and use of non-renewable energy. This implies a need to create as much value as possible out of every input used Major global challenge: Support growth and increase production, employing relatively less input Main intervention: Increase resource efficiency Main Yara contribution: Solutions maximizing efficiency Value – Impact Green growth requires improved agricultural productivity, yielding more crop per acre, drop of water and unit of energy – creating value Innovative technologies increase resource use efficiency and limit emissions – creating impact 10 / Yara in brief Yara Impact Review 2011 WATER EFFICIENCY A VISION FOR WATER what: Solutions to water scarcity initiative: Agriculture uses percent opportunity: As a leading crop nutrition where: Worldwide of global freshwater withdrawals. Both company and a pioneer in fertigation, Yara is water use efficiency and crop yields can be prepared to explore business opportunities improved through better water management, stemming from water scarcity. Yara aims to modern irrigation and proper nutrition. Yara develop solutions to reduce water footprint uses its experience in fertigation and plant of crop production, positioning the company nutrition to help farmers overcome water as the leading supplier of products and ser­ constraints and improve yields. vices in this segment. INNOvATION PLATFORm Fertigation tools and services, product innovation, water sensors and methods for calcu­ lating water footprints are key topics in Yara´s Water scarcity innovations platform, launched in 2011. OuTPuT x 3 Yara research has shown that optimal nutrition can triple yields from the same amount of water. FERTIGATION Fertiga­ tion is the practice of ap­ plying fertilizers along with Dripline water through an irrigation Mg Ca system. N Ca N sOLuTIONs Yara´s range of fertigation and liquid fertilizers meet any crop situa­ tion. Optimizing fertilization increases the water use efficiency by the crops. TEChNOLOGY Specially designed chelates keep micronutrients readily available for plants, preventing losses. Yara Impact Review 2011 Resources / 11 Resource management Yara is involved in improving resource management, enhancing efficiency in the use of natural resources critical in agriculture, especially land and water, as well as key raw materials. in 2011, global attention on resource management was prominent. freshwater. New land area for agriculture is theoretically availThe close connection between food security and climate change able, but changing the use of land will exacerbate climate change. has been firmly established, and related to the vital issue of land use – and land ThE sOLuTION use change. The water, energy and food The main contribution is to increase security nexus, a crucial interconnec­ input use efficiency along the food tion climbing the global agenda in 2011, value chain, improving agricultural also came to attention, including at the productivity. The agricultural minis­ Bonn2011 Nexus Conference and the ters of the G20 group in 2011 pointed at G20 Cannes summit. the need for improvements in land and water management, in order to achieve ThE sITuATION a much needed increase in agricultural The combined global challenge production and productivity on a remains: How to double total agricul­ sustainable basis. tural output, delivering, food, fiber and fuel to a growing world population, Water sCarCitY: In 2011, the issue of achieving food security (see page 14), water scarcity remained a major conwith limited natural resources. cern, as a limiting factor in reaching future food production goals. Climate The Bonn2011 Nexus Conference on change will have major impacts on water, energy and food security, seekwater availability in several farm­ ing solutions for the green economy, ing regions. The 2011 World Water portrayed a tipping point scenario: Week in Stockholm raised ways to the megatrends of population growth, address the global water, energy and economic growth and urbanization Global dialogue food security challenges, pointing to cause a 40 percent gap between demand water as the bloodstream of a climate In 2011, Yara engaged in several key stakeholder and availability of fresh water resources resilient green economy. The statedialogues on resource management issues, by 2030. In the same two decades from including: ment called on all stakeholders to, 2010, there will be a 40 percent increase in among other things, commit to a 20 global energy demand, and an increase in NSS: Participating in the industry’s first percent increase in water efficiency food demand of 30 to 50 percent. Nutrient Stewardship Summit, organized by in agriculture. The Bonn2011 Nexus The Fertilizer Institute. Conference, organized by the German Production increases have to be iFieC: Chairing the International Federation of government, aimed to influence the achieved with limited, and relatively Industrial Energy Consumers: Steinar Solheim, water-energy-food security perspec­ less, resource inputs: with virtually Head of Yara energy sourcing. tive as an important dimension within the same amount of farmland, and less the Rio process. 12 / Resources Yara Impact Review 2011 pROduCTIvITY AddINg CITRus YIELds RELIAbILITY bACK TO bAsICs What: R&D What: Plant reliability Where: Brazil Where: Yara plants worldwide Impact: Support higher yields of oranges Impact: Improves productivity and efficiency Using Yara Liva Calcinit over several years increasing yield Plant reliability ticks a number of boxes: It is has had a proven effect, increasing citrus levels is a key decisive for productivity as well as for improving yields by an average of 16 tons per hectare development to energy efficiency and operational safety. Creating over the past three years when compared reduce pressure for value and impact, reliability will be a main priority to straight AN fertilizers. Sustainably land use change. for Yara’s plants in coming years. Yara has engaged in increasing water use efficiency (see case culture which can take better advantage of the dual relationship presentation page 10), aiming to help alleviate the growing between energy and food, noting that, at every stage of the food pressure on fresh water resources. supply chain, current practices can The company’s main contribution is be adapted to become less energy through sharing knowledge about intensive. Over the past decade, Yara crop nutrition application. Trials in has succeeded in improving its energy 2011 showed that increased rates of efficiency, reducing GHG emissions. yara impact nitrogen fertilizer improved water use efficiency by strengthening the Yara employs its core business in the quest for Again in 2011, world reserves of phossize and activity of the root system. food security, creating impact through: phate rock, a key ingredient in crop Yara’s fertigation solutions represent nutrition, were a topic. Together with another contribution: Distributing Processes optimizing the use of natural gas as the industry, Yara publicly argued that feedstock and energy source in the production of crop nutrition with water through there are ample supplies in the foreseemineral fertilizer. drip irrigation systems increases plant able future. At the same time, Yara uptake of nutrients and minimizes Product and knowledge development, supportlaunched a resource efficiency innova­ water use. In 2011, Yara launched ing optimal use and uptake of plant nutrients. tion platform, exploring opportunities an innovation platform on water, to increase phosphate use efficiency, aiming to further develop solutions including phosphate uptake by plants. enhancing water use efficiency. The fundamental relationship between KEY IssuEs crop nutrition, yields and water use land use CHange should be avoided efficiency is a strong motivation for by increasing agricultural productiv­ the innovation platform. ity, in order not to reinforce green­ house gas emissions that drive global resOurCe effiCienCY: In 2011, the warming. issue of resource availability remained a major concern. Climate-smart agri­ resOurCe use effiCienCY should culture was highlighted at the COP17 be enhanced in order to maximize in Durban. In a paper presented at output while minimizing input, supthe conference, the FAO promoted porting sustainable agriculture and an energy-smart approach to agri­ green growth. Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 13 Key dimensions: Food production Food quality Food The F factor: Food production implies tapping resources and taxing the environment. Increased production has to be balanced against resource scarcity and environmental concerns Major global challenge: Increase food production to feed a future population with higher consumption Main intervention: Improve agricultural productivity Main Yara contribution: Solutions improving productivity Value – Impact Global growth drives the demand for crop nutri­ tion solutions and agronomic knowledge – creating value Improved agricultural man­ agement practices increase production and save resources – creating impact 14 / Food Yara Impact Review 2011 Food security Yara is engaged in the global pursuit of food security, leveraging its global position and agronomic knowledge to initiate value chain partnerships and improve agricultural productivity. in 2011, global attention on issues related to food security remained The yield gap is a cause for concern. According to the Global high: Another price hike for basic food items, putting the 2008 Harvest Initiative, the annual growth rate averaged about 1.45 food crisis in mind, brought price percent between 2000 and 2008. Yet, volatility to the forefront of the interdoubling agricultural output sustainnational debate. Leading up to the ably by 2050 will require an annual 2012 United Nations Conference on growth rate of at least 1.75 percent. Sustainable Development (UNCSD) In its 2011, ‘State of Food Insecurity in Brazil (‘Rio+20’), the concept in the World’, the FAO argued that of green growth gained foothold, a food security strategy that relies arguing the case for climate-smart on a combination of increased agri­ agricultural production. Again, calls cultural productivity, greater policy were made for increased investments predictability and general openness in agriculture in general, and in R&D to trade will be more effective than and innovation in particular – as a other strategies, and that investment prerequisite for improving agricul­ in agriculture remains critical to tural productivity, considered the sustainable long-term food security. only path to achieving food security. ThE sOLuTION ThE sITuATION Although there are no simple soluThe overarching global challenge tions to food insecurity, one crucial remains: How to feed 9 billion people element is to improve agricultural in 2050, increasing food production by productivity: Harvesting a higher 70 percent and nearly doubling total yield per input unit. Increasing agricultural output of food, fiber and Global dialogue food production has to be done by fuel, using basically the same, or less, promoting and practicing sustainable basic resources – especially farmland In 2011, Yara engaged in several key stakeholder agriculture (see box on page 17), creat­ and fresh water (see page 11). dialogues on food security issues, including: ing value throughout the agricultural value chain, contributing to green weF: Board position in the New Vision for AgriIn 2011, world staple food prices growth. culture initiative, co-chairing sessions of agricul­ continued their 2010 climb, pointing tural growth at the World Economic Forum. to a phenomenon expected to remain green grOWtH: In 2011, the OECD a feature in the years to come: food CFS: Participating at the annual session of the was among the international organi­ price volatility. Hitting the poor hardUnited Nations stakeholder platform, the Comzations arguing the need for growth mittee on World Food Security. est, volatility is considered a major to tackle the financial crisis and threat to food security, and the issue G20: Engaging in the CEO Working Group, fight poverty. In its report on a green attracted considerable political attenproviding input to the G20 process leading up growth strategy for food and agri­ tion during 2011. to the Cannes summit. culture, the organization argued that Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 15 gROWTh CORRIdORs uNLOCKINg gROWTh pOTENTIAL what: Southern Agricultural Growth initiative: After launching the concept of opportunity: Yara looks to build on its Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) Agricultural Growth Corridors in 2008, Yara strong position in Africa, where agriculture where: Tanzania now plays a catalyst role in the two corridors is lagging from insufficient infrastructure, under development. In 2011, Yara launched inefficient markets, and low access to feran investment of USD 20 million into a ferti­ tilizer and other farm inputs. Yara’s support lizer terminal supporting the SAGCOT. of agricultural development is rooted in a long-term interest in Africa and the oppor­ tunities associated with a healthier agricul­ tural sector. REmEdY FOR POvERTY Investments PRImE PARTNERshIPs Praised as a of USD 3.4 billion over 20 prime example of public-private partner­ years in the SAGCOT can ships, the corridor concept aims to inspire create on-farm revenues investments in infrastructure and improve of USD 1.2 billion and lift farmers’ access to technology, farm inputs two million people out of and markets. poverty in Tanzania. ExEmPLAR In 2011, the SAGCOT case was featured in the WEF New Vision for Agriculture and presented at the COP17 in Durban. AddING CAPACITY The new fertilizer ter­ minal in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, will have a storage capacity of 45,000 tons of fertilizer when completed in 2013. CLImATE COmPATIbLE 2011 saw the initial results from the Environment and Climate Compa­ tible Agriculture (ECCAG) initiative, a Syngenta-Yara partnership project to investigate impacts of agricul­ ture on the environment and climate change. TANzANIA TRIALs ECCAG trials showed yield improvements of 82 percent for maize and 122 percent for rice, without increases in GHG emissions or water use. 16 / Yara in brief Yara Impact Review 2011 COFFEE pARNTERshIp LIFTING COFFEE YIELDS what: WEF coffee task force initiative: Vietnam is the #2 global coffee opportunity: With extensive knowledge where: Vietnam exporter. Nevertheless, the country’s coffee in crop nutrition, Yara can optimize fertilizer production suffers from inappropriate ferti­ programs for crops destined for food com­ lization and an aging coffee-tree population. panies like Nestlé, addressing issues such as Together with Nestlé Vietnam, Yara has quality, environmental impact and security engaged in a WEF task force to improve of supply. At the same time, food companies agricultural practices. represent an attractive route to reach more farmers and raise awareness of the benefits of Yara’s Crop Nutrition concept. RObusTA REFERENCE Yara is the only crop nutrition company active in the WEF mORE FROm LEss N task force aiming to make Vietnam the Conclusion of trials from the recognized reference of Robusta coffee. coffee project: Farmers can The task force is co-chaired by the Vietnam achieve higher yields from Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Develop­ less, but better-balanced, ment (MARD) and Nestlé Vietnam. fertilizer. WIN-WIN-WIN Farmers enjoy improved profitabil­ ity, Nestlé Vietnam gets more secure supplies, and Yara, increased sales. CARbON FOOTPRINT Analyses from 2011 show that the carbon footprint of coffee crops can be more than halved by the use of Yara’s fertilizer programs. sCALING uP Yara, Nestlé, Syngenta and MARD are organizing training of 40 local ambassadors, who will train other farmers on best coffee farming practices. ExPORTING ThE CONCEPT Yara is starting trials in Guatemala with Nespresso, focusing on the quality and carbon footprint of local coffee crops. Yara Impact Review 2011 Food / 17 pOTATO pARTNERshIp hIgh CARb, LOW­CARbON pOTATOEs What: Reduced GHG emissions in 2010 and have, among other technoloWhere: UK gies and innovations, evaluated Yara’s lowcarbon fertilizers – nitrate fertilizers from Impact: In partnership with 350 British low-emission plants. Analyses show that farmers, PepsiCo aims to reduce the cliYara’s fertilizers reduced the carbon footmate and water impact of their core crops print of potatoes by 28 percent, bringing by 50 percent over five years. Trials started the “50 in 5” target closer. such growth is not only desirable and achievable, it is essential as a Driver for Green Growth’. Here, Yara’s President and CEO, if the food and nutrition requirements of future generations are Jørgen Ole Haslestad, pointed to the need to integrate the food, to be met. Green growth was identified as one of the priorities climate, water and energy agendas – if green growth is to be by OECD agriculture ministers in 2010, and the organization achieved. pointed at the need for a comprehensive and coherent strategy, including increased resource use efficiency throughout the supply agriCultural PrOduCtivitY: In 2011, the G20 group of chain – necessitating higher priority to research, development, countries pursued food security as a policy priority, with its innovation, education and informaagricultural ministers recognizing tion within the sector. “the importance of a significant increase in agricultural production Yara pursues a strategy of profitable, and productivity”. They committed sustainable growth. The company is themselves to agricultural growth and positioned to contribute solutions to promoting an enabling environment sustainable increase of agricultural to encourage and increase investoutput. Yara has taken a prominent ment in agriculture. In particular, the role in developing green growth soluSustainable agriculture ministers stressed the need to support tions, including enhanced resource public-private partnerships, based on efficiency and reduced greenhouse Yara advocates the idea and practice of a value chain approach. The heads of sustainable agriculture, with its three gas emissions. Yara sees agriculture state followed suit at the November dimensions: as an engine in achieving green Cannes summit, stating the vital growth, and launched the concept PROFITABLE PRODUCTION importance of increasing agricultural of agricultural growth corridors in The economical dimension: Agriculture production and productivity. Global 2008. Acting as a catalyst, Yara has must provide sufficient financial reward business was involved in the process to farmers, enabling them to make a contributed to the establishment leading up to the summit. Yara took decent living, encouraging production of the public-private partnership and re-investment into farms. part in the CEO Working Group, behind the corridor in Tanzania (see providing private-sector input to the case presentation, page 15). Yara has PROTECTED ENVIRONMENT overall G20 process. invested into this value chain, conThe environmental dimension: Agriculture shall maximize resource use efficiency structing a new fertilizer terminal The key position championed by Yara throughout the value chain, reducing the in Dar es Salaam. Yara presented the pressure on natural resources and preventing for several years is that the main concase in several international forums erosion of biodiversity. tribution towards green growth within in 2010–2011, and the Tanzania corfood production lies in improving agri­ ridor featured both at the World EcoPROSPEROUS COMMUNITIES cultural productivity – and through The societal dimension: Agriculture nomic Forum (WEF) in Davos, and forging partnerships. At the 2011 WEF shall contribute to thriving and viable the COP17 conference in Durban. local communities, to economic and social meeting, Yara was among a group of At the 2012 WEF meeting, Yara codevelopment, including the provision of international companies presenting the chaired a key session on ‘Agriculture healthy food. ‘New Vision for Agriculture’ roadmap, 18 / Food Yara Impact Review 2011 CROp CLINICs CLINICAL CROp TREATmENTs What: Farmer education provide a meeting point for Yara and farmers Where: Ghana and several other countries to discuss strategies for improving farm Impact: Brings knowledge to the farm gate productivity and efficiency. One on one consultancy brings knowledge into the fields Inspired by colleagues in Indonesia, Yara and raises awareness of Yara’s solutions Ghana successfully hosted 45 Yara Crop – a win-win situation for farmers and Yara. Clinics across the country in 2011. The clinics with directions towards improved agri­ agriCultural knOWledge: In 2011, cultural productivity and increased several leading international organiza­ food security. The Vision has a value tions, as an input to the G20 summit, chain approach, aimed at building recommended improving productivity transformational partnerships through and increasing investments – not least in new models of collaboration – using innovation and knowledge. Sharing of the Southern Agricultural Growth knowledge is paramount for promoting Corridor in Tanzania (SAGCOT) as a sustainable agriculture, to secure higher prime example. Another visionary ini­ yields and increased profitability for the tiative, of which Yara is a partner, is a farmer. Small-scale farmers will play public-private task force for sustainable a critical role in meeting future food economic growth in Vietnam. Here, an demand. innovative approach to improve food security and agricultural sustainability With its global presence and agro­ is taken on, including value chain nomic expertise, Yara is positioned projects within the country’s coffee to contribute knowledge to support sector (see case presentation, page agricultural sustainability and produc­ 16). Yara is also involved in a value tivity. The 37th session of the Commit­ chain crop partnership in Mexico, tee on World Food Security in 2011, in demonstrating the added value of its which Yara participated, highlighted crop nutrient expertise. In 2011, Yara yara impact a significant expansion of agricultural was represented on the project board R&D as one of the action points to and working group of the New Vision Yara employs its core business in the pursuit of enhance food security. initiative. food security, creating impact through: KEY IssuEs Products and solutions contributing to improved The calls for increased investments agricultural productivity in a sustainable way. imPrOved PrOduCtivitY is critical remain persistent. In their ‘Agricultural to meet future demand for food, fuel Outlook 2011–2020’, the OECD and Knowledge of production methods and crop and fiber; to feed a planet of 9 billion FAO pointed at a slowdown in global nutrition application, maximizing resource people. efficiency. agricultural production growth, and argued that “substantial further invest­ Initiatives connecting key stakeholders and nutrient effiCienCY is critical in ments in productivity enhancement are creating partnership projects promoting sustainable agriculture; increasing needed to ensure the sector can meet the sustainable agriculture. yields by applying the right amount of rising demands of the future”. crop nutrition. Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 19 Major issues: Climate change Emissions Biodiversity Environment The E factor: Human activities impinge on the environment, challenging sustaina­ bility. Global growth has to be made green, reducing carbon footprint to avoid driving global warming Major global challenge: Sustain global growth while reducing harmful emissions to air and water Main intervention: Reduce global warming Main Yara contribution: Solutions minimizing emissions VALUE – IMPACT Market demand for solutions that support green growth is rising rapidly – creating value Innovative crop nutrition and environmental solution reduce emissions and safeguard the environment – creating impact 20 / Environment Yara Impact Review 2011 Environmental issues Yara is concerned about the environmental impact of agriculture and other human activities, and develops solutions that help offset negative effects such as harmful emissions to air and water. in 2011, global attention on environmental issues remained high. to be reinforced in 2011. A new wave is expected to take place Concern over climate change continued, with international in 2012–2016, with stricter regulations being implemented in agreements at stake during the COP17 in Durban. Focus on existing markets and new legislation coming into force in Brazil, sustainable development was reinforced, with green growth China and Russia. being a key topic on the agenda at the G20 meeting in Cannes, France. The ThE sOLuTION role of agriculture, and the sector’s The main contribution to prevent global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, were warming reaching critical levels, is to again emphasized. reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. With agriculture responsible for about ThE sITuATION 26 percent of emissions, the sector has The combined global challenge a major role to play. Improving agri­ remains: How to increase food procultural productivity, to limit land use duction in the face of climate change, change causing large emissions of carwith global warming affecting growers bon dioxide (CO2), is crucial, as is the in virtually all parts of the world. An improvement of management practices. environmental challenge resulting from fertilizer use in agriculture is Climate: In 2011, the issue of climate leakage of nutrients to waterways, change connected to farming highwhich has the potential to cause nutrilighted the need to develop climate­ ent overloads. smart agriculture, particularly in Africa. This was a key issue at the COP17. In 2011, the issue of climate change In a policy brief, the World Bank (WB) was revisited at the COP17. In the noted that ensuring food security under stakeholder process leading up to the Global dialogue a changing climate is one of the major conference, a study indicated that an challenges facing Africa. Yara was the investment of two percent of global In 2011, Yara engaged in key stakeholder private sector’s onstage representative GDP across ten sectors – including dialogues on environmental issues, including: at the WB venue, addressing the need to agriculture – is necessary to prompt step up efforts to make agriculture the COP17: Participating at the Business for a shift to a low-carbon, resourceEnvironment dialogue at the UN climate change engine for green growth. efficient and socially inclusive green conference in Durban. economy. Yara is a strong proponent of combining eu: Advocating improved resource use efficiency the closely interlinked issues of food, in the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy process. Legislation aimed at reducing NOx climate, resource scarcity and rural emissions from the use of fossil fuels adblue: Joining largest European producers for poverty. Encouraging environment­ in transportation, power generation a common quality initiative, supported by truck and climate-compatible agricultural and industrial production continued manufacturers. growth, Yara has entered a partnership Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 21 ENvIRONmENTAL sOLuTIONs gROWTh IN NOx REduCTION what: NOx abatement solutions Contribution: NOx abatement solu­ Business case: Yara’s NOx abatement where: Worldwide tions based on SCR or SNCR technologies solutions have seen rapid growth since the use ammonia as a reagent to convert harm­ market first opened in 2005. Stricter legisla­ ful NOx into harmless nitrogen and water. tion will continue to drive demand, with the Yara is a leading provider of the reagent and biggest markets in North America, Europe has been a pioneer in several applications for and Brazil. Yara aims to be a technology NOx abatement. leader and total solutions provider in the market for NOx abatement. mARKET ExPANsIONs Yara is a leading N ANd NO NO x Yara is more supplier of the AdBlue reagent in Europe, than N fertilizers: We can help expanded its activities in North America in farmers cut NOx emissions 2011, and looks for further growth opportuni­ from farming machinery to ties in NOx abatement in Latin America, the meet new European emission Middle East and Turkey. regulations. air1 APP ON AIR July 2011 saw the launch of a filling station locator mobile app for Air1. hEALThY INNOvATION PLATFORm REsuLTs About Launched in 2011, Yara’s 721,500 tons of NOx innovation platform on emissions emissions were cut to air aims to unlock growth in 2011 by Yara’s opportunities in the market for deliveries of abate­ 721,500 tons 185,900 tons abatement technologies, and ment solutions. Emission reductions from Total NOx emissions to establish a lead position in Yara´s solutions (2011) in Norway (2010) product stewardship and safety. COmPLETE OFFERING After acquiring Petro Miljö in 2011, Yara’s NOxCare offerings for industrial plants will cover the entire value chain, from build­ ing reduction systems to supplying the reagent and promoting safe storage and handling. 22 / Environment Yara Impact Review 2011 sAhARA FOREsT pROjECT dEsERT gOEs gREEN ThERmO KINg COOL CO2 What: Innovative green technologies What: CO2 in cooling systems Where: Qatar Where: The Netherlands Impact: Production of food, Impact: Reduces emissions and noise water and energy Thermo King’s cryogenic cooling system is A one-hectare site outside Doha, Qatar, and energy through a combination of powered by recycled CO2 from Yara, supplied will soon host the Sahara Forest Project innovative technologies. Yara, together through a network of filling stations. The CO2 pilot plant. When fully operational in 2012, with Qatari fertilizer producer Qafco, will replaces diesel compressors and halogenated the plant will utilize sunlight, deserts and provide the estimated USD 5.3 million cost refrigerants, reducing emissions. seawater to produce food, fresh water of the pilot plant. with Syngenta in Tanzania, to develop a clear understanding of the to a reduction of emissions, especially from heavy-duty trucks and impacts of agriculture on the environment and climate change. power plants. Yara is a major supplier of AdBlue in Europe and North Here, Yara tests how increased agricultural productivity can be America, introducing its solution to the Brazilian and other markets compatible with environmental sustainability and climate change. in 2011. During the year, Yara participated in several Integer AdBlue Initial results from trials in 2011 diesel emission forums in Europe, China, indicate strong yield increases without USA and Brazil. increasing GHG emissions. Yara is engaged in developing solutions Yara continues to explore smart links to reduce harmful emissions from to other industries and to develop the use of mineral fertilizer, includ­ viable business from by-products. 2011 ing runoffs into waterways. A case in saw the opening of a gas line between point is the multinational collabora­ Yara’s feed phosphate plant in Kokkola, tion around the Baltic Sea, in which Finland, and Woikoski, a gas company Yara has taken an active part. Based and producer of medical and techni­ on its TraP research project, Yara has cal gases and equipment. Recovered presented novel solutions using gypsum CO2 from Yara’s plant has become a to trap phosphorus in fields, preventing valuable raw material for Woikoski, leakage. Results from trials featured turning emissions into product supas an example of progress at the 2011 ply. Yara is engaged in several similar Commitment follow-up in Helsinki. A links: Yara Sluiskil supplies CO2 and subset of commitments aims to tackle excess heat to adjacent greenhouses in the problem of agricultural nutrient the WarmCO2 project in Sluiskil, the loading by recycling nutrients. A related Netherlands, and a number of other yara impact issue being addressed is to recycle nutri­ plants feed excess heat into district Yara employs its core business in approaching ents captured in municipal wastewater heating systems. In 2011, these deliverenvironmental issues, creating impact through: treatment plants for use in agriculture. ies amounted to 762 GWh. Further­ more, Yara captures and markets CO2 N2O catalyst technology: Yara’s catalyst KEY IssuEs technology reduces nitrous oxide (N2O) from for use in industrial applications and Climate-smart agriCulture, re­ nitric acid plants by up to 90 percent. has engaged with leading companies ducing the carbon footprint of global in the cooling chain to support more low-carbon fertilizers: Yara offers a range of agriculture, is a key contribution to environmentally-friendly cooling sysnitrate-based, low-carbon fertilizers, a result of stem global warming. tems (see case above). the N2O catalyst technology and other efforts to reduce GHG emissions. emissiOns abatement, reducing the emissiOns: In 2011, the demand for NOx amount of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emitCarbon Footprint Guarantee: Launched in Scanabatement solutions (see case presentadinavia in 2010, Yara’s Carbon Footprint Guaranted to the air, is provided by AdBlue tion, page 21) increased, contributing tee for fertilizers is the world’s first of its kind. solutions. Yara Impact Review 2011 Yara in brief / 23 CARbON FOOTpRINT CuTTINg EmIssIONs what: Solutions to reduce GHG emissions initiative: Agriculture accounts for about opportunity: Yara’s efforts to reduce where: Scandinavia/worldwide 26 percent of global GHG emissions. GHG emissions throughout the fertilizer Increased agricultural productivity can stem life cycle have drawn international atten­ the biggest culprit, land use change, but tion. Yara has become a leading supplier of Yara also looks for other ways to reduce low-carbon fertilizer and is cooperating with the carbon footprint of agriculture, offering industry partners and food companies look­ a Carbon Footprint Guarantee for fertilizer ing to offer products with a smaller carbon and establishing a GHG laboratory. footprint. CARbON FOOTPRINT COOL CATALYsT The Carbon GuARANTEE Yara launched Footprint Guarantee is a result of the world’s first Carbon Footprint the Yara’s groundbreaking N2O Guarantee for fertilizer in Scandi­ catalyst technology for reducing navia, offering farmers a solution GHG emission from nitric acid to halve their carbon footprint. plants. mAKING ImPACT During 2010 and 2011, fertilizers sold under the Carbon Footprint Guarantee in Sweden replaced GHG emis­ sions of some 500 million kg CO2 equivalents from conventional fertilizers produced without the use of N2O catalyst technologies. GhG LAbORATORY Yara estab­ EsTAbLIshING FACTs Trial results lished its own GHG laboratory at from 2011 show that fertilizer applica­ the Research Center Hanninghof, tion concepts that help growers apply Germany, in 2010. The objective: the optimum N rate decrease the Investigate nutrient management N2O intensity (emissions per unit of options for minimizing N2O emis­ output) and, hence, the carbon foot­ sions from fertilized soils. print of agricultural produce. PuRE NuTRIENTs Yara’s range of nitrate-based, low-carbon fertilizers offers higher yields and better quality with signifi­ cantly lower environmental impacts over the life cycle than those of urea. 24 / sustainability perfomance Yara Impact Review 2011 sustainability performance YARA’s CREATING ImPACT approach covers the company’s low-carbon fertilizer: Environmental improvements that create entire value chain, including measures to reduce any negative impact on society, support cost efficiency and provide competi­ environmental impacts of the production system and to safeguard tive advantages. worker health and safety. Building on its century-long experience in industrial production, Yara is today among the world’s most Following the launch of the Creating Impact approach in mid­ energy-efficient producers of mineral fertilizer, with a strong 2011, Yara will continue to operationalize the concept throughout health and safety track record. the company, in 2012 and beyond. This will be reflected in future reports. While this section provides a summary disclosure of Yara’s R&D capabilities are instrumental in increasing the the company’s sustainability performance in 2011, Yara also efficiency and improving the environmental impact of the com­ continues to report according to the Global Reporting Initiative pany’s production platform. Among other things, investments in G3 guidelines and framework. R&D have resulted in Yara N2O catalyst technology for reducing GHG emission, which has positioned Yara as a leading provider of » For Yara’s complete GRI index, visit www.yara.com/gri ENvIRONmENTAL PERFORmANCE IN 2011, Yara continued to make environmental and produc­ and energy use steadily approaching the theoretical minimum for tivity improvements in its production platform. Yara succeeded fertilizer production, similar quantum leap improvements will in reducing energy use and emissions per ton of finished product. be hard found. Yara will nevertheless continue investing in its ammonia plants, pursuing higher efficiency, cost reduction and Thanks largely to its N2O catalyst technology, Yara has reduced lower emissions. All of Yara’s nitric acid plants will meet the new its GHG emissions significantly in recent years. With the N2O requirements for such plants under the EU Emissions Trading catalyst or similar technology installed in all nitric acid plants, System coming into force in 2013. N2O GHG EMISSIONS VS TARGET The N2O catalyst technology has been instrumental in reaching the 25 Million ton CO2 target for ghg emission reduction equivalents, adjusted for as well as for offering the Carbon new plants 20 Target 2013: Footprint guarantee. developed 53% down 45% down by Yara, this technology reduces vs 2004 15 emissions of nitrous oxide (N2O) Target from nitric acid plants by up to Actual 90 percent. 10 5 0 2004 2010 2011 * 2013 Yara reduced GHG emissions from its plants by 45 percent between 2004 and 2010, reaching its 2013 reduction target well ahead of time. This emission level was improved in 2011 by better plant performances and improved efficiency of Yara’s N2O catalyst technology. The shutdown of the joint venture plant in Libya explains roughly 0.7 million tons of the reduction in 2011. Mg N C Yara Impact Review 2011 sustainability perfomance / 25 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 250 20 Energy consumption in production (PJ) -5% 762 200 16 150 12 100 8 50 4 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 GWh In 2011, Yara’s total energy consumption in production was 219 GJ, a two Energy consumption per ton of In 2011, Yara’s plants delivered percent decrease from 2010. Most of Yara’s energy consumption, about finished product decreased by 5 roughly 762 gWh of surplus heat 90 percent, is related to ammonia production. Only 20–30 percent of percent from 2010 to 2011, from to local district heating systems this share, mostly natural gas, is combusted. The rest is used as raw 14.6 to 13.8 gj per ton. and industries. material for the ammonia. EMISSIONS TO AIR CONTRIBUTING TO ACIDIFICATION EMISSIONS CONTRIBUTING TO EUTROPHICATION NOx to air 20,000 1.50 NOx 5,000 0.300 Emissions per ton finished product Emissions (ton PO4 equivalents) NH3 to air NH3 Emissions per ton finished product Emissions (ton SO2 equivalents) N SO2 P 15,000 3,750 0.225 Per ton finished Per ton finished product product (kg PO4 equivalents/ton) 10,000 0.75 2,500 0.150 (kg SO2 equivalents/ton) 5,000 1,250 0.075 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In terms of impact per ton of finished product, Yara reduced the Yara reduced its emissions of substances with acidification potential of its emissions to air by 18 percent in 2011. eutrophication potential in 2011. This resulted The switch of boiler fuel from oil to natural gas in one plant was in a 10 percent decrease in emissions per ton a large contribution to this result. of finished product. hEALTh ANd sAFETY IN 2011, Yara continued its strong track record with respect TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY (TRI) RATE to worker health and safety. The company has implemented a Total recordable stringent internal safety program, founded on the belief that 5 injuries per million hours worked every accident is preventable. During 2011, Yara paid particular 4 2007–2009: attention to the safety of contractors, who have historically Yara employees only been more prone to undesired incidents than Yara employees. 3 2010–2011: Strengthening existing initiatives, Yara continued to develop its Yara employees and 2 contractors combined BBS (Behavior-Based Safety) program, proceeded with its Process Safety program in the Upstream segment, and continued to raise 1 safety awareness and improve reporting and hazard identification 0 in the Downstream and Industrial segments. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In 2011, Yara achieved a TRI rate of 4.0 for employees and Regrettably, Yara experienced three serious accidents in 2011, contractors combined, an increase from 2011 and below Yara’s of which one had a fatal outcome: An electrician in Brazil target of 3.5. Recovering from an unsatisfying start, Yara saw received an electric shock during work on a panel that had not improvements in the TRI rate in the second half of 2011. Dripline been de-energized and locked out according to procedures. Yara TRI: Total recordable injuries per million hours worked, recognizes the severity of such incidents and that they should not including lost-time injuries, restricted work cases where occur. All accidents are thoroughly investigated and preventive employees and contractors are allowed to carry out work actions implemented. different from their normal duties, and medical treatment cases. Ca a N 26 / sustainability perfomance Yara Impact Review 2011 LOST-TIME INJURY (LTI) RATE 2.0 Number of lost-time injuries per million hours worked. Yara employees and 1.5 contractors combined In 2011, Yara recorded an LTI rate of 1.9 for employees and contractors combined, a slight increase from 2010. The LTI rate for employees only 1.0 was less than half of the rate for contractors, spurring an upgrade and strengthening of the technical and operational procedures for contractors. 0.5 LTI: Lost-time injuries per million hours worked; incidents where 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 injuries to workers or contractors lead to absence from work ≈ 1/2 0/1000 3.6 Yara’s accident rate is half of the average for Yara Trinidad was awarded the 2011 Yara safety Absence due to illness at Yara’s production European fertilizer producers. Award for its outstanding safety performance: plants ended at 3.6 percent in 2011, slightly up avoiding lost­time injuries for more than 1,000 from 2010, but below the average for the period consecutive work days. 2006–2010. WORKFORCE YARA’s suCCEss dEPENds on the skills and expertise of In 2011, Yara followed up on its human resources (HR) strategy, its diverse workforce. The company aims to give all employees the which was launched in 2010 and based on three priorities: perfor­ opportunity to achieve their full potential and to offer long-term mance and development, recruitment, and retention. To this end, prospects for personal and career development. While managers Yara implemented a Human Resources Information System, tried are responsible for identifying, developing and building the talent out a new Talent Development process, improved its Workforce of their immediate staff, Yara also expects employees to take the Planning process, launched a High Potentials program, initiated initiative in identifying and acting on their development needs, a new 360-degree feedback tool and rolled out a Performance in the interest of personal development, as well as contributing Management process. to Yara’s success. Africa Asia Europe Latin America Brazil North America Total Permanent employees 191 291 5,026 415 1,112 525 7,627 Non-permanent contracts 2 10 1,167 40 323 94 1,667 Total 193 301 6,193 455 1,435 619 9,294 Yara had 7,627 permanent employees at year­end 2011, compared to tors, consultants and other non­permanent employees working for the 7,348 in 2010. The increase reflects both organic growth and acquisitions, company in 2011, a slight reduction from the 1,707 the year before. and came mainly in Latin America and Asia. Yara also had 1,667 contrac­ WORKFORCE WORKFORCE North BY GENDER WORKFORCE BY REGION WORKFORCE America Africa North Female Latin America 525 Africa191 BY GENDER Female employees BY REGION Asia 291 America525 191 Latin Permanent Permanent Asia 291 employees 1,435 America 415 Brazil employees Permanent employees Permanent 1,435 415 Brazil1,112 employees employees 1,112 Male 19 percent of Yara’s perma­ Male employees Roughly two­thirds of Yara’s nent employees are women, employees 6,192 permanent workforce is reflecting the historical male 6,192 employed in Europe, making dominance in the fertilizer it by far the largest region with Europe Europe 5,026 industry. respect to number of employees. 5,026 Yara Impact Review 2011 sustainability perfomance / 27 PROduCT sTEWARdshIP YARA’s ACTIvITIEs are all guided by the principles of prod­ process is nearing completion, 17 out of 20 plants having all these uct stewardship as set forth by Fertilizers Europe (FE) and the certificates in place. A number of units also have certifications to International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA). Based on a other standards in place, such as for energy management and, not clear commitment to promote sustainability and safe practices least, food and feed safety systems. throughout the life cycle of fertilizers, they ensure that proper care is taken along the entire value chain, from product develop­ REACh ment and sourcing of raw materials, through production, storage Yara’s fertilizers, chemicals and raw materials are covered by and distribution, to sales, delivery and application. national or international fertilizer or chemical regulations. In 2011, Yara established a unit, Yara Central REACH, to ensure In 2011, an independent audit confirmed that Yara’s operations future compliance in Europe and with similar regulations that in Europe are in full compliance with the requirements of the FE are being developed and implemented in other parts of the Product Stewardship Program. Outside Europe, Yara is imple­ world. All of Yara’s European products are in compliance with menting the IFA Protect & Sustain product stewardship program, the EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction which was launched in early 2011. Yara has participated in the of Chemicals (REACH) regulation, and Yara will complete the development of this initiative, and in May 2011 Yara Mexico was implementation of the EU Regulation on Classification, Labelling among the first companies to receive an IFA Protect & Sustain and Packaging (CLP) during 2012. certificate. Other units will follow suit, as Yara aims to have all operations outside Europe certified to the program. Chemical regulations are also becoming increasingly stricter outside Europe. Yara continuously tracks changes in regulations CERTIFICATION and registers products according to national rules. In non-EU Yara aims for all plants to be certified to the three widely rec­ markets, Yara currently classifies and labels its products accord­ ognized standards ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, ISO ing to the CLP regulation or national requirements. The company 14001 Environmental Management Systems, and OHSAS 18001 will also introduce product classification and labeling based on Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. This the UN Globally Harmonised System (GHS). EThICs ANd COmPLIANCE CITIzENshIP COmmITmENTs IN FEbRuARY 2010, Yara launched a company-wide Ethics duRING 2011, the Ethics and Compliance Department followed Program, based on the fundamental principles of its Code of up on several actions related to Yara’s corporate citizenship com­ Conduct, and structured around its core values of ambition, mitments. Yara has been a signatory to, and active supporter of, teamwork, trust and accountability. During the year, the program the UN Global Compact since 2006. In 2011, Yara participated in was rolled out throughout the organization and an array of ethics one UN GC Nordic Conference. tools were provided to Yara employees, including a handbook, telephone hotline, video materials and web-based portal. The Yara continues to report according to the Global Reporting Ethics Handbook was translated into over 13 languages, and 9 Initiative (GRI) and is committed to improving the application Ethics Videos were created. of this framework. In 2010, an internal process was carried out to improve the quality and completeness of the company’s The program continued in 2011, following up on employee train­ non-financial reporting. In 2011, Yara implemented an online ing and participation, as well as integration of the Ethics Program tool which increased our GRI Reporting from 31 fully reported into different business processes, such as Employee Induction, indicators to 56, and reduced not-reported indicators from 30 to Internal Audit and Procurement. In addition, 2011 was spent 14 indicators points for our 2010 GRI report. developing a new training program, as well as a new Ethics Video that will to be rolled out in the middle of 2012 to all employees. Yara did not identify non-compliance with laws or regulations regarding human rights, anti-competitive behavior, corruption, marketing, customer privacy or the provision and use of prod­ ucts, including their health and safety impacts, in 2011. 28 / Yara in brief Yara Impact Review 2011 About the report The Impact Review 2011 is the fifth in a series of publications describing Yara’s approach to connecting core business with global challenges, and documenting aspects of its sustainability performance. The Impact Review 2011 is a continuation of Yara’s stand-alone reports on citizenship activities and performance in the period 2007–2010. A revision of the citizenship approach and a broadening of the strategic scope resulted in the launch of the Creating Impact strategic framework in 2011 (see page 5). Consequently, Yara has cho­ sen this as a platform for communicating its global engagement, at the intersection of company and society – through this Impact Review and on the corporate web site. The Review is outlined in accordance with the three key areas identified at the center of Creating Impact, closely linked with Yara’s core business; resource management, food security, and environmental issues. susTAINAbILITY pERFORmANCE The Creating Impact framework includes a clear ambition to strengthen and broaden the company’s reporting of sustainability performance. This process was started in 2011 and will be reflected in future reports. While the Impact Review 2011 provides a summary disclosure of Yara sustainability performance, more in-depth report­ ing along with details in scope, boundaries and data collection can be found on Yara’s website: www.yara.com mORE AbOuT YARA The corresponding Financial Report 2011 provides detailed informa­ tion on Yara’s financial and operational performance in 2011, along with a more comprehensive presentation of the company and its strategy going forward, as well as accounts on governance and risk. The Financial Report 2011 and supplementary information on the company are found on: www.yara.com gRI REpORTINg Yara continues to report accord­ ing to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines and framework. The company’s GRI reporting is organized in accordance with the reporting framework and can be found online: » For Yara’s Impact reporting: www.yara.com/impact » For Yara’s GRI index: www.yara.com/gri Text: Yara, styrkr Yara has signed the United photo: Ole Walter jacobsen Nations Global Compact, Concept: styrkr, Creuna design: Creuna embracing its principles. prepress: Creuna The UN GC is a strategic print: Zoom­grafisk policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Yara International ASA Bygdøy allé 2 P. O. Box 2464, Solli NO–0202 Oslo Norway Tel: +47 24 15 70 00 Fax: +47 24 15 70 01 www.yara.com YARA PIONEEREd mineral fertilizers a hundred years ago, creating impact within world agriculture – increasing yields, improving food security. Building on our agricul­ tural expertise and leveraging our industrial experience, we have developed crop nutrition concepts and environ­ mental solutions, creating value for our shareholders and stakeholders, and for society at large. Connecting major challenges such as resource manage­ ment, food security and environmental issues, we remain dedicated to contributing solutions and seizing opportuni­ ties – benefiting the future. Creating impact. Creating value.
