OUR people future Sustainability Report 2010 2011 Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company Kingdom of Bahrain www.gpic.com About Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) is a leading joint venture setup and owned by the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, represented by the Oil and Gas Holding Company (Nogaholding), Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) of Saudi Arabia and Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC) of the State of Kuwait. GPIC was setup for the purposes of manufacturing fertilizers and petrochemicals. Being a major manufacturer within the Kingdom of Bahrain, GPIC is also a proactive stakeholder within the Kingdom and the region with some of our activities being represented by natural gas purchases, training and employment of Bahraini nationals, utilization of local contractors and suppliers, energy consumption and other financial, commercial, environmental and social activities that arise as a part of our core operations within the Kingdom. For the purpose of clarity throughout this Report,‘GPIC’, ‘we’‘us’, and ‘our’ refer to the Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company; ‘SABIC’ refers to the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation; ‘PIC’ refers to the Petrochemical Industries Company, Kuwait; GPIC attains a GRI verified application level of B for its Sustainability Report ‘Nogaholding’ refers to the Oil and Gas 2010-2011, ‘Our People Our Future’. Holding Company, Kingdom of Bahrain; and ‘Board’ refers to the representative group formed by Nogaholding, SABIC and PIC. GPIC is a Responsible Care Company certified for RC 14001 since July 2010. We are committed to the safe, ethical and environmentally sound management of the petrochemicals and fertilizers we make and export. Stakeholders’ well-being is always a key priority at GPIC. GPIC’s Achievements, Challenges and Goals Achievements 2010 2011 Strategic Initiatives 2012 • A remarkable safety record with over 14 million • Continue GPIC’s Corporate Social Responsibility person hours without a Lost Time Accident. initiatives. • In 2011 GPIC achieved a combined production • Be a role model for empowering women in the record for Ammonia, Urea and Methanol of private sector in general and industry specifically. 1,575,018 tonnes, highlighting business continuity and efficiency. • Enhance GPIC’s Succession Plan to maintain our sustainability and Bahrainisation level above 85%. • GPIC became the first company in the Middle East to be accredited to the Responsible Care RC-14001 • Maintain GPIC’s excellent international and regional management system in July 2010. relationships and continue to exchange knowledge. • Her Majesty Queen Margrethe II of Denmark visited GPIC whilst on a state visit to the Kingdom of Challenges 2012 and Beyond Bahrain, the first monarch to visit a petrochemical • Further enhance GPIC’s Safety, Health, Environment, complex on such a visit. Efficiency and Quality parameters and programmes. • Finalisation of future projects Strategic Plan 2020 • Further enhance management systems and which identifies the Ammonia II/Urea II mega procedures by registering for: project to be the first expansion project for GPIC, to be undertaken in 2012 depending on government o ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility gas allocation. standard • Record profitability of US$265 million in 2011, the o ISO 22301: Societal Security – Business Continuity second highest since inception. Management System o ISO 50001: Energy Management System o ISO 31000: Risk Management – Principle and Challenges 2010 2011 Guidelines • Maintaining business continuity during the o ISO 17025: General requirements for the challenging period faced by Bahrain during the first Competence of Testing and Calibration quarter of 2011. Laboratories • Early retirement for the first time in the history of • Safe, on time and within budget execution of GPIC, which was both a challenge and an opportunity Turnaround 2012 and beyond. to induct young Bahraini people into GPIC’s workforce. • Finalisation of GPIC Ammonia II/Urea II expansion project after obtaining all government approvals. • Continue to maintain competitiveness in the international markets whilst absorbing increases in the variable cost. • Encouraging qualified Bahrainis to join GPIC as their company of choice. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 01 1 High Profile Visits GPIC was graced and honoured by several high profile visits during 2010 2011. We highly value these visits as they highlight the outstanding support we receive from the country’s leadership. It also shows their trust in our people. These visits are an example of our remarkable regional and international relations and a platform for sharing our commitment towards the planet and its people. GPIC leadership express their sincere thanks and appreciation to his Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, King of the Kingdom of Bahrain, HRH Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister and HRH Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, Crown Prince and Deputy Supreme Commander for their continuous support of the Company’s operations and activities.  arking the launch of the National Initiative for M Development of the Agricultural Sector by HRH Princess Sabeeka bint Ebrahim Al Khalifa, wife of His Majesty the King and Chairperson of the Supreme Council for Women and as a contribution from GPIC to this initiative, the Company published the ‘Urea Fertiliser Use Manual’. “ The Company continues to provide support and backing to farmers and gardeners to promote the culture of using fertilizers. This publication underlines the role that can be played by industry in increasing the local production of agricultural crops to better improve the agricultural output in the Kingdom of Bahrain.” Abdulrahman Jawahery, GPIC President GPIC Sustainability Report 20102011 02 HH Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad Al Khalifa, President of the Supreme Council for Youth and Sport (SCYS) and Chairman of the Bahrain Olympic Committee visited GPIC on 13 February 2011. His highness praised the significant role played by GPIC in supporting sports events and local and regional competitions supervised by SCYS, and underlined that such support reflected positively on the youth sector for the good image of the Kingdom. HM Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, accompanied by HRH Prince Henrick, visited GPIC on 5 February, 2011. During her visit the Queen of Denmark opened the Olive Tree Oasis named the “Queen Margrethe II Olive Oasis” in commemoration of the Queen’s visit to GPIC. “This day is considered as an historic day for the Company, for Gulf industry in general and Bahraini industry in particular. This day will remain as a memorable landmark in the history of the Company and will motivate us to continue our contributions to the Kingdom and our efforts to preserve the environment” Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa, GPIC Chairman GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 03 High Profile Visits (continued) HE Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa, GPIC Chairman inaugurated the CDR project on 24 December 2009. GPIC is one of the first Companies in the Middle East to install a Carbon Dioxide Recovery (CDR) Unit. This initiative highlights our commitment to combating Global Climate Change by cutting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and to improving our overall efficiency of natural resources by enhancing the production of Methanol and Urea. HE Dr. Abdul Hussain bin Ali Mirza, Minister of Energy and President of the National Oil and Gas Authority (NOGA), inaugurated the Academy of Leadership and Learning at GPIC. The Academy will play a pivotal role in developing our indigenous talent into leaders of tomorrow. HE Mr. Yousef bin Abdulrahman Al Zamil, Vice President of the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) and Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors of GPIC and HE Mr. Anwar Bin Salamah, Deputy Managing Director of Kuwait Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC) and Managing Director of the GPIC Board of Directors, congratulated GPIC’s leadership and its employees on winning the Arab Social Responsibility Award for 2011. “GPIC is one of the most important companies operating in Bahrain and is therefore a role model and an example in fulfilling its social responsibility, which has become key to both the public and private sectors in helping to improve the social welfare of citizens.” Abdulrahman Jawahery, GPIC President GPIC Sustainability Report 20102011 04 Contents 1) Introduction.............................................................................. 08 7) Environmental Impact. ............................................................ 78 • Environmental Management and Strategy............................... 80 2) Leadership Commitment......................................................... 10 • Environmental Performance. ................................................... 86 • Chairman’s Message................................................................ 12 • Managing Director’s Message.................................................. 14 8) People and the Community...................................................... 92 • President’s Message................................................................. 16 • Our Employees.......................................................................... 94 • Our Community. ..................................................................... 101 3) Organisation Overview............................................................. 18 • Organizational Profile. .............................................................. 20 9) Product Stewardship.............................................................. 106 • Corporate Governance.............................................................. 22 • Our Values................................................................................. 27 10) Leading Excellence (Awards)................................................. 112 4) Sustainability Overview............................................................ 28 11) What others say about GPIC.................................................. 116 • Sustainability Strategy.............................................................. 30 12) GRI Indicators and UN Global Compact................................. 136 • Sustainability Framework......................................................... 31 • Stakeholders’ Engagement. ..................................................... 33 13) Our Approach to Reporting.................................................... 156 • Our Committees. ...................................................................... 37 14) Glossary of terms................................................................... 158 • Our membership in key organisations. .................................... 41 • GPIC in 2010/ 2011.. Initiatives and achievements .. ................ 44 • Corporate Objectives 2012........................................................ 46 • Enterprise Risk Management................................................... 47 5) Business Excellence. ............................................................... 48 • GPIC ‘s Best Practices.............................................................. 50  Manufacturing Management Systems............................... 51  Asset Management Systems.............................................. 58 6) Economic Impact...................................................................... 62 • Economic Performance............................................................ 64 • Production Performance. ......................................................... 67 • Marketing and Export Performance......................................... 70 • Safety and Health Performance. .............................................. 74 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 07 Introduction At GPIC, sustainability is defined as the capacity to endure and persevere as an organization within highly dynamic and demanding market conditions. We do that by strategically renewing our assets; creating and delivering quality products that meet the evolving needs of society; devising new strategies to attract and retain new and existing talent within our organisation; constantly monitoring, managing and taking responsibility for our impact on the environment, and proactively investing in projects that help nurture a more sustainable environment. We preserve and strengthen the trust and support of our clients, shareholders and the communities in which we live and operate. Our initial sustainability report “30 years of excellence”, published in 2009, was issued to commemorate our 30th anniversary since inception. As a way forward, and to further enhance our transparency and diligence in our approach to monitoring, measuring and reporting our economic, environmental and social performance, we have taken an initiative to align our sustainability reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Along with measuring and communicating our economic, environmental and social performance as per the guidelines, we are also aiming to create a solid alignment with other key initiatives like the UN Global Compact, Responsible Care, and even highlight key areas / initiatives which are aligned to support the 8 UN Millennium Development Goals. This report also includes information on the various corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives we have invested in, in the financial years 2010 and 2011 (period ending December 31, 2011). The GRI frame work, a pioneering approach developed by an independent network-based organization, provides a standardized approach for sustainability reporting that helps organizations transparently measure and communicate economic, environmental and social performance. This is the first year that GPIC’s Sustainability Report 20102011 has been prepared, assessed and reported against the GRI G3.1 guidelines. We will continue to refine our sustainability reporting and will work to further enhance our commitment, targeting full compliance with the GRI report’s ‘A’ level in future years. Furthermore, as part of our sustainability governance, we have plans to develop a formal sustainability road map/(target(s), which we aim to put in place before the next report. “with our leadership in sustainability comes a responsibility to our employees, customers, local communities, shareholders and industry partners around the world.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 9 Leadership Commitment • Chairman’s Message • Managing Director’s Message • President’s Message “our commitment to sustainability is an integral part of everything we do and is a key contributor to our leadership position in the petrochemical and fertilizer industry.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 11 Chairman’s Message Our sustainability is based on our pro-active approach, driven by the desire to create a strong relationship between our business practices, the stakeholders we directly impact, our country and the planet we live on.” 2010-2011 was a remarkable period from all aspects of our GPIC’s commitment to corporate social responsibility is a value business including SHE excellence, business continuity, record that permeates at all levels of our business, impressed by a production and profitability. One of our biggest challenges was supporting culture that has been conscientiously developed to maintain our work force and business continuity during the across the organization. We are privileged to introduce this turbulent period and political crisis in Bahrain in 2011. We met this report, which is a reflection of our culture, of our engagement to challenge with success through our loyal and dedicated Labour our stakeholders, of our successes and of the challenges to our Union and the employees. sustainability efforts. At GPIC, our foundations have been built on the pillars We value feedback and we hope that you see in this of sustainabilityPeople, Planet and Profit. Our sustainability report evidence of our determination to make GPIC a sustainable is based on our pro-active approach, driven by the desire to business that contributes to the world’s sustainability. create a strong relationship between our business practices, the stakeholders we directly impact, our country and the planet we Best regards, live on. As one of the leading organizations in the fertilizer and petrochemical sector, GPIC has enhanced the level of engagement with all stakeholders, ranging from our employees to our suppliers, from regulators to our shareholders and extending beyond into the communities in which we operate. Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa At GPIC, corporate social responsibility is all about how Chairman we manage our business processes to produce an overall positive impact on society. Becoming the first company in the Middle East to be certified to Responsible Care RC 14001 Management System in 2010 was a remarkable addition to our voluntary initiatives to enhance SHE excellence and corporate social responsibility. We went a step further by embracing the guidance on corporate social responsibility, ISO 26000, and finally winning the Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2011. GPIC Sustainability Report 20102011 12 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 GPIC Olive Oasis 13 Managing Director’s Message To ensure we lead the path towards responsible business, transparency and accountability, and to ensure we remain leaders in this within our industry, we are taking the next step towards monitoring and reporting excellence.” From the very beginning, we have learned that the cutting edge To ensure we lead the path towards responsible business, competitive advantage can only result from weaving social and transparency and accountability, and to ensure we remain leaders environmental considerations into business strategy. This ethos, in this within our industry, we are taking the next step towards developed by the visionaries of this Company, and consistently monitoring and reporting excellence. Our new sustainability report mandated by the Board of Directors, has become fundamental to our 2010-2011 is in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy. sustainability guidelines. In this report we have also highlighted our GPIC’s engagement with society has extended far beyond progress on key global initiatives such as the UN Global Compact and the traditional understanding of Corporate philanthropy. It has the 8 UN Millennium Development Goals. taken on the form of proactive, hands-on engagement, to assist in meeting the myriad of social sector needs, in education, health, Best regards, skills development, poverty alleviation, women empowerment and infrastructure improvement. We are mindful of the fact that the future growth strategy of GPIC relies on how we measure and manage our stakeholder engagement, social responsibility, environmental sustainability, and our overall financial optimization. Hence, in line with this, we benchAnwar Saeed bin Salamah mark ourselves against the best of the best. We want to learn from Managing Director others and also share our best practices and provide a leadership role in inspiring Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility ethics both at regional and international levels. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 14 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 15 President’s Message Our Responsible Care and Social Responsibility ethic is seamlessly integrated throughout the cultural fabric of our Company, and is an important contributor to our leadership position.” For over 30 years, GPIC has been a part of Bahrain’s economic Our commitment to the well-being of our people is reflected in landscape. In that time, we have survived the many challenges and the Company’s outstanding record on safety, which is continuing shared in some of the triumphs that the country has been through. with over 14 million man hours without a lost time accident. This Our commitment to Bahrain, however, has never wavered and we achievement tops our list of Responsible Care Achievements. To have served the nation as a company that believes in achieving maintain this achievement is one of our biggest challenges for excellence and even going beyond in every aspect of what we do. 2012 and beyond. In 2011 we engaged DuPont to carryout a gap 2010-2011 were strong earning years for GPIC, due in a large assessment of our Process Safety Management (PSM) system. The part to the significant recovery in the global Ammonia, Urea and opportunities that arose as a result of this comprehensive audit are Methanol market from the 2009 economic downturn. The successful being reviewed and will be implemented in 2012. completion of turnaround 2010, that saw continued investments Our leadership role in SHE and Corporate social responsibility in projects resulting in enhanced reliability, efficiency, productivity excellence was further highlighted when GPIC became the first and business continuity, along with our close cooperation with our company in the Middle East to become certified for RC 14001 marketers, ensured smooth exports of our products resulting in Responsible Care Management Standard in 2010. Our journey to record profitability. The company was able to make more profits, responsible care started in 2008 with our declaration of support and amounting to US $138 million by the end of 2010, against US $105 commitment to Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association’s million in 2009, an increase of 30%, and our profits further increased (GPCA) Responsible Care Program. In October 2010, GPCA in 2011 to US $265 million, an increase of 48% over our 2010 profits. became a member of the Responsible Care Leadership Group of Net profit for the year 2011 is the second highest since the inception the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). This of the company. milestone was realized by the efforts of the GPCA’s Responsible Care GPIC’s name and reputation today are the result of the loyalty, Committee, led by GPIC’s President. This affiliation acknowledges unity and tireless efforts of our people, who have felt a passionate that the GPCA has a recognized RC program for the Arabian Gulf. and personal stake in our success. More than at any time in history, Our Responsible Care and Social Responsibility ethic is Bahrain needs unity in every section of its society now. This sense seamlessly integrated throughout the cultural fabric of our Company, of unity has always been the corner stone of our success and it was and is an important contributor to our leadership position. We see this highlighted furthermore when our Labour Union took a historic and ethic in action throughout GPIC everyday. It is through our proactive wise decision on 14 March 2011 when they turned down a strike initiatives to promote safety, our efforts to share our Responsible call by the Bahrain Labour Union Federation and chose to continue Care best practices inside and outside the Company, our support operations during the period of turmoil and instability in the Country. to local communities, and our employees’ volunteering in local This helped us in maintaining business continuity during the political communities. It is because of this that we were the proud winners of crisis in 2011 with the support of our loyal people, enabling us to the Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2011. produce record volumes of quality products. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 16 Our leadership commitment also drives our resolve to minimize At GPIC we are mindful that our success relies very heavily on our our impact on the environment. In an era of global climate change ability to attract, recruit, and retain the highest quality of human we have taken several initiatives to reduce our carbon footprint and talent. A number of Bahraini employees opted for the early retirement ensure that GPIC is a greener and a more planet-friendly company package, which was both a challenge and an opportunity to induct every year. Our major investments in this aspect go back to 1996 young talent into our workforce. GPIC transformed its Training Centre when we constructed a 1700 MT/day Granular Urea plant, followed by into an Academy of Leadership and Learning with the objective of our recent venture, the carbon dioxide recovery unit, commissioned in using this academy for developing of our talented staff into future December 2009. Both these projects have contributed significantly to leaders. We have started a Bridging Programme to groom identified reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in-house talent for supervisory positions in the Company. The We believe that in order to add value to the shareholders programme is launched in partnership with Bahrain Polytechnic. and to remain competitive and sustainable in this ever evolving and Recruitment of female employees is also on the increase, highlighting challenging global market, we have to grow. In line with this outlook our strong commitment towards the empowerment of women. we have developed a strategic plan ranging till the year 2020, and very As a way forward, we are passionately committed to playing soon we are also looking towards a major expansion project to build a leadership role in sustainability, and hence we are also aiming to a multi-billion dollar, world-scale ammonia and granular urea plant create a solid alignment with other key initiatives like the UN Global adjacent to our existing facilities. We have received the preliminary Compact, Responsible Care, and even key areas/initiatives which are approval and once the final approval is attained the project will kick aligned to support the 8 UN Millennium Development Goals. off. One of our biggest challenges for 2012 and beyond is the safe, on In our Sustainability Report which is based on GRI 3.1 time, within budget completion of the project. guidelines, you can learn more about our achievements, our In line with our strategy of continued investments in challenges and our future. Looking ahead, our challenge is to reliability-related projects, we started two main projects that are in maintain and improve upon these standards of excellence. This report the construction phase. A) Construction of a new HP steam boiler, is part of GPIC’s commitment to transparency as well as engagement which once completed in 2013, will enable the comprehensive with our stakeholders. It is part of the process by which we solicit inspection of the existing HP steam boilers. B) A new Hypochlorite feedback on the successes and failures of our sustainability efforts. unit of higher capacity, which will phase out the existing chlorination process for sea water conditioning. Best regards, We continued our focus on maintaining our excellent regional and international relations with our stakeholders. The Queen of Denmark visited GPIC in 2011, the first monarch to visit a petrochemical complex on a state visit. During the visit the Queen inaugurated an olive tree oasis. This was followed by another Abdulrahman Jawahery high profile visit, that of H.H Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al Khalifa. President During the visit he honoured GPIC sports personalities for their achievements at Company / national levels. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 17 Organization Overview • Organizational Profile • Corporate Governance • Our Values Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company OVERVIEW Shareholders • T  he Oil and Gas Holding Company (Nogaholding) of Bahrain, Saudi Basic Industries Corp.(SABIC) of KSA and Petrochemical Industries Co.(PIC) of Kuwait Date Incorporated • December 1979 Number of Employees • 567 including trainees › ( 90% Bahrainis) Principal Place of Business • Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain Number of Operations • Manufacturing complex with three plants, Ammonia, Urea, Methanol and associated utilities Core Products • 1200MT/D Ammonia, 1200MT/D Methanol, 1700 MT/D Granular Urea Key Markets • USA, India, China, South Korea, Australia. Scale of the Organisation • Medium Total Capitalisation • US $159 million (100% equity) Sales 2010 • US $321 million Sales 2011 • US $459 million Total Assets 2010 • US $509 million Total Assets 2011 • US $561 million Net Profit 2010 • US $138 million Net Profit 2011 • US $265 million Total Products • 2010 1,475,892 metric tonnes 2011 1,575,018 metric tonnes Certifications • ISO9001:2008; ISO14001:2004 OHSAS18001:2007; PAS99:2006; RC14001; ISO27001; PSM OSHA standard 29CFR1910; CSR ISO26000 Memberships in • National Safety Council (NSC Key International -USA), Royal Society for the Organisations Prevention of Accidents (RoSPAUK), International Fertilizers Association (IFA), Arab Fertilizers Association (AFA), Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA) Key Awards 2010-2011 • The International Safety Award from the British Safety Council (Fourth consecutive year) • The Chemical Sector Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA, UK) • First organization in the Middle East to obtain Responsible Care RC14001:2008 certification by the DNV • The Kingdom of Bahrain, Ministry of Labour Award for Outstanding Companies in Training and Human Resources Development First Place • GCC Labour Ministers Council Award for Outstanding GCC Companies for Localization of Jobs for the second successive year. • Winner of GCC Sustainable Projects of the Year 2011 (Carbon Dioxide Recovery Plant) The Meed Awards • Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2011 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 19 Organisational Profile Sustainability is strongly embedded in the Company’s mission, which is ‘to grow and add value to our customers and shareholders by meeting their expectations whilst: producing high quality products; focusing on customers; optimising business in a cost effective, safe, environmentally friendly and socially responsible way; embracing knowledge, creativity and best practices.” Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC) was established Trophy from RoSPA, UK in 2005 and the R.W.Campbell award in the Kingdom of Bahrain in December 1979 as a joint venture from the National Safety Council, USA in 2008 for excellence between GCC member states for the manufacture of fertilizers in HSE management systems. We have effective management and petrochemicals. The joint venture is equally owned by the systems in place, and some of our accreditations include ISO Oil and Gas Holding Company (Nogaholding) of the Kingdom of 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001. These three management Bahrain, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and Petrochemical systems have been integrated. We are also ISO 27001 certified, Industries Company of Kuwait. GPIC uses natural gas (which is which deals with information security and have voluntarily readily available in Bahrain) as a feedstock for the production of embraced Process Safety Management (PSM) at our facilities. ammonia, urea and methanol, totalling 1.5 million tonnes each Our recent accreditations include Responsible Care RC14001 and year. In addition to the production plants the GPIC Complex, which the voluntary implementation of ISO 26000 guidance on Corporate was built in Sitra on a reclaimed area of 60 hectares, comprises Social Responsibility. utilities plants, maintenance workshops, offices, stores and We are a significant contributor to the national economy laboratories. of Bahrain. Having been established with a paid up capital of We employ 567 people, including trainees, and over 90% of US $159 million (100% equity), our cumulative profits have our workforce are Bahraini nationals. We have a Board of Directors exceeded a billion dollars. Our activities, represented by natural comprising representatives of the three shareholding states. Our gas purchases, employment and training of Bahraini nationals, Board of Directors is chaired by H.E. Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa, utilisation of local contractors, power consumption and other Advisor to His Highness the Prime Minister for Industrial and Oil financial and commercial operations, inject around US $100 Affairs and GPIC Chairman. Our executive management team is million annually into the national economy. led by our President Mr. Abdulrahman Jawahery. We consider ourselves as a role model in the protection of the environment and are the first industrial company to use practical demonstration projects to verify our environmental credentials and commitments. A fish farm, a bird sanctuary, palm tree plantations, a herbal and aromatic plants garden and an olive tree oasis have been established within our facilities. The challenges of regional and global climate change have always been taken seriously at GPIC, and in order to manage our greenhouse gas emissions we commissioned the Middle East’s first carbon dioxide recovery plant in 2009. The unit, which captures 450 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide per day from the methanol plant reformer flue gases and recycles them to produce more methanol and urea, has significantly reduced our carbon footprint. At GPIC we have a robust and internationally recognized Safety, Health and Environmental Management System. We have won many accolades, including the prestigious Sir George Earle GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 20 Our Corporate Board (Board of Directors) has a top-down view as the representative of shareholders’ interest, and works with our senior management in deciding the overall strategic vision and direction of the company.” Board of Directors HE Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al Khalifa Chairman (Centre), HE Yousef A.Rahman Al Zamel Deputy Chairman (4th from left), HE Anwar Saeed bin Salamah Managing Director (4th from right), HE Ahmed Ali Al Sharyan Board Member (3rd from left), HE Mohammed bin Ali Al Yemni Board Member (3rd from right), HE Sa’ad Mohammed Al Ajmi Board Member (2nd from left), HE Hamad Dakheel Al Sebaie Board Member (2nd from right), HE Fahad Hamad Al Dubayan Board Member (Far left), HE Shaikh Fahad bin Salman Al Khalifa Board Member (Far right). executive management team Sitting (from left), Fadhel Al Ansari (General Manager, Manufacturing), Ahmed Nuruddin (General Manager, Special Projects), Abdulrahman Jawahery (President), Adel Malik, (Finance Manager) and Yousuf Fakhroo (HR Manager). Standing (from left), Yasser A. Rahim (Technical Services Manager), Ahmed Mahmood (Marketing Manager), Adnan Al Mahmood (IT and Knowledge Manager), Ahmed Ghuloom (Maintenance Manager), Zuhair Taufiqi (Public Relations Manager), Jassim Darwish (Safety, Health and Environment Manager). GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 21 GPIC’s Corporate Governance Our governance strategy relies on creating mechanisms designed to ensure that we live up to our commitments and responsibilities to everyone with whom we interact, whether it be our shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, host communities or the government.” Sound corporate governance is the foundation of our long-term The core of GPIC’s governance structure revolves around success and the sustainability of our operations. Our corporate the thorough and frequent audits of every department from governance policies ensure that we have strong management management to functional levels. and clear direction for all of our business affairs. GPIC’s Corporate GovernAnce Framework Corporate Governance Code of Conduct Principles Policies Code of Business conduct Principles of Corporate Corporate Policies Governance Code • Valuing all people • Quality, Safety, Health, Security, • Safety, Health and Environment • Transparency Environmental and Social policy and commitment • Fairness Responsibility Policy • Protection and maintenance of • Accountability • Risk Management Policy company assets • Responsibility • Finance and Investment Policy • Confidentiality • Legal and Ethics Policy • Good citizenship and social • Accounting Policy responsibility • Dividend Policy • Ethical business conduct • Procurement Policy • Inventory Management Policy • Information Security Policy Our Governance Strategy Company’s strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them GPIC’s vision is ‘to be a global, dynamic world-class petrochemical into effect, supervising the management of the business and and fertiliser company of choice recognized for excellence.’ reporting to shareholders on their stewardship. The board’s Sustainability is strongly embedded in the Company’s mission, actions are subject to laws, regulations and the shareholders in which is ‘to grow and add value to our customers and shareholders general meetings. by meeting their expectations whilst: producing high quality Our governance strategy relies on creating mechanisms products; focusing on customers; optimising business in a cost designed to ensure that we live up to our commitments and effective, safe, environmentally friendly and socially responsible responsibilities to everyone with whom we interact, whether it way; embracing knowledge, creativity and best practices.’ be our shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, host Our corporate governance is the system by which our communities or the government. Company is directed and controlled. Our Board of Directors is When it comes to governance, our first objective is to ensure that responsible for the governance of GPIC. Our shareholders’ role we remain compliant with all laws and regulations that govern our in governance is to appoint the directors and the auditors and activities. All of our governance policies, whether they relate to human to satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure resources, safety, health and environment or our financial reporting, is in place. The responsibilities of the board include setting the first and foremost ensure that they are in line with the laws of Bahrain. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 22 Corporate Values GPIC’s Vision, Mission & Corporate Values Integrity & Excellence Respect Fairness Vision To be a global, dynamic world-class petrochemical and fertiliser company of choice recognised for excellence. Transparency Safety Professionalism Mission To grow and add value to our customers and shareholders by meeting their expectations whilst: Social Producing high quality products | Focusing on customers | Optimising Creativity Teamwork business in a cost effective, safe, environmentally friendly and socially Responsibility responsible way | Embracing knowledge, creativity and best practices Yet in keeping with our traditions of enabling excellence and even Code of Business Conduct going beyond, the Company aims to raise the industry benchmark The Code of Conduct developed by GPIC sets the standards rather than merely be legally compliant. for corporate governance and ethical behaviour within the In essence, our governance strategy is designed to ensure Company, which must be followed and respected by Directors of that we live up to its core values and principles, enabling the Board, senior management and our people. All our people excellence in everything we do. are requested to sign a copy of this code upon joining,which is Our Corporate Governance system is based on three placed in their respective personnel file under the custodianship fundamental components, namely: of the HR Department. The purpose of developing a GPIC • Principles, Code of Conduct is to provide our staff with a set of standards • Code of Conduct meant to assist them in avoiding any wrongdoing and promote • Policies. honest and ethical behaviour in conducting business, while at the same time laying down a process for reporting suspected The system has been based on our shareholders’ aspirations to violations of the Code. The intent of this Code is to provide a set of conduct our business within the acceptable international/local guidelines to all our people on the conduct of their business and guidelines and standards to ensure full protection of the interests professional activities and when dealing with colleagues, vendors, of all our stakeholders. We also follow all the relevant anticustomers, contractors, government agencies and the public. competitive behavior laws and no incidence of non-compliance This document serves as a reminder to all our people that it is with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of important for them to uphold the highest standards of integrity products and services have been identified till date. and personal conduct in all matters that involve their work. They should also be aware that breaches of these values may result Principles in disciplinary action against violators and those who conceal or Our Corporate Governance principles have been developed based hide information against the Company’s interests. References on the principles held within our Memorandum and Articles to disciplinary action in this Code are in accordance with locally of Association and the principles of the Bahrain Commercial applicable rules and regulations; such action may extend to Companies Law. These Corporate Governance Principles are termination of employment in appropriate cases. In addition to responsible for providing a basis for a system of principled goal such disciplinary action, one might be subject to legal action in setting, effective decision making, and ethical standards, with the case of any violation of public law. objective of establishing a fundamental corporate entity that adds long term value to our shareholders, and which is in compliance • Valuing all people with our Articles of Association. Our Board of Directors is fully Respect for Religious Beliefs entrusted with the responsibility and custody of the corporate Respect for the Law governance within the organization. The objectives of this Harassment free work environment Corporate Governance Code include: Rights of Individual • Optimizing the financial returns for the shareholders; • Safety, Health and Environment • Improving the performance of the company; Policy and commitment • Facilitating the obtainment of necessary credit at acceptable and reasonable cost; • Protection and Maintenance of Company Assets • Contributing to the long term continuity of the company as Protection of all Company assets and facilities going concern. Prevent misuse The basic principles of this Corporate Governance Code are: • Transparency • Fairness • Accountability • Responsibility GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 23 GPIC’s Corporate Governance (continued) • Confidentiality in avoiding any potential conflicts of interest. Based thereon, Information and Knowledge Management appropriate detailed and documented procedures are developed to Requests for Employee Information cover every significant process within the organisation. These are Information Technology Privacy, Security and Copyrights validated and certified through independent accreditation bodies Confidential Information to cover all aspects of quality, occupational hazards and safety, health, environment and IT security, preferably under the umbrella • Good Citizenship and Social Responsibility of an appropriate Integrated Management System. Adequate audit Substance Abuse systems are also be put in place to validate compliance as well Social and Political Relations: as ensure that necessary controls and checks are in place. The master copy of the corporate policies is kept in the custody of the • Ethical Business Conduct Secretary to the Board of Directors. Our President distributes a Business Ethics copy of these policies to various department managers to ensure Conflict of Interest compliance. Our Board of Directors may also amend these policies Bribery and Corrupt Practices or issue new policies from time to time to meet the business Gifts, Gratuities and Entertainment requirements of the Company based on the prevailing business/ Outside Employment corporate environment at the time. Preventing Fraud and Thefts Representing or Speaking on Behalf of GPIC Our Corporate Governance Structure Our governance approach is multi-faceted; we have in place Corporate Policies a system of audits and reporting, both external and internal, Our Board of Directors provides a plan of action to guide designed to capture any irregularities in time. decisions and achieve rational and desired outcomes. This is communicated through the Board resolutions and/or Corporate Shareholders Policies. Currently, the GPIC Board of Directors have approved The Company is equally owned by the following three specific policies covering various aspects of the Company’s shareholders: operations such as: • Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain represented by the Oil and Gas Holding Company. • HR Policy • Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC), Kingdom of • Legal and Ethics Policy Saudi Arabia. • Accounting Policy • Petrochemical Industries Company (PIC), Kuwait. • Finance and Investment Policy • Dividend Policy Board of Directors • Procurement Policy Our governance structure starts with our Board of Directors. Our • Inventory Management Policy Board of Directors includes nine members, equally nominated • IT Policy by the three shareholders, who share the collective responsibility • Integrated Quality, Safety, Health and Environment Policy of ensuring that the affairs of our organization are managed • Vehicle Policy competently and with integrity. As per the Memorandum and • Credit Card Policy Articles of Association of GPIC, the duration of membership to • Risk Management Policy the Board of Directors is for three years and members can be reappointed for the same duration or other durations. We ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements are fulfilled The Chairman of the Board will always be elected from at all times and we endeavour to comply with the prevailing amongst the Bahraini Board Members, while the Deputy globally accepted accounting, engineering, safety, environment Chairman is to be elected from amongst either the Saudi or and other standards. Our procurement and contracting policies Kuwaiti Board members. The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman ensure the legal and easy dealing with suppliers and helps us will be elected for a period of three years. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 24 We ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements are fulfilled at all times and we endeavour to comply with the prevailing globally accepted accounting, engineering, safety, environment and other standards.” The key responsibility of the Chairman is to monitor and evaluate compliance by the Company with ethics policies and legal and the performance of the Board and senior management to ensure regulatory requirements. compliance with the Company’s code of corporate governance. The Board of Directors appoints a Managing Director from Major Projects Committee amongst the Board Members representing Saudi Arabia or The Major Projects Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Kuwaiti Board Members and shall determine his/ her level of Board and includes the Deputy Chairman and the Managing Director authority. The selection will be alternated between the Saudi and along with the President. The Major Projects Committee is responsible Kuwaiti shareholders. The appointment shall be for a period of for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board of Directors three years. regarding important policy matters and essential projects that have a The Managing Director is elected by the Board of Directors significant impact on our organisation. as per the Company’s corporate governance, with the prime task of being the link between the Board of Directors and the Executive Strategic Plans Management. The Board has the responsibility of overseeing, understanding, reviewing and monitoring our short, medium and long term Executive Management strategic plans from their inception through to their development The Managing Director is responsible for ensuring full and execution by management. implementation of the approved policies and strategies set by the Board through the Executive Management. His / her authorities External Auditors are defined in the Approval Authority Scheduled (AAS) written by The external auditors for the Company are appointed by the the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall appoint a shareholders in the General Assembly Meeting. The auditors with President for the Company and shall determine his/her authority, respect to their authority, responsibility and conduct will be subject responsibilities and remuneration. Under the stewardship of the to the provisions of the of the Bahrain Commercial Law. The auditors President, the Executive Management is responsible for the daywill submit to the General Assembly Meeting of the shareholders to-day operations and activities of the Company. These are based a report, indicating whether the balance sheet and profit and loss on the overview, guidelines and directives provided by the Board accounts are in agreement with the facts and that they give a true of Directors and/or the Managing Director. and fair view of the Company’s financial state: whether the Company maintains regular accounts; whether the stock taking has been Board Committees carried out in a proper manner; whether the particulars, data The Board is assisted by committees that are responsible for and information stated in the report to the Board of Directors are monitoring and ensuring compliance with all of the Country’s in conformity with those contained in the books of the company; laws and the Company’s policies and procedures. whether there has been any breach of any rules of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company during the financial year Audit, Finance and Risk Committee in question. The Auditors (acting as the agent of the shareholders) are The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee is one of the most responsible for the accuracy of the particulars stated in the report to critical governing bodies of the company. The committee is the shareholders. Each shareholder will have the right at the General chaired by the Managing Director and two other Directors Meeting to discuss the auditors’ report and to seek clarification in nominated by the Board representing the other two shareholders. respect of its contents. The auditors will be liable to the Company for The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight compensation of damages sustained by reason of errors committed responsibility relating to: the integrity of the company’s by them in the course of carrying out their duties. financial statements; the financial reporting process; the systems of internal accounting and financial controls; Periodic Review and Assessment independence and performance of the external auditors; risk GPIC engaged KPMG to independently assess GPIC’s current management processes; financing plans; pension plans; and governance practices against the Bahrain Corporate Governance GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 25 GPIC’s Corporate Governance (continued) GPIC engaged KPMG to independently assess GPIC’s current governance practices against the Bahrain Corporate Governance Code issued in March 2010.” Code issued in March 2010. The Code is based on ‘Comply or • “Whistleblower” programme and supporting policy to be put Explain’ framework and is applied to all joint stock companies in place. incorporated under Bahrain Commercial Companies Law. However it should be used by all other companies to the extent Principle 4: The Company shall have rigorous procedures for that it applies to their circumstances. appointing, training, and evaluation of the Board The Code became effective from 1 January 2011. All • Board Charter to include need for formal and tailored companies to which the Code applies are to be in full compliance Directors’ induction and, ongoing educational programme by the end of 2011. • Board Charter to include corporate governance oversight As a result of gap analysis and bench marking of our responsibilities. existing Corporate Governance vis-a-vis the Corporate Governance Code of the Kingdom of Bahrain, a number of Principle 5: The Company shall remunerate Directors and opportunities for improvement and recommendations were put officers fairly and responsibly forward by KPMG that include: • Board Charter to include Board of Directors duties with regard to the remuneration of the Directors and Officers of GPIC. Phase 1: Opportunities for Improvement Principle 1: The Company shall be headed by an effective, Principle 6: The Board shall establish a clear and efficient collegial and informed Board management structure. • GPIC to issue letters of appointment to each Director. • Board Charter to include requirement to perform annual • A Board charter outlining the Directors’ roles and review of Presidents’ Succession Plan and, such reviews to responsibilities to be documented which should include: be minuted accordingly. Clear demarcation of roles and responsibilities of Directors and Management. Principle 7: The Company shall communicate with shareholders, • Schedule of matters reserved for Board decision. encourage their participation and respect their rights • Time commitment review. • Specific procedures for effective management of conflicts of • GPIC to consider that shareholder representatives should interest and Register of interests. also attend the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in addition to • Authority of Directors to obtain independent legal and, other the nominated Directors. professional advice. • Authority for Directors to obtain independent advice for any Principle 8: The Company shall disclose its corporate governance unresolved concerns and requirement of documenting the same. framework • Authority for Directors to have direct access to Management. • To develop Corporate Governance Disclosure statement • Annual review requirement for President’s succession plan. • At annual shareholders’ meetings, the Board to report the • Performance assessment framework for Board and Board GPIC’s compliance with its guidelines and the Code, and Committee members. explain the extent and justification for any exceptions. Principle 2: The Directors and Officers shall have full loyalty to Phase 2: Next Steps for GPIC: the Company To develop the following; • Directors’ Code of Conduct • A Written appointment letters template for Directors • A Board Charter Principle 3: The Board shall have rigorous controls for financial • A Directors’ Code of Conduct audit reporting, internal control, and compliance with law • A Policy on Conflicts of Interest and Register of Interests • An Update on the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee Charter • The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee Charters should • A Whistle Blowing Programme specify the financial literacy requirements of its members. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 26 Our Values Corporate Values Integrity & Excellence Respect Fairness Transparency Safety Professionalism Social Creativity Teamwork Responsibility “GPIC’s Core values are the nine pillars that define every aspect Safety of our way of doing business” At GPIC, we manage and utilize resources and operations in a RESPONSIBLE way such that the safety of our employees, our They control our behaviour and guide the way in which we neighbours, our customers and our visitors is ensured. We believe implement our business processes. our safety , health and environmental responsibilities extend Excellence beyond protection and enhancement of our own facilities, and we Integrity and Fairness are concerned about the society in whole. Respect We always aim for ZERO harm when it comes to safety, Transparency health and environmental management. Safety Professionalism Professionalism Social Responsibility At GPIC, all employees are expected to undertake their activities Creativity in a skilled and competent manner. Careless or substandard work Teamwork will result in sub-standard product which is unacceptable to our ethic of excellence. Excellence We strive for excellence in all we do and in all we achieve. This is Social Responsibility reflected in all aspects of our activities. We believe that excellence GPIC believes that society must have industrial organizations that can be achieved by doing quality work and having a relentless it can trust. Trust and confidence are earned by our performance, commitment to continuous improvement. by open and direct communication and by the active involvement GPIC is passionately committed to not just attaining excellence in the communities where we live and conduct our business. in business but also serving the communities that host us. All employees must be aware of the impact of their Our motto is, “Excellence in all we do” actions on society both inside and outside the company. Social responsibility includes a commitment to protecting the Integrity and Fairness environment, and all who depend on it for their health and safety. We do care how results are achieved and will demonstrate honest and ethical behaviour based on integrity and fairness in all our activities. Creativity Choosing the course of highest integrity is our intent and we GPIC believes innovation and creativity are crucial to business will establish and maintain the highest professional and personal success. To achieve this success, our employees are required to standards. continually strive to produce break through ideas that result in improved solutions and services to customers. Respect We encourage challenges to the status quo and seek At GPIC all employees are expected to undertake their activities organizational environments in which ideas are generated, with due regard to the feelings and rights of others. The nurtured and developed. development of strong moral principles and ethical behaviour will ensure that we give due respect to everyone. We must Teamwork consistently treat each other with respect and strive to create an GPIC believes that high-performing teams can achieve what organizational environment in which individuals are encouraged individuals alone cannot. At GPIC all employees belong to one and empowered to not only contribute, but also help to grow and team called the GPIC TEAM. develop themselves and help to develop each other. Teamwork will encompass the values of individual Excellence, Integrity and Fairness, Respect for each other, Transparency Transparency in all our relationships, Safe working methods, At GPIC all employees are expected to carry out their business Professional work ethics coupled with a Socially Responsible activities in a clear and transparent manner. The intent behind our attitude and a Creative approach. actions should be obvious or evident and should be open to scrutiny. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 27 Sustainability Overview • Sustainability Strategy • Sustainable Framework • Stakeholders Engagement • Our Committees • Our memberships in key organizations • GPIC in 2010 / 2011... Highlights • Corporate Objectives 2012 • Enterprise Risk Management “at gpic we dedicate ourselves and our business practices to sustainability – the betterment of society, the environment and the economy.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 29 Sustainability Strategy Responsible Care is our Commitment to Sustainability.” GPIC’s sustainability strategy is centered on the three pillars their interests. At the same time, the safety of all our employees, for sustainable development, namely People, Planet and Profit; contractors and host communities is also paramount. whereby we measure our success on social responsibility, care At GPIC, corporate social responsibility is all about how for the environment and profitability. we manage our core business processes to produce an overall Our business model is based on conforming with the positive impact on society. sustainable development for the fact that all our operations and Our social investment strategy is crafted with a commitment activities have an impact directly or indirectly, not just on the to the idea that our stakeholders include a much broader welfare of the shareholders and employees, but also on the lives category than only our people, shareholders or financial investors. of the people in the host communities in which we operate, as We have an unwavering commitment to invest in helping address well as the environment. the social needs firstly of our neighbouring communities, but also In developing our sustainability strategy, we ensure a of Bahrain as a whole. close-knit integration between the stakeholders’ interest, the At GPIC we believe in giving back to communities, environmental aspects and the core business. addressing not just their immediate needs but also their long First and foremost we consider ourselves as a corporate term ability to lead healthy and productive lives. This is why we citizen of Bahrain. It ensures that our business model is geared have invested heavily in providing and supporting education, towards Bahrain’s economic needs. We create an opportunity for technical /vocational training, and health care. Furthermore, we a far wider community than the direct suppliers and customers; it ensure that our social investments reach every segment of the helps us fulfill the economic promise of the nation as a whole. Bahraini society in need. We believe that the real key to profitability is being reliable As the world’s climate begins to change, no company can and open for business when the market is good. To achieve this, afford to ignore the impact it has on the environment any longer. we have crafted our strategies, prioritised our investments, We have committed ourselves to some of the most stringent maintained our assets and developed our human talent to ensure standards when it comes to environmental management because responsible operations and business continuity. we believe that the way any organisation manages environmental We believe that in order to add value to the shareholders issues is a crucial measure of their standards of corporate social and to remain competitive and sustainable in this ever-evolving responsibility, competitiveness and vision. As part of our continual and challenging global market, we have to grow. In line with this improvement, and in addition to taking responsibility of our own outlook, we have developed a strategic plan ranging until the year environmental footprint, we have been accredited to ISO 14001 2020 and very soon we are also looking towards a major expansion and Responsible Care management system RC 14001. project to build a multi-billion dollar, world-scale ammonia and In essence, our sustainability strategy highlights the granular urea plant adjacent to our existing facilities. commitment to manage the entire business in a manner that At GPIC we are mindful that our success relies very heavily does not focus only on profits, but also the social responsibility on our ability to attract, recruit, and retain the highest quality of factors. We believe being successful is about sharing human talent. This is why, as part of our commitment to people, opportunities. It is about trying to be successful in making the the first group of stakeholders we identified consists of our own world a little bit better, by creating ‘win-win-win’ situations for us, people. Simply put, without our people,our reputation would not our stakeholders and the planet. be what it is today, so we focus on nurturing them and developing them throughout our careers. Another set of stakeholders we have identified are the communities that host our business and our people. We are aware of the fact that our business and/or negligence may be equally damaging to these communities. We view this as part of our core responsibility to cater to their needs and be aware of GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 30 Sustainability Framework People Equitable Bearable Sustainable In developing our sustainability strategy, we ensure a close knit integration between the Profit Planet stakeholders’ interest, the environmental aspects Viable and the core business.” GPIC’s sustainability Framework Corporate Policies GPIC SHAREHOLDERS Nogaholding Bahrain, SABIC KSA, PIC Kuwait • Quality, Safety, Health, Security, Environment and Social Responsibility Policy • Risk Management Policy • Finance and Investment Policy Committees of the Board BOARD of DIRECTORS • Legal and Ethics Policy • Accounting Policy • Dividend Policy • Procurement Policy • Inventory Management Major Projects Audit, Finance & Policy Committee Risk Committee • Information security Enterprise Risk PRESIDENT Policy Management • HR Policy • Vehicle Policy • Credit Card Policy Multi Auditing to ensure Key Committees / Councils Sustainable Governance EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT at Management Level External audits: • Executive Management 1) Statutory Departmental Objectives / Targets Council 2) Quality • Safety, Health and 3) Environment Environment Council 4) Responsible care • Strategic Business 5) Occupational health Development Committee & safety Human Public Plants Technical Finance • Management & union 6) IT security Resources Relations Operation Services high council 7) Joint shareholders Internal audits: 1) IMS 2) Quality Key Committees at 3) IT Security Information Safety, functional level 4) Safety & security Technology & Maintenance Health & Marketing 5) ERM Knowledge Environment • Training, Development 6) Environmental and Mentoring 7) Responsible Care Committee 8) PSM • Safety Committee Others: • Health Committee 1) Independent Business at • Environment Committee Benchmarking functional level • Enterprise Risk 2) Insurance Audit Review Management Committee • Process Safety Management Committee • Social Activities Committee & others GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 31 Sustainability Framework (continued) Crafting strategies for tomorrow in an annual strategic meeting The following framework outlines our approach towards matters, training and development, compensation and benefit plans implementing our sustainability strategy. The frame work follows and other core areas. the’ Plan-Do-Check-Act’ cycle. (Please refer to the GPIC’s Sustainability framework chart) Page 31 Check: Monitoring, Auditing & Reporting We have a number of monitoring and reporting mechanisms Plan: Management and Direction including multi-auditing (both internal and external) in place at every Our Corporate Board (Board of Directors) has a top-down view as the level of the organization, to provide a robust process of planning representative of shareholders’ interest, and works with our senior and measuring results. These mechanisms provide a bottomup management in deciding the overall strategic vision and direction of and topdown approach to review and measure the achievement of the company. objectives and to decide our future actions. They ensure that the corporate policies, including the policies The multiauditing mechanisms ensure effective governance governing quality, safety, security, health, environment and social within the organization. responsibility, are aligned with our Board requirements and our Salient External Audits: business strategy. • External Statutory Audit Our Board is assisted by a number of Board Committees, such • External Quality Audit – ISO 9001 as the Major Projects Committee, and the Audit, Finance & Risk • External Environmental Audit – ISO 14001 Committee. These committees provide assistance to the Board in • External Occupational Health& Safety Audit OHSAS 18001 making decisions related to important policy matters, fulfilling its • External IT security Audit – ISO 27001 oversight responsibility relating to the integrity of Company financial • Responsible Care Audit – RC 14001 statements, the financial reporting process, systems of internal • Joint Shareholders Audit – Sabic and PIC accounting and financial controls, independence and performance of Salient Internal Audits: the external auditors, the risk management process, financial plans, • Internal Management Systems Audit and compliance by the Company with our ethics policy and legal and • Internal Quality Audit regulatory requirements. • Internal Environmental Audit Our Board of Directors provides a plan of action to guide • Internal IT security Audit decisions to achieve rational and desired outcomes. This is • Security and Safety Audit communicated through Board resolutions and/or corporate policies. • Enterprise Risk Audit Based thereon, appropriately detailed and documented procedures are developed to cover every significant process within the organization. Others: • Independent Benchmarking Do: From Strategy to Results • Insurance Audit Review Our business, at an operational level, is governed by the • PSM Executive Management led by the President, who is responsible • AQIS ( Australian Quarantine Inspection Services) for translating the direction set by the Board into results. Our • ISPS( Port security audit) corporate level objectives and targets are set for each financial year, covering the entire business. These Corporate objectives Act: Opportunities for Improvement and targets form the basis of setting objectives and targets at Opportunities for improvement identified in the ‘Check’ stage of functional level, followed by management programmes and action the cycle are developed into actions for immediate attention or plans. Key performance indicators are selected to track, measure, for inclusion in the ‘Plan’ stage of the management cycle. The monitor, report and review on a regular basis and monitor overall governance is maintained by an internal reporting chain, performance. through which the function manager reports to a member of A number of committees at the operational and functional senior management who then reports to the Board’s committees. level provide recommendations to ensure sustainability in The performance at all levels is reviewed periodically to ensure business areas such as health, safety and environment, business sustainability and business excellence. investments, operational excellence, social responsibility, budgetary GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 32 Stakeholder’s Engagement We strongly believe in the importance of engaging meaningfully and transparently with our stakeholders.” our stakeholders Government & Shareholders Regulators Suppliers & Customers Vendors Local Media Communities Employees Banks Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) GPIC believes that being a responsible producer of we hope to increase our responsiveness to their concerns, find petrochemicals and fertilizers means, among many other things, new ways to reduce our impacts, balance business efficiency respecting the interests of our stakeholders, so we take their with economic success and, ultimately, continue to make a more needs and input seriously. We also believe that sustainable competitive, profitable and sustainable enterprise. solutions to the pressing issues we face can only be resolved if all GPIC engages with a wide crosssection of stakeholders. groups of society work together for one goal. Our local communities are particularly important to us because Therefore, we continually seek dialogue at the local, our facilities are located close to residential areas. Our national, regional and international levels with representatives commitment to all our stakeholders is strong, deep and multifrom government, industry and society, as well as our own faceted. Not only do we support our shareholders and our people people, shareholders, customers and suppliers, and strive to but also our host communities and the nation that has given us build long-term relationships with them. Only in this way can the opportunity to thrive amidst the challenges it faces. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 33 Stakeholder Engagement (continued) Women empowerment one of our key priorities We have identified nine key stakeholder groups on which our Examples of engagement (Frequency) continued success is dependent, to some degree, and here we Regular Board meetings and other meetings (quarterly) outline some of the ways we have engaged with them during Councils, forums and committees at local and regional 2010 and 2011. Although the mode of engagement is yet to be levels (held according to the committee’s charter) formalized and customized for sustainable development at some On-line communication tools such as e-mails, websites levels, most of our direct engagement activities are generating (dynamic channel of close and routine communication) fruitful ideas, thoughts and concerns that have made GPIC more focused in building strong and win-win relationships with its 2. Our People stakeholders and provided tangible benefits to the community. Why identified as a stakeholder? We followed a systematic approach for identifying and Our people are the basis of our glory. Our success relies very selecting our key stakeholders. The process included listing all heavily on our ability to attract, recruit and retain the highest the stakeholders that may have an impact on the Company’s quality of talent. We realize that our success depends on sustainability performance in one way or other, selecting the key the degree to which we can keep our people engaged to stakeholders based on their current and long-term impact on continue performing at their full potential. We have multiple performance. The identification and selection process included a policies in place to ensure the highest motivation and ranking system for the potential stakeholders followed by group productivity levels. discussions with line managers. Key interests We value our stakeholders feedback and consider it Recruiting the right people at the right time for the right an important aspect of our sustainability engagement. The position examples of engagement highlighted against each category of our Employee satisfaction and motivation stakeholder(s) also indicate the various modes through which we Employee development and competency review and seek feedback from them. The feedback from our stakeholders is enhancement taken up seriously and is evaluated and implemented on case to Safety and Health care case basis. Employee retention Employee benefits 1. Shareholders Work ethics Why identified as a stakeholder? Examples of engagement (Frequency) Our shareholders are also co-owners of the business. Multiple forums throughout the year in which They have a share in its success and have a say in how employees are encouraged to share their views with the business is run. They also have an ‘external voice’ as executives about a variety of issues within the Company advocates for our business and all that we do. By engaging (as and when required) with them, we can create a working environment in which Strategic Executive Management and Management everyone can feel valued and reach their potential. meeting once a year during first quarter to discuss and share Company performance, future strategies Key interests and challenges. The attendees include Managers, Corporate governance Superintendents, potential employees, Labour Union Long term future of the company and its impact and members sustainability Regular meetings right from the shop floor to top-tier Enterprise risk management management level Overall sustainability performance: Economic, Involvement in functional committees and councils Environment, Social (meetings from daily to once a year) Corporate strategic plans and progress Printed publications, such as the Company magazine Corporate level audits (at least once a quarter or special editions covering Human talent development, employee satisfaction special occasions) Corporate objectives and progress GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 34 Our people are the basis of our glory. Our success relies very heavily on our ability to attract, recruit and retain the highest quality of talent.” Honouring Outstanding Students On-line communication tools such as e-mails, websites, Labour standards and employee rights intranet (as and when required) Minimising environmental impact Regular Labour Union meetings with employees and Alignment with the Kingdom of Bahrain’s Vision 2030 Management (from twice a year to four times a year) Sustainability of raw materials Open face-to-face discussions (as and when required) Waste management, effluents and recycling activities Conferences, forums, presentations Security Suggestion schemes (open online throughout the year) Examples of engagement (Frequency) Regular sectional meetings (monthly to twice a year Conferences and speaking engagements (periodic) depends on sections/department objectives) Presence at various business leader forums and policy Regular shift talks (on monthly basis per shift group advisory groups (as and when invited) per plant) Working closely with local authorities during the planning and construction of new projects (as and when 3. Our local communities required) Why identified as a stakeholder? Working closely with regulators related to environment, The safety of our employees and the communities in safety and health to ensure legal compliance (according which we operate is paramount. Our local communities to the committee charter with minimum once per year) are particularly important to us because our facilities are Regular audits by government officials (minimum one located close to populated residential neighbourhoods. visit per year) We actively communicate with local communities to GPIC representation and participation in governmental share, understand and manage the social, economic and entities, committees and task groups (periodic) environmental impact of our operations. The GPIC President’s representation as member of Key interests Shura Council and other governmental entities (weekly Support for their community needs meeting at the Shura) Education and awareness on environmental issues Examples of engagement (Frequency) 5. Suppliers Open to visits by community members to our industrial Why identified as a stakeholder? areas (minimum of 45 visits per year) We aim to build long-term relationships with our suppliers Environmental awareness lectures imparted by based on honesty and fairness. GPIC employees to Bahrain schools at various levels Key interests (minimum 30 lectures per year) Long-term relationships Media (electronic and press) (throughout the year) Equal opportunity, fair treatment and competitive Social investment (financial support) pricing Sustainability of their products and services 4. Government and Regulators Sustainability of raw materials Why identified as a stakeholder? Social responsibility, with a focus on the human rights We aim to meet the spirit as well as the letter of the law. of the work force We engage actively with the government and all relevant Examples of engagement (Frequency) regulators to discuss and raise awareness of our business and Supplier conferences, forums and workshops to provide a view on issues that impact on our shareholders, Day-to-day communications between suppliers, customers and the communities in which we operate. vendors, buying teams and technologists Key interests Meetings with suppliers (minimum one kick off meeting) Legal, legislative and regulatory compliance Formal feedback from contractors, vendors (after major Information sharing activities such as biennial turnarounds) Skills, economic development and employment opportunities GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 35 Stakeholder Engagement (continued) We continue to work proactively with NGOs on issues that are relevant and material to our business operations or fit with our business principles.” GPIC employees attend GPCA forum 6. Media Key interests Why identified as a stakeholder? Environmental protection, social and economic We engage with the media to ensure that the public development perception of us is as closely aligned to reality as possible. It Establishment of mutually beneficial relationships is our aim to enhance and protect our image and reputation Examples of engagement (Frequency) as a responsible business within the community. Conferences and speaking engagements (periodic) Key interests Correspondence (as and when required) Our progress on sustainability and corporate social Face-to-face discussions (as and when required) responsibility Communicating our position on a range of social and Sharing GPIC’s achievements and best practices environmental issues (as and when requested/required) regionally and internationally Responding to information requests and surveys (as and Enhancing GPIC’s reputation when requested) Value addition to catalyze unity amongst the people Bench-marking surveys (periodic/ as and when of Bahrain requested) Examples of engagement (Frequency) Responding to media requests for information and 8. Customers interviews (as and when requested) Why identified as a stakeholder? Conferences and speaking engagements (periodic) We aim to deal honestly with our customers and secure their GPIC’s official website (available 24 hours) loyalty and trust through the supply of high quality products. GPIC’s engagement of media to cover most of its official Only by gathering feedback on our performance from our events held internally and externally (as and customers can we address their concerns and needs to when required) ensure that they remain satisfied. GPIC’s publications and newsletters (periodic Key interests minimum one release every quarter) Customer satisfaction Press releases in key newspapers (as and Quality and competitive benefits when required) Sustainable products TV and Radio interviews of GPIC’s President (as and Examples of engagement (Frequency) when required or requested) Feedback through marketing and online feedback forms (online feedback is dynamic (GPIC website) 7. Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and with every product shipment there is a customer Why identified as a stakeholder? feedback form) We recognize the benefits and importance of proactively Audits via buyer surveys (annual meetings with engaging with NGOs to understand their views on a range of surveyors) issues. We continue to work proactively with NGOs on issues Customer feedback evaluation forms (as and when that are relevant and material to our business operations, required-for every consignment) or that fit with our business principles. We also understand Customer invitational and group meetings (quarterly that we have a responsibility to help capacitybuild these meetings with marketers Sabic and PIC) organization to ensure that their outreach within the communities is enhanced. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 36 GPIC Committees One of the main reasons for our success over the past decade has been our “ONE TEAM” approach to all our business processes. One of the pillars of this concept is the cross-functional committees or task teams covering various segments and addressing the related issues within the company.” One of the main reasons for our success over the past decade has created a dedicated “Innovation and Patent”Committee that we been our“ ONE TEAM” approach to all our business processes. believe will give further impetus to innovation and put us on par One of the pillars of this concept is the cross-functional with the best in the world. committees or task teams covering various segments and We have over thirty committees, councils and teams which addressing the related issues within the company. are instrumental in enabling business excellence across our Committees play a pivotal role, not only in the day to day organization. The objectives and charter of some of the key running of our business, but also as a focal point in the innovation committees and councils are listed below. process. So much so that effective from the beginning of 2011, we Committee Objective Charter Chair Review the Company’s mission, vision, strategic and corporate objectives and business planning. Overall planning • Review/Develop all management systems and standards. The Executive implementation and follow-up • Develop the Annual Company Business Plan & Budget. Management Council of the Company’s strategies, • Finalise the year’s operating budget before presenting it to the President (EMC) Committee objectives and goals. Board of Directors for approval. • Review the implementation and status of the approved operating budget. • Developing the Company Succession Plan. • Develop strategies and plans for future company expansions and growth. • Implementation of Strategy 2020. Strategic Business Explore opportunities • Preparation of project proposals for Executive Management President Development for the future growth of & Board of directors approval. Committee (SBDC) the Company. • Preparation of feasibility studies. • Coordination with external organisations in relation to business development • Set SHE Objectives • Oversee PSM implementation and effectiveness Establish and oversee • Review SHE and housekeeping audits and actions Safety, Health and company policies and • Review SHE activities and training Environment strategies for Safety, • Monitor SHE KPI’s President Council (SHEC) Health, Environment and • Review the Complex Accidents/Incidents Responsible Care in • Approve SHE programs and plans the complex. • Introduce new SHE procedures and review existing ones • Oversee the implementation of responsible care initiatives • Set the training and development strategies and policies. • Monitor all training, development and mentoring programs. Training Development Oversee all issues related • Be responsible for recruitment of senior staff graduates and GMM-General and Mentoring to Training and Development be responsible for engineers and monitoring their progress. Manager Committee (TDMC) • Set the criteria for promotion of supervisory staff. Manufacturing • Manage the Succession Plan for the company. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 37 GPIC Committees (continued) GPIC SHE WEEK Responsible Care stall Committee Objective Charter Chair Strengthen the relationship • Discuss issues with GPIC Labour Union and agree strategies Management and between the Company that affect GPIC employees. Union High Council Management and Labour • Agree plans for efficiency enhancement, cost reduction, President (MUHC) Union in order to achieve both safety, security etc. parties’ interests. • Enhance employee participation in decision making and promote employee engagement. Ensure all major accidents Accident Investigation are addressed properly and Investigate accidents/ incidents of a serious or potentially serious GMM-General Committee (AIC) lessons learned to prevent nature that have or could have resulted in a major injury Manager recurrence. Manufacturing • Discuss issues with the Labour Union on routine issues. Management / Ensure that day-to-day, • Follow up actions agreed upon. GMM-General Union Committee routine matters are discussed • Propose issues to be discussed by the Management and Manager (MUC) and addressed in a Union High Council. Manufacturing timely manner. • Carry out activities in support of women inside and Ladies Working Promote the role of women outside the company. HRS-Human Committee (LWC) in the company and society. • Organise special events for women. Resources • Coordinate with external women organisations Superintendent Oversee the implementation Process Safety of Process Safety Monitor the effectiveness of the PSM system against the purpose TSM-Technical Management Management System and and requirements of the PSM standard. Services Committee (PSMC) ensure its smooth operation Manager • Establish systems and procedures to identify high level risks Identify and analyse all control and mitigate them. GMM Enterprise risks at the enterprise level • Manage and review the ERM implementation. General Manager Risk Management that affect the Company’s • Promote the system and coordinate activities amongst the Manufacturing Committee (ERMC) business and recommend Company departments. appropriate actions • Update the Executive Management bi-annually on ERM actions and reviews. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 38 Blood donation organised by GPIC Health Committee Committee Objective Charter Chair Oversee all safety issues • Discuss and recommend issues pertaining to safety in Safety in the Company in the complex SHEM Committee (SC) coordination with the Safety, • Promote Safety and Responsible Care awareness and training Safety, Health Health and Environmental • Organise and support activities pertaining to GPIC’s SHE week and Environment Council • Monitor all storage facilities and records, from safety point of view Manager • Promote internal and external environmental awareness Environment Oversee all Environmental • Manage internal and external environmental projects ES Committee (EC) issues and activities • Discuss and recommend issues pertaining to the environment Electrical in the complex • Coordinate with external organisations all issues related to Superintendant the environment • Discuss and recommend issues pertaining to Health Oversee all Health issues • Promote and organise health and responsible care Health in the Company in coordination awareness activities CMO Committee (HC) with the Safety, Health and • Manage the Anti-Smoking Program Chief Medical Environment Council • Responsible for hygiene and food quality in main canteen and Officer club canteen • Promote health and hygiene awareness amongst employees • Propose overall policy, management of the activities and social Social Activities Oversee all social functions in the GPIC Club and other social activities PRM Committee (SAC) activities organised by • Organise GPIC camping activities Public Relations the Company • Coordination with external organisations for social events Manager • Promote social work GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 39 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 40 Memberships of associations and advocacy organizations With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards knowledge sharing and professional networking, we participate in several organizations at a national, regional and international level.” GPIC President and Dr. Topsoe signing a technical contract. With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards • Gulf Petrochemical and Chemical Association(GPCA) knowledge sharing and professional networking, we participate in • Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA) several organizations at a national, regional and international level. • International Fertilizer Association (IFA) • National Safety Council (NSC-USA) International/Regional Associations and Committees • Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents ( RoSPA-UK) • Gas Processing Association (GPA) • Saudi Basic Industries Corporation( SABIC) Membership in International Associations & Committees IFA AFA GPCA NSC RoSPA SABIC GPA Board Board Board Board Executive Executive NEBOSH Representative Committee Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Jawahery Jawahery Jawahery Jawahery Fadhel Al Ansari Ahmed Ghuloom Enlarged Technical Responsible Care Strategic Representative Maintenance Team Technical Council Committee Committee Ahmed Nuruddin Abdulrahman Abdulrahman 1. Ahmed Ghuloom Abdulrahman Jawahery Abdulrahman Jawahery 2. Nader A. Rahim Ahmed Ghuloom Jawahery SHE Yasser A. Rahim Jawahery 3. Salah Ebrahim NEBOSH 4. Haroon Rasheed Finance Jassim Darwish Board of Trustees Ambassador Fertilizer Committee Operation / Abdulrahman Economic Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Process Team Jawahery Abdulrahman Jawahery Ahmed Mahmood Jawahery Jawahery 1. Yasser A. Rahim Technical Yasser A. Rahim Representative 2. Abdulmonem Responsible Care Alnajar Fadhel Al Ansari HR Yasser A. Rahim 3. Khalid Al Bin Ali Yasser A. Rahim Abdulrahman Yusuf Fakhroo 4. Haroon Rasheed Jawahery Agriculture Yasser A. Rahim Standing + AC HOC Advocacy Yasser A. Rahim Committees Fadhel Al Ansari Ahmed Al Arabi Fertilizer Individual memos Abdulrahman will be issued Technical Supply Chain Jawahery by President for Fadhel Al Ansari Yousif Kamal Yasser A. Rahim membership in these committees Environment Committee Yousif Kamal Analyzer Committee 1. Salah Ebrahim 2. Eihab Saeed Maintenance & Planning 1. Bader Mansoori 2. Fuad Al Maidan GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 41 Memberships of associations and advocacy organizations (continued) GPIC President with Regional and International Partners Bahrain Associations and Committees • The Oil and Gas Holding Company (Nogaholding) –Bahrain • Bahrain Polytechnic • InJAz Bahrain • National Initiative for the Development of Agriculture (NIDA) • Crown Prince’s International Scholarship Programme (CPISP) • Major Companies Environment Networking Committee (MCENC) • Supreme Council for Youth and Sport (SCYS) • University of Bahrain (UoB) Membership in National Associations & Committees Bahrain University of Nogaholding inJAz CPISP SCYS NIDA MCENC Polytechnic Bahrain Board Chairman Sponsor Member of Board of Consultative Executive College of Supreme Trustees Council Committee Science Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Council Advisory Jawahery Jawahery Jawahery Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Abdulrahman Committee Abdulrahman Jawahery Jawahery Jawahery Chief GPIC GPIC Jawahery Ahmed Executives’ Coordinator Coordinator Audit Planning & HR Nuruddin Committee Committee Monitoring Committee Ameer Al Mulla Adnan Industrial Committee Abdulrahman Al Mahmood Abdulrahman Yusuf Fakhroo Advisory Jawahery Jawahery Fadhel Al Ansari Committee Executive Environment Audit Networking Adnan Al Administration Committee Committee Committee Mahmood & Finance Abdulrahman Adel Committee Fadhel Al Ansari Program Jawahery Abdulmalik Adel Industrial Abdulmalik Advisory Nogaholding Engineering Headquarters Curriculum Ahmed Contribution Building Advisory Ghuloom Committee Committee Committee Zuhair Tawfiqi Fadhel Al Ansari Ahmed Ghuloom PR & Environment Awareness Committee Committee Fadhel Al Ansari Adel Abdulmalik Security Committee Yasser A. Rahim Jassim Darwish GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 42 We are very, very lucky to have you as a member of our Board of Directors and as a partner.” Janet Froetscher President, National Safety Council, USA • Ministry of Industry and Commerce • Ministry of Social Development • Bahrain Training Institute (BTI) • Organising Committee for Bahrain Companies and • Ministry of Labour Establishment Football League (OCBCEFL) • Ministry of Education • Bahrain Institute of Public Administration (BIPA) • Major Companies Ministry of Ministry of Bahrain Training Ministry of Ministry of Industry & Social OCBCEFL BIPA MCENC Institute Labour Education Commerce Development Local Board Bahrain Specific Structure Social Works Member Mentor Member Committee for Member Council for Workplace Fund Standards & Vocational Learning Ahmed Adnan Al Hussain Specifications of Fadhel Al Ansari Training in the Committee Yusuf Mahmood Mahmood Al Banna Oil & Gas Sector Industrial (SWL) Fakhroo Sector Member Ahmed Yusuf Nuruddin Yusuf Fakhroo Fatima Sharif Fakhroo Sub Contracting Supreme & Industrial Committee for (Partnership Occupational Project) Safety & Health (OSH) Ahmed Ghuloom Adel Abdulmalik Local Committee for Technical Standards & Sub-Committee Specifications of (OSH) Oil & Gas Sector Nader Khalid Al A. Rahim Bin Ali Development Local of National Committee for Legislation Standards & Committee Specifications of Oil & Gas Sector Abdulmonem President Alnajar Bashar Executive Management Al-Aradi Middle Management and below GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 43 GPIC in 2010 / 2011... Initiatives and Achievements  011 was our best year in safety and we 2 achieved over 14 million man hours without a lost time accident.” Here we summarize some of GPIC’s achievements and initiatives The remote connection of our online Gas Emissions during 2010-2011, focusing on those with implications for our Analyzers to the Environmental Directorate’s system, sustainability and that of the environment and societies around us. hence providing our emissions quality on a continuous basis to the government regulators’. Regional and International Relations The urea plant’s dedicated ammonia flare. Tie-ins will • We continued our focus on maintaining our excellent be done in turnaround 2012 and once commissioned it regional and international relations with our stakeholders. will have a major positive impact on the environment. The Queen of Denmark visited GPIC in 2011, the first The new ammonia converter basket: the new Topsoe monarch to visit a petrochemical complex on a state visit. S-200 converter basket will be installed during turnaround During the visit the Queen inaugurated an olive tree oasis. 2012 with anticipated benefits of energy savings. This was followed by another high profile visit, that of H.H The carbon dioxide recovery unit commissioned Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad al Khalifa. During the visit he in December 2009 continued to operate, enabling honoured GPIC sports personalities for their achievements reductions in CO2 emissions. at Company/national levels. Business Excellence Crisis Management • We attained record volumes of production by producing the • GPIC maintained business continuity during the recent highest ever cumulative urea production for the year 2011 political crisis in the country with the support of the GPIC since the commissioning of the urea plant in 1996, and also Labour Union and dedicated and loyal employees. On 14 March the highest ever combined total production for ammonia, GPIC’s Labour Union took the historic decision of rejecting the methanol and urea. strike call from the Bahrain Labour Union Federation. • The methanol plant achieved a 100% on-stream factor in SHE excellence beyond Compliance 2011 and the plant has been in continuous operation since the restart of the plants after turnaround 2010 in April of • 2011 was our best year in safety and we achieved over 14 that year. million man hours without a lost-time accident. • The safe and successful completion of turnaround 2010 • As part of our commitment to sustainability, and in line was another milestone. All the turnaround objectives were with our support to Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals achieved on time, within budget and safely. Association’s (GPCA )Responsible Care Programme, GPIC became the first company in the Middle East to be certified • The methanol plant synthesis converter: GPIC received a for Responsible Care RC-14001 Standard in July 2010. trophy from Johnson Mathey for achieving a world record of producing the highest volumes of methanol with a single • We engaged DuPont to carryout an external assessment of charge of Johnson Mathey’s 51-8 catalyst. The catalyst has our Process Safety Management system in December 2011. been in service since 2003 and will be replaced during the • To further enhance our SHE accident and incident reporting November 2012 turnaround. system, we aligned with the National Safety Council, USA, to • The Business Intelligence project was launched in 2011 and introduce a custom-built, web-based Navigator. is in its implementation phase. The project is comprised of two phases. Phase one, to review and standardize all the Environmental Care corporate and departmental KPIs in a structured way so that • Our focus on environmental care and sustainability the required data can be linked to Phase two of the project, continued and we attained achievements and initiated providing dashboards to provide intelligent information to several environmental projects. Salient ones include: enhance corporate decision making. The opening of a new olive tree oasis. • GPIC reviewed its Corporate Governance. KPMG was The expansion and beautification of our fish farm. engaged by GPIC with the objective to independently GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 44 Working towards a green future assess GPIC’s current governance practices against the • We implemented ISO 26000 guidance on corporate social Bahrain Corporate Governance Code issued in March 2010. responsibility, and an external assessment for the same Consultant KPMG did the gap analysis and is currently is planned for 2012. This highlights our commitment and assisting GPIC in incorporating the recommendations. responsibility for the impacts of our decisions and activities • An E-Procurement project was launched to further enhance on society and the environment through transparent and our procurement processes. ethical behaviour that is consistent with our sustainable development and the welfare of our society. This takes • We successfully achieved recertification of our management into account the expectations of our stakeholders, is systems which include: ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001, in compliance with applicable law, is consistent with PAS 99. international norms of behavior, and is integrated throughout our organisation. Strong financial performance • Profitability: The outstanding performance of our plants Our People Our future with exceptional business continuity, smooth exports and • GPIC transformed its Training Centre into an Academy of excellent coordination with our marketers Sabic and PIC, Leadership and Learning with the objective of using this and favourable product prices enabled us to make a net academy for developing of our talented staff into future leaders. profit of US $265 million in 2011, which is the second highest in the Company’s history. • We started a Bridging Programme to groom identified in-house talent for supervisory positions in the Company. Future Growth The programme is launched in partnership with Bahrain Polytechnic. • GPIC received preliminary approval for a US $2 billion mega project that will triple its production capacities of ammonia • Recruitment of female employees is on the increase, and urea. The Invitation to Bid (ITB) document is being highlighting our strong commitment towards the prepared and, pending final approval, the project is expected empowerment of women. to be launched in the near future. Reliability Enhancement • In line with our strategy of continued investments in reliability-related projects, we started two main projects that are in the construction phase. A) Construction of a new HP steam boiler, which, once completed in 2013, will enable the comprehensive inspection of the existing HP steam boilers. B) A new Hypochlorite Unit of higher capacity which will phase out the existing chlorination process for sea water conditioning. Corporate Social Responsibility • GPIC won the Arabia CSR award 2011 for its endeavours in social responsibility. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 45 Corporate Objectives 2012 GPIC’s objectives for 2012 are a continuation of our overall strategy to achieve excellence and sustainability in all business areas.” GPIC’s objectives for 2012 are a continuation of our overall strategy part of our stakeholders’ engagement. One of our key initiatives for to achieve excellence and sustainability in all business areas. Our 2012 will be extending support to women by providing them more key focus will remain on our sustainable business, aiming for opportunities to act as a role model for empowering women in the higher efficiencies and cost optimization without compromising private sector, plus we shall continue to refine our succession plan the safety and reliability of our plants. We shall continue to to maintain our sustainability and continue our corporate social maintain our excellent international and regional relationships as responsibility for the welfare of society. Performance Area Objectives Measures Targets Combined Net backs / Metric ton ›= 326.07 US$/MT Operate the company so as to optimize Total Cost / Metric Ton ‹= 182.30 US$/MT Financial Perspective profits and maximize revenues by Total Fixed cost / Metric Ton ‹= 75.297 US$/MT minimizing costs and utilizing Total Variable Cost / Metric Ton ‹= 87.567 US$/MT the resources efficiently Liquidity (Quick) Ratio ›= 2:1 Operate the complex ensuring that all Total combined production ›= 1,449,235 MT key activities and processes are geared Energy consumption per saleable product ton ‹= 7.99GCAL / MT Business Process to achieve the optimum production and IT Business Intelligence 1 Dashboard and Excellence export levels in a safe, reliable, efficient 3 Elements and manner effective SHE incidents (injuries) Zero SHE Audits 32 Safety, Health and Promote SHE culture within GPIC and also BBS Observations 100,000 Environment amongst surrounding communities by Sick leaves Days (SLD) Reduction by 5% over maintaining a zero harm workplace 2011 (4,500 SLD) Safety training 6 hours per employee Bahrainisation levels 95% Enhance internal skills and competencies Total training hours (including safety training) 20,000 Learning and Growth by providing learning and personal Number of suggestions raised 10% over 2011 development opportunities to target figure all employees (700 suggestions) Employee Retention 97% Environment awareness lectures at local schools 30 ISO 26000: Corporate Social Responsibility Completion of Corporate Social Promote social activities and contribute compliance external assessment Responsibility towards the social welfare of our for compliance community Training external industrial trainees 160 Contributions, sponsorships to charities/NGOs 90% achievement of and other worthy causes. donation budget Social and educational visits to GPIC complex 45 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 46 Our risk management policy provides clear guidelines and broadly describes the risk management process within our organization.” Enterprise Risk Management Board of Directors Our risk management policy provides clear guidelines and broadly • Audit, Finance & Risk Committee make policy and risk describes the risk management process within our organization. To tolerance decisions safeguard our business and protect the interest of the shareholders against potential risks (categories such as strategic risks, financial and Executive Management market risks, geo-political risks, operational risks, legal and regulatory • Approve strategies and guidelines to manage risk. risks and reputation risks) associated with the nature of our core business, we have a robust risk management system where risks at ERM Committee the enterprise level, as well as at the business process and functional • Implement strategies level, are appropriately assessed, evaluated and effectively managed. • Communicate guidelines • Risk analysis and reporting GPIC ERM Governance Model • Update risk catalogue Accountability and reporting at all levels is required to support the ERM process. The roles of various entities in the GPIC ERM Risk Owners/Risk Champions/Risk Auditors governance model include: • Functional/operating units Enterprise Risk Category ERM Risk Strategic Change in shareholders Reduction / Interruption / Limitation of gas / power supply Loss of ability to export (damage to ship loading facilities / closure of shipping lanes due to political instability and Operational natural calamities). Operational hazards (plant operational failure, accidents and SHE related issues) Bank failure jeopardizing company deposits Legal liability to third party and property damage Business Delay / fault in collection of receivables Volatility in market price Increase in price of gas and power People Failure to attract or retain staff Reputation Damage to reputation Information and Data Loss of electronic data and hard copies Regulatory Non-compliance with regulatory / legislative requirements concerning safety, health, environment, process and product handling aspects. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 47 Business Excellence • GPIC’s Best Practices  Manufacturing Management Systems  Asset Management Systems “As a leading Bahrainbased producer of Ammonia, Methanol and Urea, we tend to plan, strategize and implement innovative yet pragmatic processes and solutions within our business.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 49 GPIC Business Excellence Best Practices It is not the strongest that will survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change – that means having a dynamic organization and GPIC epitomizes that entirely.” Abdulrahman Jawahery, GPIC’s President At GPIC our core business practices define best practices within Best Practices on the Road to Manufacturing Excellence the region. As a leading Bahrain based producer of ammonia, Since the launch of our “Manufacturing Excellence” focus, our methanol and urea, we tend to plan, strategize and implement strategy has evolved to include five core competency areas: innovative yet pragmatic processes and solutions within our business. We anticipate and plan to be able to respond proactively • Reliability to change and support from our visionary leadership team, which ensures that our business remains accountable and responsible • Process technology to our commitments to the industry, the market, our people and • Operating continuity our communities. • Workforce practices (innovative initiatives) In the following sections of this report, we will discuss the processes established within GPIC which drive our reputation for • Environment, health and safety developing best practices within the industry. We will focus on the processes in the following fields: • Manufacturing Excellence • Asset Management Our best practices in the areas of human resources and corporate social responsibility are covered under the “Our People” section of this report, and our environment management best practices are highlighted under the “Environmental Impact” section. Manufacturing Excellence Amidst the other petrochemical giants in the region, GPIC has proved to be the most efficient and cost-effective producer of petrochemicals of the highest quality. In addition to that, we have also set the highest standards of reliability, on-stream factors, capacity utilization and utilization factors which have been recognized and acknowledged not just at a national or regional level, but globally. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 50 GPIC’s Manufacturing Management Model Production Corporate Capital Action Plan ERM External Internal Budget Plan Governance Projects & KPI’s Auditing & Strategy Risk & Assessments Objectives Business IT & Briefing Intelligence Networking Manufacturing Communication Systems Management DCS Electronic ERP SAP Meetings Application ISO 27001 IT Security Follow Up Management Quality Systems External Continual ISO 26000 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 PAS 99 RC14001 OHSAS 18001 Improvement GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 51 GPIC Business Excellence Best Practices (continued) GPIC is the first company in the world to use Omega Bond HP Urea Stripper Equipment reliability and integrity remain at a high standard reflecting continuous investment, good preventive and predictive maintenance routines, and effective inspections with regular turnarounds biennially.” Reliability Process technology Our proactive approach towards continuous improvement in • GPIC invests in new technologies wherever practical. the plants right from inception, and integrated with various Equipment is regularly replaced and material upgraded to modifications and capital projects executed over the years, maintain consistency with current codes and standards. has resulted in efficient and reliable plant operations,ensuring • A 20 year technology agreement is in place with Uhde outstanding safety records and good returns. and GPIC interacts closely with the process licensers and Equipment reliability and integrity remain at a high standard designers and take their technical advice. reflecting continuous investment, good preventive and predictive • Catalyst manufacturers like Topsoe and Johnson Mathey carry maintenance routines, and effective inspections with regular out performance evaluations on our catalysts periodically. turnarounds biennially. Over the years we have developed effective systems • With the support of Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) and procedures that play a critical role in our manufacturing like General Electric (GE), Nuovo Pignone (NP), Bentley excellence. Nevada (BN) etc. we carry out performance evaluation and Some of the salient best practices are as follows: troubleshooting of our main machines. • Continuous investment in reliability-based equipment Operating continuity replacement We achieve outstanding operating continuity through: • Robust and effective inspection, introducing Risk Based Inspection (RBI) and other programs. • Enhanced reliability of the plants through continuous improvement and investment. • Third party inspection of equipment under manufacture at OEM workshops. • Safe work practices: well-established operating procedures, robust permit to work system. • In addition to third party inspectors, GPIC engineers also follow up the manufacture of key equipment at OEM • Risk management: risk assessments and hazards analysis. workshops, including site visits for inspection at key • A well-trained work force: effective training and refresher manufacturing stages. programs and competency evaluation procedures. Mock drills • Quality control facilitators (specialists) to cross check and of emergency scenarios improve operational competency. verify the quality of work on major rotating machines during • Audits and reviews: regular checks and audits at all levels to turnarounds. ensure compliance and consistency. • As part of mechanical integrity, critical joints tightening • Process safety enhancement: through transparency and lessons during turnarounds is supervised by specialists. learned from our operational experience, most incidents, • Best practices from other facilities are adopted to enhance including near misses, are reported and discussed. our systems • Minimizing spurious trips: duplication of single trip • Technical input and advice from vendors are seriously transmitters/channels. considered for improvements Work force Practices • A focus on safety and reliability is always a priority and the approach is always to adopt the best solutions in the industry. Operator-driven reliability • Effective preventive, predictive and corrective maintenance Like all petrochemical and fertilizer plants, we at GPIC believe routines enhance reliability that a plant’s reliability cannot be enhanced without an ownership mindset, leading to an ‘operator-driven reliability’ model. Our • Effective and regular training and refresher courses for procedures and systems support this drive. personnel in all disciplines enhance operational excellence and reliability. • Housekeeping of equipment, machines and plants in general is carried out by operators. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 52 E-Learning and Simulator training at GPIC • Routine checks like tube metal temperature monitoring of • The performance monitoring of objectives and targets is KPI reformer catalyst tubes by pyrometers, fugitive leaks and based, and that are tracked regularly. emissions checks for flanges and glands, including passing • Each section/department issues a monthly, quarterly and valves, are carried out regularly. yearly performance report. • A productive maintenance initiative has been in place since • Management review meetings are held as per prescribed 2003. Plant operators carry out minor maintenance jobs like frequency. the top-up of lubricating oils, tightening of gland leaks etc. • Regular testing of stand-by equipment is carried out to Training and development ensure its availability and reliability at all times. • Regular cross-discipline training, cross-unit training, competency checks and refresher programmes take place. Effective communication • Mock drills featuring problematic scenarios on the plants • Plants operation meetings are held on a daily basis. Meetings are held regularly. are chaired by the Plants Operation Manager and are • Operating procedures and emergency response actions are mandatory for senior employees, including Managers and discussed with the Operators on a regular basis. Superintendents, within the technical departments. The meetings are cross-discipline and cover all the major issues in • Employees are encouraged to attend in-house e-learning relation to the operation and safety of the plant. The minutes of courses, study the American Petroleum Institute (API) the meetings are officially recorded on the Company portal for modules, and attend simulator training. easy accessibility and effective follow-up. • Technical visits to neighbouring plants in the region add • Shift talks are also held on a regular basis between Operators value to our people’s technical know-how. and Shift Supervisors on topics relating to technical issues, • Staff are regularly encouraged to attend technical seminars safety, health and the environment. Process incidents and and conferences. lessons learned are also discussed, in addition to other areas. • We have launched the GPIC’s Toastmasters club to help • We maintain well-equipped libraries in all our departments enhance our people’s communication and leadership skills. at GPIC. Periodicals, journals and magazines are regularly It is mandatory for trainees to participate actively in the circulated for information. The Academy of Leadership and Toastmasters club. Learning has a well-stocked library and houses a broad • Mentoring is a core part of our career development initiative, range of books on various subjects for reference. Technical so staff are mentored by senior personnel. and knowledge-related information is also available on the intranet for easy access. Our people also have access Audits and controls to other interesting sites including the PSM database, At GPIC we tend to be more proactive with our audit and controls knowledge sharing repository, conferences material site, procedure and do not necessarily wait for external audits to advise SHE site, Innovation and Best Practices Committee site and us on corrective measures. We have put in place sound controls many more. and audit systems and we ensure that procedures, routines and • Log books in electronic and manual form are used to schedules are being followed stringently and all targets are being record the plant conditions, major proceedings and issues met. Enhanced monitoring processes are carried out to ensure at Operator/ Supervisor/Senior Supervisor level. The E-log that any problems/anomalies/issues are identified and dealt with books are also remotely accessible to plant Superintendents at an early stage. and Managers. Key internal audit processes include • The President, the Executive Management team and Superintendents are appraised of the plants production, • Safety and housekeeping audits. exports and key technical issues and maintenance activities on • Trip switches override audits. a daily basis through plant status reports issued every morning. • Distributed Control System (DCS) alarm management audits. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 53 GPIC Business Excellence Best Practices (continued) Teamwork celebrating successful completion of turnaround 2010 • Waste disposal storage area audit. Our “Suggestions and Best Practices” programme is one of • Permit to work audits. the platforms through which the employees can put forward their creative ideas and suggestions for review and possible • PSV isolation valves status, in conformance to relevant implementation. standing instructions. • Turnaround-related audits covering all key stages of Management’s Innovative Initiatives turnaround, preparatory, execution and post-turnaround. The ‘innovation’ culture plays a critical role in making our • Management systems audits. business more sustainable and profitable. This mindset is also encouraged by our Management. Salient External audits Our Management has introduced several new concepts and • We also appoint external assessors to conduct regular programmes over the years. Some of these defining concepts and audits, in order to maintain compliance with our policy, local programmes include: legislation and the requirements of management system Tools and models we use standards. Our third party external auditors include British • Continuous improvement through our management Standards Institute (BSI), Lloyds Register and DNV. systems • Auditors from share holding companies such as NOGA (Bahrain), SABIC (KSA), PIC (Kuwait) are also invited to GPIC uses various business models to ensure its business runs review our business processes on regular basis. with the highest level of efficiency. • Management of insured assets: our insurance policy is aimed Accreditation to the following management systems has at minimizing loss to our shareholders in the event of property played a key role in enabling GPIC to bench mark against the loss. For safety risks such as fire and explosion, our emphasis leaders in the petrochemical and fertilizer industry. is on a proactive management and improvement measures. • ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System • Reinsurer Risk Survey: every year a risk engineer from • ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System an oversees reinsurer company conducts a comprehensive • OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management risk survey of our business, and identifies potential risks, for System further enhancements. • ISO 27001 Information Security Management System Process safety and lessons Learned • OSHA 29 CFR 1910.119 Process Safety Management of All process incidents, whether major or minor, even near Hazardous Chemicals (PSM) misses, are captured and analyzed. Corrective measures are • RC-14001 Responsible Care Management System then suggested and implemented. The incidents are discussed • PAS 99, the three management systems ISO 9001, ISO14001, during our periodic shift talks to avoid recurrence. Periodically, OHSAS 18001 are integrated thorough the application of PAS the salient incidents are shared with all the employees through 99 specification presentations on lessons learned. We also maintain a process • ISO 26000 Corporate Social Responsibility Guidance incident databank which is easily available on the intranet for all Standard our people. Enterprise Resource Planning Innovation GPIC runs SAP Innovation is an essential ingredient to our sustainability and growth. At GPIC we strive to strengthen our knowledge networks To enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of business processes and innovation to be able to tap into the potential we have across within GPIC, we implemented a ‘mySAP’ Enterprise Resource the business. Our people are constantly encouraged to develop their Planning suite of applications in 2007. The SAP ERP suite has ideas and thoughts and are rewarded for their innovative abilities. replaced our previous information system and has also created a more expandable, integrated, supported and flexible solution which allows us to change and evolve processes and structures without technical constraints. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 54 During the last 15 years as a company we have completed RBI study of 36 NH3 tanks (operated mainly in Europe plus 3 tanks in India and the 2 tanks at GPIC-Bahrain), and the only tanks which are in the Lowest risk category (DARK GREEN in the risk matrix) and giving the max inspection interval of 25 years as per EFMA study is GPIC. Congratulations! This is GPIC at its Best.” Ron Selva Engineering Director, PP SIMTECH Solutions Ltd Process Safety Management (PSM) its risks separately. The implementation of the ERM system has Safety excellence beyond compliance at GPIC provided us with the convenience of managing all our risks in an integrated manner. The Process Safety Management (PSM) of Highly Hazardous Chemicals, OSHA standard 29cfr1910.119, is intended to prevent Root cause failure analysis (RCFA) or minimize any consequences of the release of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals from the adopted processes. Root cause failure analysis is a structured technique for We have incorporated these requirements into the integrated investigating undesired events. management system and have also extended the scope of the We use a structured system for conducting RCFA studies PSM to cover all process related hazards within the business. and have established a well-trained team that involves people Through this programme (PSM), we intend to achieve the main from different disciplines, such as operations, engineering, goal of fulfilling our obligation to protect our employees, assets maintenance and safety. and the local community. In December 2011, GPIC engaged Dupont to carry out an Risk Based Inspection (RBI) external assessment and gap analysis of our PSM system. “We have completed the two NH3 Tanks (T-7101-A/B) RBI study this week. The study also included a separate RBI assessment Succession planning and talent management using the EFMA:2008 guidance, where I was a member of the Succession planning and talent management is a core focus Technical Committee which drafted the document. The findings/ area for our management. It is vital for us to be able to effectively outcome is excellent using both PP SIMTECH RBI technology and develop our people and manage their career paths to ensure that the EFMA RBI process. we have a high potential and highly skilled talent pool internally. In essence this helps us sustain our leadership culture, and build During the last 15 years as a company we have completed RBI develop our people to their full potential, hence meeting both the study of 36 NH3 tanks (operated mainly in Europe plus 3 tanks individual’s and the organization’s requirements. in India and the 2 tanks at GPIC-Bahrain), and the only tanks which are in the Lowest risk category (DARK GREEN in the risk Risk management matrix) and giving the max inspection interval of 25 years as per EFMA study is GPIC. This is also the case using PP SIMTECH We address the risk management process through a two-tiered RBI technology, providing the current operating/maintenance mechanism, Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Business practices and RBI defined Integrity Operating Limits (O2 levels, Process Risk Management. Water in ammonia, etc and Critical maintenance Activities e.g. Our integrated risk management strategy focuses on the cold insulation/seal) are followed. No doubt this will be the case control of potential risks in advance. It also helps in optimizing at GPIC. and enhancing our risk management capabilities. We aim to secure fundamental safety and prevention of I believe this achievement is solely due to the proactive and losses through effective training and rigorous monitoring and integrated efforts of GPIC Engineers from Inspection/Integrity management of change within the organization. assurance, Plant Operations/Process and Maintenance Our leadership believes that every entity exists to realize value Departments supported by the quality and the scope of for its stake holders. Value is created, preserved or eroded by inspection/maintenance/improvement activities carried out management decisions in all activities, from the point of setting during 2004 and 2006 Major inspection of the 2 tanks. strategies to operating the enterprise on a day-to-day basis. With the basic principles emphasizing the need for a more Congratulations! This is GPIC at its Best.” sophisticated risk management system, we implemented an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) in 2007/2008, covering all our Ron Selva activities. The ERM framework considers activities at all levels of Engineering Director the organization, i.e. Enterprise/Entity, Department, and Process PP SIMTECH Solutions Ltd level. In the past our risks were managed through a standalone approach whereby each individual department/project managed GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 55 GPIC Business Excellence Best Practices (continued) The success of the past motivates us to meet future challenges. It inspires us to make GPIC a safer place to work, to enhance the health of our employees and to continually provide the opportunity for them to protect and preserve the environment.” We have included RBI into our overall inspection programme to Best practice through benchmarking enhance equipment reliability. With the intention of concentrating ‘Applying best practice means learning from and through existing inspection resources in the most effective manner to improve the experience of others. One way of doing this is through plant safety and reliability, we have focused a considerable amount of benchmarking surveys, which allow you to compare your overall our attention towards the application of risk management strategies business and other associated processes with other successful for plant inspections. businesses to highlight potential areas for improvement’ RBI examines each item of equipment in our plants, identifies the potential degradation pattern and provides us with a technically We regularly participate in a number of benchmarking surveys justified plan for each item. This plan specifically addresses the conducted periodically by various consultants focusing on ammonia, degradation pattern identified and describes the best means and methanol and urea manufacturers. mode of inspection to be carried out. • We are a knowledge-based company and strive to learn By following the RBI methodology we gain a better from the best in the petrochemical and fertilizer industry understanding of our facility, and the inspection plans that through benchmarking our business processes ranging could be used to support management decisions regarding safe from plants operation to safety, health and environmental plant operation. management systems. Behavioral based safety (BBS) “We recognized early on that the only way we could compete with these giant firms was to create an institution that not just meets, We implemented a Behavioral Based Safety programme which but exceeds all standards on quality, safety, reliability, and social aims to increase the awareness of our people towards best safety responsibility. These things will distinguish us from the pack and practices and instill these as a part of their mindset. we’ve created the Rolls Royce of the industry.” Abdulrahman BBS is one of the leading safety programmes available in Jawahery, GPIC President. the world. Through this programme our people gain an increased awareness of good safety practices and these practices then Strategic long term planning become a part of their natural behaviour. This in turn ensures that our activities are carried out in an optimized safe environment, thus To remain competitive in this demanding market, companies, in raising productivity efficiency. addition to having strategic plans and programs for refining and modernizing the existing systems and equipment, must also be GPIC Committees System geared for future growth. One of the main reasons for our success over the past decade has Growth and value-add been our “ONE TEAM” approach to all our business processes. One • To maintain our unique status as a distinguished producer of the pillars of this concept is the cross-functional committees or and exporter of high quality petrochemical and fertilizer task teams covering various segments and addressing the related products we have a 2020 corporate strategy that focuses on issues within the company. our expansion plans. Our management places a great deal of importance on the activities of these committees as it encourages and creates Five year Production Plan opportunities for people’s engagement within the organization. Our • The subject plan is prepared in order to compliment the longstaff are also encouraged to contribute to the activities of these term turnaround plan and long term CAPEX (capital expenditure) committees by offering their suggestions/ideas on a regular basis. plan. Our 5 year Production Plan provides us with a cash flow In total, there are over thirty active cross-functional forecast, allowing our Management to plan our future business, committees that comprise of a cross section of people, ranging from like upgrading existing systems and expansion. It also provides the Executive Management level to the shop floor level, thereby the basis for a long term marketing strategy that explores new engaging all our people in dialogue. The committees meet on a avenues for marketing our products and services. regular basis and notes from the meetings are posted on a dedicated GPIC Committee System accessible through our intranet. Five year Capex Project Rolling Plan (CPRP) • A five year Capex Project Rolling Plan (CPRP) prepared by our GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 56 Training and development of our local work force is one of our top priorities Engineering section lists potential CAPEX projects over the next • Determine the equipment replacement schedules for each of five years, including the upgrade/replacement of equipment those turnarounds with the same kind, catering for obsolescence of equipment, • Ensure uninterrupted production by eliminating potential problem spare parts or services, and enhancing the safety, reliability and efficiency of the plants. The CPRP will have the following benefits: Safety, Health and Environmental Excellence It ensures that the capital expenditure projects are planned “The success of the past motivates us to meet future challenges. It well in advance. inspires us to make GPIC a safer place to work, to enhance the health It provides sufficient time to evaluate each proposal and of our employees and to continually provide the opportunity for them prepare an adequate cost estimate for the project. to protect and preserve the environment.” Abdulrahman Jawahery, It ensures that critical projects are not missed out. GPIC President The application of salient best practices in the field of EHS It supports the preparation of a rolling 10 year turnaround excellence at GPIC has enabled us to achieve new heights, and these plan. efforts have culminated in winning numerous accolades at local, Rolling 10 year turnaround plan regional and international levels The Rolling 10 year turnaround plan is required to: In safety we have always believed that all injuries can be prevented, hence our target “ZERO HARM.” We work towards • Optimize the workload and plan the outage duration for each of aligning all our processes and behaviors to achieve this target. the next six turnarounds GPIC’s SHE Management Model RC Risk Responsible Policy Assessment Care Accident/ Incident SHE Contractors Systems Management Management Behavioral Based Safety (BBS) Permit to Work Auxiliary Fireman Environmental Drills PSM Control Audits Emergency Evacuation Limits for Emergency Chemical Waste Discharge and Scenarios Spillage Management Emissions GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 57 GPIC Business Excellence Best Practices (continued) Safety training is an integral part of our business GPIC’s Leadership and Commitment towards SHE excellence Asset Management and Maintenance Best Practices • Leadership in health, safety and environmental management. In line with our maintenance strategies, we have introduced • Adopting the best solutions from across the world in health and effective practices and systems that have helped us achieve our safety standards to build a robust risk management system. objectives and goals in relation to enhancing plant equipment reliability and availability. • Encourage active engagement from our people and our leadership around our SHE commitments. What we do to minimize outages and maximize the on-stream factor: • Strong focus on off-the-job safety procedures. Over the years we have adopted practices and procedures that • Strong involvement of our people, their families and the wider have improved the reliability and continuity of our plants. These community in numerous initiatives to help raise awareness of practices include: key health, safety and environmental issues. • Adoption of methodologies like RCM and RBI. RCA is used for • Engaging in active public dialogue to positively contribute investigating failures, and recommendations are implemented towards developing a strong health and safety legislation and after thorough study and with consultation of Original culture within Bahrain. Equipment Manufacturer (OEM). All modifications are routed • Our leadership level commitment to help embed EHS related through the Management of Change Support (MOC) system. values in the continuing development of Bahrain’s society. • Instrumentation and controls reliability enhancement to eliminate spurious trips. Implementation of voting trip logic Safety Related Best Practices systems ensures minimizing of spurious trips. • Mutual aid agreements with neighbouring companies for • Giving much care to turnarounds, which are done on a assistance during emergencies. regular basis, to minimize downtime. • Well-established procedures related to emergency responses • Ensuring an uninterrupted supply of raw materials like and permit to work. chemicals, spare parts, natural gas and power. • Management audits of all work areas, to measure, monitor and • In-house power generation, in addition to power supply from manage compliance and safety awareness checks, including the national grid. the understanding of safe work practices. • Continual investment in reliability and safety-related • Challenging and incentivizing units to maintain high equipment including replacement of major equipment in a standards of safety within their operations through an annual phased manner. inter-section safety competition that is reviewed internally • For any design or material improvement the licensor’s and externally by other companies in Bahrain. opinion is sought and changes are implemented through • Behavioural based safety is actively promoted with qualified MOC study. BBS observers (employees). • Equipment/piping which requires repair or replacement • Contractors integrated into our work systems have to undergo during turnaround are planned ahead providing a lead time safety induction. for procurement activities. • Smoking is not allowed in our buildings /offices and is only • Procurement of all critical equipment through an OEM permitted in designated smoking shelters. The first Monday supplier. If an OEM supplier is not available, an alternate of each month is a designated ‘No Smoking Day’. supplier is selected in consultation with the licensor. • Safety away from work is also encouraged, and all our people • Manufacturing drawings and procedures are reviewed are required to report all the off-the-job safety incidents via a and approved. formal report. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 58 In Safety we have always believed that all injuries can be prevented, hence our target is ‘ZERO HARM’.” • A reputed independent third party inspection company effective management. Through our experience and continuous is appointed to control the quality of the activities during investment, we have developed and fine-tuned several practices manufacturing of the equipment. A Company representative that support our successful turnarounds: attends the kick off meeting and witnesses critical milestone • Pre-turnaround checks on main rotating machines, critical inspection. spare parts, physical inspection and clearance checks. • Lifting equipment and tools are inspected by a third party • Third party inspection: quality controllers for rotating and inspection agency. stationary equipment. • A lift plan is prepared for all major lifts for equipment • Critical joints tightening: a dedicated team with a specialist replacement. supervisor. • Hydraulic hoses connected to equipment are inspected • Vendors recommendation tracking system. periodically. • Blind control and management. • In-coming material is inspected on receipt at the Warehouse to • Detailed risk assessments. confirm it meets the purchase order/specification requirements. • Certified scaffolders and riggers. • Insurance spares for compressors and turbine rotors and critical motors and pumps are maintained to meet any contingency. • Established procedures for manpower trade tests. • Review of all integrated management procedures prior to Maintenance Management Practices turnaround. Our maintenance strategy revolves around routine or preventative • Awareness presentation by Maintenance Superintendents maintenance, corrective maintenance, shutdown and turnaround prior to turnaround. maintenance. An automated (SAP) work flow process provides • Early appointment of area leaders. the interface between Operations and Maintenance. The workflow • Presentations by area leaders to operations, inspection, covers all the aspects of life cycle of asset maintenance, including and technicians. work authorization, planning and execution. Engineering modifications are raised by the requester and implementation is • Workshops, arranging technical meetings with contractors. planned by maintenance planning. • Early arrangement of visas and legal documents for Our maintenance practices are based on predictive and contractors and vendors. preventative strategies to support a major turnaround every • Turnkey project management and supervision by GPIC two years. Turnaround maintenance is carefully planned and maintenance area leaders. systematically implemented, and so is considered the most • Contingency maintenance team to take care of unforeseen effective way of preventing breakdowns. issues. It is of great importance to optimize the workload and the duration of plant outages at each turnaround, to determine an • Early mobilization of resources. equipment replacement schedule and to effectively enforce • Immaculate preparation and detailed planning for critical the periodic overhauling of items covered under preventative path jobs. maintenance is of a great importance. Therefore, the need for long • Acoustic valve leak test. term planning of turnarounds is essential and a 10 year rolling • Computerized relay testing unit for the calibration of turnaround plan is in place. protection relays. Successful Turnaround Practices • Modern electrical testing techniques: thermography/Motor Circuit Evaluator. To have a turnaround that is safe, on time and within budget requires meticulous planning,comprehensive preparation and • Effective use of pre-startup safety reviews of significant modifications and new installations. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 59 GPIC Business Excellence Best Practices (continued) Robust quality control checks to ensure minimum re-work. • Comprehensive Permit to Work audits during the turnaround. • Condition monitoring includes lube oil systems that are • Safety audits during the preparatory phase and checked regularly with oil analysis both in-house and at implementation phase of turnaround. outside labs. • Periodic audits at all stages of turnaround: planning, • In-house manufacturing of spare parts: the cost of spare preparatory, implementation and post-turnaround phase. parts, timelines required for replenishment, procurement and also lead time requirements for some orders drive high • Mechanisms in place to record all process-related incidents production costs and risk on plant reliability and equipment in addition to general safety incidents,which is used to share availability. The in-house manufacturing of spare parts is ‘lessons learned’ across the company. visualized as an alternative means to reduce these impacts. • All suggestions and recommendations related to • Condition monitoring of electrical circuit breakers is carried turnarounds are recorded as ‘lessons learned’ for out through on line thermography. implementation. • On-line leak sealing is practiced. The clamp design is verified • A Root Cause Failure analysis team dedicated to turnarounds by engineering prior to installation. with the objective of analyzing in detail significant issues to prevent repetitive failures. • Involvement of trainees and graduate engineers, with specific roles and responsibilities during the turnaround. Each trainee has to make a presentation on turnaround-related assignments after every turnaround. • Post-turnaround debriefing forum with all the sections providing a summary of achievements, issues and recommendations based on their experience. The forum is attended by Executive Management, Superintendents, Supervisors and Trainees and is an effective platform for knowledge sharing. • All the jobs, even during the turnaround, are through the ‘permit to work’ system and no blanket permits are issued to ensure safety. • Effective turnaround management uses both ERP and PRIMAVERA Software solutions. Routine maintenance Practices • An effective preventative, predictive and corrective maintenance programme is in place covering all sections. • Rotating equipment vibrations are monitored using hand-held monitors on a weekly basis. This is in addition to the online vibration monitoring system in place for all major machines. • Critical joints are identified and listed. Special attention is given to these flanges during tightening. • A productive maintenance concept is in place to allow Operators to carry out minor maintenance activities. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 60 To have a turnaround that is safe, on time and within budget requires meticulous planning,comprehensive preparation and effective management.” GPIC’s Asset Management Model PHA Common Separate Hazop PSSR Revalidation Spare part Modifications / Pool Capex RCFA Audits Reliability Asset Operational Management Productive RBI Maintenance RCM Housekeeping Maintenance Planning / CUI Turnaround Strategy Ten Year Scheduling & Motor Primavera Rolling TA Corrective PM Predictive Execution Manager Plan Preparation Major Vibration Audits Turnaround Priorities Monitoring Lump Sum Work Scope Jobs Oil Road Map Analysis Vendors Briefing / Reporting Debriefing Thermography Direct Hire Executive Summary Daily Reports GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 61 Economic Impact • Economic Performance • Production Performance • Safety and Health Performance “Our financial statements not only provide a look at the current state of the Company, but also at future growth potential. They also provide information on the economic impact for our stakeholders.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 63 Economic Performance As a prime producer of Ammonia, Methanol and granular Urea, GPIC’s business growth and financial performance are essential to its continued sustainability.” “Our financial statements not only provide a look at the current continued investment in projects resulting in enhanced reliability, state of the Company, but also at future growth potential. efficiency, productivity and business continuity, along with our They also provide information on the economic impact for our close cooperation with our marketers, ensured smooth exports of stakeholders. One of our challenges for 2012 and beyond is the our products, thus resulting in record profitability The company increased fixed cost, hence to remain competitive and sustainable was able to make profits amounting to US $138 million by the we have to maintain business continuity in a safe and reliable way end of 2010, against US $105 million in 2009, an increase of 30%, with higher efficiencies and cost optimisation.” and our profits further increased in 2011 to US$ 265 million, an As a prime producer of ammonia, methanol and granular increase of 48% over our 2010 profits. Net profit for the year 2011 urea, GPIC’s business growth and financial performance are is the second highest since the inception of the company. essential to its continued sustainability. Creating long term value The future of our industry looks positive and we are wellfor our shareholders is a key focus for the Company. positioned for continued earnings growth in 2012 and beyond. For 2010 2011 were strong earnings years for GPIC, due in a full account of GPIC’s financial performance, please see the 2010 large part to the significant recovery in the global ammonia, urea and 2011 GPIC Annual Reports and methanol market from the 2009 economic downturn. The Financial Statement Ratios Ratios 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Current Ratio 12.27 8.22 9.57 11.20 14.93 20.69 Debt/Equity Ratio 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.05 0.03 Debt Ratio 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.05 0.03 Operating Cash Flow/Assets 22.10% 26.40% 27.66% 69.61% 41.98% 32.28% Net operating margin percentage 58.70% 43.80% 39.98% 64.61% 60.16% 55.95% Net Profit margin 40.54% 43.04% 39.65% 64.41% 60.02% 55.85% Return on Total Assets (ROA) 48.25% 28.25% 21.99% 55.46% 37.24% 32.64% Return on Equity (ROE) 53.30% 47.40% 40.77% 65.42% 56.72% 50.55% Account Receivable Turnover 5.14 4.55 5.00 7.05 4.58 4.68 Inventory Turnover 8.80 10.15 5.25 4.61 4.57 3.97 2010 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2010 Debt to Equity Ratio (1:13) 1:13 Return on Equity (›=25%) 82% Operate the company so as to Liquidity (Quick) 3.08 Financial optimize profits and maximize Ratio (3.0:1.0) Perspective revenues by minimizing costs and Total Cost / Metric ton 161.09 US$/MT Higher utilizing the resources efficiently (Target ‹=148.98 US$/MT) than planned. Board approved figure GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 64 2011 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2011 Combined Netbacks Target ›= 243.27 US$/MT 378.29 US$/MT Total cost / Metric ton 156.82 US$/MT Target ‹= 148.17 US$/MT Higher than planned. Board approved figure Financial Operate the company so as to Perspective optimize profits and maximize Total fixed cost / Metric ton 80.015 US$/MT revenues by minimizing costs and Target ‹= 68.15 US$/MT Higher than planned. utilizing resources efficiently Board approved figure Total variable cost / Metric ton 59 US$/MT Target ‹= 61.91 US$/MT Below planned. Liquidity (Quick) Ratio 4.56:1.0 Target 3:0:1:0 Higher than planned. Balance Sheets (Expressed in thousands of US$) Assets 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Non-Current Assets Property, plant& equipment 352,850 352,031 333,100 300,091 315,811 288,989 Total Non-Current Assets 352,850 352,031 333,100 300,091 315,811 288,989 Current Assets Inventories 12,474 9,391.6 10,433 23,251 16,828 23,932 Trade and other receivables 92,440 84,829 56,148 52,163 75,191 74,107 Cash and cash equivalents 103,125 62,445 73,121 147,451 155,635 127,219 Total Current Assets 208,038 156,665 139,703 222,865 247,653 226,258 Total Assets 560,888 508,697 472,802 522,956 563,464 515,247 Equity Capital and Reserves Share Capital 159,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 159,000 Statutory Reserve 79,500 79,500 79,500 79,500 79,500 79,500 Retained Earnings 94,828 94,814 94,613 99,050 98,281 98,281 Proposed Dividends 189,989 137,999 105,001 150,000 200,857 162,000 Total Equity 523,317 471,313 438,114 487,550 537,637 498,780 Liabilities Non-current Liabilities Employee Benefits*** 20,477 18,317 19,451 15,510 9,238 5,618 Current Liabilities Trade and Other Payables 17,095 19,067 15,238 19,896 16,589 10,849 Total Liabilities 37,572 37,384 34,689 35,406 25,827 16,467 Total Equity and Liabilities 560,888 508,697 472,802 522,956 563,464 515,247 *** Employee benefits cover mostly the post-retirement benefits. 2010 shows a decrease in the amount as a number of employees opted for early retirement package and hence a decrease in the liability to the company. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 65 Economic Performance (continued) Well trained staff Net Profit Ratios Net profit (US$) Dividends to Shareholders (US$) 1998 1,000,000 15,000,000 1999 9,000,000 9,000,000 2000 40,000,000 36,000,000 2001 25,000,000 21,000,000 2002 25,000,000 21,000,000 2003 66,000,000 60,000,000 2004 96,000,000 96,000,000 2005 128,000,000 129,000,000 2006 162,000,000 162,000,000 2007 201,000,000 201,000,000 2008 301,000,000 300,000,000 2009 105,000,000 105,000,000 2010 138,000,000 138,000,000 2011 265,000,000 265,000,000 Net Profit (US$) 350,000,000 300,000,000 250,000,000 200,000,000 150,000,000 100,000,000 50,000,000 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year 40.0 25.0 25.0 66.0 96.0 128.0 162.0 201.0 301.0 105.0 138.0 265.1 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 66 Production Performance A view of carbon dioxide recovery unit The key to our success, like that of any other successful fertilizer and petrochemical company, is to keep the plants available and running efficiently while maintaining our focus on their reliability and process safety.” The key to our success, like that of any other successful fertilizer Our challenges: and petrochemical company, is to keep the plants available and In achieving our targets and accomplishments we faced some running efficiently while maintaining our focus on their reliability challenges, the significant ones are as follows: and process safety. During this period, we excelled in our business • Maintaining our business continuity during the political processes and produced and exported quality products whilst unrest in Q1 2011 was a major challenge. However, with achieving our production targets. Most of our products were the support of our loyal employees and the Labour Union, exported to USA, India, China and South Korea. who continued to come to work as normal, we were able to We maintained our focus, our chief source of pride being the continue our operations and exports uninterrupted. excellence of our SHE performance, whilst a simultaneous drive towards process safety excellence gained momentum. To maintain • One of the key rotating items of equipment in the Ammonia the operations of our plants at the optimum, we further reviewed Plant Benfield section MP-0501A remained as a bad spare and enhanced our staff training and development programs. due to an unresolved high vibrations issue. Endeavours During 2010 and 2011 we reached several significant milestones, continue to resolve the issue. key among them being the successful execution of Turnaround • The Carbon Dioxide Recovery Unit continued to operate with 2010, where all the turnaround related objectives were safely and a very high chemical (KS 1) consumption. However, by end efficiently accomplished. 2011, GPIC, in collaboration with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries In 2011, we made the following production achievements: (MHI), successfully resolved the issue by installing an additional proprietary demister in the CDR absorber. • Highest total production of 1,575,018 tonnes for the year achieved in 2011, surpassing the previous record by 1.9% set • A high vibrations issue in the CDR unit blower K-2001. OEM in 2008 Boldrocchi are studying to redesign the blower to resolve the issue. • Highest saleable production of 1,195,060 tonnes for the year achieved in 2011, surpassing the previous record by 1.9% set • The ammonia synthesis loop exchanger E-0802 welded in 2008 diaphragm gas leak was another area of concern during 2010-2011. • Highest urea production of 673,681 tonnes for the year achieved in 2011, surpassing the previous record by 1.9% set • Continued fouling of the ammonia plant process gas cooler in 2008 resulted in production and energy losses. • Highest daily average urea production over a full year achieved in 2011, surpassing the previous record by 2.1% set in 2008 • Highest daily average urea production, during a month achieved in February 2011, surpassing the previous record by 0.7 % set in 2010 • The Methanol Plant achieved an on-stream factor of 100% in 2011 as the plant operated without any interruption since the restart of the plants after the turnaround 2010. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 67 Production Performance (continued) Business Process Excellence 2010 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2010 Total combined Production 1,475,892 MT 2.2% Operate the complex, ensuring target 1,444,210 MT higher than budget that all key activities and Business Process Excellence processes are geared to achieve optimum production and export levels in a safe, reliable, efficient Energy consumption per 7.85 GCAL / MT and manner effective saleable product ton (‹= 7.9 GCAL / MT) Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2011 Total combined Production 1,575,018 MT. 2.5% Operate the complex, ensuring target 1,536,470 MT higher than budget that all key activities and Business Process Excellence processes are geared to achieve optimum production and export levels in a safe, reliable, efficient Energy consumption per 7.71 GCAL / MT and manner effective saleable product ton (‹= 7.77 GCAL / MT) GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 68 During 2010 and 2011 we reached several significant milestones, key among them being the successful execution of Turnaround 2010 where all the turnaround-related objectives were very safely and efficiently accomplished.” Yearly Production and Exports Units 2011 dev 2010 dev 2009 dev performance Figures Budget Actual % Budget Actual % Budget Actual % Ammonia Production MT 448,750 458,303 2.1 420,000 429,307 2.2 446,250 470,131 5.4 Methanol Production MT 437,980 443,034 1.2 414,510 417,214 0.7 404,540 410,203 1.4 Urea Production MT 649,740 673,681 3.2 609,700 629,371 4.1 628,350 654,016 8.9 Total Cumulative Production MT 1,536,470 1,575,018 2.5 1,444,210 1,475,892 2.2 1,479,140 1,534,350 3.7 Ammonia Exports MT 78,395 71,536 -8.75 72,470 78,677 8.56 88,091 103,958 18 Methanol Exports MT 437,980 435,286 -0.62 414,510 429,614 3.64 404,540 407,766 0.8 Urea Exports MT 649,740 663,747 2.16 609,700 631,923 3.64 628,350 720,822 14.7 Total Exports MT 1,166,115 1,170,569 0.38 1,096,680 1,140,214 3.97 1,120,981 1,225,949 9.4 On stream Factor (2) Ammonia % 98.36 99.09 0.75 92.05 92.21 0.17 97.54 98.95 1.45 Methanol % 98.36 100.00 1.67 92.33 93.98 1.79 97.81 99.85 2.08 Urea % 97.81 96.60 -1.23 91.78 92.35 0.62 96.99 99.18 2.25 Utilization Factor (3) Ammonia % 104.17 105.60 1.37 104.17 106.29 2.04 104.17 108.47 4.13 Methanol % 101.67 101.15 -0.51 102.50 101.36 -1.11 104.63 104.21 -0.40 Urea % 107.06 112.39 4.98 107.06 109.83 2.59 104.12 106.27 2.07 Capacity Utilization (1) Ammonia % 102.45 104.64 2.13 95.89 98.02 2.22 101.61 107.34 5.64 Methanol % 100.00 101.15 1.15 94.64 95.25 0.65 102.34 104.06 1.68 Urea % 104.71 108.57 3.68 98.26 101.43 3.23 100.99 105.40 4.37 Plant outages Ammonia Days 6 3.32 -44.7 29 28.43 -2.0 8 3.8 -52.5 Methanol Days 6 0 -100 28 21.98 -21.5 7 0.53 -92.3 Urea Days 8 12.4 55.0 30 27.93 -6.9 10 3 -70.1 Notes: 1) Capacity utilization is the percentage of design capacity utilized based on calendar days 2) On stream factor is the Operating days as percentage of calendar days 3) Utilization factor is the percentage of the design capacity utilized based on operating days 4) Urea plant had 12.4 days of plant outages. 55% more than the allocated 8 days outage during 2011 5) 2010 is a turnaround year 6) Methanol plant achieved 100% on-stream factor during 2011 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 69 Marketing & Exports Performance During this period, we excelled in our business processes and produced and exported quality products, whilst achieving our production targets. Most of our products were exported to USA, India, China and South Korea.” Our Plant Performance Indicators Onstream Factor % 101 98 95 92 89 86 83 80 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ammonia 95 99 99.9 87.8 89.5 92.8 99.6 92.3 98.5 98.9 92.2 99.0 Urea 91 100 99.6 91.6 88.3 92.5 98.9 92.0 100 99.1 92.3 96.6 Methanol 91 100 100 92.5 99 92.9 99.0 92.4 98.8 99.8 93.6 100 Utilization Factor % 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ammonia 103 105 105 99 96.3 98.6 103 103 109 108 106 105 Urea 95 99 102 100 92.7 97.7 101 102 106 100 109 112 Methanol 103 105 103 101 101 102 104 101 105 102 101 101 Capacity Utilization % 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ammonia 97 103 104 87 86.2 91.5 102 95.3 107 107 98.0 104 Urea 86 99 101 91 81.9 90.4 100 94.2 106 105 101 108 Methanol 94 105 102 94 100 95.2 103 94.1 103 104 95.2 101 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 70 Yearly Exports Units 2011 dev 2010 dev 2009 dev performance Figures Budget Actual % Budget Actual % Budget Actual % Ammonia Exports MT 78,395 71,536 -8.75 72,470 78,677 8.56 88,091 103,958 18 Methanol Exports MT 437,980 435,286 -0.62 414,510 429,614 3.64 404,540 407,766 0.8 Urea Exports MT 649,740 663,747 2.16 609,700 631,923 3.64 628,350 720,822 14.7 Total Exports MT 1,166,115 1,170,569 0.38 1,096,680 1,140,214 3.97 1,120,981 1,225,949 9.4 Ammonia export by region Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage India 33,974 47 41,127 52 64,988 67 South Korea 37,561 53 16,999 22 10,873 11 South Africa 15,349 20 Jordan 5,199 6 9,999 10 Taiwan 11,499 12 Urea export by region Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage USA 351,960 53 353,902 56 345,990 48 Thailand 20,471 3 22,000 3 85,323 12 India 75,593 11 142,000 23 197,360 27 Pakistan 86,895 13 31,805 4 Australia 83,704 13 58.994 8 South Africa 21,998 3 57,468 9 Vietnam 21,999 3 Argentina 55,250 9 Local 1,123 1,302 1,348 Methanol export by region Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage Tonnes Percentage USA 151,664 34 199,232 46 165,121 40 China 152,153 35 192,245 45 196,446 48 Fareast 124,580 * 29 38,131** 9 37,798*** 10 Europe 6,651 2 8,399 Local 234 4.8 Note: 1) Far East* Singapore, Taiwan, Korea Far East** Singapore, Korea Far East*** Singapore, Taiwan, Korea GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 71 Marketing & Exports Performance (continued) Highest total production of 1,575,018 tonnes for the year was achieved in 2011, surpassing the previous record by 1.9% set in 2008.” Our Plant Performance Indicators Total Production 1,600,000 1,300,000 1,000,000 700,000 400,000 100,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Budget Actual Total Exports 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,100,000 1,000,000 900,000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Budget Actual GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 72 Ammonia and methanol export facilities. Our Exports by Region 2010 2011 Ammonia Export By Region 2011 Urea Export By Region 2011 Methanol Export By Region 2011 India 47% South Korea 53% USA 54% Thailand 3% USA 34% China 35% India 11% Pakistan 13% Far East 29% Europe 2% Australia 13% South Africa 3% Vietnam 3% Ammonia Export By Region 2010 Urea Export By Region 2010 Methanol Export By Region 2010 India 52% South Korea 22% USA 56% Thailand 3% USA 64% Thailand 25% South Africa 20% Jordan 6% India 23% South Africa 9% India 11% Argentina 9% GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 73 Safety and Health Performance Our biggest challenge is to maintain our achievements and We have also engaged the British Safety Council to carry out a reduce our workplace injuries in order to attain our objective of 5 star Occupational Health and Safety and Environment audit a Zero Harm Workplace. scheduled for January 2012. GPIC promotes a SHE culture within GPIC and also amongst Wellness at Work at GPIC surrounding communities by maintaining a zero harm workplace. We firmly believe that all work-related injuries and illnesses GPIC, being a Responsible Care company, believes that the health are avoidable, and it is on this basis that we design and manage and wellbeing of its employees is of paramount importance. The our health and safety programs. We consider employees and Company has implemented several key initiatives in this regard contractors as equals when managing risks in the workplace. and will take a step forward towards enhancing the quality of life of GPIC achieved a strong Responsible Care performance in its workforce. The salient initiatives are as follows: 2011, particularly in the area of employee health and safety. We • Smoke–free GPIC campaign achieved over 14 million man hours without a lost time accident by • Health campaign on Diabetes, Hypertension and the end of 2011. We continue to benchmark our SHE performance Fat composition with the best in class. During 2010 our biggest challenge was to • Beat the Heat campaign have a safe turnaround. We achieved a successful turnaround with • Think Pink campaign 12 minor injuries. Our total injuries in 2010 were 22 followed by 9 • Obesity Management Programme work-related minor injuries in 2011. Even though our performance • Blood donations by GPIC employees with respect to lost time accidents has improved, our concern and • First aid training for GPIC employees focus remains on reducing the number of minor injuries, both for • Occupational health and disease awareness lectures, our employees and the contractor workforce. newsletters We continued to reinforce our occupational and process safety during 2010-2011. We went beyond compliance by implementing During 2010, a study on the prevalence of overweight and obesity Responsible Care Ethics and becoming accredited to RC14001 in was carried out by the GPIC medical centre team with the objective 2010. The Process Safety Management (PSM) system attained new of reviewing its long term effects on the health and productivity heights at GPIC when the Company engaged global safety leaders of its employees, with the ultimate aim of prevention of chronic Dupont for an external assessment and gap analysis of its Process diseases. The recommendations from this study are part of the Safety Management systems in December 2010. obesity based health plan. The employee health performance in 2011 highlights a reduction of sick leaves by 21% over the target sick leave days total, whereas in 2010 the sick leaves were 40% more than the target. Sick leave statistics Year No. of sick % sick % sick leaves % sick leave days by age leave days leave days by gender Male Female ‹20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60+ 2010 5969 2.8 2.6 5.7 1.5 1.5 2.5 3.9 2.4 1.8 2011 4729 2.4 2.3 2.2 1.4 2.1 2.4 2.9 1.8 1.0 Notes: 1) Sickness Absence % ratio according to International Labor Organization (ILO) (No. Sick Leave days X 100) Sick Leave % = Total No. of Emp. X No. Calendar days / year GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 74 GPIC promotes a SHE culture within GPIC and also amongst surrounding communities by maintaining a zero harm workplace.” No. of sick leave days per year 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 No. of sick leave days Safety, Health & Environment Performance 2010 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2010 SHE incidents less than 2009... 39 target ‹= 38 incidents SHE audits... target 29 incidents 44 Promote SHE culture within GPIC SHE training... target 80% of 100% achieved 16 hours/ Safety, Health and also amongst surrounding total manpower, 8 hrs of employee during 2010 and Environment communities by maintaining a training each Zero Harm Workplace BBS observations... target 20,000 175,398 Sick leaves... target reduction 5,914 SL by 5% over 2009 (4,230 SL) (40% over the target) 2011 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2011 Zero lost time accident Zero lost time accident Promote SHE culture within GPIC SHE audits target 24 incidents 32 Safety, Health and also amongst surrounding BBS observations... target 1500 2,777 and Environment communities by maintaining a Zero Harm Workplace Sick leaves...target reduction 4,595 (79% of by 2% over 2010 (5,796 SL) allowable limit) Note: 2010 is a turnaround year GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 75 Safety and Health Performance (continued) Leadership commitment towards SHE excellence GPIC SHE awareness booth at the Bahrain City Centre. Our Safety Performance Indicators 16 70 14 60 12 50 10 40 8 30 6 20 4 10 2 0 0 First aid First aid Non LTA Non LTA Non LTA GPIC Non LTA GPIC Non LTA Non LTA injuries injuries GPIC Contractor Incidents Incident Rate Contractor Contractor (GPIC) (Contractors) Injury Rate Injury Rate Incidents Incident Rate 2008 5 3 1.4 0.8 2008 42 11.5 14.0 3.8 2009 6.0 6.0 1.6 1.6 2009 32.0 8.8 15.0 4.1 2010 9 14 2.5 3.8 2010 61 16.8 35.0 9.6 2011 6 9 1.6 2.5 2011 48 13.2 19.0 5.2 LTA Incidents LTA Incidents LTA Incident Rate LTA Incident Rate Injuries and first aids (GPIC) (Contractors) (GPIC) (Contractors) during turnarounds (TA) 2003 33 2005 15 2007 4 2008 0 0 0 0 Non TA year 2009 0 1 0 0.3 Non TA year 2010 0 0 0 0 12 2011 0 0 0 0 Non TA year Notes: 1) Recordable injury rate and incident rate is calculated based on 200,000 hours worked. It calculates the number of injuries and illnesses per 100 full-time workers. Rates are calculated as (N x 200,000) divided by EH. N = number of injuries and illnesses during a month, a quarter, a fiscal year or any other time period. EH = total hours worked by employees during the period. 200,000 = base for 100 full-time workers (working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year). 2) A Loss Time Accident (LTA) is a work related injury or illness which causes an employee or contractor to be absent from work for one day or more. Calendar days are considered and the count starts from the time of injury. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 76 Walking for a Cause GPIC President leads the Think Pink walk GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 77 Environmental Impact • Environmental Management and Strategy • Environmental Performance “We’re committed to protecting the environment by minimizing our use of natural resources and energy and reducing waste and harmful emissions.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 79 Our Environment At GPIC, environmental management has always been a high priority, and it is part of the Company’s ethos to go beyond good environmental performance, and to strive towards excellence. ” We are committed to reducing our impact on the environment and the company’s triple bottom line approach to business sustainability. promoting good environmental practices. We have adopted a multi-pronged strategy with respect to managing our environmental footprint and have prioritized our Managing our Impacts investments accordingly. At GPIC, environmental management has always been a high priority, and it is part of the Company’s ethos to go beyond good The following is only a summarized view of how the Company environmental performance, and to strive towards excellence. manages its environmental sustainability. In an era of global climate change, we are conscious of our responsibilities towards the planet and the need to invest in Firstly, an environmental impact study and review at the design protecting the environment. We have implemented several stage is carried out for all minor and major projects as well as initiatives to improve our environmental management, and reduce engineering modifications. Any gaps or concerns highlighted as our carbon footprint to ensure that we are a greener and a more part of the environmental impact study are addressed to ensure an environmentally friendly Company every year. environmentally sustainable project. We aspire for our activities to cause no damage to the We also prepared the Environment Impact Assessment environment. We aim to minimize our impact across the life cycle Report (EIAR) for our latest project the Carbon Dioxide Recovery of our operations, from initial project planning through operations, (CDR) Project. Since this project falls under category B of the to decommissioning. We aim to achieve continuous improvement World Bank EIA guidelines, a full EIA was not required; however, in our performance through the use of management systems, environmental analysis was necessary. which we also use to identify and mitigate risk. The assessment revealed that this project has a clear positive During the recent visit of the United Nations Information environmental impact. It will recover 450 MTPD of CO2 that is Centre (UNIC-Bahrain) Director Nejib Friji expressed his feelings otherwise being vented into the atmosphere. In addition to CO2, about GPIC’s environmental stewardship in the following quote: the unit will also remove 355 kg/day of SOx from the flue gas in the “I was very impressed by the careful thought and attention that pretreatment section. It will also enhance the process efficiencies have gone into the designing of the plant to ensure maximum of production of methanol and urea, in terms of product per efficiency while at the same time, minimizing its effect on the natural gas consumed. environment. I highly commend your ecological efforts to preserve In addition, the project will have a positive socio-economic rare plants and bird species in your beautiful park where I was impact as it will add to the profitability of GPIC, hence its direct honoured by the privilege of planting a palm tree in my name. contribution into the National economy. GPIC’s fisheries project is yet another proof of your environment Secondly, as a part of our Responsible Operations Strategy, awareness and GPIC’s role in preserving the ecosystem. I truly we actively monitor our gas emissions and liquid effluents and believe these are inspiring ways to raise awareness on the have initiated several measures to reduce our carbon footprint and importance of protecting our environment, joining the UN’s efforts improve our overall environmental footprint. in achieving the Millennium Development Goal No 7 which is Thirdly, we ensure that we are maximizing the efficiency of Environmental Sustainability.” our resource utilization of everything from water to energy, to raw materials, to minimized wastage from our manufacturing processes, Our Environmental Management and Investment Strategy and so make our facilities greener and more eco-friendly. Being a leading industrial complex producing ammonia, methanol Finally, as with so many other aspects of our business, we and granular urea, we have a highly complex environmental benchmark ourselves against some of the highest global standards footprint, and therefore we need a multifaceted strategy to confront by pursuing internationally recognized certifications. Our facilities the challenges of an environmentally sustainable business model. are frequently audited by third parties to ensure that we are holding Our environmental management model is founded on the basic ourselves to the standards we have committed ourselves to. With concept of ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’ and is seamlessly aligned to regards to environmental management, we are accredited with the GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 80 In an era of global climate change, our greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our carbon footprint, are some of the biggest challenges we face when trying to invest in environmental sustainability.” ISO-14001, Environmental Management standard and RC 14001, • GPIC supports the ‘National Initiative For the Development of the Responsible Care Management standard. Agriculture’ in Bahrain. We are also actively engaged in cultivating a culture of • GPIC sponsors environmental initiatives and programs, and environmental responsibility amongst our people, by launching the Bahrain Garden Show is just one of the many examples. campaigns to conserve energy and save water. We aim to ensure that our people become environmentally conscious citizens who Climate Change Commitments can help spread awareness about the need for action against In an era of global climate change, our greenhouse gas emissions, global climate change. as well as our carbon footprint, are some of the biggest challenges At GPIC, in line with our business principles of sustainability, we face when trying to invest in environmental sustainability. coupled with responsible care and corporate social responsibility We have been able to implement some projects that will ethics, our strategy of environmental management goes beyond reduce our carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions, thereby our facilities. The key goal is to manage our business processes helping to contribute towards the mission against climate change. to produce an overall positive impact on society. Our Responsible Our Carbon Dioxide Recovery Plant, commissioned in December Operations Strategy ensures that we do not impact adversely 2009, captures about 450 metric tons of carbon dioxide on a on our neighbouring communities. Furthermore, we assume daily basis and uses it for the production of methanol and urea, our role of environmental stewardship and corporate citizenship resulting in increased profitability, effective resources utilization by imparting environmental awareness lectures to the school and a reduction of our carbon footprint. This project highlights our children in Bahrain. efforts towards building our environment sustainability strategy as We are very conscious of our responsibilities with regards a core element of our overall business strategy. to biodiversity and preservation of natural habitats. We invest We are also in the process of phasing out all ozone depleting in practical demonstration projects to verify our environmental refrigerants used in the air conditioning systems and replacing credentials. A fish farm, a bird sanctuary, a palm tree plantation, them with more environment friendly refrigerants across the facility. a herbal and aromatic plants garden, and an olive tree oasis have been established within our facilities. 2011 2010 2009 In the local, regional and international arena we believe Greenhouse gas emissions that businesses have a fundamental role to play in environmental (tonnes of CO2) 1,277,587 1,285,271 1,264,365 stewardship by investing and supporting various programmes, Notes: campaigns, workshops, conferences, research programmes, and CDR unit commissioned in sharing their knowledge and expertise with the communities. Dec, 2009 Following are some examples of our environmental stewardship: Efficient resource utilization Our vision of environmental responsibility stretches beyond • GPIC sponsors The RoSPA International Dilmun greenhouse gases and also encompasses our use of nearly every Environmental Award. type of resource that goes into our manufacturing process. • GPIC supports the UNEP ‘SEAL THE DEAL‘ campaign to Our commitment towards efficient resource utilization is combat global warming. perhaps where our holistic approach towards strategy, and our • GPIC has memberships in Safety, Health, Environment and triple bottom line approach, best shines through; not only does agriculture committees of various organizations at regional efficiency make our industrial units more planet friendly, but they and international levels such as International Fertilizers also help reduce costs, thus improving our profitability. Association (IFA), Arab Fertilizers Association (AFA), etc. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 81 Our Environment (continued) Acting responsibly towards energy conservation Plant efficiency Energy Consumption We aim to operate our plants safely and efficiently and our The reliable and continued operation of our plants, including our investment strategies also focus on optimizing our energy utilization in-house power generating unit, helps us,GPIC and one of our by replacing and upgrading ageing equipment with the latest, state key suppliers the Electricity and Water Authority (EWA), of the art equipment based on cutting edge technologies. Government of Bahrain. Our responsible operations result in world class reliability The total power requirement for our complex is about 24 and on-stream factors, and also play a major role in conservation megawatts; our in-house power generation covers 56% of our and the optimization of energy utilization. The continuous long requirements and the remaining is purchased from the Electricity term operation of plants ensures minimum wastage of energy, as and Water Authority (EWA), Government of Bahrain. plant startup-and shutdown-related wastage of natural resources Over the years we have implemented several initiatives to help and energy will be minimized. further reduce and optimize our energy consumption. Some of the salient initiatives that supports our energy optimization strategy are: Water Consumption As a responsible organization, we are conscious of our • A robust asset management programme with regular responsibility towards the planet and hence we seriously consider monitoring, and an effective preventive and predictive ways of conserving and optimizing the use of water at our facilities. maintenance strategy, along with investments in new Our plants are designed and operated in such a way which equipment, ensure optimum power consumption. ensures optimum usage of water. Most of the water generated as • The replacement of lighting systems in plant areas and part of the process is treated and recycled back into the process. buildings with the latest, low energy versions. The water used for irrigation and gardening purposes • The expansion of the use of automated lighting systems at GPIC is optimized by using a drip watering system. As a based on photocells. part of our future strategy, we are working on two projects that • Enhancing the concept of Green IT at GPIC. will further enhance the way in which we use non-process related water. • Introducing the concept of Green Energy in the form of Solar Energy. • Automatic irrigation for complex greenery. • In April, 2011 replacement of a faulty valve actuator XV-10207 • Installation of flow meters to measure the amount of flow of the PSA unit enabled higher recovery of waste gases to the consumption before and after installation of the automatic methanol reformer fuel system, hence decreasing the specific irrigation system. energy consumption / MT of methanol produced by about 2%. Paper Consumption Green IT initiatives At GPIC, we have expanded the use of electronic communications As for the Green IT trend, we have always been a front runner in with the goal of enhancing our communication and reducing our Green IT applications due to our strong focus on environmental paper consumption. We also encourage double sided photocopying issues and compliance. and the use of recycled paper. Since 2005 we have recycled over 40 tonnes of paper. On an Some of the key technical projects set up to promote the concept average basis we are recycling about 5,000Kg of paper every year. of Green IT include: • In 2007, we implemented an SAP system – an enterprise resource planning solution package which contributed largely to reducing paper work, as all information could be accessed electronically by the decision makers in various departments. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 82 We are a Responsible Care RC-14001 and ISO 14001 certified company and one of the key areas is the identification of environmental aspects and assessment of related impacts.” • All mainframes were replaced by medium-sized and Waste Management and Recycling mini computers for their effectiveness in reducing power We manage the industrial and non–industrial waste generated at consumption and thermal emissions. our facility by collecting, segregating and recycling it according • We implemented “Blade System,” a project that has to well-established procedures in conformance to legislative significantly saved space, and infrastructure resources, and requirements in Bahrain. Presently we do not have a waste reduced our energy consumption, by integrating all servers recovery, recycling or disposal facility. The fate of our waste is in a single self-contained server using a single source of known and documented. Prior to maintenance turnarounds, energy. We were the first in the Kingdom to implement this the waste generators provide a comprehensive plan on waste project. This system utilizes virtualization technology, which generation and management during the turnarounds. During rationalizes the power consumption and capacity according 2010, out of a total solid waste of 408 m3, 231 m3 was spent to usage. The operating systems are regularly upgraded catalyst sold to recycling agents. On an average basis 100 m3/year for all PCs and servers so as to make the most of the (average of ten years (2001 to 2010) of spent catalyst is generated modern features in this system in order to conserve power and exported to recycling agents. Moreover an average of 88m3/ consumption. year waste, such as spent activated carbon, water treatment • Eprocurement: we have also initiated an E-procurement resins, furnace insulation etc., is sent to Bahrain Government’s project within our facility. authorized disposal site at Hafira. All the chemical waste is either disposed to the authorized disposal site at Hafira or sold to Environmental Impact assessment and monitoring and reporting authorized recycling agents if there are buyers. our air quality, emissions and liquid effluents Preservation of natural habitats We are a Responsible Care RC 14001 and ISO 14001 certified company, and one of the key areas is the identification of We take on full responsibility towards our corporate social environmental aspects and assessment of related impacts. All the responsibilities and environmental stewardship. We have risk assessments and action plans are reviewed periodically and embarked upon several environmental projects that focus reside on the company’s intranet. As highlighted before, all the on the long term preservation of natural habitats in and around projects and modifications undergo an environmental impact study. the complex. Another important part of our environmental management In November 1996, we established our Fish Farm located system is the measurement and reporting of our emissions and on the south west side of the complex. Since then, 330,000 Sea effluents to our stake holders. As a way forward, during 2011 the Bream have been released into territorial water, replenishing online NOX and SOX analyzers installed at the HP steam boilers dwindling fish reserves and benefiting local fishermen. flue gas stacks and the ammonia and methanol reformers In June 2002, a Bird Sanctuary was inaugurated. Built on a flue gas stacks were provided with remote connectivity to the coastal strip of 600,000m2, the sanctuary provides a safe haven for Environmental Affairs Directorate of the Kingdom of Bahrain. migrating birds, waders and local species. Over 70 species have Hence our key emissions are being continuously monitored by been recorded visiting the island. 2000 mangrove trees were also the governmental regulator. Further to this, we have a standalone planted around the island to enhance the natural habitat. Today, mobile air quality monitoring unit that measures the air quality the mangroves have grown and currently total over 20,000 trees. in and around our facilities. Recently, this has also been provided To preserve local herbs that were once used for their with remote connectivity, facilitating real time updates and trends medicinal values by our ancestors, our Herb Garden was officially and online monitoring in the main control room. inaugurated on 9 May 2005. It was expanded later to include a rare arid plants garden with an overall area of more than 26,800m2. In 2009, Her Royal Highness Princess Sabika bint Ebrahim Al Note: Read more about GPIC natural habitats on our website: www.gpic.com GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 83 Our Environment (continued) We take care of our environment Khalifa, the wife of His Majesty the King of Bahrain, inaugurated minimizing pollution and developing our surrounding environment the Princess Sabika Aromatic Plants Garden containing over 45 is also highlighted throughout the lectures. rare breeds of aromatic plants. On her visit to Bahrain on 5th Feb 2011, the Queen of Environmental research Denmark also inaugurated the Queen Margrethe Olive Oasis. The In 2004, we also launched our Environment Research Programme oasis contains more than 300 trees. – Environment Award for secondary school students, where we fund 20 research projects annually and reward the top three The total area of habitats preserved is summarized as: projects. This interactive initiative allows students to suggest their • Total green area developed and preserved inside the complex own research topics as well. The topics that GPIC has sponsored 7.62 Hectares over the years cover a range of environmental issues, such as the • Bird sanctuary 4.2 Hectares effects of using water-saving devices on water consumption, the impact of the Kena-Capris tree plantation on the environment, • Fish farm-more than 0.23 Hectares the impact of materials used in coastal reclamation, 101 practical ways for domestic waste management, etc. Environmental awareness We also believe that caring for the environment goes beyond the Financial support and Involvement borders of our facility. In 2001, we started our Environmental Our financial contributions to environmental care agencies Awareness lectures to schools. By the end of the 2011 academic exceeded over US $200,000 in the past decade. To also be engaged year, 286 schools visits had been conducted, benefiting over in the development of national policies, we actively participate and 20,000 students. subscribe to key decision making institutions/organizations like The Environmental Awareness Programme for schools is one Bahrain’s Consultative Council, the National Oil and Gas Authority, of our initiatives towards protecting the environment and society. Health and Safety Organizations and other similar committees It aims at enhancing the awareness of students about major entrusted with drafting environmental legislation for Bahrain. local, regional and global environmental issues. Our experience in Number of Students Attended 3,500 3,000 3,195 2,717 2,500 Number of Students 2,395 2,250 2,000 2,010 1,770 1,755 1,755 1,500 1,510 1,000 1,190 500 380 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 84 GPIC goes for Green Computing On an international level, in 2006, GPIC, in coordination with The Fish farm and Bird Sanctuary committee RoSPA (UK), launched its International Dilmun Environmental The committee oversees the management of the fish farm, bird Award for organizations worldwide to compete for. We are also sanctuary and the bird cage in the GPIC Club. The committee represented in the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents charter includes: (RoSPA, UK) and The National Safety Council (USA). We actively participated in the UNEP global ‘Seal the deal’ • Organising the maintenance required for the fish farm, bird campaign to combat global warming, in preparation for the sanctuary and the bird cage at the Club. climate change summit which was held in Copenhagen, Denmark. • Demonstrating the company’s strong commitment towards In acknowledgement of our environmental projects and the care the environment by continuously protecting the marine, given by our business processes in relation to global warming wildlife and natural habitats and seeking way to enrich them through the successful implementation of Carbon Dioxide further. Recovery unit, the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) has showcased GPIC as a role model for clean industry. • Organizing fish release and replenishment. • Reviewing publications related to the three projects and Our investments in environmental projects updating them regularly. Our continued focus on investments in environment-related • Issuing relevant statistical reports. projects can be judged by the amount we have spent in this area, spending more than US $2.0 million in the past three years. Our Environmental initiatives in 2010 -2011 Some of the key environmental projects we carried out during the Our Environment Committees reporting period include: We have a number of committees that play a key role in our dayto-day business related to environmental management. These • Introducing the concept of Green Energy by installing and committees include: commissioning a solar powered water heating system at one of our buildings and, once proven, the concept will be The Safety, Health and Environment Council (SHEC) expanded to other areas. This is our top tier committee, chaired by the President of GPIC. • Introducing a waste segregation and recycling facility with Its main objective is to establish and oversee company policies and tri-colored bins at our canteen. strategies for Safety,Health, Environment and Responsible Care • Constructing of an olive tree garden on the west side of the in the complex. It also oversees the implementation of Process complex (inaugurated by the Queen of Denmark). Safety Management (PSM) within our organization. • The beautification of the charity fish farm. • Providing remote connectivity of the online NOX and SOX The Environment Committee analyzers installed at the HP steam boilers flue gas stacks and The committee’s prime objective is to oversee all environmental the ammonia and methanol reformers flue gas stacks to the issues, and its charter includes: Environmental Affairs Directorate of the Kingdom of Bahrain. • Providing a mobile air quality monitoring unit with remote • Promoting internal and external environmental awareness. connectivity, facilitating real time updates and trends or • Managing internal and external environmental projects. online monitoring in main control room. • Promoting Responsible Care initiatives/awareness. • Reducing noise by installing a silencer on the instrument air system in the methanol plant. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 85 Our Environment (continued) Fresh vegetables from the GPIC Charity Garden Ways towards environmental sustainability the surroundings was a big challenge. We tackled that by an The following key projects have been initiated and will be innovative solution of using the Methanol plant flare for this completed in 2012, but they will focus on long term environmental purpose and a permanent solution is in place in the form of a sustainability by improving energy efficiency, reducing the dedicated flare system for the Urea plant which will be installed inventories and use of hazardous chemicals and reducing during the November 2012 turnaround. emissions. We did not experience any major loss of containment or any significant environmental incident during the reporting period. • The Ammonia Converter Basket Replacement Project will We continued to report on our emissions and effluents decrease the energy required to produce ammonia. quality to regulatory bodies and there were no cases of noncompliance as per the Bahrain environmental standards. • Providing a dedicated flare in the Urea plant to take care of ammonia emissions. • Phasing out the use of chlorine by replacing the existing chlorine unit with a more environmentally friendly Sodium Hypochlorite unit. • Making GPIC totally free of ozone-depleting refrigerant R-22 by 2014. Our Environmental Performance We are dedicated to protecting the environment by minimizing our use of natural resources and energy, and reducing waste and harmful emissions. As part of our commitment to Responsible Care, we do more than simply comply with regulations we follow best environmental practices in all aspects of methanol, ammonia and granular urea production and exports. We promote this ethic with our customers, partners, employees and other stakeholders. Our environmental performance has been satisfactory during 2010 and 2011. This achievement results from our ongoing investments in environmental infrastructure and management systems, as well as our commitment to applying world-class environmental standards to all of our operations – from our manufacturing plants to our exports, including our terminals. We faced some environmental challenges during the 2010 plant maintenance turnaround. To make the Urea plant equipment ammonia free without having an adverse impact on GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 86 A view of dates hanging at our palm tree oasis We continued to report on our emissions and effluents quality to regulatory bodies and there were no cases of non-compliance as per the Bahrain environmental standards.” Emissions to Air: 2010 Description Ammonia Methanol Auxiliary Urea CDR Gas Urea Reformer Reformer Boilers stack Boiler stack Boiler stack Turbine stack Gran. stack stack stack CO (mg/Nm3) 100 (1) 100 (1) 100 (2) 100 (2) 100 (2) 100 (2) N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. 16 N.D. SO2 (mg/Nm ) 3 500 (1) 500 (1) 260 270 100 95 75 20 NOx (mg/Nm3) as NO2 300 (1) 300 (1) 100 (2) 100 (2) 100 (2) 230 220 60 96 30 80 VOC (ppm) 20 (1) 20 (1) 99% Recovery (3) (Volatile Organic Compounds) N.D. N.D. 9.7 NH3 (mg/Nm3) 30 (1) 15 (1) 50 (3) N.D. N.D. 17.1 PM mg/Nm 3 20 (1) 20 (1) 50 (2) 50 (2) 50 (2) 50 (2) 30 (3) (Particulate Matter) N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. 27.9 CO2 % 10.7 11.5 11.4 11.0 10.7 2.2 Benzene (mg/Nm3) 5 5 N.D. N.D. Vinyl Chloride (mg/Nm ) 3 5 5 N.D. N.D. 1,2 Dichloroethane (mg/Nm3) 5 5 N.D. N.D. HCL (mg/Nm ) 3 10 10 N.D. N.D. H2S (mg/Nm3) N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. = Not detectable, N.A. or blank = Not available Note: (1) = Standard for Petrochemical and Ammonia manufacturing. (2) = Standard for Combustion Processes. For SOx and NOx analysis Oxygen content adjusted to 15% VO2 / V total. (3) = Standard for Fertilizer Industry. (4) = All the other 6 monthly emissions data is available in the Environmental Reports sent by GPIC to Bahrain Environmental Directorate. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 87 Our Environment (continued) Responsible Care is our Commitment to Sustainability Emissions to Air: 2011 Description Ammonia Methanol Auxiliary Urea CDR Gas Urea Reformer Reformer Boilers stack Boiler stack Boiler stack Turbine stack Gran. stack stack stack CO (mg/Nm3) 100 (1) 100 (1) 100 (2) 100 (2) 100 (2) 100 (2) N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. 15 N.D. SO2 (mg/Nm ) 3 500 (1) 500 (1) 360 150 145 115 68 20 NOx (mg/Nm3) as NO2 300 (1) 300 (1) 100 (2) 100 (2) 100 (2) 220 220 45 95 24 80 VOC (ppm) 20 (1) 20 (1) 99% Recovery (3) (Volatile Organic Compounds) N.D. N.D. 8.8 NH3 (mg/Nm3) 30 (1) 15 (1) 50 (3) N.D. N.D. 14.3 PM mg/Nm 3 20 (1) 20 (1) 50 (2) 50 (2) 50 (2) 50 (2) 30 (3) (Particulate Matter) N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. 27.9 CO2 % 10.5 11.3 11.4 10.4 10.5 2.1 Benzene (mg/Nm3) 5 5 N.D. N.D. Vinyl Chloride (mg/Nm ) 3 5 5 N.D. N.D. 1,2 Dichloroethane (mg/Nm3) 5 5 N.D. N.D. HCL (mg/Nm ) 3 10 10 N.D. N.D. H2S (mg/Nm3) N.D. N.D. N.D. N.D. = Not detectable, N.A. or blank = Not available Note: (1) = Standard for Petrochemical and Ammonia manufacturing. (2) = Standard for Combustion Processes. For SOx and NOx analysis Oxygen content adjusted to 15% VO2 / V total. (3) = Standard for Fertilizer Industry. (4) = All the other 6 monthly emissions data is available in the Environmental Reports sent by GPIC to Bahrain Environmental Directorate. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 88 GPIC where nature and technology co-exist.” Liquid Effluent Analysis 2011 Main Sea Water Outfall Maximum GPIC Limit (1) BES 2011 2010 2009 PARAMETERS UNITS PHYSICAL PROPERTIES Floating Particles Nil Nil Nil pH pH 8.0 8.1 8.2 Temperature (for receiving) °C 2 2 3 Total Suspended Solids mg/L 35 ‹1 ‹1 ‹1 Turbidity N.T.U. 75 ‹5 ‹5 ‹5 ORGANIC POLLUTANTS Biological Oxygen Demand mg/L 50 15* 3.0* 3.0* Chemical Oxygen Demand mg/L 350 46 80 60 Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen mg/L 10 1.6 1.7 1.6 Total Organic Carbon mg/L 4 1.4 2.5 Oil & Grease mg/L 15 ‹1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Phenols mg/L 1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Fluorescent petroleum matters mg/L 0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 INORGANIC CHEMICAL PROPERTIES Aluminium mg/L 25 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Ammonia (as N2) mg/L 3 0.5 1.0 1.0 Arsenic mg/L 0.5 ‹0.1 ‹0.01 ‹0.01 Cadmium mg/L 0.05 ‹0.1 ‹0.01 ‹0.01 Residual Chlorine mg/L 2.0 0.02 0.1 0.04 Total Chromium mg/L 1 ‹0.05 ‹0.05 ‹0.05 Copper mg/L 0.5 ‹0.05 ‹0.01 ‹0.01 Total Cyanide mg/L 0.1 ‹0.05 ‹0.05 ‹0.05 Iron mg/L 10.0 0.02 0.03 0.04 Lead mg/L 1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Mercury mg/L 0.005 ‹0.001 0.001 0.001 Nickel mg/L 0.5 ‹0.01 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Nitrate (as N) mg/L 10 2 0.6 0.4 Nitrite (as N) mg/L 1.0 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Total Phosphate (as P) mg/L 2 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Silver mg/L 0.005 ‹0.001 ‹0.001 ‹0.001 Sulphide mg/L 1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 Zinc mg/L 5 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 ‹0.1 BIOLOGICAL POLLUTANTS Total Coliforms No./100 ml 10,000 ‹100 ‹100 ‹100 * = Analysis carried out by independent laboratory. ND not detected BES Bahrain Environmental Standards GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 89 Our Environment (continued) GPIC Fish Farm Environmental Performance Statistics Environmental Performance... units 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CO2 (tonnes) 1,277,587 1,285,271 1,264,365 1,271,131 1,170,100 Non Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.. SOX,NOX and other significant air emissions tonnes 87,720 93,819 66,804 63,846 39,485 Total energy used (excluding electricity). Feed and fuel KNM 3 1,243,971 1,185,333 1,214,928 1,220,542 1,108,237 Total direct energy consumption (per tonne of product) Gcal 7.580 7.970 7.546 7.545 7.756 Total direct energy consumption (per tonne of product) GJ 31.68 33.31 31.54 31.53 32.42 Total electricity use GJ 774,864 750,942 707,328 701,053 671,450 Electricity self -generated % 58.1 55.6 53.8 52.1 47.4 Electricity self -generated GJ 449,820 417,420 380,556 365,328 318,193 Electricity Imported % 41.9 44.4 46.2 47.9 52.6 Electricity Imported MWHr 90,290 92,645 90,770 93,257 98,127 Total indirect energy consumption GJ 325,044 333,522 326,772 335,725 353,257 Total sea water used 1,000 M3 340,572 335,614 340,118 324,699 308,255 Total discharges to sea 1,000 M3 338,915 334,103 338,491 323,117 306,636 Total volume of water recycled and reused % 99.5 99.5 99.5 99.5 99.5 Hazardous waste disposed (includes transported within country and exported outside country) M3 67.9 408.2** 44.7 174.94** 17.439 Hazardous waste exported (spent catalyst sold to recycling agents) M3 231.36 113.95 Ozone depleting substance emissions Kg Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Impact on protected areas (world heritage sites etc) Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Magnitude and nature of penalties for non-compliance (environment, safety) US$ Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Total environmental incidents (loss of containment / spills) 0 0 1 1* 3 Total water discharge by quality and destination (Sea water return) Refer to sea water effluent report (attached) 1 *Refined Methanol Spillage of approximately 15 MT occurred due to external ship hitting the product export line at the jetty. 2 ** Out of the 408 M3 waste, 231.36 M3 was spent catalyst sold to recycling agents, 3 ** Out of the 174.94 M3 waste, 113.95 M3 was spent catalyst sold to recycling agents, 4 Production levels went up significantly from 2008 onwards which has reflected in increased emission quantities. 5 With installation of CDR unit one boiler also was added, hence, part of the CO2 reduction was offset by the boiler exhaust. It can be seen that the CO2 emission has not gone up after installation of CDR although the plant loads have gone up. This could be achieved due to CO2 reduction by CDR GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 90 GPIC Olive Oasis Material used at GPIC Material Physical State Units 2009 2010 2011 Chemicals Kg Potassium carbonate Solid 4,000 5500 8,000 Diethanol amine Liquid 8,200 10,600 12,579 Potassium metavanadate Solid 240 240 1,440 B-51 Antifoam Liquid 127 128.25 221.75 Potassium nitrite Solid 3,545 4453 4,505.43 Methyl diethanol amine Liquid 600 1,215 1,290 Rhodorsil (416) Antifoam Liquid 76 55.24 60.9 Chlorine Liquid 193,500 216,340 193,660 Microbiocide Liquid 10,883 10,551 11,785 Caustic soda Liquid 116,340 505,330 698,669 Sulphuric acid Liquid 73,292 89,786 75,800 Caustic soda flakes Solid 9,044 12,825 15,969.60 Hydrazine Liquid 2,053 2,335 2,589 Trisodium phosphate Solid 110 140.4 190.4 Disodium phosphate Solid 3 20.74 25.28 Nalco Inhibitors Liquid 521 0.3 0 CC-100 Inhibitor Liquid 8,520 55 185 Corrosion inhibitor Corr-shield, NT4293 Liquid 1,915 10,835 12,535 Hydrochloric acid Liquid 2,287 10,733 2,660 Belgard Antiscalant Liquid 29,670 34,270 30,475 Sodium sulphite Solid 17,175 14,250 14,200 Calcium hypochlorite Liquid 148.5 148.5 148.5 Calcium chloride Solid 6625 5,750 6,825 Sodium bicarbonate Solid 6550 5,750 6,950 Freon 404 Gas 201.6 275.65 306.04 Freon 22 Gas 0 32.7 54 Urea formaldehyde Liquid 6,251,056 6,126,439 6,675,432 NALCO-8539 Liquid 39,312 15,289 9,829 NALCO-8514 Liquid 2,962 2,464 3,025 NALCO-7330 Liquid 880 740 0 Felix 110 antifoam Liquid 90 KS-1 Amine solution Liquid 360,900 Total chemicals used Kg 6,789,836 7,080,80 8,150,397 Total natural gas used KNM3 1,214,928 1,185,333 1,243,971 Total lube oils used Litres 23,820 83,016 24,512 Total paper used Number 1,971,806 2,110,675 2,193,547 Notes: 1) 2010 is a turnaround year hence the usage of chemicals/ Natural gas/ lube oil will be different than for other years 2) Chemicals such as KS1 are related to CDR unit only 3) Caustic consumption has increased as this chemical is also being used in CDR unit and also due to increased levels of H2S in natural gas and also due to higher load of methanol plant with C02 availability after CDR. 4) Lube oils of main machines are generally replaced during turnarounds hence 2010 will reflect higher consumption 5) Benfield section chemicals consumption is higher in 2011 due to an incident of using wrong type of activated carbon and subsequent disposal of contaminated sulphur contaminated solution and secondly due to losses of chemicals due to frequent replacements of carbon filter 6) MDEA consumption for 2011 is higher due to higher concentration due to higher H2S in raw natural gas from source GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 91 People and the Community • Our Employees • Our Community “GPIC’s employees are its biggest asset. Their Loyalty, Passion and Dedication is the driving force behind the Company’s success. Every action we take focuses on our people.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 93 Our People To make GPIC the employer of choice for fresh candidates and experienced professionals, we have made significant investments in a multi-pronged strategy.” Human Resources Strategy children. Furthermore,we sponsor and support key educational Our Organization programmes across Bahrain. We have also rolled out scholarship programmes for our employees’ children. GPIC currently employs 567 people including trainees. A What is more, we have also improved our recruitment Bahrainisation level of 92% was achieved by the end of 2011. The systems by introducing psychometric analysis, which helps in training and development of the Company’s Bahraini nationals is enhancing the recruitment,screening and selection processes. a main priority for our Management. Our training policy aims to We recently introduced a standardized, internet-based achieve a progressive integration of Bahraini nationals into our system for all job applications that will facilitate the process for work force through the implementation of a well-structured and prospective candidates in registering their applications. systematic training and career development scheme. In recruiting potential future leaders and other staff, we focus The periodic organizational review is a process carried out by on empowering the indigenous communities. The minimum age for our senior Management, to assess our strengths and weaknesses being recruited by GPIC is 18 years old – as per provisions under in people’s competencies and capabilities across the business. The Ministry of Labour. GPIC is an equal opportunity employer Our leadership capability and succession plans are also reviewed and provides equal employment opportunity to all applicants for periodically. vacancies, subject to applicable rules and regulations. We also Our investment in training and development continues to explicitly forbid child labour and forced/ compulsory labour, as it grow. The company invested about US $5.8 million in 2010 and is against our ethos and considered illegal as per Bahrain Labour over US $6.5 million in 2011. Law. The Human Resources Department rules are applied in a To make GPIC the employer of choice for fresh candidates non-discriminatory manner in all aspects of employment including and experienced professionals, we have made significant recruitment, assignment, promotion, transfer, termination, salary investments in a multi-pronged strategy. and other benefits and nomination for training etc. In 2011 we launched our Bridging Programme that enables Attracting talented people and investing in tomorrow’s talent experienced employees to further develop their skills by pursuing Recruiting and retaining manpower with relevant skills has their education until they are competent enough to assume become a major challenge within the chemical industry. As a supervisory positions. way forward, we have sought to develop innovative approaches to recruitment, enhance our people development programmes and Developing our People maintain a highly engaged work force. 2010 2011 saw important The personal and professional development of our people is progress in our strategy for maintaining continuity in our a priority for us and we use a variety of methods to help our capability as an organization, as we made enhancements to our people develop their capabilities. Each employee has a personal recruitment, development and management of staff, all designed development plan. Our people are provided with growth to help us provide a great workplace for talented, committed and opportunities in an effort to enhance the Company’s culture. This responsible people. is achieved through organizational development interventions We believe that our ability to endure and persevere as an such as training, the ability to participate in secondments, travel organization depends a lot on our capability to attract and retain opportunities and engaging in volunteering within the community. the best talent within the industry. We have covered this risk in our We have introduced an SAP-based Performance Management Enterprise Risk Management and have taken necessary actions System (PMS) to further improve the training and development of to demonstrate the highlights of a career with GPIC to potential our work force. The system has been further enhanced by rolling employees at all levels. out an SAP Competency Based Training module. We have improved our outreach to potential employees We focus on employee development through periodic through many initiatives. We have a sponsorship programme training, which is conducted on a competency-based needs for our people who intend to pursue their undergraduate/post analysis, following periodic appraisals. Training is conducted both graduate degrees. The company also facilitates vocational/ in–house and through external trainers. industrial training for Bahraini students and our employees’ GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 94 Our people are also provided with opportunities to enhance Safety of our Employees and the Host communities their skills through self-learning platforms, such as GPIC considers the safety of its employees and the neighbouring E-learning and the Toastmasters programme, to improve their communities as a prime area of focus. We ensure the highest communication skills. standards of health and safety at our manufacturing facilities, carefully monitoring every potential risk to our operations and our Adhering to our Principles employees so that we can provide a safe working environment GPIC adheres to the strictest principles of merit in recruitment, for our people and the community at large. We invest in projects compensation and promotion decisions to ensure that all our related to safety, environmental care and the reliability of our people feel that they have been treated fairly and without bias. equipment and facilities. We also recognize and reward our people for their superior efforts We have a number of committees which oversee the and performance through an awards programme and seek to implementation and maintenance of our policies related to retain the best of our talent through leadership opportunities. Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Responsible Care. These committees include: Our Leadership Programme We ensure focus on successive leadership development and • Safety, health and Environment Council. have a comprehensive Succession Planning document and • Safety Committee. programme in place. To achieve this we manage the careers of • Process Safety Management Committee. our high performers and provide them with opportunities to take on additional responsibilities as a build up to potential Healthcare leadership positions. Health Care at GPIC is not limited to our people, it covers their We identify people with leadership potential based on their families too. We maintain a state of the art Health Centre on our aspirations, engagement and ability, and support them in their facility which operates on a 24 hr basis for any emergency needs. leadership development to build on our internal talent pool. As All our people undergo regular health checks. Awareness lectures a result of this practice, all current members of our Executive on industrial hygiene and occupational health are arranged. Management Team were promoted from within. Currently all our Obesity control remains an area of focus at the Health Centre, with Managers are Bahrainis. a professional nutritionist available to assist our people. Many of the GPIC employees are certified first aiders. Diversity and Inclusion We have an active Health Committee whose prime objective We work towards building an equal opportunities working is to oversee all health issues in the Company in coordination with environment, and focus particularly on empowering women and the Safety, Health and Environment Council. The committee’s the indigenous communities within Bahrain. About 22% of our charter includes: employees are expatriate workers from Asia, Africa, Europe and the Far East. 7% of our employees are female employees. Our • Promoting and organizing Health and Responsible Care Ladies Working Committee is actively involved in promoting the awareness activities. role of women in the company and society. Its charter includes: • Managing the GPIC Anti Smoking Program. • Overseeing hygiene & food quality in the main canteen and • Carrying out activities in support of women inside and Club canteen. outside the company. • Conducting regular/emergency committee meetings to • Organising special events for women. discuss the health status of the employees, as well as all • Coordinating with external women’s organisations. issues pertaining to and affecting the health, hygiene and wellness of GPIC employees at the complex and at the GPIC Club premises. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 95 Our People (continued) GPIC Labour Union Elections Our One Team Culture our people during an annual awards ceremony. Some of the Our ability to create high performance teams in a culture of awards include Employee of the Year for Sustained Performance, professionalism and excellence is what drives our success more Employee of the Year for Outstanding Performance, Best than anything else. Team work is our key corporate value and Suggestion of the Year, Environment Personality of the Year, Safety encompasses all our other values related to individual excellence Personality of the Year, etc. We have also introduced a new award and professionalism. “Safe Driver of the Year” in 2011. Innovation and Creativity Employee Benefit Scheme GPIC believes that innovation and creativity are crucial to business GPIC ensures that our staff compensation and benefit plans are in success. We provide a lot of opportunities and platforms for our line with our overall strategy. We have also introduced a new early people to express their views, exchange ideas and unleash their retirement policy for our Bahraini employees, to improve employee talents. The Suggestions and Best Practices Committee and the attainability of benefits whilst still ensuring the company’s GPIC committee system are a few examples. financial security and business continuity. Other benefits include a savings scheme, health insurance covering all our people and GPIC Labour Union their families, loans, indemnity, annual bonus etc. GPIC has an unshakable commitment towards labour rights that are agreed upon between the Executive Management and the Allowance & Benefits Bahraini Non-Bahraini Labour Union at the beginning of each year. GPIC has one of the Social Allowance Yes Yes first companies in Bahrain to facilitate a forum to encourage our Housing Allowance Minimum 15% of Furnished people to voice their opinions in the form of a labour union. The basic salary to a apartment Management and the Labour Union share a strong relationship maximum of 25% according to the and the two groups are bonded in working committees such as: of basic salary grade of the Management Labour Union High Council, Management Union depending on the employee and Committee, SHE Council, Safety Committee, Health Committee, grade of the number of family Environment Committee, Savings Committee, Social Committee, employee members Training, Development and Education Sponsorship Coordination Committee, Housing Loan Committee and Special Needs Cases Indemnity Yes Yes Committee, etc. This arrangement ensures that the Labour Union Saving Scheme Yes No representatives are involved in all key decision-making processes. Housing Loan Yes No 2011 2010 2009 Transport Allowance Yes Yes Number of Employees as members of labour union 502 488 430 Medical Insurance Yes Yes Total employees 567 579 558 Educational assistance for Financial Financial % of employees in labour union 88.5 84.3 77 employees children assistance for assistance for under 18 years staff grade 14 incoming staff and above recruited grades Recognising and rewarding employees 10 and above. At GPIC we have a wide range of awards at every level of the Life insurance Yes Yes Company, to ensure that our people are recognized and rewarded Canteen food Yes Yes for their extraordinary efforts and work that goes beyond the call of duty. This includes performance-based awards across Uniform Yes Yes departments and divisions, as well as acknowledgement of best Scholarship programme for staff Yes No safety practices. We also have an incentivized scheme to reward GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 96 We maintained our prime focus on the development of our talent whereby taking measures to mitigate the biggest challenge of recruiting and retaining the best of the talent available.” Our Human Resources Performance 20102011 Our challenges in the Human Resources Business area GPIC achieved most of its objectives with regards to training and To maintain our competiveness and to sustain and persevere as development of our Bahraini employees during 2010-2011. We an organization, our biggest challenge remains to recruit and maintained our prime focus on the development of our talent retain the best of talent. To this end, as a company, we continue whereby taking measures to mitigate the biggest challenge of to introduce best practices and cutting edge endeavours, recruiting and retaining the best of the talent available. including highly competitive benefit plans, development and growth opportunities for our people, which may go a long way in Major Achievements: reasserting our position as an employer of choice. A number of • GPIC‘s investments in training and development continue to Bahraini employees opted for the early retirement package during grow. The Company invested about US $5.8 million in 2010 2010-2011 which was both a challenge and an opportunity to and over US $6.5 million in 2011. induct young employees in our work force. The second challenge, which is also common to our industry, • GPIC’s Training Centre was upgraded to an Academy of is complacency. We have launched several programmes which Leadership and Learning and was inaugurated on 8th will assist in combating the issue, including mentoring and November 2010. The mission of the Academy is not only behavioural-based safety. to impart training and development, but to also provide a Diversity is another challenge. Even though we are on the platform for our people to develop into future leaders. right track aligned to women’s employment and empowerment, • SAP – a competency-based training module-has been we still have to go a long way in increasing the number of women prepared and is ready to roll out. within our organization. • As part of enhancing the selection and recruitment processes, Psychometric Assessment has been introduced. • To utilize the available in-house talent, and to give further growth opportunities to our people at Senior Operator and Senior Technician level, a Bridging Programme was rolled out in 2011, which focuses on enhancing the educational requirements and skills of identified and selected talent. This is being done by collaboration between GPIC’s Academy of Leadership and Learning and Bahrain Polytechnic. • In May 2010, GPIC won the Ministry of Labour Award for top position in Training and Human Resources Development in 2010, for establishments exempted from payment of occupational training contributions. • In November 2010, GPIC won a GCC Labour Ministers’ Council award of outstanding GCC companies for Localization of Jobs and Manpower Development for the second successive year. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 97 Our People (continued) At GPIC we have a wide range of awards at every level of the Company, to ensure that our people are recognized and rewarded for their extraordinary efforts and work that goes beyond the call of duty.” 2010 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2010 Achieve Bahrainization 95% Enhance internal skills and target by end 2010... 95% (On target) Learning and competencies by providing Achieve training hours by 23,148 hours growth learning and personal end 2010... 16,500 hours (Target exceeded) development opportunities to all employees Achieve E-learning hours 6,886 hours 1,500 hours (Target exceeded) 2011 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2011 92% (lower as a number Achieve Bahrainization of Bahraini employees target by end 2011... 95% opted for early retirement package Enhance internal skills and Psychometric assessment 100% Implemented competencies by providing Learning and 100% utilization as per plan in January 2011 learning and personal growth development opportunities to Achieve training hours by 20,287 hours all employees end 2011... 20,000 hours Achieve 8 training hours 35.9 hours per employee Employee retention... 97.5% 98.8% A total of 7 of total employees in position employees resigned from service GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 98 Knowledge is our best product Length of Employee Service 2011 2010 2009 Less than one year 8% 8% 8% 1-5 Years 24% 20% 17% 6-10 Years 12% 10% 9% 11-15 Years 19% 18% 20% 16-20 Years 8% 8% 13% 21+ Years 29% 35% 33% Employee Generations 2011 2010 2009 Millennial (1981 or after) 21% 17% 13% Generation (1966-1980) 45% 42% 43% Boomers (1946 -1965) 34% 41% 45% Mature (1945 or prior) 0% 0% 0% Employee Turnover 2011 2010 2009 Number of employees who resigned from the company 7 14 16 Male Employees 6 14 16 Female Employees 1 0 0 Bahraini 4 6 10 Pakistani 0 1 2 Indian 3 6 4 British 0 1 0 Turnover 1.2% 2.4% 2.8% Bahrainisation 2011 2010 2009 Bahrainisation 92%** 95% 87% ** a number of employees opted for early retirement package GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 99 Our People (continued) We care for our employees well-being Trainees 2011 2010 2009 Average number of trainees 63 65 49 Empowerment of Women Employee by gender 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Female Employees 38 7% 36 7% 37 7% 37 6% 41 7% Male Employees 498 93% 503 93% 521 93% 542 94% 526 93% Total Employees 536 539 558 579 567 Female employees by position Superintendent Senior Supervisor Officer Executive / Trainees Supervisor Senior / office administrator 2007 2 2 2 7 25 0 2008 2 1 2 6 24 1 2009 3 1 3 4 24 2 2010 3 1 3 4 23 3 2011 2 0 4 9 22 4 Job classification 2009 2010 2011 Bahraini Non-Bahraini Bahraini Non-Bahraini Bahraini Non-Bahraini Management 11 0 11 0 11 0 Superintendents 20 7 24 5 21 7 Supervisory/professional 40 48 34 51 38 47 Operators/ Technicians 257 22 246 25 246 34 Administrative 24 2 26 2 21 2 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 100 Our Community We strive to be a positive corporate citizen by creating and supporting programmes that contribute to the sustainable wellbeing of the communities wherein we operate.” Our Social Investment Strategy What has GPIC contributed to the economy of Bahrain? At GPIC, corporate social responsibility is all about how we Cash injected into the economy of Bahrain up to December 2011 manage our business processes to produce an overall positive (excluding Netback Revenue) impact on society. We feel a substantial responsibility towards the societies and communities in which we work. Projects 25% We believe that the way any organization manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of its standards of Gas / Electicity Consumed 22% corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. Every action we take depends on our people. At the forefront of Amount Spent Locally on our social responsibility comes the safety of our employees and Employees 17% the citizens of Bahrain. We ensure our plants are operated and Amount paid to maintained in a way that has no adverse impact whatsoever on the Contractors 5% safety of our employees and the community at large. Amount spent We are committed to the idea that our stakeholders include on training a much broader category of people than only our employees, Bahrainis 3% shareholders and our financial investors. We have an unwavering Purchases made commitment to invest in helping address the social needs, firstly in Bahrain 5% of our neighbouring communities, but also of Bahrain as a whole. Finance Charges We believe in giving back to the communities, addressing not Paid to Banks 6% just their immediate needs, but also their long term ability to lead Dividend Paid to the healthy and productive lives. This is why we invest in providing and Total Cash injected since inception up to Government of supporting educational, technical/vocational training and health December 2011: US$ 2.8 Billion Bahrain 17% care. Furthermore, we ensure that our social investments reach Average Annual Contribution: US$ 108 million every segment of Bahraini society in need. Our Social Investments 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 US$ 1,000,000 500,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Donations & Sponsorship 305,700 358,979 899,307 700,962 683,512 1,216,365 2,217,420 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 101 Our Community (continued) Developing our children for future challenges GPIC has also injected over US $2.5 billion into the national graduates. We have a strategic partnership with this over-arching economy of Bahrain since its inception. This contribution has been initiative by His Royal Highness the Crown Prince Shaikh Salman made in several areas, such as employment, training, procurement, bin Hamad Al Khalifa to groom future leaders. In 2009/10, GPIC, dividends to the Government and, most importantly, in the form of in coordination with the CPISP officials, devised for the first time purchases from within Bahrain. a programme to deeply involve students in community service, providing financial and material support to the programme. Community Involvement Moreover, we support and participate in the Bahrain Institute for Community involvement is embedded in the fabric of our business. Banking and Finance (BIBF) Executive Development Program in Most importantly, our active participation in various institutions association with the Darden School of Business (USA). has been growing by the year. We are represented on the boards To encourage good educational skills, we also reward the and committees of several organizations both inside and outside best students from amongst the employees’ children as well as Bahrain: the University of Bahrain, Bahrain Training Institute, children from neighbouring schools. We generously contribute to Bahrain Polytechnic, Bahrain’s National Committee for Safety, the employees’ children’s education and financially support our The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA, UK), the people for further studies inside and outside Bahrain. National Safety Council (USA), Gulf Petrochemical and Chemicals We have partnered with the inJAz Bahrain programme (Part Association (GPCA), the International Fertilizers Association of Junior Achievements) for secondary school students, led by (IFA), the Arab Fertilizers Association (AFA); to name but few. This Her Highness Shaihka Hessa bint Khalifa Al Khalifa to prepare allowed us to influence decision making in health, safety, the students to smoothly enter the business world. We support environment, education, sport, etc. We have always leveraged this it financially, chair its Board of Directors and provide 30 presence to bring in up-to-date legislations, enhanced quality and volunteers annually to teach its subjects.. This is over and tightened up rules and procedures. above the expert regular advice given to students participating We are always at the forefront of sponsoring conferences, in the inJAz programmes. workshops and seminars organised by professional bodies The company’s Toastmasters Club is also very active and and take the lead in participating in such events. In this regard, instrumental in providing support to society, spreading the art of we pride ourselves in cooperating closely with the Bahrain public speaking and leadership to schools, societies, employees’ Society of Engineers to propagate knowledge and promote the children and employees themselves. We have also sponsored engineering profession. almost all major Toastmasters events in the country and Supporting the welfare of the community is also realized consistently had the biggest presence. through generous contributions, both financial and material, to governmental and non-governmental organizations in the fields of health, safety, environment, education, charity, sport, culture, Community Care child care, the disabled and needy people, sponsorship and many In 2004, GPIC built an exclusive club for the employees and their other worthy causes. families and organizes summer activities during school holidays The educational projects sponsored by GPIC carry significant for employees children, in addition to “Fun Days,” entertainment prestige in the country as they support the Crown Prince’s and a kindergarten running throughout the year. International Sponsorship Programme for higher studies. GPIC The Family Safety Day is a traditional part of the Health, sponsored and provided material support to the Crown Prince Safety and Environment Week and our management is keen to International Sponsorship Programme (CPISP) for high school ensure that HSE standards are followed by employees and their GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 102 Community involvement is embedded in the fabric of our business. Most importantly, our active participation in various institutions has been growing by the year.” families at home too. The annual family get-together, is Our CSR Achievements 2010-2011 designed to enhance a safety culture within the community We were awarded the Arabia CSR award in 2011 in in a fun-filled and relaxed atmosphere. Prizes are awarded to acknowledgement of our endeavours towards corporate social employees’ children who win different competitions, such as responsibility. The Arabia CSR Award is organised annually by drawing and essay writing, with a focus on safety, health and the Arabia CSR Network based in the United Arab Emirates. The environmental standards. organisation has strong links with the United Nation Environmental During the SHE week in 2011, GPIC launched a SHE Programme and is chaired by Ms. Habiba Al Marashi, an and Responsible Care Community awareness stand in one of international figure in the field of CSR and environmental the country’s busiest malls, Bahrain City Centre. The prime protection. The award is judged by international experts from objective was to involve the community in enhancing safety culture various countries and is considered the most prestigious accolade across Bahrain. that organisations can receive in the Arab region. At GPIC, we believe that being successful is about sharing Being a Responsible Care company, we have voluntarily opportunities, about trying to be successful in making our world a implemented ISO-26000 guidance on corporate social little bit better. In the end, everyone in the community should benefit. responsibility. This highlights our commitment and responsibility for the impacts of our decisions and activities on society and the Our social committees environment through transparent and ethical behaviour that is We have an active Social Activities Committee that oversees consistent with our sustainable development and the welfare all social activities organized by the company. The committee’s of our society. This takes into account the expectations of our charter includes: stakeholders, is in compliance with applicable law, is consistent with international norms of behavior, and is integrated throughout • Proposing overall policy and management of the activities our organisation. and social functions in the GPIC Club and other social activities. • Organizing the GPIC Camp activities. • Coordinating with external organizations for social events. Other committees that are actively involved with the community are: • The Ladies Working Committee • The Environment Committee • The Safety, Health and Environment Week Organizing Committee. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 103 Our Community (continued) Our Corporate Social Responsibility Performance 2010-2011 2010 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2010 Deliver environment 33 lectures awareness lectures to Bahrain schools Target: 30 lectures Corporate Social Promote social activities and Provide training to industrial 185 trainees Responsibility contribute towards the social trainees at GPIC welfare of our community. Target :100 trainees Contribution to charity / NGOs US$ 664,643 spent / sponsorships and other worthy causes Target: US$901,000 2011 Performance Performance Area Objectives Target Planned Performance 2011 Deliver environment 35 lectures awareness lectures to Bahrain schools Target: 30 lectures Sponsorship of events 80 Target: 20 ISO 26000 Compliance 100% achieved Corporate Social Promote social activities and Target 100% Responsibility contribute towards the social Provide training to industrial 192 trainees welfare of our community. trainees at GPIC Target :150 trainees Contribution to charity / NGOs US$ 748,190 spent / sponsorships and other worthy causes Target: US$901,000 Arrange school visits to 19 Visits (less due to GPIC complex Target 45 unstable situation in Bahrain in 2011) GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 104 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 105 Product Stewardship “GPIC’s focus on product stewardship has been further enhanced by becoming a responsible care company, committed to sustainability.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 107 Product Stewardship GPIC maintains compliance with Level-1 (Gold Status) by the Australian Quarantine Inspection Services (AQIS) which is an added value to all Urea customers.” Product Stewardship • Seek customer satisfaction via feedback. GPIC produces fertilizers and petrochemicals for the welfare • Use a responsible methodology of collection, recycling of the people around the world, both today and tomorrow. We and disposal of contaminated products in line with local are aware that the benefits of our industry are accompanied by environmental standards and legislations. enduring commitments to Responsible Care in the management • Hold shore and ship meetings to achieve smooth, efficient of petrochemicals and fertilizers worldwide. and safe operations so that all safety, environmental and GPIC has become part of the global voluntary initiative to security requirements are fully understood and implemented drive excellence in safety, health and environmental management by the ship personnel . by becoming accredited to RC 14001 management system in 2010. • Observe mandated external independent surveyors’ GPIC’s focus on product stewardship has been further inspections of product handling facilities and ships’ cargo enhanced by becoming a Responsible Care Company, committed to tanks to ensure full compliance with the buyers requirement sustainability. With RC14001, GPIC aims for continual improvement and international standards. and demonstrating product stewardship across its functional operation, upstream supply of raw materials, manpower, services, • Maintain GPIC compliance with Level – 1 (Gold Status) by spare parts and also downstream through its products supply chain the Australian Quarantine Inspection Services (AQIS) which link,until its products reach the overseas buyer. During our selection is an added value to all urea customers. This accreditation process of suppliers for material and manpower we give preference ensures the product is fully controlled from source until it to local suppliers who have service facilities in Bahrain and have a reaches the end user and is adequately protected from any satisfactory level of Bahraini manpower. objectionable contaminants and pollutants, as stipulated by We at GPIC work with customers, marketers, suppliers, the AQIS. and contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport and • Ensure that GPIC’s Marine Terminal is in compliance with the disposal of urea fertilizer, ammonia and methanol, and provide International Ships & Port Security (ISPS) according to IMO hazard and risk information on all. We also ensure that we regulations and local port authority. Ships calling at the GPIC communicate product risks to our stakeholders, and listen to and Marine Terminal to load urea must declare their security consider their perspectives. level according to the ISPS code, before entering berth. • Ensure that GPIC urea and methanol products are registered As part of the GPIC Responsible Care Product Stewardship under the REACH program (Registration, Evaluation, programmes we do the following: Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances) • Run responsible operations in terms of producing, handling (UREA REG# 01-2119463277-33-0095 & METHANOL and exporting the highest quality products to ensure the REG#01-2119433307-44-0005), as is also the case for GPIC customers and end users are fully satisfied with our products. procedures for product and service information and labeling, • Communicate product information in the form of booklets particularly with regard to (i) substances that might produce and guidelines on product risks and handling procedures, an environmental or social impact, (ii) the disposal of the including material safety data sheets distributed to product and environmental/social impacts, and (iii) the safe personnel involved in products transport such as ships and use of the product or service. trucks. • Accept customers’ invitations and visits to the Company’s • Arrange meetings with local buyers to make them aware complex to exchange views and ideas with regards to working about the GPIC way of conducting business in terms of procedures and further enhance business relationship. safety, health, environment and product handling. • Extend technical support as deemed required/necessary. • Hold regular meetings with marketers, namely SABIC, PIC and customers to further streamline the entire supply chain link operation with the end users. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 108 Supply Chain for Bulk Chemical Distribution and Transportation Chemical type Name Capacity (Volume in Type of Labeling; Health & Environment m3 or weight in tonnes transporting Protection Measures transported per year*) facility Fertilizer Product 672,000 tonnes Maritime. Labeling provided. The product is not flammable. Urea The facility is equipped with necessary safety measures and proper management systems are in place Petrochemicals Product 82,500 tonnes Maritime. Labeling provided. Proper safety measures and a fire Ammonia protection and fire-fighting system have been provided. Petrochemicals Product 424,000 tonnes Maritime. Labeling provided. Proper safety measures and a fire Methanol protection and fire-fighting system have been provided. * Average of 2009, 2010 & 2011 Bulk Chemical Storage and Warehousing Facilities Chemical type Name Size/Capacity Type of Location Labeling; Health & Environment (Volume in m3 or facility Area Protection Measures weight in tonnes) Fertilizer Product 100,000 tonnes Completely Industrial Labeling provided. Proper ventilation is provided and Urea enclosed bulk complex humidity and temperature are monitored and storage facility controlled in the bulk storage. The product in not flammable. Up to date inventory of the stock on site is maintained. Petrochemicals Product Two tanks of 20,000 Completely enclosed, Industrial Labeling provided. Bund wall provided for Ammonia tonnes capacity refrigerated, complex containment, fire hydrants provided for containing each double-walled vapors. Up to date inventory of the stock on site is atmospheric pressure maintained. storage tanks Petrochemicals Product Two tanks of 20,000 Completely enclosed, Industrial Labeling provided. Bund wall provided for Methanol tonnes capacity atmospheric complex containment, fire hydrants provided for containing each pressure storage vapors and fire hazards. Nitrogen blanketing tanks with nitrogen provided over the liquid surface in the tank. Up to blanketing date inventory of the stock on site is maintained. Process List of Two warehouses of Completely enclosed Industrial Labeling provided for the containers. Fire alarm chemicals & chemicals the size 25x70m2 warehouse complex system and spillage containment is provided for the catalysts and and 6.3m height chemical warehouse. Up to date inventory of the catalysts each are used for stock on site is maintained. (Chemicals & used is storage. catalysts used in given in manufacturing of separate One warehouse is ammonia, urea, table for storing chemicals methanol and on next and the other for related Utilities page storing catalysts at GPIC) used in the process. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 109 Product Stewardship (continued) ‘Urea Fertilizer User Manual‘Published by GPIC to underline the role that can be played by industry in increasing the local production of agricultural crops and to better improve the agricultural output in the Kingdom of Bahrain.” List of chemicals and catalysts used in the process of making Ammonia, Urea, Methanol & related Utilities at GPIC. Chemical Name Composition Physical State Potassium carbonate K2CO3, 98% Solid Diethanol amine (HOCH2CH2)2NH, 93% Liquid Potassium metavanadate KVO3, V2O5 66%, K2O 33-36% Solid B-51 Antifoam Not available Liquid Potassium nitrite KNO2, 97% Solid Methyl diethanol amine (HOCH2CH2)2NHCH3, 98% Liquid Rhodorsil (416) Antifoam 100% active Polydimethyl siloxan oil compound Liquid Chlorine CL2, 99.9% Liquid Microbiocide Not available Liquid Caustic soda NaOH, 45% solution Liquid Sulphuric acid H2SO4 96% Liquid Caustic soda flakes NaOH 98% Solid Hydrazine N2H4 22% Liquid Trisodium phosphate Na3PO4 98% Solid Disodium phosphate Na2PO4 98% Solid Nalco Inhibitors Not available Liquid CC-100 Inhibitor Not available Liquid Corrosion inhibitor Corr-shield, NT4293 Not available Liquid Hydrochloric acid HCL, 30% Liquid Belgard antiscalant Not available. Liquid Sodium sulphite Na2SO3 98% Solid Calcium hypochlorite Ca(OCL)2 65% Liquid Calcium chloride CaCl2 77% Solid Sodium bicarbonate NaHCO3 99% Solid Freon Not available. Gas Urea formaldehyde Urea 25%, Formaldehyde 60% and water Liquid NALCO-8539 Not available Liquid NALCO-8514 Not available Liquid NALCO-7330 Not available Liquid KS-1 Amine solution Not available Liquid GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 110 We produce for the welfare of humanity List of chemicals and catalysts used in the process of making Ammonia, Urea, Methanol & related Utilities at GPIC. Catalyst Name Composition Physical State Mercury guard Activated carbon Solid Primary reformer catalyst NiO 9-15%, Balance 85-90% MgAl2SO4, CaAl2SO4 Solid Secondary reformer catalyst NiO 9%, MgO 25-39%, Al2O3 60-65% Solid HT shift catalyst Fe 59%, Cr 6%, Graphite 4%, Balance oxygen Solid as metallic oxides LT shift catalyst CuO 35-40%, ZnO 35-40%, Al2O3 10-15% Solid Methanator catalyst Ni 27%, balance Alumina Solid Ammonia synthesis catalyst Fe3O4 94%, Balance oxides of Ca, Al, K Solid Methanol synthesis catalyst CuO, ZnO, Al2O3 Solid Hydrogen removal catalyst Platinum 0.3%, balance Alumina Solid Zinc oxide catalyyst ZnO 99.5%, rest Al2O3 Solid Hydrogenation catalyst 2% NiO, 10 % MoO3. & balance 80-90% Al2O3 Solid GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 111 Leading Excellence Awards “During 2010-2011, GPIC was honoured with numerous awards recognizing our passionate commitment and ongoing contribution to sustainability.” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 113 Leading Excellence Awards Here are some of the global highlights 2010 • The International Safety Award from the British Safety Council • The Effective Communication Award for GPIC for the third consecutive year. Toastmasters Club. • The Chemical Sector Award from the Royal Society for the • The first Organisation in the Middle East to obtain RC Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). 14001:2008 certification for Responsible Care from DNV. • The Kingdom of Bahrain, Ministry of Labour Award for “The • The GCC Labour Ministers Council Award for localisation Outstanding Companies in Training and Human Resources of jobs. Development” First Place. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 114 2011 • The International Safety Award from the British Safety Council • Winner of the GCC Sustainable Projects of the Year Award for the fourth consecutive year. 2011 (Carbon Dioxide Recovery Plant). • The Chemical Sector Award from the Royal Society for the • The Arabia CSR Award 2011. This is an award reflecting GPIC’s Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). achievements in Corporate Social Responsibility. GPIC has won 10 awards over the past 11 years. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 115 What others say ABOUT GPIC ... “We at GPIC give paramount importance to the feedback and comments from all our stakeholders. We believe that this kind of remarkable engagement and networking with our stakeholders enables excellence and sustainability. It also keeps us well informed of what others think about GPIC and helps us in maintaining excellent international and regional relationships. It motivates us to attain further heights and successes” GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 117 What others say about GPIC Dr. Fatima Al Balooshi Human Rights and Social Development Minister Following are some of the examples of excellent communications and networking with our stakeholders, globally. “I am inspired and humbled by the huge contribution you have made to promoting health and safety within the Kingdom of “Dear Mr. Jawahery Bahrain, the GCC, within your industry and in the wider world. We All my staff join me to express our deepest thanks and gratitude are indeed privileged to have you as our Ambassador.” for the warmest reception and generous hospitality accorded to us during our visit to your company last Thursday. Our guided tour Teresa Budworth in GPIC complex and the wonderful and amazing Aromatic Plants Chief Executive, Nebosh Garden of Princess Sabeeka was memorable. We could imagine the 28 February 2012 great efforts and hard work exerted for turning such complex and Garden into an ideal and unique landmark in Sitra. … Warm congratulations and greetings to you and all your colleagues on the very beautiful garden and its environment friendly facilities.” “We would like to express our sincere thanks and appreciation for the generous financial contribution made by GPIC Shigeki Sumi towards the National Social Fund (Supporting the Aged, Childhood Ambassador of Japan Care and Rehabilitation of the Handicap). We also appreciate 11 March 2012 your outstanding efforts to serve the Kingdom of Bahrain through your continuous support to social development projects that aids the Bahraini citizens and enhance the services provided by the Ministry of Human Rights and Social Development. We also extend our thanks and appreciation to His Excellency Shaikh Isa bin Ali Al “Dear Abdulrahman Khalifa, GPIC Board Chairman and the Board of Directors.” I had a wonderful visit. Thank you for being such a wonderful Ambassador for the NSC. I can’t begin to express my gratitude to Fatima Al Balooshi you for all the many things you’ve done for us. We are very very Minister of Human Rights and Social Development lucky to have you as a member of our Board of Directors and as 30 January 2012 a partner.” Janet Froetscher President, National Safety Council, USA 12 March 2012 “Thank you for your recent contribution of BD 23,500 to inJAz Bahrain in support of the company and Be Entrepreneurial programmes, received on 10 January 2012. Your contribution is already at work, providing young people with the real-world skills they want and need, like how to manage money, how to prepare for a career and how to open and run a business... Because of your generosity, more students are receiving life-changing financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship education and the results can be profound” Hessa Bint Khalifa Al Khalifa Executive Director, inJAz Bahrain 12 January 2012 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 118 Sheikha Hessa Bint Khalifa Al Khalifa, Executive Director inJaz Bahrain GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 119 What others say about GPIC (continued) HE Shigeki Sumi planting a tree during his visit to GPIC GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 120 Because of your generosity, more students are receiving life-changing financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship education and the results can be profound.” Hessa Bint Khalifa Al Khalifa Executive Director, inJaz Bahrain “I would also like to formally congratulate you, the GPIC “The tour was well organized and highly informative on the management and all employees for inaugurating the CBT, BI importance of GPIC’s work on the national economy and beyond. I and Substation 10 Projects. I sincerely appreciate your effort in was very impressed by the careful thought and attention that have planning and executing the event in the most professional manner. gone into the designing of the plant to ensure maximum efficiency Please convey my thanks and appreciation to every member of while, at the same time, minimizing its effect on the environment. these projects’ teams, the project managers and the leadership I highly commend your ecological efforts to preserve rare plants of concerned organizations for their commitment, dedicatio n and bird species in your beautiful park where I was honoured by and hard work. I could feel the high level of enthusiasm, the the privilege of planting a palm tree in my name. GPIC’s fisheries strong loyalty and the robust drive and determination from every project is yet another proof of your environment awareness and individual who I have met during the Thursday ceremony. We, at GPIC’s role in preserving the ecosystem. I truly believe these GPIC, are very much blessed for having such sincere and capable are inspiring ways to raise awareness on the importance of employees. No doubt that these achievements and successes were protecting our environment, joining the UN’s efforts in achieving also the results of having a very capable leadership who has a the Millennium Development Goal No 7 which is Environmental clear vision and a precise road map to attain record achievements Sustainability. I also appreciate GPIC’s focus on youth and your through building a strong and capable human resources, efficient efforts in training youngsters who, inspired by your visionary processes and integrated system. mindset, will certainly become the future leading entrepreneurs in the Kingdom of Bahrain.” Yousef A Al-Zamel Deputy Chairman-GPIC and Nejib Friji Executive Vice President-Chemicals, SABIC Director UNIC, Manama 18 February 2012 29 January 2012 “I have recently read about your fantastic performance last “It was really a great day and a great tour at GPIC ground! year when you achieved a record number of working hours without Your hospitality is outstanding. Our team has got super positive any accidents. My congratulations to you and your team who are emotions so modern, so clean and so friendly. And everything is setting standards in the Industry that are an inspiration for others done with love and high professionalism. We wish the plant and to follow.” the plants (your healthy and beautiful environment) to flourish and to bring to the Kingdom of Bahrain and its people the feeling of Bryan Sauders pride for this country and for themselves.” Methanex 10 January 2012 Victor Smirnov Ambassador of the Russian Federation 30 January 2012 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 121 What others say about GPIC (continued) Ms. Sabine Taufmann Ambassador of the Republic of Germany “I want to thank you for the wonderful hospitality and support Hand In Hand We Protect the Planet you and the entire GPIC team provided during my recent visit. UNEP contributes to annual Safety, Health and The tour of your facility was most impressive and your zeal for Environment Week creating and maintaining a safety-rich environment is evident. I With the support of UNEP, Gulf Petrochemical Industries also applaud the priority you give to educational and advancement Company (GPIC) launched the annual Safety, Health and opportunities to all members of the GPIC family.” Environment Week under the slogan “Hand In Hand We Protect the Planet”. Held at GPIC’s headquarters from November 13th Gregory A. Feest 17th, the event was aimed at spreading environmental education Major General ,USAF among all sections of Bahraini society. This year, GPIC aimed to Chief of Safety focus its activities on educating communities, particularly the 20 February 2012 younger generation. Through its various events and activities conducted throughout the week, GPIC hoped to shed light on the many ways people can help preserve the environment. UNEP, which encourages private sector green initiatives, praised GPIC’s efforts to protect the environment and transform its industrial “It was indeed a pleasure for me and my team to meet your complex into a green oasis, adorned with gardens, farms, water, team and visit your excellent plant. You have indeed many reasons medicinal herbs, green areas and established gardens. GPIC, to be proud of an excellent safety record, cleanest plant that we which has supported several of UNEP’s projects in West Asia, last have ever seen and an excellent track record of performance in year inaugurated a new carbon dioxide (CO2) recycling plant. The every field recognized by various world bodies. I therefore wish to factory is the first of its kind in the region and is able to retrieve thank you and your team for this learning experience and above 450 metric tonnes per day. UNEP displayed an exhibit stand during all great hospitality. Meeting with Ms Janet CEO NSC and Ms the Safety, Health and Environment Week, attracting interest from Teresa Budworth Chief Executive Nebosh was very useful. We various officials and experts in the industry sector. are now applying for their membership. We will also attend the October NSC meeting in Orlando and look forward to meet you at UNEP in West Asia the conference.” Newsletter December 2011 Fawad Ahmed Mukhtar Chairman, Fatima Group, Pakistan 23 February 2012 “..Thank you very much for your kind reception in your impressive and successful enterprise on 25 October. Gulf Petrochemical Industries under your leadership, Excellency, is an outstanding example of the very successful diversification Bahrain stands for. Besides, I was really impressed by the exemplary role your enterprise is playing in protecting our environment” Sabine Taufmann Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany 27 October 2011 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 122 I also appreciate GPIC’s focus on youth and your efforts in training youngsters who, inspired by your visionary mindset, will certainly become the future leading entrepreneurs in the Kingdom of Bahrain.” Nejib Friji Director, UNIC, Manama GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 123 Janet Froetscher President, National Safety Council, USA GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 124 To say it simply, I am blown away by GPIC and your Safety Culture.” Ted Woodings National Safety Council, USA “…..To say it simply, I am blown away by GPIC and your “Dear Mr. Jawahery, safety culture. I am very proud and motivated to be part of your Your support and leadership throughout the Campbell vision and look forward to working with your team. After I left I endeavor have been a complete blessing to Campbell and to me. have been traveling around the US, to include CO, NM, AZ and FL. I vividly remember your bold statement at the Campbell banquet Everywhere I went I shared the story of GPIC and how you are the to ExxonMobil that their investment to Campbell had reaped at most advanced safety culture I have ever seen. I even told Disney least 10 folds of return. Honestly, I might have skipped a heart that your culture of excellence was amazing. I told Greg Hale, beat hearing you said that. At the Campbell Institute meeting, you their Chief Safety Officer, he had to come see it for himself. As I so effectively affirmed the Institute’s roles and responsibilities in explained the birds, fish and gardens he was amazed. I am excited reaching out and educating the influencers. I am humbled by your to push forward on this project, my goal is to work with you and generosity and unpretentious ways of delivering your messages. I your team to build a world class system driven by your thoughtful truly cannot imagine a more willing and able partner and mentor.” leadership.” Mei-Li Ted Woodings National Safety Council, USA National Safety Council, USA 23 January 2011 December 2011 “I just received the 76th issue of Khaleejieh, thank you! It’s “The Bahrain-Japan Business & Friendship Society so exciting to read about the many wonderful initiatives that you (BJBFS) takes the opportunity to Congratulate its Corporate GPIC are supporting. You’ve been really busy. I’m so proud of the Member – Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company (GPIC), on social conscience you have as well as your exemplary commitment its recent achievement in securing The Arabian Award for The to the environment. You’re such a great leader. GPIC and Bahrain Best Corporate Social Responsibility Practice 1st Place. GPIC are lucky to have you.” Management and Members of their hardworking Team have always been known to be dedicated to Excellence and are wished Kent McElhattan further success and many more Awards of Achievement to come. Chairman of the National Safety Council, USA Well Done.” 21 October 2010 The Bahrain-Japan Business & Friendship Society (BJBFS) Arabia CRS Network, Corporate Social Responsibility Award 15 December 2011 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 125 What others say about GPIC (continued) Yousif Al Zamel GPIC Deputy Chairman and Executive Vice President – Chemicals, Sabic, KSA “Even if I’m the last one I want to express my sincere thanks “On behalf of the PIC delegation, Mr. Majid Al Fadhli and for the warm welcome you gave to our Companies and for the Mr. Mohammad Al Mujidel, I would like to express my deep fruitful meeting we had in GPIC offices last Sunday. appreciation and thanks to your good self for your outstanding It was a real pleasure for me to meet you again after so long hospitality and support to our delegation visited your esteemed time and to be back in GPIC where we successfully completed your company from 5 to 8 of July 2011. CDR project. I had a very unique feeling during this visit after a long time As you are most probably already aware the GPIC CDR since my last visit to GPIC. I felt jealousy and very proud at the Project executed by TICB achieved (in the IPMA Project Excellence same time. Jealousy when I make a comparison, which makes my Competition in Australia) the status of Prize Winner in the big size job much harder, and very proud when I remember that I played EPC project: we would have never reached such a result without a small role in marketing the first cargos of GPIC Urea in 1998 to the perfect relations and team working we had with all your people 2004, I am also very proud that PIC owns shares in this excellent in GPIC and I want to thank you again for this amazing example of company. cooperation and partnership between Client and Contractor.” I admire your strong and professional leadership in running GPIC. I also admire your assistants’ personals from Managers and Roberto Bertocco staff for professionally executing the company objectives.” Managing Director Tecnimont SpA, Italy Salah Rashed Jasem 14 October 2011 PIC -Fertilizers Supply Chain Team Leader Analysis & Business Planning Team Leader (FSBU) 11 July 2011 “It was my great pleasure to attend your wonderful Gergaoon event on Thursday night. I listened to your speech and was amazed by GPIC’s family culture and your employees’ “This is only few words to express my sincere thanks and engagement. appreciation for the warm welcome and generous hospitality For years, I have been hearing about GPIC’s culture but extended to me during my recent visit to Bahrain. Also on the experiencing the same was a revelation! tremendous effort that was put forward to prepare for the Queen I hope that GPIC grows further on all fronts under your of Denmark’s visit. professional leadership.” The reception for Her Majesty the Queen Margrethe II was indeed planned and executed in a professional and wonderful Mahmood A. Aziz manner. Normally, such event gives the opportunity to people and Assistant General Manager organization to project to other people the way they manage their Central Processing Division-BBK business. Indeed you and your team made a strong reflection of 23 August 2011 the level of professionalism and leadership GPIC has and definitely your leadership makes the extra mile of difference. Please convey my thanks and appreciation to our colleagues in GPIC for their dedication and hard work during the past few weeks and for continuing to project GPIC’s image as a unique company in what it does.” Yousif Al Zamel GPIC Deputy Chairman and Executive Vice President – Chemicals, Sabic, KSA 8 February 2011 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 126 On behalf of the Bilateral US-Arab Chamber of Commerce, allow me to express my gratitude to you and Gulf Petrochemical Industries Co. (GPIC) for your continuing support of our business and education initiatives. Your generous participation is an integral part of our accomplishments over the years.” Aida Araissi President GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 127 What others say about GPIC (continued) The achievements of GPIC in Bahrain set an example to the rest of the world, not only in the way that it cares for the health, safety and welfare of its employees but also in how the extractive and chemical industry can work in harmony with the environment.” Nina Wrightson Chairperson, RoSPA Awards Committee & British Safety Council, UK GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 128 Nejib Friji Director UNIC visits GPIC “For me, the high point of the stay in Bahrain was the visit to “The guided tour to various plants and the presentation were the GPIC Plant. The exceptional standards being maintained are extremely informative, enlightening and impressive. Also it was a great a reflection of the dedication, motivation and commitment of the honour for me to take part in tree planting and cake cutting ceremony GPIC team. Such excellence is not possible without the dynamic, celebrating 10 years anniversary of Urea plant operation.” inspiring and caring leadership that you are providing to GPIC. “ Takeshi Kondo Lt Gen (Retd) Malik Arif Hayat Ambassador of Japan CEO and Managing Director 30 March 2008 Fauji Fertilizer Company Limited, Pakistan 11 March 2010 “Needless to say, I am very impressed by GPIC’s approach to risk management and by the standard achieved by your plant. I can well see why RoSPA felt you were worthy winners of the Sir George Earle Trophy.” “For nearly two years now, since GPIC Toastmasters was founded, the GPIC management has been very supportive of the Davis Morris activities of the Toastmasters organization in the Kingdom. This brought Chairman, The National Examination Board in Occupational forth the opportunities to many, to hone their skills in leadership and Safety and Health (NEBOSH), UK communications. The positive effect of the Toastmasters movement has provided a stage for many young Bahrainis to prepare them to participate in Bahrain’s continued progress.” “The achievements of GPIC in Bahrain set an example to the Alex Ginete, DTM rest of the world, not only in the way that it cares for the health, Division K Governor, District 79 Toastmasters safety and welfare of its employees but also in how the extractive 26 January 2010 and chemical industry can work in harmony with the environment. Many congratulations to everyone at GPIC for their commitment and contribution to protecting people and the environment and every good wish for your continued success.” Nina Wrightson Chairperson RoSPA Awards Committee & British Safety Council, UK GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 129 What others say about GPIC (continued) “I am inspired and humbled by the huge contribution you have made to promoting health and safety within the Kingdom of Bahrain, the GCC, within your industry and in the wider world. We are indeed privileged to have you as our Ambassador.” Teresa Budworth Chief Executive, Nebosh “I am amazed at the way you have transformed a “I would like to thank you and all the staff at GPIC for all the Petrochemical company in the middle of a desert into a wondrous help and assistance they gave in organizing the Nitrogen & Syngas environment where fruits, vegetables, fish, birds and people thrive Conference; this was truly overwhelming. In my opinion (and this and flourish. This is a place where nothing is impossible. It is a feeling was shared by many delegates) the Bahrain Conference triumph of human spirit. You have created an environment where was the best yet in the series of this conference.” vendors are treated like friends, employees like family and dreams are converted to reality.” John French Conference Director & Publisher Ranjit Prithviraj British Sulphur, UK Managing Director Intelligroup Asia &Europe, India “I would like to thank GPIC for the exquisite hospitality extended to our delegates during the Nitrogen 2007 conference. “I was delighted to read that GPIC won the GCC award for This visit to your Ammonia/Methanol Complex was really very being the Best Industrial Company in following Environmental impressive. Please accept my warm congratulations for the high Standards and Measures. This is a great tribute to you, GPIC and standard of quality achieved in your factory.” Bahrain. Many congratulations.” Luigi Tomasi Ambassador Jamie Bowden General Manager, Giammarco-Vetrocoke British Embassy, Italy Bahrain “Congratulations for an exemplary production facility and for “GPIC is a very impressive organization and indeed facilities; the exceptional team that is running it. Before coming to Bahrain an organization which is clearly there to serve the environment I had mentioned to my wife that we would visit the number one and its community, as well as its owners.” ammonia-urea complex in the world. Now she tells me that I forgot to mention that we would also meet the number one team Magne Seljeflot in the world that is responsible for the achievements.” Chairman, AON Limited, UK Luc Maene Director General International Fertilizer Industry Association( IFA), France GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 130 Teresa Budworth, Chief Executive, Nebosh GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 131 What others say about GPIC (continued) Mohamed H. Al-Mady Chairman, GPCA Vice Chairman and CEO, SABIC GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 132 “The generous donation to Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, as well as the previous contribution to Pathology, Pediatric oncology and Physiotherapy departments at SMC (Salmaniya Medical Complex) stems from the awareness of the distinguished company (GPIC) for development of medical services in Kingdom of Bahrain, and providing updated medical treatment and care to the public at large.” Mohammed Hussain Al Khayyat Clinical Biochemist Former Member of Parliment “My team came away from the visit with some very clear “The generous donation to Obstetrics and Gynecology impressions; firstly, the level of professionalism and commitment Department, as well as the previous contribution to Pathology, that runs through all aspects of your business from your excellent Pediatric oncology and Physiotherapy departments at SMC results to your strong environmental programmes and the (Salmaniya Medical Complex) stems from the awareness of the generous help and support you extend to the community.” distinguished company (GPIC) for development of medical services in Kingdom of Bahrain, and providing updated medical treatment Mahmood AL Soufi and care to the public at large. The great generosity from you and Chief Executive, Bahrain National Holding, GPIC will add more value as the donated books greatly contribute Kingdom of Bahrain to the development of Obstetrics and Gynecology Department, assisting health specialists in profession to gain advanced knowledge and conduct medical research.” Mohammed Hussain Al Khayyat “Thank you so much for the terrific visit to GPIC last week. I Clinical Biochemist greatly appreciated the time devoted to the visit and your and your Former Member of Parliament senior staff and the opportunity to see such a first class facility. The work you are doing on the environment is impressive.” William T Monroe Ambassador of the United States of America, “Let me start by thanking you for yet another successful Bahrain visit from GPIC to Denmark and to our head office in Lyngby. I understand from my colleagues and the GPIC delegation that many fruitful views were exchanged further cementing the excellent relationship between our two companies.” “It was a great pleasure for me to learn of you and to get a Henrick Surrow Larsen significant insight into GPIC’s VALUES. Indeed it was a very good General Manager, Middle East experience to see how professional you have organized all your Haldor Topsoe work taking into account the company’s values and identity.” Holger Tallowitz VP Active Global Support Middle East & North Africa, SAP AG, Germany GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 133 What others say about GPIC (continued) “I would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation for the outstanding success of His Majesty the King’s visit to Japan and also the exceptional reception that the Bahraini business delegation received during the various visits and at the Business Forum. I am sure I speak for everyone in the delegation when acknowledging the exemplary visit programme arrangements and the wonderful hospitality that we were all accorded during this prestigious and unique visit.” Abdulrahman Jawahery President Gulf Petrochemical Industries Co. “I am pleased to inform you that, following their recent “On behalf of the GPCA Board, it is a moment of utmost deliberations, Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents pleasure for me to announce that ICCA’s Steering Committee has (RoSPA’s) independent Occupational Health and Safety Awards recommended GPCA’s full membership to ICCA. The steering Panel have selected Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company Committee was presented with the status of the progress of all (GPIC) as one of the three contenders for this year’s Sir George member associations worldwide, and I am proud to say that GPCA Earle Trophy. is the only association amongst 54 countries worldwide, which As you know, this award, which is now in its 55th year, has exceeded the milestones set by ICCA. The recognition of GPCA is RoSPA’s most prestigious award and is made to the RoSPA reflects your dedication, commitment and hard work for which industry sector award winning organization which, in the opinion of you all deserve praise and tribute. This is definitely a significant the Panel, displays the most outstanding excellence in its overall achievement that undoubtedly reflects the professionalism and management of safety and health at work. … Please accept my excellent team work spirit of the Responsible Care Committee congratulations on reaching this important stage in the RoSPA members.” awards prpgramme.” Mohammed H. Al-Mady Tom Mullarkey, MBE Chairman, GPCA Chief Executive, RoSPA “We have experienced an exceptional event that has gone beyond the race and the symphony. Every year it is better and better and You have to be proud for being able to host in such a way similar event. It’s true that every achievement requires effort and has to be supported by heart and enthusiasm. But we have to recognize that, from your side, all comes without any additional effort, being it part of your nature and willingness ” Pietro Testa Saipem, Italy GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 134 Abdulrahman Jawahery President Gulf Petrochemical Industries Co. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 135 GRI Indicators Commitment to UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative GPIC has a passionate commitment towards sustainability and we report our sustainability performance using UNGC and GRI – defined voluntary disclosure indicators, collated through a process of internal review and external validation. Within the context of our current sustainability strategy and from the perspective of sustainable stakeholder benefit, our report shares what we perceive as unique challenges and opportunities emerging from our evolving business practices. It depicts our continuous efforts to align our business objectives with the evolving need of society, today and in the future. Aligning the Ten Principles of UNGC and GRI Compliance The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core principles in the areas of anti-corruption, human rights, labour standards and the environment which are aligned and articulated through the GRI framework and set of indicators as reproduced in the following pages: GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 137 GRI Indicators Economic Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 64-66 101 Reported GPIC is committed and engaged in exploring the opportunities related to the issue of climate change. Our climate change projects/ investments started with the installation of the urea EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 81 Partproject in 1996 and the selection of opportunities due to climate change Reported granulation technology, followed by the CDR project commissioning in 2009/2010 to further reduce GHG emissions. Phasing out of ozone depleting R-22 from our facilities is another example of our on-going initiatives. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit 96 Reported plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from 138 Reported None the government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage 138 Reported US $780 compared to local minimum wage The following factors in combination, not necessarily listed in their order of importance are considered in selecting the potential suppliers (Local suppliers are defined as Bahrain based suppliers). Suppliers’ ability to meet the requirements. Principal suppliers or original EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on 138 Reported manufacturers. locally-based suppliers Suppliers’ previous history record of performance in similar scope of supply. Suppliers who have service facilities in Bahrain. Suppliers with Bahrainisation level of manpower. Safety. Health & Environment system certifications. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of 94 Reported GPIC is an equal opportunity employer. senior management hired from the local community Our HR/recruitment policy highlights the need to tap local talent first prior to looking for alternative talent. GPIC’s senior management is 100% Bahraini. GPIC has a well-established Succession Plan and Talent Management. 2011-2020. EC8 Development and impact of infracstruture 101 Reported We inject about US $108 million investments and services provided primarily for annually into the Bahrain economy public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect 47 Reported Our Enterprise Risk Management economic impacts, including the extent of impacts covers this GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 138 Environmental Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 90/91 Reported EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 90/91 PartNIL recycled input materials Reported Energy consumption from the plants is being monitored and analysed on regular basis by engineering and a monthly report is issued in this regard. The EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source 90 Reported energy consumption is highlighted in the environmental performance summary on page 90. Currently, we do not collect data on it and EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 90 Not can’t report the numbers, but will aim to do Reported so by the next report. A diverse range of capital investment projects have served to optimise the energy used and cost benefit analysis of proposed projects fully accounts for savings through energy reduction. In April, 2011 replacement of a faulty valve EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 139 Reported actuator XV-10207 of the PSA unit enabled improvements higher recovery of waste gases to methanol reformer fuel system hence decreasing the specific energy consumption / MT of methanol produced by about 2%. The CDR plant commissioned in December 2009 has resulted in an improvement of energy efficiency of the methanol plant. A diverse range of capital investment projects have served to optimise the energy used and cost benefit analysis of proposed projects fully accounts for savings through energy reduction. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Consideration of renewable energy sources EN6 energy based products and services and Parthas been partly undertaken and a solar reductions in energy requirements as a result of 82/83 Reported water heating unit has been installed in these initiatives one of the buildings. Lighting projects to reduce the electricity load from old style lighting are being assessed. This has the potential to significantly reduce the lighting and related carbon load from across the site. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Not Currently, we do not collect data on it and and reductions achieved 82/83 Reported can’t report the numbers, but will aim to do so by the next report. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 90 Reported Refer to Environmental performance summary table. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 90 Reported None of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 90 Reported Refer to Environmental performance and reused summary table. GPIC is constructed on a reclaimed land of Location and size of land owned, leased, managed 60 hectares with a close proximity to the EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 82/83/84 Reported sea shore. Additionally we have a bird high biodiversity value outside protected areas sanctuary (4.2 hectares, fish farm 0.225 hectares and total green areas comprising of 7.62 hectares). GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 139 GRI Indicators (continued) Environmental (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level GPIC is constructed on a reclaimed land of 60 hectares with a close proximity to the sea shore. The sea water from the process is discharged back to the sea. Description of significant impacts of activities, 83 Reported As our operations are controlled and the EN12 products and services on biodiversity in discharges to sea are monitored and protected areas. analysed hence during normal operations there are no adverse effect on the biodiversity and related habitats however during catastrophic failures / loss on containments the sea water and the related habitats can be significantly affected. Bird sanctuary 4.2 hectares ,Total EN13 Habitats protected or restored 83 Reported green areas 7.62 hectares, fish farm 0.225 hectares. GPIC, being constructed on reclaimed land and its close proximity to sea shore, is aware about the hazards and risks related to ground and sea contamination. All the operations are controlled and effluents monitored and all environmental incidents are recorded. As of now, there is no formal determination of the environmental conditions EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for 140 Reported surrounding the site. However the condition managing impacts on biodiversity of the fish in the fish farm close to the plant’s sea water effluent are monitored on regular basis, counts of bird species at the bird sanctuary are undertaken on ad-hoc basis and the development of the mangrove plants visually monitored. For future, we may consider Environmental Condition Indicators (ECI’s) associated with surrounding maritime water quality and fauna and flora to bench mark the surrounding eco-system Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas 140 Reported NIL affected by operations Even though there is no requirement to report on the greenhouse gas emissions by the national regulator, however GPIC shall be establishing a formal system to quantify EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 90 Partthe greenhouse gas emissions and aim to by weight Reported do so by the next report. As an interim we have calculated the GHG emissions in tons of CO2 f from our process and reported in the environmental performance summary table on page 96 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 90 Not Currently we don’t collect data on it and by weight Reported can’t report the numbers but will aim to do so by the next report. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 90 Reported 1) 1996: GPIC’s urea plant and reductions achieved 2) 2009: CDR unit EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 90 Reported None GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 140 Environmental (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by 90 Reported Please refer to the Environmental type and weight performance summary table on page 90 for details. Please refer to the Environmental EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 90 Reported performance summary table on page 90 for details. Partially Please refer to the Environmental EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 90 Reported performance summary table on page 83/90 for details. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 90 Reported We did not have any significant loss of containment in the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and 141 Reported NIL percentage of transported waste shipped internationally GPIC is constructed on a reclaimed land of 60 hectares with a close proximity to the sea shore. The sea water from the process is discharged back to the sea. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity As our operations are controlled and the EN25 value of water bodies and related habitats 141 Reported discharges to sea are monitored and significantly affected by the reporting organizations analysed hence during normal operations discharge of water and runoff there are no adverse effect on the biodiversity and related habitats however during catastrophic failures / loss on containments the sea water and the related habitats can be significantly affected. 1) GPIC has established a number of local initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of its products. One such example is where the company has invested in measures to reduce CO2 emissions by setting up a carbon dioxide recovery unit. 2) Moreover, the company has also set up Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of a fish farm, herbal garden, and bird EN26 products and services and extent of impact 83-86 Reported sanctuary at the complex. mitigation 3) To reduce noise pollution we are upgrading/ replacing silencers on various vents and have recently installed a silencer on an instrument air vent in 2011 with improved benefits. 4) A urea plant ammonia flare project is in progress that will further mitigate the impact of ammonia venting in case of plant upsets. All of our three products are loaded and exported through bulk carriers, however some percentage (about 1200 MT annually) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 141 Reported of our urea product is sold to local materials that are reclaimed consumers as bagged urea in 50 kg bags. We do not reclaim the packaging material of the urea sold in bags. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 141 GRI Indicators (continued) Environmental (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level Monetary value of significant fines and total number EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 142 Reported NIL environmental laws and regulations GPIC has not yet undertaken a review of the complete transport related impacts of their operations including that from supply delivery, travel to and from work, and that of product freight transport i.e shipping. There are services available for operational staff to obtain shared bus services to work Significant environmental impacts of transporting – organized by GPIC. The site also deploys EN29 products and other goods and materials used for 142 Reported the use of bicycles for travelling around the organization’s operations and transporting between facilities. members of the workforce GPIC is aware of the importance of “ Green Transport” as it is an important component of an organisation’s overall environmental impact. A complete review of the uses of transport relating to the supply, operations and transport of end products to the market place will be carried out. 1) We have spent over US $2 million on EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and 84/85 Reported environmental projects during the past investments by type three years. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 142 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level G3.1: LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 99/100 Reported contract and region broken down by gender Total number and rate of new employee hires and 99 Reported Attrition: 2011 …1.2% G3.1: LA2 employee turnover by age group, gender and region 2010 …2.4% 2009 …2.8% Benefits provided to full-time employees that are G3.1: LA3 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 96 Reported by significant locations of operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 96 Reported bargaining agreements 1) Notices as specified in relevant Minimum notice period (s) regarding significant applicable laws LA5 operational changes, including whether it is 143 Reported 2) Employer/employee contract specified in collective agreements agreements clearly highlight the notice periods related to resignation or termination of contracts. Percentage of total workforce represented in LA6 formal joint management-worker health and safety 143 Reported 100% of work force is represented through committees that help monitor and advise on Labour Union and Committees. occupational health and safety programs No LTA in 2010/ 2011, and +14 million man hours of safe work without an LTA. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Our concern and focus remains to have G3.1: LA7 absenteeism and total number of work-related 74-76 Reported a zero harm workplace. 23 minor injuries in fatalities by region and gender 2010 and 15 in 2011. Absenteeism (sick leave days) due to sickness has decreased from 5959 to 4729. Numerous programs are in place to ensure the wellness of our employees and their families, including lectures, campaigns and preventive measures. Education, training, counseling, prevention and Examples include: LA8 risk-control programmes in place to assist 74 Reported 1) Periodic annual/ biennial health checks workforce members, their families or community including blood samples, ECG, members regarding serious diseases Audiometry 2) Breast cancer screening and awareness. 3) Obesity management 4) Antismoking program and campaign. etc. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 143 GRI Indicators (continued) Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level Labour Union members are part of the Company’s top tier committees such as SHE council, Safety committee, LA9 Health and safety topics covered in format 39,95 Reported Environment and Health Committees etc. agreements with trade unions and all Safety and Health related topics are discussed during regular committee meetings. G3.1: LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 98 Reported 23,148 training hours in 2010 and 20,287 by gender, and by employee category hours in 2011. Our approach to training and development of our people is crafted in such a way that it not only develops their job related technical skills but also develops them to be successful corporate citizens. Training to develop: Supervisory Skills Programmes for skills management and lifelong Leadership Skills LA11 learning that support the continued employability 94 Reported Six Sigma trainings of employees and assist them in managing SAP Competency based Performance career endings Management & Appraisal Systems Classroom Training Other behavioral interventions Some further examples include: • E-Learning, • Toastmasters • Facilitating higher education Percentage of employees receiving regular 100% of employees are part of G3.1: LA12 performance and career development reviews, 94 Reported PMS (Performance management system) by gender In the governance bodies 1) We do not have any female employees 2) We do not have any minority group Composition of governance bodies and breakdown representation LA13 of employees per category according to gender, 99/100 Reported 3) Most of the 9 members are above the age group, minority group membership and other age of 50 indicators of diversity. The breakdown of our employees is highlighted in page 97/98 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Not G3.1: LA14 to men by employee category, by significant 144 Reported Distinction based on talent and not gender location and operations Maternity leave, women are entitled for a G3.1: LA15 Return to work and retention rates after 144 Reported maximum of 45 days full pay leave and for parental leave, by gender suckling one hour each day for a maximum of 2 years. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 144 Social: Human Rights Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level Percentage and total number of significant G3.1 HR1 investment agreements that includes clauses 145 Reported NIL incorporating human rights concerns or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors G3.1 HR2 that have undergone human rights screening 145 Reported NIL and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and HR3 procedures concerning aspects of human rights 145 Reported NIL that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G3.1 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 145 Reported None actions taken Holding of fair and free elections of the Operations and significant suppliers identified in Labour Union in 2011 is one of the G3.1 HR5 which the right to exercise freedom of association 96 Not measures taken by the Company in the and collective barganing may be at significant Reported reporting period intended to support rights risk and actions taken to support these rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Operations and significant suppliers identified as G3.1 HR6 having significant risk for incidents of child labour 94 PartOur HR policy clearly describes the and measures taken to contribute to the Reported minimum age of recruitment as 18 Years. elimination of child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as The Bahrain labour law, relevant legislation G3.1 HR7 having significant risk for incidents of forced or 145 Reported and our HR policy, and the employee compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to contracts and job description does not the elimination of forced or compulsory labour allow forced labour. Percentage of security personnel trained in the 100% of our security personnel are trained. HR8 organization’s policies or procedures concerning 145 Reported a) In-house training aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations b) Ministry of interior training c) Additional external training/courses HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving 145 Reported None rights of indigenous people and actions taken Our HR policies and procedures are based on the Bahrain Labour law and related legislations that also covers aspects related Percentage and total number of operations that G3.1 HR10 have been subject to human rights reviews and / 145 Reported to human rights.. As part of our compliance or impact assessments to RC -14001 the applicable Bahrain legislation and compliance relevant to our operations is available on our intranet and is regularly audited. One grievance filed and resolved Number of grievances related to human rights We have a well-established employee G3.1 HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal 145 Reported grievance handling procedure. grievance mechanism SOP-HRS-00-10 Industrial Relations GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 145 GRI Indicators (continued) Social: Society Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level 1) Environmental aspects/impacts study and action plans are part of our ISO 14001 & RC 14001 compliance requirements. Percentage of operations with implemented local 2) Safety induction is mandatory for visitors G3.1 SO1 community engagement, impact assessments 83-86 Partially also. and development programmes Reported 3) As part of community outreach environment awareness, lectures are imparted to school children. 4) Industrial visits are arranged for school children. 100% Our financial audits, both internal and external across the organization, ensure that no financial corruption is taking place. Percentage and total number of business Our Enterprise Risk Management also SO2 units analyzed for risks related to corruption 47-27 Reported covers the risk of a major fraud. Our Audit, Finance and Risk Committee along with an external audit, reviews our financial statements and legal/regulatory compliance on quarterly/yearly basis. 100% As part of the recruitment, a new employee is given a form and information booklet on company’s code of ethics. A refresher SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s 146 Reported programme on the same is being arranged anti-corruption policies and procedures by the company for its employees 2012 and beyond. Moreover regular refreshers are given on company’s core values. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 146 Reported No incident of corruption was reported during the period 2010-2011 Our Company plays an active role in policy development through various governmental and non-governmental SO5 Public policy positions and participation in 41,42,43 Reported organisations and forums. public policy development and lobbying 1) President is the member of Shura council and other memberships are highlighted under the section memberships. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to SO6 political parties, politicians and related institutions 146 Reported NIL by country Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive SO7 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and 146 Reported NIL their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number SO8 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 146 Reported None laws and regulations GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 146 Social: Society (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level Our plants are designed, operated and managed in such a way that they do not pose any risk to the local communities during normal operation. However in G3.1 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual 80-86 Reported case of a catastrophic failure, resulting negative impacts on local communities in uncontrolled release of chemicals a potential of significant negative impact does exist both to the marine life and the local communities. 1) We have robust plant operating and maintaining procedures and systems that are used by our competent workforce thus ensuring Responsible and safe operation. 2) We closely monitor our effluents and emissions to ensure they are in compliance to the local legislation. 3) We invest heavily in maintaining our plants reliability to ensure business Prevention and mitigation measures implemented continuity in a safe and reliable way. G3.1 SO10 in operations with significant potential or actual 80-86 Reported 4) We continuously review our potential negative impacts on local communities risks to the communities through the enterprise risk management and our management systems such as ISO-14001 and the Responsible care RC 14001 5) We are continuously audited both internally and externally to ensure compliance. (Please refer to the section on Environmental impact and business excellence best practices.) Social: Product Responsibility Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level All GPIC products are covered by and assessed for compliance with the Life cycle stages in which health and safety procedures and process below. 1. Sourcing impacts of products and services are of raw materials 2. Manufacturing and PR1 assessed for improvement and percentage 108/109 Reported production 3. Storage distribution and of significant products and services supply 4. Use of product (UREA) by local categories subject to such procedures customers. MSDS Provided to Customers for local urea handling. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with PR2 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during 146 Reported None their life cycle, by type of outcomes GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 147 GRI Indicators (continued) Social: Product Responsibility (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level GPIC’s products and services related to the supply of fertilizers and chemicals are regulated by national and internal codes. GPIC production sites are certified to ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) and OHSAS 18001 (Health & Safety Management) and Responsible Care RC 14001. Registration with REACH: Type of product and service information Partially Moreover, all of GPIC’s products PR3 required by procedures and percentage of 108/109 Reported (UREA REG# 01-2119463277-33-0095 & significant products and services subject METHANOL REG#01-2119433307-44-0005) to such information requirements. are in compliance with REACH, as is also the case for GPIC procedures for product and service information and labeling, particularly with regard to (i) substances that might produce an environmental or social impact, (ii) the disposal of the product and environmental social impacts, and (iii) the safe use of the product or service. GPIC has not identified any material non compliance with regulations or voluntary Total number of incidents of non-compliance codes concerning product and service PR4 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 108/109 Reported information and labeling. Our Customer product and service information and labeling by Complaints form provides us with feedback. type of outcomes Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated. The GPIC system for monitoring and reviewing customer satisfaction is conducted through our marketing partners, who also happen to be our shareholders. Practices related to customer satisfaction The customer satisfaction surveys are done PR5 including results of surveys measuring customer 108/109 Reported on an annual basis by SABIC and every two satisfaction years by PIC for the products sold from not only their own plants/affiliates, but also GPIC. These answers are later analyzed and results are taken into account in evaluating measures to improve satisfaction. GPIC adheres to the EU REACH regulation The EU REACH Regulation targets improved Programmes for adherence to laws, standards control and knowledge of chemical PR6 and voluntary codes related to marketing 108/109 Reported substances to help safeguard human health communications including advertising promotion and the environment. It requires and sponsorship classification, testing and registration of all substances in the European chemical industry, During 2011, GPIC has identified no incidents of non-compliance with Total number of incidents of non-compliance regulations or voluntary codes concerning with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including PR7 marketing communications including advertising, 148 Reported advertising, promotion and sponsorship. promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes Our Customer Complaints form provides us with feedback. Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 148 Social: Product Responsibility (continued) Performance Description Page Reporting Remarks Indicator Level In 2010-2011, GPIC identified no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints or losses of customer data. Our Customer PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and 149 Reported complaints form provides us with feedback. losses of customer data Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated In 2010-2011, GPIC was not subject to any fines for non-compliance with laws or Monetary value of significant fines for nonregulations concerning the provision and PR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning 149 Reported use of products and services. Our Customer the provision and use of products and services Complaints form provides us with feedback. Moreover, quarterly coordination meetings with Marketers keep us updated. Standard Disclosures: Profile Disclosures 1 Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure Chairman’s message 12/13 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision makers Managing Director’s of the organization message 14/15 President’s message 16/17 GPIC ‘s achievements, challenges and goals / 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Enterprise Risk 1/47/31 Management / Sustainability strategy 2 Organizational Profile Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure Gulf Petrochemical 2.1 Name of the Organization Organizational Profile 19,20 Industries Company (GPIC) Bahrain We are a Bahrain based 1) Organizational profile, 19,20 petrochemical and fertilizer 2.2 Primary brands, products and/ or services 2) GPIC Overview company producing 1700 MT/D Urea, 1200 MT/D Ammonia & 1200 MT/D Methanol. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Sustainability 31 framework chart 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Organizational profile/ 19,20 Sitra, Kingdom of Bahrain GPIC overview GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 149 GRI Indicators (continued) 2 Organizational Profile (continued) Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure Our facilities and offices are in Bahrain, our share holders include Nogaholding, (Bahrain), Sabic (KSA), 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Organizational profle 20 PIC (Kuwait) and our operates marketing is done by Sabic & PIC. Our key markets include USA, China, India, South Korea, Australia GPIC is an equal partnership between the Government of Bahrain (Nogaholding), SABIC (Saudi Arabia) and PIC (Kuwait). Each 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Organizational profle 20 shareholder nominates 3 Directors (total 9 non-executive Directors) and letters of appointment are issued by the respective shareholders upon nomination 2.7 Markets served Exports data 70/73 Key markets are USA, India, China & South Korea. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization GPIC overview 19 Medium Manufacturing complex with plants, Ammonia, Urea, Methanol and utilities Total products produced 2010 1,475,892 MT 2011 1,575,018 MT Total capitalisation US$159 million, (100% equity) There are three main changes. Organizational structure changes. The CEO of the company is the President General Manager of Special Projects is a new position in 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 150 the organization, to look after the GPIC 2 Project and other projects related to our Strategic plan 2020. The new CDR unit was constructed/commissioned in December 2009 and performance test done in 2010. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Leading excellence 114/115 Key awards during (awards) 2010-2011 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 150 3 Report Parameters Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Introduction 9 2009 Sustainability Report was our first sustainability report, 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Introduction 9 however was not as per GRI guidelines. The current report 2010-2011 is first GPIC report following GRI guidelines. 3.3 Reporting cycle Introduction 9 Biennial Mr Fadhel Al Ansari 3.4 Contact point for questions Our approach to (GPIC General Manager reporting 149 Manufacturing) E mail address: GMM@gpic.net 3.5 Process for defining report content Our approach to 149 reporting 3.6 Boundary of the report Our approach to 149 reporting 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Our approach to 149 boundary of the report reporting 3.8 Basis for reporting Introduction 9 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Our approach to 149 of calculations reporting 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements NA of information 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Introduction 9 This is our first report following GRI guidelines. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard GRI Table 136-154 No sector supplement disclosures I the report indicators set for Petrochemical and Fertiliser Industry. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 151 No external assurance for this external assurance for the report report but we aim for one for our next report. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 151 GRI Indicators (continued) 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagements Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Corporate governance / Sustainability framework 24-31 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Corporate governance 152 All the nine directors are body is also an Executive Officer non-executive directors. The number of members of the highest governance All the nine directors are non4.3 body that are independent and /or Corporate governance 152 executive directors and there non-Executive members are no independent directors As per the Articles of Association, the Secretary of 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations or Corporate governance 22-26 the Board is responsible to direction to the highest governance body facilitate effective communication amongst all BOD/Shareholders. Significant portion of officers’ remuneration is linked to company and individual performance, Key performance indicators are in place to support the evaluation of key Management personnel. 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the Corporate governance 22-26 Performance-based incentive organization’s performance plans approved by shareholders. The performance-based incentives (Bonus and increments) are approved by the BOD, nominated by the Shareholders. As a result of GPIC corporate governance gap analysis against the Bahrain corporate governance code March 2011 carried out by KPMG, GPIC has 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest Corporate governance / 22-26 to prepare a policy on conflict are avoided code of conduct of interests and register of interests at the Board level whereas for the employees the code of conduct is available. The shareholders nominate a mix of qualified personnel i.e. one each from Technical. Legal, Finance and Marketing. Process for determining the qualifications and Key performance indicators 4.7 expertise of the members of the highest Corporate governance 22-26 are in place to support the governance body evaluation of key Management personnel. Succession plan for the President (CEO) is in place and an annual review is being carried out by GPIC Internally developed statements of mission or Corporate values / code The Company has a clear 4.8 values, codes of conduct and principles of conduct / corporate 23 Vision, mission and values governance and sustainability is strongly embedded in the Company’s mission statement. Procedures of the highest governance body for Audit / finance / risk 4.9 overseeing the organizations identification and Corporate governance 22-26 committee charter management of performance GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 152 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagements (continued) Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure In the AGM, reference to Board evaluation is made, however, Board performance assessment framework has yet to be developed. As per the Management of GPIC, Board Processes for evaluating the highest governance performance is being 4.10 body’s own performance, particularly with Corporate governance 22-26 evaluated by the respective respect to economic, environmental and social shareholders. performance. A performance assessment framework is being developed to support effective evaluation of the Board and Board Committee members. (KPMG gap analysis requirement) A comprehensive regime of 4.11 Explanation of the organizations precautionary Corporate governance, 47 internal and external auditing approach or principle ERM including enterprise risk management GPIC Corporate governance is in line with the Articles of Association. We follow/comply to all the applicable Bahrain Legislation and regulations. We maintain a register of all the applicable Bahrain laws and our compliance. Laws include: Externally developed charters, principles or other 1) Labour law for Private 4.12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes Corporate governance 22-26 Sector. or endorses 2) Primary Health Care 3) Environmental standards. 4) Joint Union/Employer Committees etc etc. 5) We adhere to the standards of the management systems for which we are certified PAS 99, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001, RC 14001, ISO 27001 With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards knowledge sharing and 4.13 Memberships in associations Memberships 41-43 professional networking, we participate in several organizations at a national, regional and international level. We have identified 9 stakeholder groups as our key stakeholders. List of stakeholder groups engaged by 1) Shareholders 2) Customers stakeholder groups as our key Stakeholder engagement 33 3) Local communities 4.14 the organization 4) Employees 5) Government and regulators 6) Suppliers and vendors 7) Media 8) Banks 9) NGOs 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder engagement 33/34 with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement 33-36 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 153 GRI Indicators (continued) 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagements (continued) Profile Description Cross-Reference Page Remarks Disclosure Under stakeholders engagement chapter: Topics of interest and examples of engagement and Stakeholder feedback: We value our stakeholders feedback and consider it an important aspect of our 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised sustainability engagement. through stakeholder engagement and how the Stakeholder engagement 33-36 The examples of engagement organization has responded highlighted against each category of our stakeholder(s) also indicate the various modes through which we seek feedback from them. The feedback from our stakeholders is taken up seriously and is evaluated and concerns addressed . UN Global Compact Principle Description Category Relevant GRI Indicators Businesses should support and respect the EC 5, LA 4, LA 6-9, LA 13-14 1 protection of internationally proclaimed HR 1-9, SO 5, PR 1-2, PR 8 human rights Human Rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in HR 9, SO 5 human rights abuses Businesses should uphold the freedom of LA 4-5, HR 1-3, HR 5 3 association and the effective recognition of the SO 5 right to collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and HR 1-3, HR 7, SO 5 compulsory labor Labor Standards 5 The effective abolition of child labor HR 1-3, HR 6, SO 5 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect EC 7, LA 2, LA 13-14 of employment and occupation HR 1-4, SO 5 7 Businesses should support a precautionary EC 2, EN 18, EN 26 approach to environmental challenges EN 30, SO 5 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment EN 1-30, SO 5, PR 3-4 environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion EN 2, EN 5-7, EN 10 of environmentally friendly technologies EN 18, EN 26-27, EN 30, SO 5 10 Businesses should work against corruption Anti-corruption SO 2-6 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 154 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 One of GPIC’s walkways 155 Our Approach to Reporting Our initial sustainability report “30 years of excellence,” published 1) The Company’s mission and core values. Our aspects in 2009, was issued to commemorate our 30th anniversary since are linked to our corporate objectives which are in turn inception. As a way to further enhance our transparency and aligned with the Company’s prioritized risks covered in the diligence in our approach to monitor, measure and report on our enterprise risk management. The executive management economic, environmental and social performance, we have taken and the middle management are actively involved during an initiative to align our sustainability reporting with the Global the process of objectives setting at both the corporate and Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 sustainability reporting guidelines. departmental level. This report also includes information on the various 2) Many of the concerns raised from expert communities, corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives we such as the representative auditors of international standard have invested in the financial years 2010 and 2011 (period ending organisations, industry or sector based associations and December 31, 2011). committees, and representatives from social media and local This report is aimed at our shareholders, employees, community. governmental and non-governmental organizations and other 3) Stakeholders inclusiveness in term of reporting the parties or individuals with a working interest in GPIC. most relevant indicators covering most of their key interests In preparing the report we have gone through the following and concerns. While doing this, we ensure that reporting cycles: on common aspects does not come in conflict with other stakeholders’ interest(s). This concept is also extended to • GRI Reporting team leader attended a workshop on the local and international media, to ensure GPIC endeavors Sustainability GRI reporting. are presented transparently to reach and meet interests of • A working team was formed to prepare the sustainability various sectors within the stakeholders group. report for 2010-2011. 4) The key sustainability materiality aspects of GPIC are • All relevant section heads were briefed about GRI reporting detailed in our sustainability strategy section and summarized requirements in a kick-off meeting. as below: • A brainstorming session was conducted by relevant sections 3.1 Economic : heads to identify and agree on our key stakeholders. 3.1.1 Profitability 3.1.2 Contributing towards Bahrain’s economic needs • Information was collated from relevant sections related to the GRI 3.1 Performance indicators. 3.2 Business Process Excellence: 3.2.1 Business Continuity • KPMG Consultancy were engaged to assist us in preparing 3.2.2 Reliability, safety and efficiency the report, including the review of draft write ups. 3.3 Growth: • In parallel with the report preparation, a professional designer 3.3.1 Growth to add value to shareholders and to remain and publisher was also engaged. competitive and sustainable • Diverse materiality processes were observed to ensure we 3.4 Human resources: only reported on those indicators (GRI3.1) that are relevant to 3.4.1 Ability to attract, recruit, develop and retain the our business. highest quality of human talent • The boundaries were well defined as all our business 3.4.2 Develop our local manpower facilities are in Bahrain and our product marketing is done by 3.4.3 Women Empowerment and recruitment of women Sabic and PIC. The report boundary covers our facilities and workforce in industry operations covering our manufacturing and export facilities. 3.5 Safety, Health and Environment: As the marketing of products is done by our shareholders, 3.5.1 Safety of our employees, contractors and host therefore we do not have a direct link with our customers. communities • Data collection for the relevant GRI 3.1 indicators was 3.5.2 Environmental care and stewardship provided by the concerned sections of our business . The 3.5.3 Global climate change, Energy conservation and information was verified by the concerned professionals improving the carbon footprint during the review phase of the report. Most of the data was 3.6 Community: already available within the company as part of our regular 3.6.1 Community care data collection, monitoring and reporting process for our day 3.7 Corporate Social Responsibility to day business. 3.7.1 Social investments This is the first year that GPIC’s Sustainability Report 2010-2011 5) Stakeholders priorities: has been prepared, assessed and reported against the GRI G3.1 We give paramount importance to stakeholders views and guidelines. We will continue to refine our sustainability reporting feedback on selecting aspects that are material along and will work to further enhance our commitment, targeting full with selection of relevant indicators. The chapters on compliance with GRI report ‘A’ level in future years. The contact “stakeholders engagement” and “what others say about point for questions related to this report is Mr Fadhel Al Ansari GPIC” provides several examples of this: (General Manager Manufacturing – GPIC), e-mail GMM@gpic.net For example: In compliance to the legislation from Materiality Process: the national environmental regulators we provide data of our We observed diverse materiality processes to ensure our emissions and effluents to the regulators. (refer to page 86). reported indicators are having significant impact on the At the international arena, we also take care of the economic, environmental and social aspects and are mostly priorities of our partners such as the National Safety Council. relevant to our business. (refer to page 122) and in collaboration with NSC, USA we This covers both; the importance of our organizations impacts are planning to carry out a company -wide survey on our and the priorities of stakeholders. We have tried to provide a organisational climate in 2012 which will be based on the feed balanced representation of material issues based on internal and -back from all the employees. external feedback and factors concerning GPIC’s sustainability We address the needs of our local community through our performance. Therefore, GPIC business principles are based on financial contributions to support education in Bahrain by the triple bottom line approach and hence forms the basis of our aligning with institutions in Bahrain such as inJAz, Bahrain sustainability reporting, which is materialised through: Polytechnic, University of Bahrain (refer to page 118), So on GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 and so forth. 157 Glossary of Terms AFA Arab Fertilizer Association. API American Petroleum Institute. CDR Carbon Dioxide Recovery. CEO Chief Executive Officer. CO2 Carbon Dioxide. CSR Corporate Social Responsibility. CUI Corrosion Under Insulation. ERM Enterprise Risk Management. EWA Electricity and Water Authority. GHG Greenhouse Gas. GJ Gigajoule. GPCA Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association. GPIC Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company. GRI Global Reporting Initiative. IFA International Fertilizer Association. IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association. ISO International Organisation for Standardisation. ITB Invitation to Bid. KSA Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. LTA Lost Time Accident. MOC Management of Change. MT Metric Tonne. NGO Non–Governmental Organization. Nogaholding Oil and Gas Holding Company (Bahrain). NSC National Safety Council, USA. OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. PHA Preocess Hazard Assessment. PIC Petrochemicals Industries Company. PM Proventative Maintenance. PMS Performance Management System. ppb Parts Per Billion. ppm Parts Per Million. PSSR Pre-startup Safety Review. RBI Risk Based Inspection. RCFA Root Cause Failure Analysis. RCM Reliability Centred Maintenance. REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals. RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, UK. SABIC Saudi Basic Industries Corporation. SHE Safety, Health, Environment. UNEP United Nations Environment Programme. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 159 GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 GPIC Sponsored Bahrain Vertical Garden 160 Further Information: To know more about GPIC please visit our website at www.gpic.com Contact details Your feedback is important to us. You can e-mail the Sustainability Reporting team at gpic@gpic.com or send us feedback on line at www.gpic.com. You can also telephone +973 17 731777 or write to Sustainability Report at: GPIC PO Box 26730 Kingdom of Bahrain. GPIC Sustainability Report 2010 2011 161
