SUSTAINABLE GOLD TO BE THE LEADING MINING COMPANY To create value for our shareholders, our employees and our business and social partners through safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing our products. Our primary focus is gold and we will pursue value creating opportunities in other minerals where we can leverage our existing assets, skills and experience to enhance the delivery of value. Safety is our first value. We are accountable for our actions and undertake to deliver on our We place people first and correspondingly put the highest commitments. priority on safe and healthy practices and systems of work. We are responsible for seeking out new and innovative ways to We are focused on delivering results and we do what we say ensure that our workplaces are free of occupational injury and we will do. We accept responsibility and hold ourselves illness. We live each day for each other and use our collective accountable for our work, our behaviour, our ethics and our commitment, talents, resources and systems to deliver on our actions. We aim to deliver high performance outcomes and most important commitment ... to care. undertake to deliver on our commitments to our colleagues, business and social partners, and our investors. We treat each other with dignity and respect. The communities and societies in which we operate will be better off for We believe that individuals who are treated with respect and AngloGold Ashanti having been there. who are entrusted to take responsibility respond by giving their best. We seek to preserve people's dignity, their sense of We uphold and promote fundamental human rights where we self-worth in all our interactions, respecting them for who they do business. We contribute to building productive, respectful are and valuing the unique contribution that they can make to and mutually beneficial partnerships in the communities in our business success. We are honest with ourselves and which we operate. We aim to leave host communities with a others, and we deal ethically with all of our business and sustainable future. social partners. We respect the environment. We value diversity. We are committed to continually improving our processes in We aim to be a global leader with the right people for the right order to prevent pollution, minimise waste, increase our jobs. We promote inclusion and team work, deriving benefit carbon efficiency and make efficient use of natural resources. from the rich diversity of the cultures, ideas, experiences and We will develop innovative solutions to mitigate environmental skills that each employee brings to the business. and climate risks. Introduction Our approach to reporting P2 Scope and purpose of this report P3 Sustainability performance summary P4 Corporate profile P8 Context and strategy Business strategy P11 CEO discussion P12 Our sustainability journey P16 Regional sustainability strategies South Africa region P20 Continental Africa region P22 Americas region P24 Australasia region P25 Life cycle sustainability strategies Greenfield exploration P27 Mine closure and rehabilitation P27 Global priorities Creating sustainable economic benefits P28 and progress Community relations P30 Country focus – Guinea P31 Country focus – South Africa P33 Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) P35 Security strategy P37 Operating with respect for human rights P41 Safety and health P42 Environmental and natural resource management P48 Country focus – Colombia P53 Securing our skills pipeline P55 Responsible gold P56 Review processes Internal assurance P57 External assurance P57 Commentary from the sustainability review panel P57 External assurance statement P60 Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this document, including, without limitation, those concerning the economic outlook for the gold mining industry, expectations regarding gold prices, production, cash costs and other operating results, return on shareholders’ equity, productivity improvements, growth prospects and outlook of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, individually or in the aggregate, including the completion and commencement of commercial operations of certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s exploration and production projects and completion of acquisitions and dispositions, AngloGold Ashanti’s liquidity and capital resources and capital expenditure, and the outcome and consequence of any potential or pending litigation or regulatory proceedings, are forward-looking statements regarding AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, economic performance and financial condition. Although AngloGold Ashanti believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, amongst other factors, changes in economic and market conditions, success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, fluctuations in gold prices and exchange rates, and business and operational risk management. For a discussion of such risk factors, refer to the section titled “Risk management and risk factors” in the annual financial statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of the annual financial statements or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except to the extent required by applicable law. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to AngloGold Ashanti or any person acting on its behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements herein. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 P1 Our approach to reporting AngloGold Ashanti seeks to report on sustainability Our sustainability reporting is compiled using a number of performance in an integrated and holistic way, taking into global sustainability reporting guidelines, principally the G3 account a broad range of stakeholder requirements and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the current best practice. Our reporting is guided by the South Sustainable Development Framework of the International African King Code on Corporate Governance 2009 (King III), Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the principles of the which became effective on 1 March 2010, and requires United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) to issue an integrated report covering financial and All reports are available online at www.aga-reports.com. non-financial items. Printed reports can be requested via the AngloGold Ashanti website or from sustainabilityreview@anglogoldashanti.com. AngloGold Ashanti issued its first Integrated Report for the year ended 31 December 2011. The Integrated Report will Please note the following: unless otherwise stated, $ refers to US dollars serve as the company’s primary report and will be throughout this report; Moz refers to millions of troy ounces; t refers to metric augmented by more detailed reports, including: tonnes; oz/TEC refers to gold production per total employees costed; • this Sustainability Report and supplementary sustainability data; rounding may result in computational discrepancies; locations on maps are for indication purposes only; all data contained in this Sustainability Report • the Annual Financial Statements; and and supplementary data is actual and not estimated. This report updates • the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Report. information in our previous report dated 11 March 2011. Supplementary data IR Annual Integrated Report 2011 SR Sustainability Report 2011 Additional information and data can be found at: www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability and by accessing the online report at: FS Annual Financial Statements 2011 www.aga-reports.com and using the click through menus on the relevant pages of the report RR Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Report 2011 AngloGold Ashanti’s annual reports available at www.aga-reports.com ANNUAL NOTICE OF INTEGRATED ANNUAL GENERAL REPORT 2011 MEETING 2011 PURE GOLD PURE GOLD (Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa) • Registration number 1944/017354/06 • ISIN: ZAE000043485 • JSE Share code: ANG (“AngloGold Ashanti” or “the company”) MINERAL ANNUAL RESOURCE FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY AND ORE RESERVE STATEMENTS 2011 REPORT 2011 REPORT 2011 PURE GOLD SUSTAINABLE GOLD PURE GOLD P2 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Scope and purpose of this report This group-level Sustainability Report is a summary document ventures and subsidiary companies managed by AngloGold which aims to cover the most significant sustainability issues Ashanti. It therefore excludes data on the Morila mine in Mali for the business and its stakeholders during the financial year and the Kibali project in the DRC, both of which are managed ended 31 December 2011. It is designed to be read together by Randgold Resources. It also excludes data on First with our other public reports, our online sustainability data and Uranium, a gold and uranium producer in South Africa in other sustainability information presented on our website at which AngloGold Ashanti acquired a non-controlling www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability. shareholding in 2011. The content of this report has been selected on the basis of a In this report, we have presented a picture of how the key process, described below, that includes input from various sustainability issues interlink in our various regional and internal and external sources and takes into account issues operating contexts. We believe that focusing on these linkages raised in stakeholder interactions during the year and an will enable us to develop systemic and holistic solutions and assessment of business priorities and key business risks. strategies to underpin improved sustainability performance. Country-focused case studies give a more detailed Sustainability data presented in this report and on our presentation of the issues, the linkages between them and the website covers all operations, exploration projects, joint strategies that have been developed in response. Our process for developing responsible gold have been a factor in raising the profile of report content this issue in our business and reporting. This information is available at www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability. 1 2. Compare to business priorities and risks. We cross reference the issues raised by stakeholders with the areas of Obtain inputs from stakeholder business performance that have been identified as significant engagement by the business: the six delivery targets of the business SR 5 processes 2 page 11, the key themes of our sustainable development framework SR pages 12 to 15 and the most significant risks Define report Compare to that are identified in our group-wide risk register in our content and business priorities Integrated Report. IR structure and risks 3. Review media, peer reports and commentary on previous reports made by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), together with other assessments of our reporting. Through this review 4 3 we capture any additional or emerging issues that have not arisen in steps one and two of this process. For example, our Consultation with Review media 2011 media review highlighted that stakeholder engagement sustainability and peer reports review panel was the issue most frequently raised in the media as an area requiring improvement by the mining industry. 4. Panel consultation. Prior to and during our reporting cycle we consult with our sustainability review panel, an independent 1. Obtain inputs from stakeholder engagement processes. advisory group, to provide input on our reporting. Their We gather information on the issues covered in the various commentary is published in this report as well as a description engagement processes that have taken place throughout of their mandate. SR pages 57 to 58 the year, focusing on aspects raised frequently by core groups – employees, both directly and through organised 5. Define report content and structure. We develop labour representatives, shareholders, communities, the structure and content of our report on the basis of the governments (including regulatory bodies), investors, issues identified through this process. Feedback on our organised labour and media. In addition to these groups, reporting is welcomed as it assists us in better defining the others have indirectly influenced the content of this report. content of future reports. This can be submitted to For example, the concerns of consumers in relation to sustainabilityreview@anglogoldashanti.com. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Scope and purpose of this report P3 Sustainability performance summary FOR OUR PERFORMANCE Mina Nova mine, Serra Grande, Brazil P4 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes 4.33 Moz $6.6 61,242 bn gold produced gold sales* employees and * Excludes joint ventures contractors Safety AIFR – group Fatalities – group 20.95 34 16.66 12.88 11.50 9.76 14 15 15 15 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 We aim to reduce our AIFR to below 9.0 by 2015 SR Our long-term goal is to operate without fatalities or pages 42 to 45 injury SR pages 42 to 45 All injury frequency rate: the total number of injuries per million hours worked. Security Page 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 reference Fatalities of third parties as a result of security interventions 3 0 2 0 NR 39 Injuries to third parties as a result of security interventions 9 5 3 4 NR 39 (1) Injuries to security personnel as a result of security interventions 49 44 11 12 NR 39 (1) Security personnel include AngloGold Ashanti internal security, private security companies and public security forces in certain jurisdictions Incidents under the VPSHR 5 3 2 1 NR 07 08 09 10 11 Our target is to operate without incidents under the NR = not reported. AngloGold Ashanti became a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHR in 2007 and recorded security data consistently from 2008 (VPSHR) AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability performance summary P5 Sustainability performance summary continued Health(2) Page 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 reference Incidence of silicosis (per 1,000 employees) 9 15 12 13 14 45 and 46 Incidence of compensable noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) (per 1,000 employees) (3) 2.3 2.1 2.7 2.3 2.3 45 and 46 Incidence of malaria (per 100 employees) (3) 17.6 27.6 45.0 46.9 74.8 47 Incidence of occupational tuberculosis (per 100 employees) 1.8 2.6 2.9 2.6 2.7 45 and 46 (2) Data on silicosis, NIHL and tuberculosis applies to South Africa only. Data on malaria applies to affected regions only. (3) Numbers have been revised from those previously reported for 2007-2010 to allow for a consistent method of calculation going forward. NIHL cases Malaria cases Employees and contractors 90 77 77 12,065 64 69 7,476 6,400 4,488 3,012 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 Our objectives are: Silicosis cases* • The elimination of new cases of silicosis after December 2013 among employees in South Africa 462 442 459 409 with no occupational exposure prior to 2008 263 • No deterioration in hearing greater than 10% among occupationally-exposed individuals at South African operations, from a 2009 baseline • Maintain occupational tuberculosis incidence at 07 08 09 10 11 below 2.25% among all employees in South Africa • Cases submitted to the Medical Bureau for Occupational Diseases for and reduce to below 1.5% by 2029 South Africa Community Community investment ($000) 20,611 $1.2bn 8,048 8,441 10,881 16,080 payments to governments (4) 07 08 09 10 11 We have developed a sustainable development framework targeting the creation of sustainable economic benefits (4) Includes direct and indirect taxes, royalties and dividends paid to for communities from our mining operations SR pages governments IR and SR page 29 28 and 29 P6 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Environmental and natural resource management Page 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 reference Energy use (million GJ) 30.5 30.6 29.8 29.4 29.9 50 and 51 Greenhouse gas emissions (Mt CO2e) 4.51 4.82(5) 4.79(5) 4.55 4.51 50 Water use (GL) 56.9 54.7 55.1 53.6 55.8 48 and 49 Number of sites with full Cyanide Code certification Energy efficiency (GJ/oz) 16 6.4 6.7 15 5.5 6.0 12 5.1 8 5 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 It is our intention to achieve certification of all our metallurgical operations under the Cyanide Code and we are making the necessary investments to achieve this goal SR page 51 Greenhouse gas efficiency (t CO2e/oz) 0.96(5) 1.00(5) 0.99 0.85 0.77 Number of reportable environmental incidents 07 08 09 10 11 55 (5) Greenhouse gas emissions data for 2009 and 2010 has been revised 49 51 due to revisions in grid emissions factors in Ghana and the USA 27 27 07 08 09 10 11 Water efficiency (kL/oz) 12.43 11.11 11.34 9.47 10.02 We aim to reduce the number of reportable environmental incidents to less than 18 by 2015 and over the longer term to operate without environmental incidents SR page 48 07 08 09 10 11 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability performance summary P7 Corporate profile A GLOBAL PRODUCER OF 10 6 Operations 5 4 11 12 1 Argentina 9 Cerro Vanguardia (92.5%) 3 7 2 Australia 8 Sunrise Dam 2 13 3 Brazil 1 Serra Grande (50%) AGA Mineração Major 4 Ghana exploration Iduapriem projects Obuasi 8 South Africa 11 Colombia 5 Guinea Vaal River Gramalote (51%) Siguiri (85%) Great Noligwa La Colosa Kopanang 6 Mali Moab Khotsong Morila (40%) Surface operations 12 DRC Sadiola (41%) 9 Tanzania Kibali (45%) West Wits Geita Mongbwalu (86.2%) Yatela (40%) Mponeng 7 Namibia Savuka 10 USA 13 Australia Navachab TauTona Cripple Creek and Victor (CC&V) Tropicana (70%) All operations and projects are 100% owned unless indicated otherwise in brackets P8 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Our business work at the Mongbwalu project and is a non-managing partner in the Kibali joint venture with Randgold Resources. AngloGold Limited was founded in May 1998 through the consolidation of the gold mining interests of Anglo American Additional exploration projects are underway in Canada, the Corporation of South Africa, with the majority of its operations USA, Argentina, Brazil, Guinea, Gabon, Tanzania, Ethiopia, in South Africa. It has grown rapidly from this South African Djibouti, Eritrea, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, China, the Solomon base, and following the merger with Ashanti Goldfields in Islands and Australia. Details of the ownership of these projects 2004, now holds a global portfolio of operations and can be found in our Annual Financial Statements. FS exploration assets. Headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti has 20 operations, in 10 countries, on The group’s exploration programme, which covers greenfield, four continents, as shown opposite. brownfield and marine exploration, is undertaken through managed and non-managed joint ventures, strategic alliances In addition to gold, valuable by-products – silver, sulphuric acid and wholly-owned ground holdings. Greenfield exploration and uranium – are produced in the process of recovering the searches for new long-life, low cost mines while brownfield gold mined in some operations in South America and in South exploration is conducted in and around existing operations. Africa in particular. The group has established joint ventures to explore for marine mineral deposits on the continental shelf, complementing Exploration existing terrestrial exploration and mining activities. Exploration programmes were undertaken in 2011 in 17 countries in established and new gold producing regions. Geographic distribution of shareholders Major exploration projects are currently located at Tropicana in AngloGold Ashanti’s primary listing is on the Johannesburg Australia, at La Colosa and Gramalote in Colombia, and in the Stock Exchange (JSE) and the company is also listed on the DRC, where the company is engaged in substantial exploration New York, London, Australia and Ghana exchanges. Nome ● (De Beers/AngloGold Ashanti JV) SASA ● (De Beers/AngloGold Ashanti JV) Greenfield exploration countries Sea Field Resources JV * ● Greenfield strategic alliances ● Marine exploration * Operations suspended in mid-2011 are in the process of being wound up or sold AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Corporate profile P9 Corporate profile continued Geographic distribution We promote our product in target markets, by supporting of shareholders initiatives aimed at improving gold design. This is mainly As at 31 December 2011 through the AuDITIONS programme of jewellery design competitions. Jewellery consumption in countries such as USA 47.9% India and China still provides an important source of physical South Africa 27.9% gold demand. United Kingdom 9.4% Rest of Europe 5.9% Singapore 2.1% Rest of world/unidentified 2.0% Australia 1.8% Ghana 1.7% Strategic focus areas Rest of Americas 1.3% Five focus areas for the company’s business strategy guide achievement of the company’s vision, balancing As at 31 December 2011, AngloGold Ashanti had the various imperatives necessary to generate 382,242,343 ordinary shares in issue and a market targeted returns: capitalisation of $16.2bn (2010: $18.8bn). The Government of Ghana held a 1.67% shareholding. People are the business Product supply chain Providing the leadership and the supporting Once processed to doré (unrefined gold bar) at AngloGold management processes to ensure that we have the Ashanti’s operations, the product is dispatched to various right people, in the right roles, doing the right work, to precious metals refineries. The gold is refined to a purity of deliver against our goals. at least 99.5%, in accordance with the standards of ‘good delivery’ as determined by the London Bullion Market Maximise margins Association (LBMA). Managing revenues to ensure that full value is realised from our products by delivering a quality product and AngloGold Ashanti’s direct customers are typically refiners managing costs to protect margins and returns. or bullion banks acting as intermediaries for gold markets. The breakdown of our sales shown below is based on the Manage the business as an asset portfolio domicile of these intermediaries and does not necessarily Optimising asset and project portfolios to meet or reflect the location of the end user of the product. exceed specified rates of returns. To achieve this, each asset is regularly reviewed and ranked in absolute Gold demand and markets terms and relative to its peer group. Gold has been a much sought after source of wealth over the centuries, be it as an investment, a store of value, as jewellery Grow the business and more recently for use in the electronics industry. More Developing a range of options for growth, including information on gold markets in 2011 is available in our greenfield and brownfield exploration, new Integrated Report. IR opportunities promoting organic growth, valueaccretive merger and acquisition opportunities and Geographic distribution of maximising the value of commodities other than gold gold sales within our portfolio. For the year ended 31 December 2011 South Africa 37.6% Embrace sustainability principles United Kingdom 26.3% Developing business and social partnerships based on North America 14.7% mutual value creation, while maintaining a focus on ensuring the safety and wellbeing of employees and Europe 9.1% managing environmental and other impacts. Asia 6.9% Australia 5.4% P10 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Business strategy A GLOBAL ORGANISATION The basis of AngloGold Ashanti’s strategy is its vision, vision and guide the way it operates. These values are linked mission and values. The company’s vision is to become the to the achievement of the company’s vision and mission, leading mining company and its mission is to create value for because how we deliver on our vision is as important as the shareholders, employees, and business and social partners outcome itself. by safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing gold. Although the primary focus is gold, AngloGold Ashanti Being the leading mining company implies making the transition will pursue value-creating opportunities in other minerals to a truly global organisation, by leveraging key skills and best where it can leverage its existing assets, skills and experience practices globally across all operations. In order to achieve this, to enhance the delivery of value. we have reviewed the way in which we operate. We are strengthening both people and technical systems to reflect an An important aspect of the company’s strategy is, therefore, aligned and consistent working model that can be adopted that it seeks to extend value creation beyond shareholders to across a range of operating contexts. As part of this process, include employees and communities in which the company we have developed five-year and long-term delivery targets. operates. AngloGold Ashanti’s values, as shown at the These targets reflect performance consistent with our vision of beginning of this report, reflect the nature of this shared becoming the leading mining company. Business delivery targets Safety Our long-term goal is to operate without accident or injury. By 2015, we aim to reduce our all injury frequency rate to less than 9 per million hours worked. People We aim to have continuous improvement in productivity, achieving a 20% improvement in gold production per employee by 2015, from a 2010 baseline. Environment Our long-term target is to operate without environmental incidents. By 2015, we aim to achieve a 30% reduction in reportable incidents from a 2010 baseline. Production A 20% increase in production from a 2010 base, taking total production to between 5.4 and 5.6Moz by 2015. Costs A 20% decrease in real unit costs (excluding mining inflation) by 2015, maintaining costs at the industry midpoint or below. Financial Increase return on capital to greater than 15%, as evaluated on a five-year rolling basis to 2015. Social licencing A 40% improvement through to 2015 against the folllowing performance indicators: • number of operational interruptions; • approvals withheld or delayed on account of inadequate community engagement; and • value added through community engagement. To progress delivery on the strategy and objectives outlined Additional information on our business strategy is presented in above, a sustainable development framework has been outlined our Integrated Report. IR for the business. This is described in more detail in the CEO discussion. Implementing this framework through a coherent sustainability strategy is a key priority for the year ahead. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Business strategy P11 CEO discussion A CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Our business and sustainability strategy AngloGold Ashanti’s vision is to be ‘The Leading Mining Company’. The vision that we share as colleagues is not meant to be a statement of final intent, but a torch that should light our way as we develop a company that is always looking to do better. It speaks to our desire to continuously improve all aspects of our business so that we are seen as positive contributors to society and exceptional managers of the assets that have been entrusted to our care and development. In the context of our vision, we have defined long-term success as the progressive improvement of our business across seven areas of focus: • Safety…to care for the safety and health of every employee and business stakeholder. • Environment…to minimise our environmental footprint in the context of our business activities. • People…to recognise people are more than assets and have the potential to create a business that leads the industry in terms of social and business outcomes. Mr Mark Cutifani, Chief Executive Officer • Production…to maintain a critical mass that supports our leadership position in gold and the delivery of value to our shareholders and our social partners. • Costs…recognising we must be industry competitive so that we can manage and make long-term decisions that are PODCAST: consistent with delivering long-term sustainable value. Mr Mark Cutifani, • Returns…to ensure we are creating value that ensures the Chief Executive Officer, AngloGold Ashanti long-term benefit and support of our shareholders. AngloGold Ashanti and sustainability • Community…to deliver value in the context of our Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/11/podcasts/ community stakeholders that ensures the long-term support of our “partners in development”. P12 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes We believe our vision and the areas of focus that we have Our objective is to build a company that can leave a positive identified are consistent with the concept of ‘sustainable legacy, as a partner in a new future with our communities and development’, as they span the three pillars of economic, social other stakeholders. and environmental stewardship. Building our sustainability model is about building long-term competitive advantage. Purpose of this report At AngloGold Ashanti we see ourselves as a global company. In this report, we set out where we are in our journey and we While we are immensely proud of our South African and identify existing and emerging issues that we believe require Ghanaian roots and respectful of the relationships we have greater focus and careful attention. These are the aspects formed in both jurisdictions, we recognise that we must be that have the most significant impact on our business and flexible and operate consistently with the cultures and values we recognise that our actions on these points will define the that exist within each of our local and national constituencies. level of success we have in creating a new and more As a global company we acknowledge that we are partners in effective partnership model for our business…a partnership development in the various jurisdictions in which we work – built on trust. respectful of the cultures and the laws that we work within. We have an obligation to work constructively within our global jurisdictions and we believe that by treating all of our partners Global sustainability themes in 2011 with dignity and respect we will be offered the same respect, will receive appropriate support for our business ventures and Turning to an account of 2011, there are a number of global will have our rights respected in equal measure. sustainability themes which have shaped our thinking and our actions. The achievements that have been delivered as a We believe the emerging issues of resource nationalism, result of these actions have also been detailed…both to increasing limitations on access to prospective ground and demonstrate progress and to give a sense of what we believe increasing resource rents are a partial function of a failure of the success looks like. mining industry to engage effectively with its key stakeholders. To our key stakeholders it appears we may have taken our Resource nationalism, which manifests itself in multiple local communities and the various levels of governments for jurisdictions across the globe, is seen in governments granted. AngloGold Ashanti is therefore developing its demanding more from companies that are developing natural sustainability strategy around the concept of rebuilding trust resources, whether through revisions of mining codes and with local communities, regulatory authorities and government agreements, increased royalties, taxes or duties. leaders. We have taken a value-based approach – only through thoughtful engagement will we rebuild trust – and only The reasons behind these shifting conversations are generally through trust will we be provided access to properties that social and economic in nature. They are a result of poverty and have significant resource potential. Agreeing fair and income inequality, unmet expectations, youth unemployment reasonable terms of engagement must be a function of and the lack of alternative economic activities – symptomatic understanding and trust. Through a broad range of sensitive in some cases of uncoordinated economic development development and operating practices and reasonable fiscal strategies at national, regional and local levels of government. arrangements that deliver equitable outcomes, we will be able We believe we can play an effective role in bringing experience, to access the ground necessary to sustain our business for the skills and commitment to support communities in achieving long term. the objectives they have set for themselves. Our role is not to judge what is right or wrong in terms of community aspiration Our initial steps are focused on getting the basics right. This – but to be a catalyst to support and foster local leadership to includes limiting our environmental footprint, reducing energy and deliver on their vision. input consumption, improving our connection to local communities and developing our understanding of what human Mining is a significant contributor to local economic development, rights should look like in terms of our behaviours and interactions. through employment, payment of taxes, community investment AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 CEO discussion P13 CEO discussion continued and procurement. However, the sector has not always dropping 31% to 1.8 cases per 100 employees in 2011 coordinated these contributions in a way that allows communities through sustained interventions such as the provision of to obtain optimum benefit from the exploitation of mineral voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) and antiretroviral resources. Nor has the industry focused on reporting the therapy (ART), a continued focus on dust suppression and the substantive nature of these contributions. To succeed, we may introduction of mobile testing units to enable early detection of need to clarify the boundaries within which a mining company the disease. should act and how it should relate to other parties who take the lead on developmental issues, principally governments and In the area of environment and natural resource management, communities themselves. we have maintained the 51% improvement in the number of environmental incidents that we were able to achieve against Related to resource nationalism is increased competition for our 2008 baseline in 2010. We are developing strategies in shared resources, such as access to potable water, land for areas of climate change, water security and reductions in agriculture and other purposes and energy. We need to ensure energy consumption and costs including use of technology and that we use natural resources in mining processes as efficiently alternative strategies that involve governments, communities and carefully as possible. In this regard we are improving and other business partners. environmental management at our operations by implementing company-wide standards in the areas of greatest potential An example of successful partnership is the work that is being impact, for example water, land use, waste and dust control. driven in our South Africa region through the Technology and We are also developing a standard on biodiversity to meet growing concerns in this area. Meeting the requirements of Innovation Consortium (TIC), harnessing creativity from outside these standards will enable us to make continuous the mining industry to develop innovative solutions to mining improvements in our environmental performance and achieve safely at greater depths. This work is being undertaken in our long-term business target of operating without reportable conjunction with the design of a socio-economic development environmental incidents. model, which is a necessary component of our strategy if we are to make a successful transition from a labour-intensive to a Unregulated artisanal mining and illegal mining activities technology-driven mode of operating. present increasing risks in terms of environmental degradation, safety, security and increasing tensions with In the area of security, we have experienced challenges in some communities. We will focus on constructive 2011 relating primarily to the growth of illegal mining, engagement to find solutions tailored to each community, incentivised by a higher gold price and tough economic resulting in mutually beneficial relationships and viable conditions. However, our refocused security strategy is likely alternative economic livelihoods. to yield better results in the future. Achievements in 2011 In emerging issues, such as the debate on ‘responsible gold’ and ‘conflict minerals’, we have worked together with In 2011 we continued to improve our safety and health industry partners, governments and others to develop performance towards our vision of ‘going beyond zero harm’. industry-wide approaches that enhance the reputation of the We reduced our all injury frequency rate by over 15% in 2011. industry and support human rights, social stability and The number of silicosis cases reported for compensation development. This has required the investment of resources reduced significantly from 2010, by 43%. Progress on into supporting the various standard-setting activities that are reducing the incidence of occupational tuberculosis at South underway on responsible gold, and for us to integrate into African operations has also been substantial, with incidence our thinking on sustainability. P14 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Public policy and stakeholder At each stage in the operation life cycle, we will therefore engagement define clear long-term positive outcomes in line with our strategic intent, vision, mission and values. Our public policy and broader stakeholder engagement work is essential to maintain our social licence to operate. We I look forward to reporting back on how we are progressing actively support the objectives of the International Council on with this framework and further refining our strategy in 2012. Mining and Metals (ICMM), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), among others, which help us improve our performance and find areas of mutual interest and cooperation to co-design solutions. Our sustainable development framework We set out our intention in our sustainable development framework to rebuild the way in which we work with and relate to our key stakeholders, and in particular our host communities. In terms of this framework, we are placing increased focus on developing projects in partnership with communities and governments, aiming to undertake community investment in a more consistent and coordinated way that enables communities around our operations to reach their development goals. This approach will require us to engage with communities, governments, NGOs, other mining companies, suppliers and others to identify and co-design approaches to deliver on shared goals. To succeed, we need to build a new relationship based on trust and sustained contributions to the development of communities. Progress on delivering on objectives must be measured by performance indicators that are developed with our partners. The sustainable development framework aims to take a holistic view of sustainability – understanding connections and the range of possible impacts on our operations. Sustainability in Mr Mark Cutifani this sense is essential to the long-term viability of our business, Chief Executive Officer and it is therefore critical that our strategy addresses issues from exploration, through projects, operations and closure. 16 March 2012 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 CEO discussion P15 Our sustainability journey Relevance to Initiatives undertaken by Where to find out AngloGold Ashanti AngloGold Ashanti in 2011 more in this report Resource nationalism • Increased competition for access to • Design of a group-wide framework to address CEO discussion SR page 14 scarce mineral resources sustainable development issues in a more Creating sustainable economic systemic way • Increased pressure to demonstrate benefits SR page 28 to 29 tangible economic benefits for • Various ongoing development and community Community relations communities investment initiatives, in partnership with SR page 30 communities and governments • A trend towards higher government Environmental and natural resource payments in the form of royalties • Development of more consistent engagement management SR page 48 to 52 and taxes strategies to support implementation of the sustainable development framework and In the country focus on Guinea demonstrate the benefits of responsible mining SR page 31 to 32 and the country focus on South Africa SR page 33 to 34 From our stakeholders PODCAST: “ If mining is to help drive development, it has to cast off its enclave status and forge far more linkages with the economies and people that surround it ... The needs of Mrs Yedwa communities need to be better integrated into corporate social responsibility schemes Simelane, and small-scale and artisanal miners need to be encouraged to grow in partnership Senior Vice President: Corporate Affairs, AngloGold Ashanti with large-scale mining operations. ” Resource nationalism Mr Abdoulie Janneh and Dr Jean Ping respectively, the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Africa and Chairman of the African Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/ 11/podcasts/ Union Commission, in their introduction to the African Mining Vision, February 2009 www.africaminingvision.org/messageAU-ECA.html Artisanal and small-scale mining • Support for initiatives to formalise ASM in a way Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) which will benefit local economies and create SR pages 35 to 36 • An increase in the number of people sustainable livelihoods Responsible gold involved in ASM as higher gold prices • Increased co-operation with host governments to SR page 56 and tougher economic conditions address the root causes of illegal mining create a greater economic incentive • Extensive baseline analysis in the DRC and in for ASM and for international PODCAST: Tanzania on ASM issues, including on-site networks funding this activity Ms Karen discussions with affected parties at each Hayes, • The environmental, social, safety location, with concrete plans to improve Technical Director, and health impacts of ASM, which conditions in each location. We also reviewed the Mines to Markets Initiative, Pact impact negatively on the reputation potential impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act on our Artisanal and small-scale mining of the industry operations and projects Podcast available at: • Public reports, including from the • Active engagement with industry bodies and www.aga-reports.com/ 11/podcasts/ United Nations, linking ASM to the multilateral organisations to create opportunities funding of conflict in the DRC for developing leading solutions to ASM From our stakeholders • Pro-active participation in standard setting on ‘responsible gold’ “ Many artisanal miners who once dug for tin, tungsten or tantalum ores are reported to have switched to gold. ” United Nations Panel of Experts report on the DRC, December 2011 P16 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Relevance to Initiatives undertaken by Where to find out AngloGold Ashanti AngloGold Ashanti in 2011 more in this report Criminal activity, including illegal mining and theft • An increase in the number of • Development of a security management approach Security strategy SR pages 37 illegal miners and their level of that targets more effective protection of assets to 40 organisation and product through community-enhanced Artisanal and small-scale mining security strategies • An increase in the number and SR pages 35 to 36 severity of security incidents at • Deepening adherence to the Voluntary Principles Community relations SR page 30 AngloGold Ashanti operations on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), including through a third party audit of VPSHR compliance • An increase in injuries to AngloGold Ashanti security personnel and community members as a result of security incidents Operating with respect for human rights • Adoption of the guiding principles • Gap analysis of existing policies and systems Operating with respect for human on business and human rights against the guidelines as part of the project to rights SR page 41 by the United Nations (UN) in develop a human rights policy, framework and June 2011 procedures PODCAST: • The need to align our policies and • Participation in an International Council on Mining Mr Sipho practice with the UN guiding and Metals (ICMM)-driven pilot project to develop Pityana, principles and establish grievance mechanisms in Non-Executive Director, AngloGold Ashanti co-operation with community members in Mongbwalu in the DRC AngloGold Ashanti’s responsibility in the areas of sustainability Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/11/podcasts/ Safety and health • Continuing external and internal • Further development of the safety transformation Safety and health focus on improving the safety and framework, including 22 governing standards SR pages 42 to 47 health performance of operations • Incident investigation protocol developed and • Safety and health are not only deployed PODCAST: business imperatives, but are part Mr Michael of our obligation to operate with • Incident management and tracking system Parker, respect for human rights developed, global pilot in progress Senior Vice President: Safety and Environment, AngloGold Ashanti Improving safety performance Podcast available at: www.agareports.com/ 11/podcasts/ From our stakeholders “ Safety is the responsibility of each and every person who sets his or her foot in the precinct of the mines. This summit has given us an opportunity to put a stop – once and for all – to the practice where workers blame management, management blames the regulator...and where, in the end, instead of something being done, it is workers who continue to lose their lives. ” From the keynote address by Ms Susan Shabangu Minister of Mineral Resources of South Africa, at the Mine Health and Safety Council Summit, South Africa, November 2011 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Our sustainability journey P17 Our sustainability journey continued Relevance to Initiatives undertaken by Where to find out AngloGold Ashanti AngloGold Ashanti in 2011 more in this report Environmental and natural resource management • Water quality and usage are areas of • We continued to target improvements in Environmental and natural resource stakeholder focus globally. They are environmental performance, focusing on management SR pages 48 to 52 particularly significant for operations compliance with group-wide environmental Regional snapshots on South in Ghana and South Africa and standards Africa and Continental Africa exploration projects in Colombia • In Ghana, significant progress was made in SR pages 20 to 23 • The imperative to use natural addressing water management challenges Country focus – Colombia resources sparingly, including highlighted by The Public Eye Award SR pages 53 to 54 inputs into mining such as energy • At the request of the South African government, and water AngloGold Ashanti provided significant input into • National governments are the development of climate change and developing increasingly robust greenhouse gas mitigation policy responses to climate change • The company’s draft biodiversity management through the imposition of stricter standard progressed during 2011 and is emissions limits and carbon expected to be approved in the first half of 2012 pricing mechanisms, especially in Australia and South Africa • Ecosystem services, especially biodiversity services, are coming under the spotlight in many countries Securing our skills pipeline • Increasing evidence of a skills • We have continued to build our talent pipeline Securing our skills pipeline shortage in key disciplines for the while keeping turnover in key roles below 5% SR page 55 mining industry • We remain focused on building our internal capability through the implementation of our people management system and increased employee engagement • We are building a talent acquisition and talent management strategy to improve planning, attract the right candidates and retain people P18 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Relevance to Initiatives undertaken by Where to find out AngloGold Ashanti AngloGold Ashanti in 2011 more in this report Responsible gold • Emergence of the ‘responsible gold’ • Proactive participation in and commitment of Responsible gold SR page 56 debate as an issue of public and funding and resources to standard-setting consumer concern initiatives and public policy debate • Initiatives to define responsible gold • Extensive engagement with governments of and conflict-free standards Tanzania, the DRC, South Africa and the USA on • Increased requirements for supply the rules and regulations to be issued by the chain transparency in respect of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) product sourced from the DRC and under the Dodd-Frank Act, to ensure that they neighbouring countries, with the address the core objectives of the legislation passing in the USA of the Doddwithout stigmatising gold produced responsibly in Frank Act of 2010 the region PODCAST: From our stakeholders Mr Terry “ All of these rules [referring to the forthcoming SEC rules for Dodd-Frank] have great Heymann, Director: Responsible potential to yield important disclosure and potential for changes in the practices of mining Gold, World Gold Council companies and companies in the gold business. These changes could improve conditions Responsible Gold for communities, workers, and the environment where mining is planned or happening. ” Podcast available at: Mr Scott Cardiff www.agareports.com/ 11/podcasts/ Earthworks ‘No Dirty Gold’ campaign from www.earthworksaction.org A rehabilitation crew with acacia tree seeds for use in the rehabilitation programme at Yatela mine, Mali. These seeds take quickly and are very hardy, adding to the stability of a rehabilitated area AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Our sustainability journey P19 Regional sustainability strategies TO OUR GLOBAL FRAMEWORK In 2011, priority areas of work in sustainability in the region included: • Improving safety and health performance. The South Africa region regrettably experienced nine fatalities in 2011 and continues to manage potential health impacts in the areas of occupational lung disease (primarily silicosis and occupational tuberculosis), noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) and HIV/AIDS. Continued action and engagement in this area is a priority, including the ongoing implementation of the group’s safety transformation programme and the various health initiatives described later in this report under safety and health. SR pages 42 to 47 • Further development of a technology and innovation strategy, which has the potential to introduce a step change in the economic, safety, health and environmental 1 performance of the South African operations. • Development and implementation of a socio-economic development strategy, which seeks to address impacts 1 South Africa arising as a result of the transition from a highly labourGold produced (000oz) 1,624 intensive industry to a technology-intensive model. % contribution to global production 37.4 No of employees 32,082 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 5.85 The strategy will foster key partnerships from a host of government and industry participants to provide a meaningful social impact on the community in which we South Africa region operate and push the boundaries of sustainable and agreed upon economic growth initiatives to address poverty, Large-scale mining has taken place in the Witwatersrand Basin unemployment and other Millennium Development Goals for over a century resulting in a number of legacy issues which (MDGs) as encapsulated in the Social and Labour Plans require close and ongoing collaboration with government, (SLPs) and the socio-economic development framework. organised labour, communities and NGOs. AngloGold Ashanti participates actively in such engagements through monthly An amount of over $40m has been budgeted for the period meetings with senior officials of the local municipalities, 2012 to 2014 for investment in: quarterly meetings with the Mayoral Committees of the • local economic development; municipalities, and bi-monthly Mining Forum meetings with • enterprise development; and relevant municipalities such as the West Rand and Dr Kenneth • social and institutional development, including in labourKaunda districts. sending areas as well as host communities. Although its production profile is declining, the South Africa An integrated and comprehensive engagement strategy is a region contributed 37% of AngloGold Ashanti’s production in priority area for development in 2012. The strategy will be 2011 and employed 52% of its workforce. In contrast with aligned with stakeholder engagement processes and other regions, mining operations in South Africa are almost strategies in place in the business, including the group-wide entirely deep-level mines. engagement standard. P20 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes The South Africa country focus SR pages 33 to 34 gives additional detail on the technology and innovation strategy and the interlinked issue of the development of a socio-economic development strategy. A further priority for the region is the implementation of an integrated environmental strategy, addressing the following key risks: • The potential for discharge of polluted water into the environment, either directly or indirectly as a result of seepage from tailings facilities and polluted water. • Polluted land beyond current mining boundaries as a result of discharges. • Air pollution and land contamination as a result of windblown dust from tailings storage facilities. “ The holistic approach adopted by AngloGold Ashanti to address this longstanding problem is applauded as it indicates a commitment to resolve it and keep it under control permanently. This is an environmental Mponeng mine, West Wits, South Africa wellness management process not just a dust management event. ” The region established aggressive top-down water Ms Nontsha Liwane-Mazengwe consumption reduction targets in 2011 and was able to Principal at the Vaal Reefs Technical High School, following AngloGold Ashanti’s response to complaints from the school regarding dust record a 10% year-on-year saving in potable water usage. originating from our West Extension Tailings Storage Facility in the Vaal South Africa accounts for approximately 33% of AngloGold River area. The response entailed the accelerated implementation of Ashanti’s total water consumption. dust mitigation measures on the dam, coupled with an ongoing engagement with the school and other relevant stakeholders from the local community. Groundwater issues in South Africa Deep groundwater contamination is a significant issue in South Initiatives undertaken in the region in 2011 included: Africa, where groundwater in some older mining regions has • The development of an integrated water management infiltrated mined-out workings. It becomes acidic if exposed to strategy which addresses issues such as potential mine sulphide minerals in these workings, presenting a potential flooding, groundwater and storm water management, as contamination risk to shallow groundwater and eventually well as the potential impact of mining activities on water surface water resources if allowed to spread further. supply to neighbouring areas. Contamination is prevented by pumping water from • Development of regional mine flooding models, mitigation underground operations that have ceased working. However plans and technical remediation options for seepage from the cost of pumping is significant and there is a risk tailings storage facilities. that it will be carried by an increasingly smaller number of • Pilot work on the inclusion of water performance monitoring operators as mines in an area close. The solution to this issue and reporting within the company’s technical operating cannot lie with one company and needs to be addressed system. holistically by government, regulators, the mining industry and • Commissioning of a new pollution control dam (the North communities. We are therefore proactively engaged with these Boundary Dam in the West Wits area) to significantly reduce parties in seeking a solution. We are in discussions with a water the potential for impacts on the local river system. supply company to explore the option of using treated pumped • The development of a best practice guideline on the water to meet the needs of communities around operations and mitigation of dust from tailings storage facilities, including the create potential business opportunities. A feasibility study is initiation of a detailed five-year implementation plan. currently underway. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Regional sustainability strategies – South Africa region P21 Regional sustainability strategies continued Continental Africa region 1 Mali 1 Gold produced (000oz)* 249 3 % contribution to global production 5.8 2 No of employees* 1,461 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 18.61 2 Ghana 4 Namibia Gold produced (000oz) 512 Gold produced (000oz) 66 5 % contribution to global production 11.8 % contribution to global production 1.5 No of employees 7,081 No of employees 790 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 7.66 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 7.00 3 Guinea 5 Tanzania 4 Gold produced (000oz)* 249 Gold produced (000oz) 494 % contribution to global production 5.8 % contribution to global production 11.4 No of employees 3,666 No of employees 3,541 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 12.03 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 18.11 * Attributable This region accounted for 36% of AngloGold Ashanti’s global work with local communities to achieve common gold production in 2011 and has significant potential for growth. developmental objectives are detailed in the country focus However, over the years, inconsistent approaches to social and on Guinea later in this report; environmental issues at operations in the Continental Africa • Failure to meet environmental standards, which resulted in region has affected the region’s core business. the temporary closure of Iduapriem in Ghana in February 2010 and the suspension of gold processing at Obuasi in To achieve the potential for business growth in the region in March 2010. Measures taken in 2011 to improve the a way that contributes to wider social and economic environmental performance in Ghana are detailed below; and development, a comprehensive and transformative approach • Poor compensation practices, which have made it difficult to managing sustainability issues has been adopted – similar for the company to gain access to new land. Issues relating to that of AngloGold Ashanti’s safety transformation. to compensation for the community in Ajopa, a potential growth area for the business in Ghana, were resolved in In 2011, we started to develop a transformation model 2011. At Siguiri in Guinea, however, compensation remains for the region. The implementation of the model at a significant area of concern. each operation will primarily be achieved through the development of mine sustainability strategies based on the Transformation on the scale that we envisage requires many United Nations millennium development goals. See the years to achieve. We know that AngloGold Ashanti has the country focus on Guinea for an explanation of how this ability to achieve this goal as proven in our success in model is being piloted at our Siguiri operation. SR pages transforming our safety record. Nevertheless, long-term, real 31 to 32 change needs to happen in a way that is both well-structured and manageable. With this in mind, we have divided our The model encompasses the way we work and manage journey into three distinct stages over a period of 10 years. ourselves internally, the quality of relationships with our stakeholders and the impact we have on our different To begin we envisage a period of Stabilisation. This oneto stakeholder groups. It is designed to positively and three-year time horizon, from 2012 to 2014, will give us the space proactively address the issues which have previously to secure our legal and social licence to operate. We will do this affected our core business, including: by ensuring that our operations address the most significant • Community disputes, which have led to protests and potential liabilities and risk areas. business interruptions at a number of operations. At Siguiri in Guinea, for example, there have been ongoing Following this initial phase, we will focus efforts on a period of protests over issues relating to electricity supply, land Optimisation. Optimisation efforts will start as early as 2012 and compensation and employment. Actions taken in 2011 to will intensify through to 2018. The goal for AngloGold Ashanti P22 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes PODCAST: Mr Richard Duffy, Executive Vice President: Continental Africa Region, AngloGold Ashanti Progress on Ghana turnaround strategies Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/11/podcasts/ during this period is to ensure our operations do no harm and that we achieve consistent business and sustainability performance by building a capable and engaged workforce. This will include implementing effective, efficient and reliable systems and processes. Members of our sustainability review panel visited the Dokyiwa village at Obuasi in Ghana, The final period of transformation is Growth. This phase will take during its construction by AngloGold Ashanti us from 2012 to 2022, and will culminate in AngloGold Ashanti in mid-2011. This area was designated for becoming the preferred mining operator and being recognised as re-settlement as a consequence of the Sanso the leading mining company globally. Our strategy for achieving community formerly occupying land near our this includes implementing best practices across all sites and tailings dam which was unsafe. Panel members creating a shared plan for resource endowment. were not required to wear full personal protection equipment as they had not yet Sustainability initiatives in Ghana in 2011 ventured into the village under construction “Success (at Obuasi) requires that the company address Obuasi systemically in its “ In Ghana in particular, any assessment of planning, its engagement and communications, performance needs to be seen in the context its investments, its governance and its of the more than 110-year history of mining. In the past, parts of the country’s mineral development of capabilities. ” endowment were exploited using mining and Extract from the report of the sustainability review panel following its visit environmental management methods that to Ghana in May 2011 are unsatisfactory by today’s standards. ” In 2011, the turnaround of AngloGold Ashanti’s Obuasi mine in The Ghanaian Chamber of Mines, in response to the Public Eye Award to AngloGold Ashanti in January 2011 Ghana was a key area of focus for the company. The operation faces a well-documented range of operating and sustainabilityrelated challenges, but remains one of the world’s great ore In the area of water management, which has been a major bodies with a Mineral Resource base of more than 30Moz. issue of stakeholder concern, progress made in 2011 included the commissioning of a reverse osmosis plant in the northern An operating taskforce was appointed at the beginning of section of the mine which functions in conjunction with 2011. Operating stability has been achieved, with operations complementary water treatment technologies to ensure that meeting production and cost targets in 2011, and the taskforce water released is compliant with Ghana’s water quality is advancing plans for mediumand long-term growth. standards. At the southern section of the mine, additional equipment was commissioned in 2011 to increase the As part of the turnaround strategy for Obuasi, a major initiative volume of water that can be recycled into the production was launched to address sustainability issues at the highest process. At Iduapriem, a plant extension was successfully level. This strategy involves reconfiguring the environmental commissioned, which ensures that the operation can release and social teams, more than doubling their size, and putting excess water while fully meeting effluent discharge standards. in place aggressive strategies to address some of Obuasi’s In 2011, a total of approximately $14m was spent on various long-term and persistent challenges. In 2011, sustainability water management interventions (including treatment plants teams made progress in putting staff in place and developing and storm water infrastructure). clear role descriptions. A plan and budget for environmental work has been completed and several environmental projects In the area of land management the first phase of work were progressed. involving a risk analysis has been completed. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Regional sustainability strategies – Continental Africa region P23 Regional sustainability strategies continued Americas region Areas of focus in 2011 therefore included priorities relating to these operations and exploration projects: • Improving safety performance. Within the context of our long-term target of operating without injury, a key challenge in the region was addressing incidents with contractors. • Common approaches to stakeholder mapping and social risk assessment. Bringing greater consistency to these processes will allow for more effective risk assessments and engagement across the region. • Ensuring that sustainability aspects of prefeasibility 3 work progressed to schedule at La Colosa. This major exploration project has the potential to contribute significantly to AngloGold Ashanti’s annual production. This work included a keen focus on environmental issues, communications, community engagement and local economic development. • Improving processes to ensure timely submissions of environmental permit applications. This enabled projects and expansions to advance smoothly. • Demonstrating AngloGold Ashanti’s commitment to 1 Argentina being the leading mining company. For example, our Gold produced (000oz)* 196 2 Brazilian operations maintained their NBR16001 Brazilian % contribution to global production 4.5 No of employees 1,644 Social Responsibility Certification, subsequent to monitoring Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 17.64 undertaken by that organisation. 2 Brazil In October 2011, CC&V mine in the USA was recognised by Gold produced (000oz)* 428 the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment’s % contribution to global production 9.9 1 Voluntary Environmental Leadership Programme. CC&V No of employees 5,164 Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 16.52 received a renewed three-year certification at the “gold” or highest level within this programme, which recognises 3 USA companies that voluntarily go beyond compliance with state Gold produced (000oz) 267 % contribution to global production 6.2 and federal regulations and are committed to continual No of employees 581 environmental improvement, together with a demonstrated Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 44.31 track record of successful environmental management with no * Attributable significant contraventions. “ AngloGold Ashanti’s involvement in social responsibility demonstrates transparency, The Americas region accounts for some 21% of AngloGold dignity and respect for their stakeholders, Ashanti’s current production from operations in Brazil, and makes clear that it’s not just about Argentina and the USA. It represents a significant area of mining. ” business growth, as it includes exploration projects at the Fernanda Ferreira Caetano, of the Sabará Social and Economic stage of advanced economic evaluation in Colombia, located Development Agency, at an AngloGold Ashanti stakeholder forum. at La Colosa and Gramalote. The location of these projects is Sabará is a municipality in the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil, which shown in the map included in our country focus on Colombia. hosts AngloGold Ashanti’s Cuiabá mine. SR pages 53 to 54 P24 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Australasia region The start of production at a new mine, the Tropicana Joint Venture Project (TJV), scheduled for 2013, will transition this region from a single operation – Sunrise Dam – to being a dualoperation environment. 1 Tropicana Joint Venture Key sustainability priorities include: 1 Australia • The development of common systems across the Gold produced (000oz) 246 region, ensuring consistent implementation of group-wide % contribution to global production 5.7 No of employees 509 sustainability standards. Productivity per employee (oz/TEC) 38.93 • The effective management of contractor safety at Tropicana during the remainder of the construction phase, to ensure that the project is completed safely. With the current mining boom in Western Australia, scarce skills in the resource sector are stretched. Safety systems and training therefore impact assessment and the approvals process, the project need to be strengthened to ensure operators achieve the team mapped some 230,000ha of vegetation to enable the required level of competence and incidents are avoided. contextualisation of the impacts (which will cover a much • The development and implementation of a regional smaller footprint of up to 3,400ha). This has set a benchmark community plan based on two principal components – for mining projects, where practice has been to survey the communication and investment – to support the building of direct area of impact. Surveying beyond the mine footprint positive community relationships. demonstrates use of the precautionary principal and enables a database of knowledge to be established. • Implementing a compliance system that identifies all legislative environmental permitting and other obligations so that The environmental values and constraints of the region were governance systems are in place to measure compliance. collated with the use of seasonally appropriate field surveys and interpretations. The mine was designed to avoid critical The approach to the approval for the TJV has been viewed as habitats, rare flora, and archaeological sites, and to minimise a benchmark in environmental approvals in Western Australia. environmental impacts. The team delivering the approvals focused on accessing the best information and science available to deliver a positive result for the environment within the Great Victoria Desert (GVD) and to address the concerns of interested communities and stakeholders. “ An example of a very good assessment To do this effectively, significant resources were mobilised early that met the EPA’s expectations in terms of in the planning process to evaluate firstly what was important high quality environmental information and to the community and stakeholders, and secondly to better corporate behaviour, was the Tropicana understand the biological environment in which the mining Gold Project. ” activities would take place. Stakeholder concerns were Dr Paul Vogel, Chairman of the West Australia Environmental factored into the approval process and feedback was provided Protection Authority, from the EPA’s July 2011 newsletter throughout the process. The EPA’s annual report for 2010/2011 also commended the Tropicana Joint Venture for the extensive biological Little baseline biological information is available to inform the survey programme undertaken, which, it said, greatly development of resources projects in remote and challenging helped the assessment process environments such as the GVD. As part of the environmental AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Regional sustainability strategies – Australasia region P25 Regional sustainability strategies continued A peer review panel was established with representatives government and will be a successful legacy flowing from the from the local community, academic institutions, the legal activities undertaken by the project. fraternity and the scientific community. This panel met monthly during the authoring of the environmental Testament to the corporate leadership of the TJV partners and documentation, and its input shaped the documentation the commitment of the approvals team, was that ministerial positively. The TJV also established the Biodiversity Trust approval for the project was delivered on time, whilst meeting Fund which will contribute and enhance the scientific the needs and expectations of the stakeholders, and knowledge of the GVD in the long term. The Biodiversity Trust improving the scientific knowledge and understanding of this Fund has been approved by the Australian Federal remote and important part of Western Australia. Tropicana Joint Venture, Havana Deeps, Australia P26 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Life cycle sustainability strategies TO CLOSURE Greenfield exploration is given to sustainability issues in the design phase and that plans and budgets include sustainability considerations prior to The greenfield exploration business unit operates in 17 countries their approval. in total. Mine closure and rehabilitation A priority for the business unit in 2011 was boosting capacity in the area of sustainability management across all regions, An inevitable aspect of operating a mine is ongoing mine recognising that: closure planning. This includes the associated estimates of • Greenfield exploration business unit activities have the liability costs and the assurance of adequate financial potential to have both a positive and negative impact on provisions to cover these costs, consistent with applicable law local communities and the environment. and regulation. • Appropriate sustainability interventions and actions, such as establishing community engagement structures and Through implementation of our closure and rehabilitation conducting environmental and social baseline studies, must management standard, we aim to ensure that closure be integrated into exploration programmes from inception in planning is an activity that starts at exploration and mine order to mitigate risks and maximise opportunities. design and continues throughout the life of mine. This means • Sustainability activities must evolve with exploration projects creating a ‘closure mentality’, where each stage of project and become more robust as projects progress. design and execution includes consideration of potential closure issues, resulting where possible in planning and • Delays in projects can often be attributed to a lack of design that eases closure requirements and rehabilitation community support and can translate directly into a costs. Without proper planning the company is likely to be decrease in the value of a project and/or the ability to bring exposed to higher costs, missed opportunities, compensation the project to production. claims and reputational damage. Due diligence processes that include the evaluation of Among concerns associated with closure is the need to ensure sustainability issues at exploration projects were introduced in that commitments to communities have been recorded and are 2011. These processes were piloted at AngloGold Ashanti’s acted upon. Our standard stipulates that closure planning must non-managed joint venture in the Solomon Islands. be undertaken in consultation with community representatives. In the course of these consultations, different issues are raised The findings will be used to guide ongoing discussions with local teams and to develop community and environmental engagement which require site-specific solutions, such as livelihood programmes in parallel with the evolution of the technical preservation, the provision and management of infrastructure evaluation programme at this early-stage exploration project. and ongoing land management and rehabilitation. This due diligence exercise was the first step in a longer-term In 2011, closure planning continued to receive significant focus programme of improving oversight of greenfield exploration at operational level in order to meet the target of implementing programmes, the aim of which is to enable AngloGold Ashanti closure planning by year-end in line with our closure standard to make better informed decisions about projects, identifying (www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability). This has been key risks early in the life cycle of new mining projects, and achieved, with the exception of the Continental Africa region, mitigating these risks more effectively. where challenges in developing appropriate closure plans have been experienced. In 2011, engagement with stakeholders In 2011, steps were also taken to incorporate sustainability regarding future land use objectives was conducted as well as issues more consistently into other aspects of the project life studies to understand the current impacts and risks associated cycle. For example, sustainability experts now participate with closure. The region is now working to a revised deadline of formally in capital project reviews, to ensure that consideration December 2012 for compliance with the standard. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Life cycle sustainability strategies P27 Creating sustainable economic benefits MUTUAL GOALS The African Mining Vision, adopted by African heads of state Although it was developed in respect of the mining industry in and government in February 2009 and endorsed by them in Africa, the vision outlined in this statement is globally relevant December 2011, calls for “a sustainable and well-governed and reflects many aspects of our vision of responsible mining mining sector that effectively garners and deploys resource across the various continents on which we operate. rents and that is safe, healthy, gender and ethnically inclusive, environmentally friendly, socially responsible and appreciated AngloGold Ashanti seeks to contribute to sustainable by surrounding communities”. It also advocates “transparent, economic development in our regions of operation through: equitable and optimal exploitation of mineral resources to • Direct contributions to regional and local development underpin broad-based sustainable growth and sociothrough community investment spend of $20.6m in 2011 economic development”. (excluding joint ventures); Economic value-added statement for the year ended 31 December US dollar million % 2011 % 2010 Economic value generated Gold sales and by-product income (1) 97 6,794 97 5,463 Interest received 1 52 1 43 Royalties received (1) 1 79 – 8 Income from investments (2) 1 75 2 106 Total economic value generated 100 7,000 100 5,620 Economic value distributed Operating costs (3) 36 2,519 41 2,289 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits 21 1,459 24 1,365 Payments to providers of capital 5 327 4 233 – Finance costs and unwinding of obligations 3 196 3 166 – Dividends (4) 2 131 1 67 Payments to governments – Current taxation (5) 6 407 3 147 Community investment (6) – 21 – 16 Total economic value distributed 68 4,733 72 4,050 Economic value retained 32 2,267 28 1,570 (1) In 2011, gold sales and royalties received, increased due to the higher gold price. (2) The 2010 year includes a profit on disposal of shares held in B2Gold Corporation. (3) Includes a loss on disposal of assets of $8m in 2011 (2010: $18m), and 2010 included a realised loss on non-hedge derivatives of $277m. (4) During the third quarter of 2011, the company changed its frequency of dividend payments to quarterly, rather than half yearly, resulting in a higher dividend for the year. (5) Payments to governments are for current taxes, which has increased as a result of tax losses utilised and higher earnings. (6) Community investment excludes equity-accounted joint ventures. P28 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Nykabale village agricultural project near Geita mine in Tanzania. AngloGold Ashanti sponsors this selfsustaining project which supplies vegetables to the community and Geita mine • Employment opportunities, including offering employment AngloGold Ashanti is a member of the EITI and is committed to opportunities to local community members where possible; supporting its objectives of fiscal transparency and governance. We share the EITI ethos that transparency and sound • Equitable payments to government in respect of resources governance are essential in promoting sustainable economic extracted, including direct and indirect taxation, dues and development. We disclose all payments made to governments, royalties; and whether or not the country concerned is an EITI member. • Promoting objectives of transparency and good governance by publishing all payments made to government and through Of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, Mali and support for the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Ghana are compliant with the EITI and Guinea, Tanzania and a global standard for extractive companies to publish what they the DRC are candidate members. We acknowledge the efforts pay and for governments to disclose what they receive. made by these countries to comply with EITI requirements. In our sustainable development framework, we have outlined Our economic value-added statement, shown on the previous our ambition to work with local communities and governments page, details value created and distributed in 2011, through to define areas of mutual value creation. This will require us to employee salaries, community investment and current taxation. understand the risks and drivers that will allow an operation to be successful, and invest in areas that address these risks and Payments to governments by country are shown in the chart below. opportunities in a way that is relevant to the communities affected by that operation. In 2011 we began the process of incorporating this approach into regional sustainability Payments to governments strategies and developing businesses delivery targets in the by country for the year ended 31 December 2011 area of community. ($m) South Africa 313.3 We invested substantially in communities in 2011, spending Mali 164.1 approximately $20.6m (excluding joint ventures) on various Brazil 138.2 community projects globally (2010: $16.08m) and have put clear Argentina 133.7 definitions of community investment in place at all operations. Australia 122.2 Tanzania 101.1 Major projects undertaken in 2011 include: Guinea 98.5 • In the DRC, commissioning of a multi-million dollar project Ghana 97.9 that includes the re-construction of a 4.2km road through USA 19.8 Bunia, and repairing the Budana Hydropower Dam that DRC 11.1 provides electricity to the city of Bunia. Colombia 10.9 • In Colombia, a project aimed at building capacity in current Namibia 9.2 and potential local suppliers. The initiative involves 50 local entrepreneurs who have received micro credits to support A more detailed breakdown of these numbers can be accessed through the online version of this report. development of their businesses. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Creating sustainable economic benefits P29 Community relations DIVERSITY We aspire to be a responsible member of the communities the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM)’s which host our operations. In 2011, we have therefore worked engagement with the IFC on this issue. to achieve the objectives set out in our 2010 report of: • Defining expectations for community and social performance Due to the fact that the community management standards through community-focused management standards; and only came into effect in October 2011, the target for incorporation of community aspects into ISO 14001 has • Including community aspects in the ISO 14001 management been moved out to 2014. Monitoring of this commitment will system in order to integrate community and environmental be included in the standards’ implementation and systems more effectively. compliance review programme. Against these targets, we finalised and approved a body of standards in the area of community relations. These will Engagement with our social partners continues to be a key be implemented as a blueprint, pending additional work strategy in striving to achieve shared benefit for AngloGold being undertaken to understand the full financial liabilities Ashanti and our host communities. While we are conscious which arise from application of the standards. These blueprint that improvement is required in addressing engagement in a standards, which are based on international good practice and consistent way across the group, we are beginning to see the take into consideration ISO 26000 guidelines, will support the results of sustained and strategic engagement approaches development of a more consistent approach to community with key stakeholders in a number of sites. For example: relations and socio-economic contributions across the group. • At CC&V in the USA, where we are building relationships with They became effective in October 2011 and cover: local government to co-design and partner in local social and • Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM); economic development programmes. • Cultural heritage and sacred sites; • At Obuasi in Ghana, where we continue to engage with national and local government, the Chamber of Mines, the • Indigenous Peoples; Mineral Commission and a number of interest groups to find • Community complaints and grievances; sustainable solutions to the ASM challenge in the area. • Engagement; • In the South Africa region, where we engage with executive • Socio-economic contribution; and mayors in some of our labour sending centres leading to the • Land access and resettlement. identification of potential local economic development projects in those areas. These management standards were approved prior to the revised International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) standards In 2012, we will develop several community management coming into effect in January 2012. As we followed the work guidelines to give effect to some of the standards. Included will of the IFC in developing their standards, it is not expected be a guideline on engagement. The intent is to assist that significant changes will need to be made to align our operations towards practical, effective and strategic standards with the IFC. An exception could be the issue of engagement with stakeholders and social partners. The two Free, Prior Informed Consent (FPIC) in the Indigenous country focus case studies which follow give insight into how Peoples management standard. We await the outcome of these issues are managed in Guinea and South Africa. P30 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Country focus – Guinea A COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP MODEL AngloGold Ashanti operates the Siguiri mine in Guinea. The concession is an area of almost 1,500km2 in a relatively remote location in the north east of the country, approximately 850km from the capital, Conakry. The mine is located in an area of significant potential for gold production, and has been a traditional area of artisanal mining for hundreds of years. Local economic activity is closely connected to gold mining. Given this context and the various challenges that AngloGold Ashanti has experienced in operating the mine, we recognised that for our long-term business sustainability we needed to develop an approach to manage the operation that targets value creation beyond orebody extraction and addresses the needs of the broad range of stakeholders within the region. The approach that has been developed aligns our sustainability-focused activities with a local development plan based on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) – see below. This focus on the MDGs will anchor AngloGold Ashanti in measureable development objectives while addressing key environmental and social opportunities, threats and liabilities that are a direct result of our operations. We intend to achieve this while continuing to meet all AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability and regulatory commitments at a national and international level. The outcomes envisaged are expected to The Millennium Development Goals In 2000, 189 nations made a promise to free people from extreme poverty and multiple deprivations. This pledge became the eight Millennium Development Goals to be achieved by 2015. In September 2010, global leaders A community adjacent to our Siguiri mine in recommitted themselves to accelerate progress towards Guinea where we are working to address key these goals. environmental and social opportunities AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Country focus – Guinea P31 Country focus – Guinea continued contribute to maximising tangible community benefits and This complex, dynamic and increasingly challenging situation enhancing measureable development outcomes in the in Siguiri meant that it was a prime candidate for the communities where we operate. The implementation of this development of a new approach to operating, both for approach presents an opportunity for AngloGold Ashanti to AngloGold Ashanti and for the region. In accordance with the actively engage with stakeholders and to do so in a way that sustainable development framework developed for the includes participatory planning with stakeholders to strengthen business as a whole, this new approach emphasises collaborative relationships. community engagement rooted in reliable operating processes that address: In operating at Siguiri, AngloGold Ashanti faces three distinct • Environmental and social impacts; but interdependent challenges: • Improved community relationships; • Low levels of economic development. The Siguiri region • Co-investing in communities to meet the MDGs; has little economic activity beyond mining. There is a high • Partnering with local communities to identify, design and level of dependence on gold mining with limited access to implement initiatives that benefit both them and the mine; alternative livelihoods. The challenge for AngloGold Ashanti is to play a catalytic role in facilitating socio-economic • Strengthening government capacity, local empowerment development driven by government, civil society and the ownership of development plans; and organisations and individuals around our mining operations. • Mobilising and diversifying AngloGold Ashanti contributions • A strong culture of artisanal mining or ‘orpaillage’ which is to local development plans which currently include the endemic to the region. This form of mining is labour intensive government, international donors, NGOs, individual and and is largely carried out with little regard for workers’ health other private sector contributors. and safety or environmental impact. In terms of the mining licence agreements in place at Siguiri, artisanal miners are This project is still in its development phase and only process permitted to mine on the concession, provided they do not steps, rather than solutions, have been mapped to date. work in areas which are actively being mined by the company. However, we remain optimistic about the opportunity that exists at Siguiri to develop an operation that can create value • Growth in the numbers of artisanal miners operating around for all stakeholders and become the blueprint for how the concession, with a significant number of immigrants arriving AngloGold Ashanti should engage successfully with local in numbers from surrounding regions as a result of economic communities in the future. The approach being piloted at conditions including the high price of gold. This causes Siguiri is scheduled to be replicated and scaled-up at other significant disruptions and safety issues for the operation. business units within the region over the next two-year period. In addition to concerns relating to safety, health and environmental management, these factors present a significant security issue for the operation. In 2011, the number of arrests for trespassing in our active working areas doubled and continues to increase. Operational management has continued to address the problems, but social and leadership structures within the community are in flux and have proved difficult to interpret and factor into community relations and engagement activity. For example, local government structures which were traditionally seen as a channel for communication with local communities have not functioned effectively. Despite the operation’s efforts to date, engaging with structured associations and the local government has not resulted in the desired outcomes and there is an opportunity for deeper engagement and dialogue with a broader and more diverse group of stakeholders. Added to the above, the region is geographically remote from national government structures. A newly-emerging democratic government faces multiple challenges in social Medina Camara, a community member and and economic development, and Siguiri is one area on a long employee at the Siguiri mine in Guinea list of priorities. P32 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Country focus – South Africa LINKING TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT International TIC members visited Great Noligwa mine, South Africa to review progress on the Technology and Innovation Consortium programme for AngloGold Ashanti In South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti is already mining at depths brings not only diversity but speed and a proven track record of close to 4,000m. Progressing further underground will to the innovation process. A website with social networking require finding new solutions to operating challenges, capability – www.aga-tic.com – supports collaboration especially in the area of safety. In anticipating these challenges among team members, many of whom work on different in the South Africa region, the group has identified two continents and are unable to meet regularly in person. strategic areas of work – technology innovation and the interlinked area of socio-economic development. In taking the first steps towards this ‘new mining paradigm’, the consortium is looking at projects that will enable AngloGold Technological innovation is required in order to ensure that Ashanti to mine without blasting, remove people from high-risk mining remains safe and competitive in the future, and is tasks and operate continuously, using technology to drive this particularly critical as we mine at greater depths. AngloGold change in a three-stage approach. Ashanti has therefore established the Technology and Innovation Consortium (TIC) as a vehicle for developing Stage one will work towards no drilling and blasting, and innovative technologies and management processes to removing people from the stope over a period of three to improve safety and enhance efficiencies. five years. Stage two will target a move to ‘intelligent mining’ through automation and information communication The TIC brings together a number of key players from around technology. This is anticipated to be a five to 10 year horizon. the world, all leading innovators in their fields. It has The objective of stage three is to deliver ‘gold on tap’ using developed tools to enhance communication opportunities autonomous machines, with the ultimate goal of ‘SAFELY between participants, using an open innovation model that mining all the Gold .... Just the Gold ... all the time’. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Country focus – South Africa P33 Country focus – South Africa continued Transforming the way we mine will ensure that the company Social and Labour Plans (SLPs) were reviewed and revised in has a sustainable future in South Africa. However, the line with the directives from the Department of Mineral current South African operating model is labour intensive, Resources (DMR). Extensive stakeholder engagements took place prior to the revision of the SLPs. with the region representing more than 50% of our entire global workforce. In 2011, AngloGold Ashanti initiated a workshop to obtain input on the scope and content of a revised socio-economic strategy. Whilst automation of our mines will address issues of safety Participants included representatives from government, peer and improve productivity and efficiency, we are highly organisations, industry associations and sustainability experts sensitive to the impact this new approach to mining will have among others. The resulting prototype structures socioon our employees and on job creation opportunities in the economic development plans around five core elements, as mediumto long-term. illustrated below. We therefore recognised the need to strengthen our socioThrough leveraging partnerships and initiating a collaborative funding approach, we will aim to identify areas where we can economic development strategy to find solutions not only to stimulate and support local economic development. An the threat that arises from the continuing decrease in amount of over $40m has been budgeted for the period production nationally, but also to address the potential job 2012 to 2014 for investment in: losses which will in all likelihood arise as a result of the • Local economic development; transition to a technology-driven model. • Enterprise development; and • Social and institutional development, including in labourIn 2011, the regional team pursued this and the related sending areas as well as host communities. objectives of: • Compliance with regulatory reporting obligations; We are in the process of identifying specific projects which • Strengthening community and stakeholder engagement; and will deliver against the model. Work will continue in 2012 on • Continuing with initiatives aimed at facilitating the creation of engaging partners and jointly defining project objectives employment in our host communities. and outcomes. Socio-economic development approach in AngloGold Ashanti’s South Africa region Infrastructure Infrastructure development Built environment, transport networks, is sufficient utilities supply, housing and shelter Social People are healthy Health and welfare, education, equality, and educated child care, aged care, maternal care, religion The elements must be Economic congruent and balanced There are financial liquidity for healthy, safe, educated, Employment, equity, ownership, capability, and employment opportunities economically active procurement, entrepreneurs, opportunity communities Institutional There is a respected Governance, legal systems, security, governance framework policing, utilities management Land and evironment The geographic area is Usage, ownership, development, control, utilised effectively environmental sustainability P34 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) A AGENDA ASM world map ■ ■ ■ ■ * ▼ Artisanal gold production ▼ ■ by country (estimated tonnes per annum) ■ ■ 20-50 tonnes ■ ■ ▼ 6-10 tonnes below 6 tonnes ■ all other ■ AngloGold Ashanti operations ▼ AngloGold Ashanti exploration projects * Source: World Gold Council During our discussions with the sustainability review panel in In this section we describe the company’s approach to ASM September 2011, it was suggested that there would be although we recognise that it is linked to unemployment, particular value in focusing on the interrelationships between inequity, poverty and resource nationalism. three macro (although by no means universal) trends, at a company level and internationally, these areas being: ASM is a centuries old activity. However the management of • the growing challenge of unemployment, inequity and this issue, particularly in relationship to large-scale mining poverty; (LSM) is relatively new and rapidly evolving. The context in • the rise of resource nationalism, not just in South Africa, but which ASM operates (and becomes legal or illegal) is in flux, is internationally; and regulated by national governments and requires continuous • the growth of artisanal mining, both locally routed and more refinement. LSM operators are still dealing with the complexity increasingly with international value chains. of the issues. Debate is open on how to craft a solution that AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) P35 Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) continued involves government partnership, community engagement, Communities and Small-scale Mining (CASM) initiative of the land negotiations as well as specific community interventions World Bank. Each country and region has a different context including environmental improvements and the formalisation of and therefore a single solution is not evident. A global ASM activity. guideline and framework is however required to guide and develop local strategies and AngloGold Ashanti will work with The definition of ASM includes the separate categories of industry participants and relevant international agencies to artisanal and small-scale mining and is distinct from illegal progress this in 2012, including through collaborative activity, which includes theft and shrinkage. ASM provides a initiatives in Ghana and Tanzania. The first step in these livelihood for many people but at the same time is associated initiatives will be to undertake a stakeholder mapping with a number of negative impacts, including environmental exercise to identify ASM representatives with whom degradation, flouting of land rights, poor working practices, engagement can take place. Guidance can then be erosion of civil society, human rights abuse and funding of developed on the basis of this engagement. conflict. Frequently, impacts arising from ASM are attributed to LSM, or it is assumed that artisanally-mined gold is channelled Our management focus is, therefore, in the following areas: through LSM operators, even though ASM and LSM have distinct supply chains with different characteristics. • Ensuring compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and responsible gold standards under development; SR page 56 The company is seeking to address ASM on two levels: • Working to actively engage artisanal and small-scale miners globally, at a strategic level that seeks to identify and develop at each of our affected sites to ensure peaceful co-existence best practice, and locally, at an operational level, tailoring with ASM participants that contributes to the long-term solutions that respond to the situation on the ground. development of the areas; • Putting in place a framework to guide and assist operations AngloGold Ashanti operates in seven of the top 15 artisanal in addressing the complexity of ASM; gold-producing countries. It therefore participates in • Actively participating and leading global partners in developing effective mechanisms for understanding and managing ASM with support from the International Council on addressing the complexity of ASM; and Mining and Metals (ICMM), the World Gold Council and the • Creating in-country and cross-country collaboration, where World Bank, which includes a renewed initiative on the applicable, across our operating portfolio. Artisanal and small-scale mining “ Challenges faced by ASM in Africa… include inadequate policy and regulatory frameworks; limited technical capacity and access to appropriate technology (and consequent environmental degradation); lack of finance; inadequate access to exploration and mining areas; difficulties in accessing the market; issues associated with conflict minerals; and women and child labour concerns. The opportunity for ASM to be transformed into a tool for sustainable development, particularly in rural areas, can thus be realised only if these challenges are met holistically. ” The El Retiro Mill in Gramalote, Colombia has Minerals and Africa’s Development. The International Study Group been in operation for approximately 150 years. Report on Africa’s Mineral Regimes, commissioned by the African Union P36 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Security strategy COMMUNITY-ENHANCED In 2011, we put in place a revised strategy targeting security Our focus in 2011 was on completing implementation of based on good community relationships. We did this in AngloGold Ashanti’s global security framework, which began in response to: 2009 and has been rolled out to all of our operations, and on • A growing recognition that good community relationships strengthening the integrity and credibility of security built on trust will have a positive impact on security; and management processes. This work will be continued into 2012 and represents the first phase of our strategy. • An increase in the number and severity of security incidents at our operations, as a result of both increased illegal and In the second phase of the strategy, which will take us until artisanal mining and an increase in the level of organisation approximately 2015, we will focus on a five-point plan as a and funding of criminal activity around our operations, foundation for long-term improvement. The five issues that spurred on by an escalating gold price. have been identified are: The most significant security challenges that we face occur in areas where there is endemic poverty and high levels of Removing people from risk unemployment with few opportunities for alternative Reducing the potential for conflict is paramount to prevent livelihoods. Effective strategies for community engagement injuries to employees, security personnel and community and local economic development to create alternative members. In 2011, 49 injuries to security personnel occurred, livelihoods are therefore essential and will be put into practice and three fatalities and nine injuries among community along with the revised security strategy described in the members. The continuing occurrence of these fatalities and diagram below. injuries is an area of major concern. AngloGold Ashanti’s security strategy Community-enhanced security (3rd ring of security) (Role of public security) (Role of communities) Protection of people and facilities (Perimeter and access control) Remove people from Securing of product risk and reduce (Asset protection) potential for conflict (Technology vs. manpower) (Skilled and equipped reaction teams) AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Security strategy P37 Security strategy continued Defining the role of communities in complementing security initiatives This will be a key driver for success going forward and the only sustainable way of ensuring acceptable security practices in the future. All relevant stakeholders will be engaged in developing solutions to promote community-enhanced security. Partnering more effectively with public security providers This is to complement the reach and effectiveness of our own security measures. The use of military force remains a last resort. However in Colombia, Ghana, the DRC and Guinea, risk assessments categorise threats as high enough to require the inclusion of public security forces on a near-permanent basis. These are usually national police and/or military units, that provide additional security in accordance with specific agreements with the competent authorities or at the authorities’ own initiative. These will be phased out if the threat and risk diminishes through stronger community-enhanced policing initiatives. The role of public security in our areas of operation is to maintain law and order. Defining this role in a way which complements our security efforts and ensures respect for the human rights of all parties will be a key focus area going forward. As part of this effort, we have been working to review contracts with private and public security services to standardise contract requirements by mid 2012. Technology and manpower Improving our use of technology to reduce physical numbers of security personnel potentially at risk in line with current security management practices. A significant number of security personnel are currently employed (constituting about 6% of our total workforce) and we aim to reduce the number of individuals exposed to risk by implementing technology-driven security management practices. Using highly-trained, skilled and equipped rapid reaction teams This is used to defuse potential security incidents before they escalate. Four incidents of protest action were reported at our AngloGold Ashanti’s, Cesar Colmenares liaises operations in 2011 and we believe that our ability to respond with government forces regarding the to these incidents will be improved with the involvement of protection of our company’s exploration project specialist teams. Our capacity to respond appropriately to at Gramalote, Colombia incidents in the field will also be improved through real time reports and electronic alarms. P38 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes In the third phase, from 2015 onwards, our aim is that security Injuries to third parties as a result management will play a more strategic role in our business, with of security interventions community partnerships enhancing our security and enabling security management practices that are fully supported by 9 communities, public security and host governments. In our context, this approach will represent leading practice and will 5 4 provide a significant contribution to the stability and security of 3 employees, communities and operations. NR In conjunction with this strategy, we are working to improve 07 08 09 10 11 communication processes around incidents. Incidents are NR = not reported. AngloGold Ashanti became a signatory to the VPSHR in 2007 and recorded security data consistently from 2008 reviewed to establish what lessons can be learnt and knowledge is shared through regular meetings of global, regional and operational security managers. Regular The number of injuries remains low relative to the increase in interactions take place between security and community security interventions required to ensure the protection of relations personnel and we have also introduced the practice assets and personnel. of including community, safety and other relevant experts in on-site investigations of security incidents. We have, however, experienced an increase in injuries to security personnel. As referenced previously, AngloGold We are also in the process of integrating our global security Ashanti’s security is provided by internal security personnel framework and management practices within all our and private security companies. In Colombia, Ghana, the DRC exploration activities as part of the overall due diligence of new and Guinea, these are assisted by public security forces. The and existing exploration sites. graph below covers all three of these categories. As previously noted, we recorded an increase in the number and severity of security incidents in 2011, due in part to a greater level of organisation among criminal elements and syndicates in our Injuries to security personnel as a areas of operation, as well as an increase in artisanal and smallresult of security interventions scale mining (ASM) and illegal mining activity, spurred on by higher gold prices. Implementation of the revised security 49 44 strategy described above is essential in stemming and reversing this trend. 12 11 Regrettably, nine injuries and three fatalities among third parties NR occurred during the year as a result of security incidents. 07 08 09 10 11 NR = not reported. AngloGold Ashanti became a signatory to the VPSHR in 2007 and recorded security data consistently from 2008 Fatalities among third parties as a result of security interventions The fatalities graphed on the following page typically result from artisanal mining activity, where this is carried out on company property. As artisanal miners operate independently 3 2 of the company, we cannot regulate this activity. We have however attempted to reduce the number of injuries and NR 0 0 fatalities that occur by restricting access to areas of our concessions where we are actively mining and which may be 07 08 09 10 11 NR = not reported. AngloGold Ashanti became a signatory to the dangerous to artisanal miners or to the public in general. VPSHR in 2007 and recorded security data consistently from 2008 Although we believe that not all injuries and fatalities are AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Security strategy P39 Security strategy continued assessment of the company’s progress in implementation of Third party fatalities (not due to the VPSHR, which will also focus on training. We will receive security interventions) the results of this assessment at the end of March 2012 and 28 we will start actioning recommendations from the second quarter, to aid development of formal strategies and goals in this area. 12 6 4 Businesses participating in the VPSHR are in the process of NR developing and adopting a standard set of key performance 07 08 09 10 11 indicators, which we fully support and will incorporate into our NR = not reported. AngloGold Ashanti became a signatory to the management practices. VPSHR in 2007 and recorded security data consistently from 2008 reported to us, we have seen a decrease in the recorded numbers of fatalities and we believe that more effective security management practices have played a significant role in achieving this. In our 2010 report, we also committed to: • A review of all public and private security services contracts by 2011. This has been progressed and will be completed in mid-2012; and • Implementing the global security framework by the end of 2011, which has been achieved. Compliance assessments will be conducted at our operations in 2012. As described above, a revised security strategy has also been developed in response to the increase in the number and severity of security incidents and is in the process of being implemented. Compliance with the VPSHR Implementation of the VPSHR has been an integral part of our security management programme since the introduction of our global security framework in 2009. AngloGold Ashanti compiles a detailed annual report on progress in the application of the voluntary principles which is published on our website at www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability. The VPSHR are a set of non-binding principles developed in 2000 to provide guidance to businesses on meeting security needs whilst maintaining respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Extensive training of both AngloGold Ashanti security personnel, public and private security suppliers is carried out on the voluntary principles. In 2011, 97% of our security personnel received training. Training is conducted according to a standard briefing developed by AngloGold Ashanti and updated as necessary to take account of changes in factors affecting our security situation. A priority for the coming year is to review and improve the quality of this training. In Colombia, the company has engaged an NGO, International Alert, to provide an independent P40 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Operating with respect for human rights RELEVANT TO OUR CONTEXT In order to align our actions with our core business strategy of company processes, enabling systems for ongoing human ‘People are the Business’, we are in the process of establishing rights due diligence at all operations, effective grievance operational systems to enable AngloGold Ashanti to meet its mechanisms at all operations and systems for methodically responsibility to respect all human rights in line with its vision, monitoring the human rights performance of business partners, mission, values and strategies, and to ensure alignment with including suppliers. the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UN Guiding Principles) as adopted by the United Nation’s Human Rights Council in June 2011. This formally Steps to improve performance commits us to complying with applicable laws and respecting Our goal is to apply ongoing human rights due diligence to all internationally recognised human rights, even when national operations, as stipulated by the UN Guiding Principles. laws or their application fall short of protecting these rights. In our 2010 report, we recorded our intention to develop a groupA key component of the UN Guiding Principles is to establish wide human rights policy, framework and procedures in grievance mechanisms to ensure that those adversely alignment with the UN Guiding Principles. impacted by our activities have the opportunity to express grievances, have their grievances examined and, as A human rights project team was formed to take this work appropriate, addressed. Putting in place an effective grievance forward, including external specialist support. During the mechanism system for each operation is therefore a priority in year, a multi-disciplinary internal working group was also our work ahead. AngloGold Ashanti is participating in a pilot established to support the integration of human rights into project in the DRC, under the auspices of the International AngloGold Ashanti’s systems and processes, in line with the Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), to develop and UN Guiding Principles and the work of the human rights implement a draft community grievance mechanism piloting project team. our draft standard on complaint and grievance mechanisms. Design of the grievance mechanism should be completed by Assessing gaps in existing systems the end of 2012. Within the group, human rights challenges are already The group also recognises its responsibility to seek to prevent addressed to some extent through a range of standards and or mitigate adverse human rights impacts where they are policies in the disciplines of health, safety, community, directly linked to our activities through our business environment, human resources and security. The project work relationships with subsidiaries, joint venture partners and in 2011 initiated a detailed gap assessment of existing policies suppliers. In this regard, our procurement department is and systems to be used as the basis for supplementing these putting in place systems which will enable it to undertake policies and systems or, where necessary, creating new ones. human rights due diligence of AngloGold Ashanti’s supply In addition, the project team interacted with a cross section of chain. Substantial work is required to develop these systems, relevant personnel in the company to understand gaps starting with the implementation of a process for risk between the content of systems and their implementation and assessment to identify sectors and geographical regions challenges in the corporate culture. where there is a need for detailed screening and potentially the audit of human rights performance. The work of the project team and the internal working group found that gaps and deficits in existing systems should be We also continue to implement our global security framework appropriately addressed through a human rights framework. based on embedding the Voluntary Principles on Security and The company is in the process of developing that framework, Human Rights (VPSHR) into our security management which includes an explicit human rights policy statement, practices. This is covered in greater detail in our discussion on provides a structure for embedding human rights into existing security management. SR pages 37 to 40 AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Operating with respect for human rights P41 Safety and health OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES The safety and health of our employees are among our most Regrettably, however, we continue to experience fatalities important business considerations and we are committed to at our operations. We record with sadness the loss of creating the safest possible working environment for 15 colleagues in operational accidents in 2011. employees, in line with our core business strategy. We have made significant progress in improving safety and health performance since 2008. We aim to continue these improvements in line with our long-term goal of operating a In Memoriam business free of occupational injury and illness and our fiveyear objective of reducing our all injury frequency rate (AIFR) to At Great Noligwa in South Africa less than nine per million hours worked. Mr Petrose Mohapi on 10 January At the South African regional services AIFR is the total number of injuries per million hours worked, Mr Michael Khabo on 2 February including fatalities. We use it as a key measurement of performance because it is consistent with our long-term goal At Mponeng in South Africa of eliminating all occupational injuries. Mr Lance Phiri on 27 May Mr Thinavhiyo Amos Malitsha on 11 August AIFR – group At Moab Khotsong in South Africa Mr Mohale Ignatius Selepe on 18 August 20.95 16.66 12.88 11.50 At Kopanang in South Africa 9.76 Mr Wikus Pretorius on 31 August Mr Bheki Eric Gama on 10 October Mr Francisco Cuamba Bata on 30 November 07 08 09 10 11 Mr Vikizitha Gama on 3 December Included in these figures is a reduction of occupational At Obuasi in Ghana fatalities by 56% since 2007 and fatality rates by 57% over Mr Owusu Afriyie Osei on 4 February the same period. Mr Clement Barkson on 3 November Mr Thomas Donsung on 11 December Fatalities – group At the greenfields exploration site in Eritrea Mr Daniel Tekle on 19 June 34 At the Cuiabá mine in Brazil 15 15 15 Mr Rodrigo de Paiva on 27 June 14 At Gramalote in Colombia Mr Juan Ferney Cardona Hincapie on 21 November 07 08 09 10 11 P42 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes AngloGold Ashanti’s safety framework Setting expectations and Integrating strategies into the Evaluating performance building strategies business and executing Vision Global standards Review standards, procedures and Group procedures guidelines Corporate level Policy and principles Guidelines Measure performance against standards Integration into Strategies operating system Regional safety and health Regional level strategies with continuous improvement Operational level Operational safety and Review site plans health plans and procedures and procedures Safety transformation Strategic focus areas The foundation for continued improvement in safety performance will be the ongoing implementation of safety We have identified three strategic themes for safety transformation into our operating system. Design and transformation – engaging people, building the right systems implementation of the safety transformation programme with and managing risks effectively. These are translated into action this objective has been underway since mid-2008 and deals through the safety framework (in this context safety includes with the concepts of physical risk (injuries), health (illnesses) both safety and health considerations). and wellbeing. Safety transformation recognises that a safe and healthy business is a more productive one, but more The framework clarifies the relationship between policy, importantly, safety transformation is about valuing people and strategies, standards, guidelines, procedures, regional and ensuring that we place priority on people’s lives, physical operational approaches and the monitoring and measuring of security, health and wellbeing. performance as we strive to achieve continuous improvement in performance. Achieving our safety goals requires a maturation of our safety culture, where tone and direction are set by leaders who The rationale for our approach is based on our understanding engage and motivate people to give their best, and who shape of how various industries have evolved through embracing organisational and safety systems which enhance the ability of safety as a business value. In their evolution, they went through employees to manage risk effectively. four clear stages of leadership – positioning safety as a AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Safety and health P43 Safety and health continued At Cerro Vanguardia, in Argentina, this safety capsule has been introduced to use in the case of disaster. The unit is stocked with long life water, food and oxygen. It also has a communication and air link to the surface business imperative, managing processes to reduce variability • A review of organisational safety capabilities; and and deliver consistent performance, re-engineering processes • Development of operational safety plans to business unit to find better and safer ways to do work and introducing teams. technical innovations to remove people from risk. We made progress against these objectives in 2011 by: This is the path which AngloGold Ashanti seeks to pursue, • Finalising our global safety policy and safety standards; and is consistent with the Project ONE organisational • Completing several of the guidelines supporting the change initiative. standards; • Completing safety strategies for all of AngloGold Ashanti’s In our 2010 report, we noted that we would continue operating regions, and commencing roll out of these implementation of safety transformation through: strategies to the various operations; and • Developing and deploying globally a new incident • Completion of guidelines by mid-2011 to support roll out of investigation process based on a model widely regarded as the global safety standards; best practice in various industries. The objective of this • Implementation of a new model and process for accident system is to enable the organisation to learn from incidents investigation; and manage them more proactively. The system includes P44 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes modules relating to incident investigation and analysis. • Meeting the industry milestone of no deterioration in Revised incident investigation procedures have been put in hearing greater than 10%, from a 2008 baseline, among place reflecting our view that incidents generally have occupationally-exposed individuals at South African multiple and sometimes complex contributing factors at an operations. individual, workplace and organisational level. • Rolling out integrated malaria programmes, based on the highly-successful model implemented at Obuasi in Ghana; at operations in Mali, Tanzania and Guinea. “WMRS (the incident management system) has turned out to be a very useful These targets relate primarily to the South Africa and system for incident recording. It is a Continental Africa regions of the company and progress programme that fosters heightened hazard against them is set out in the sections that follow. awareness and provides management a There were no reported incidences of occupational disease in tool to record observations and monitor the Americas region in 2011, and occupational health their progress toward resolution. ” surveillance programmes are in place at all operations. The Larry Snyder, Safety Manager at CC&V mine development of occupational health surveillance systems in Colombia was undertaken in the fourth quarter of 2011, and a baseline health survey has been scheduled as part of the La To support the roll out of safety and health strategies, Colosa plan. operations were also provided with defined safety technical training which incorporates the new approaches and clarifies No occupational health issues arose in the Australian region in their context and application. 2011. Noise and dust monitoring programmes are maintained as per statutory requirements. The key focus on health Ongoing work includes the development of the remaining management is around lifestyle health management and ‘fit for guidelines, and the development of a performance work’ strategies. monitoring, review and assurance system, as outlined in the safety framework. Occupational health exposures The reduction of silicosis requires active dust management Health strategies in underground operations, particularly in South Africa where the number of cases reported each year remains In the area of health, we continue to manage several key areas high (263 in 2011). We have reduced dust exposure of risk, including: consistently since 2006 and maintain higher sampling rates • Occupational health exposures, particularly occupational than those prescribed by legislation. In 2011, we progressed lung disease (OLD), primarily silicosis and occupational two major initiatives designed to reduce dust exposure, the tuberculosis at our South African operations; and noiseintroduction of centralised blasting at our Vaal River operations induced hearing loss (NIHL). and the introduction of sidewall treatment for dust (an • HIV/AIDS, particularly in the South Africa region. extension of existing footwall treatment measures). • Malaria, in certain areas of our Continental Africa region. Centralised blasting is due to commence at the end of the first We are working towards the following objectives: quarter of 2012 and will be in place at all of our Vaal River • Continuous progress towards the industry milestone of no operations by mid-2012. Sidewall treatment technology is new cases of silicosis among previously unexposed being piloted and, if successful, will be rolled out from 2012. employees at South African operations (2008 onwards) after December 2013. Ongoing execution of dust management strategies has • In South Africa, maintaining occupational tuberculosis (TB) resulted in a significant reduction in respirable crystalline incidence at below 2.25% among South African employees silica, with 0.74% of samples exceeding the Occupational and reducing it to below 1.5% by 2029. Successfully curing Exposure Limit (OEL) of 0.1mg/m3, well below the industry 85% of new cases. target of 5%. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Safety and health P45 Safety and health continued It has also contributed to a 43% reduction in silicosis cases, Monitoring and early treatment of TB have also been from 459 cases submitted to the Medical Board for improved with the introduction of mobile x-ray screening at Occupational Diseases of South Africa (MBOD) in 2010 to 263 South African operations. Cure rates are currently in excess in 2011. of 90% against our target of 85%. It is still too early to assess progress against the industry We continue efforts to combat NIHL. In 2011, initiatives in milestone of no new cases of silicosis among employees at South Africa focused on the silencing of equipment and the South African operations by 2013 (among individuals use of moulded hearing protection devices. The incidence of unexposed prior to 2008). No cases of silicosis have been NIHL remained unchanged over 2010, with a marginal reported among this group to date. However, the latency increase in the number of cases, from 64 in 2010 to 69 in period of the disease is typically 10-15 years. 2011. It is still too early to assess progress against the industry milestones. However, we anticipate being able to do so in our In previous reporting, including in our 2010 Sustainability 2012 report. Report, we referred to the legal action instituted against AngloGold Ashanti in 2006 by a former employee, Mr Thembikile In Obuasi, in Ghana, a review of the hearing conservation Mankayi, claiming damages allegedly suffered as a result programme has been undertaken and the measures outlined of silicosis. below have been put in place: • Substitution of equipment, primarily drills used in The case was heard in the High Court of South Africa in June development areas underground. As part of the equipment 2008, and an appeal heard in the Supreme Court of Appeal in replacement strategy, equipment conforming to the 2010. In both instances, judgement was awarded in favour of Continental Africa region standards will be purchased. AngloGold Ashanti on the basis that an employer is • Engineering controls: all ventilation fans in critical areas indemnified against such a claim under existing legislation. contributing to the noise load have been identified and are A further appeal lodged by Mr Mankayi was heard in the being silenced. As at 31 December 2011, 75% of old fans Constitutional Court in 2010 and judgement handed down on had been fitted with silencers. 3 March 2011. The Constitutional Court held that the relevant • Administrative Controls: awareness creation started section of the legislation does not indemnify the employer immediately after baseline monitoring. Daily safety talks and against such claims. ‘back from leave inductions’ are being used extensively in awareness creation. Mr Mankayi passed away prior to the Constitutional Court appeal. His executor may proceed with his case in the High • Personal Protective Equipment: hearing protection Court, which will require, among others, providing evidence devices (HPD) have been standardised. Improved that Mr Mankayi contracted silicosis as a result of negligent information, education and communication sessions have conduct on the part of AngloGold Ashanti. led to an improvement in HPD consumption of over 245% between 2010 and 2011. The company will defend the case and any subsequent claims on their merits. HIV/AIDS Our fundamental strategy in combating HIV/AIDS among Linked to both silica dust exposure and the HIV/AIDS employees in our South Africa region continues to yield epidemic, occupational tuberculosis remains a significant encouraging results. We have maintained communications threat. However health programmes in place have delivered and awareness programmes as well as voluntary counselling good results, including a 31% reduction of rates over 2010, and testing (VCT) initiatives and provide wellness programmes and a 50% reduction from 2004 levels. The incidence of to affected employees and antiretroviral therapy (ART) to occupational tuberculosis (TB) among employees in South employees for whom this treatment is clinically indicated. Africa in 2011, at 1.8%, was below the 2015 target of 2.25%, We are moving towards an integrated approach to the a result of sustained dust control measures, HIV testing and management of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, in line with counselling programmes and antiretroviral therapy (ART). public health strategy in South Africa. At the West Wits P46 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes The ‘Centro de Referencia’ at AGA Mineração in Brazil specialises in the treatment of silicosis. Silicosis has now been eliminated at our operations in Brazil. However, former employees who are affected are treated at the clinic operations, for example, we relocated HIV/AIDS and project began in July 2011, following successful resolution with tuberculosis clinics to a single site in 2011, facilitating the Ghanaian authorities of taxation issues relating to the grant. access to both by affected employees. Spraying began in January 2012. At the end of 2011, 4,506 employees were attending wellness In 2011, we worked towards the objective of rolling out the clinics at our South African operations and 2,378 employees highly-successful model implemented at Obuasi to other were receiving ART. The incidence of aids-defining illnesses affected sites in our Continental Africa region. Malaria control has decreased significantly since the introduction of ART programmes at these sites were reviewed as part of treatment. It now stands at 0.66 cases per 1,000 employees, regional health services assessments, to provide the in comparison to 5.1 cases per 1,000 employees in 2004. information required to support a more systematic approach ART programmes were first rolled out at AngloGold Ashanti to the roll-out. operations in 2003. Our sites in Mali were the first sites to implement the Malaria recommendations of the review. A malaria vector study was The Obuasi Malaria Control Programme remains highly undertaken at the Sadiola and Yatela mines in Mali during successful and has achieved a sustained reduction in the 2011 and the team from Obuasi in Ghana scrutinised the malaria incidence. 1,084 cases were recorded at Obuasi in results to assist the site in developing programmes further. 2011, a reduction of 18% from 2010. In 2012 we will be working on establishing targets on malaria at affected operations. In 2009, AngloGold Ashanti was nominated as the principal recipient of a grant of $138m from the Global Fund to Fight We also undertook a mosquito resistance survey at our AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The project will cover exploration site in Mongbwalu in the DRC as part of health 40 districts in Ghana and will be based on the integrated baseline studies at that site and to inform decisions on the malaria control model implemented at Obuasi. Work on the types of insecticides to be used in indoor residual spraying. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental and natural resource management P47 Environmental and natural resource management FOR BETTER PERFORMANCE Over the past two years, strategies relating to environmental These standards have largely been implemented at all management have focused on continuous improvement in operations and a cycle of review and evaluation of compliance environmental performance, linked to achieving the business is underway. target of reducing reportable incidents (as defined in our management standard) from a 2008 baseline by 60% by 2013. Assurance processes, which included regular site Substantial progress has been made in meeting this target. In assessments through the Community and Environment 2011, 27 reportable incidents were recorded, a reduction of Review Programme (CERP), were strengthened in 2011 with 51% from the 2008 baseline. A new stretch target was the development of an incident review panel to analyse the adopted during 2011 of reducing reportable environmental management of environmental, community, security and safety incidents by 30% by 2015 from a 2010 baseline. incidents, identify potential lessons learnt and prevent recurrence of similar incidents elsewhere in the group. Risk areas have been identified through the incident review panel Number of reportable and these were communicated to the various regional environmental incidents executives and business units to address. An internal sustainability audit committee was also established to review 55 49 51 audit reports and to track and address risks raised during site audit visits. 27 27 In this report, we cover several areas of environmental and natural resource management in more detail: 07 08 09 10 11 • Water management; • Climate change; Implementation of a group-wide programme initiated in 2009 • Energy consumption; led to the development of standards in several key areas of environmental management. As previously reported, standards • Cyanide use; agreed in 2009 relate to: • Waste management; • Air quality; • Dust control; and • Chemicals; • Biodiversity. • Closure and rehabilitation; • Incident reporting; Water performance • Land use; Water is a key input for the mining industry. The management of • Waste; and water supply and quality are key concerns both for the business • Water. and its stakeholders. Failure to manage this issue can impact on gold production, as well as the health and safety of neighbouring The standards are available on our website at www.anglogoldcommunities and their ability to generate income through other ashanti.com/sustainability. livelihoods such as agriculture. It is a key area of interface with P48 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes A new water treatment plant is in place at Iduapriem, in Ghana. It uses reverse osmosis to convert used process water from the plant into safe water which is discharged back into the river system near the mine. The process primarily removes the arsenic from the water host communities as there is immediate public experience in the • continuing to refine key performance indicators, event of incidents of water pollution or shortage, which in performance measurement and reporting in 2011; and extreme cases can lead to community protest, regulatory • quantifying the water benefits of business improvement sanctions and ultimately the withdrawal of community and initiatives. government support for our operations. So, focus in 2011 was on improving water efficiency at all of Legal compliance in all aspects of water management is the our operations. In particular, we developed an approach to minimum requirement for operating. Where feasible, we integrated water management which is currently being piloted operate a ‘closed loop’ system, recycling all of the water used in South Africa. The region was chosen as a pilot for this in our operations without discharging it to the environment. project due to the complexity of the water circuit at our South This reduces our environmental impact, enabling us to reduce African operations, a result of multiple processing plants, deep both water consumption and the potential for water underground shafts, multiple points for water discharge to the contamination. It also assists in containing costs. In some environment, differing requirements for process and potable areas, however, such as Ghana, high levels of rainfall and water quality, differing geology and climate patterns, water surface water runoff mean that a closed system is not feasible storage and evaporation challenges. and that discharges must take place. In this situation, we need to ensure that we have the systems in place to manage In 2010, we also stated our objective of improving water discharges to at least meet minimum discharge standards. security at our operations by: • finalising high-level reviews of water security arrangements Significant improvements were made in 2011 in managing in 2011; water quality in South Africa and Ghana which remain our areas of highest risk and these are detailed in the regional • commencing the development of site-based water security summaries. SR pages 20 to 23 strategies for life of mine; and • embedding integrated water management at all sites, In our 2010 report, we set ourselves the targets of: and recognising the value of managing water • developing site-based targets and action plans from 2012 performance across entire site operations in a planned onwards; and coordinated manner. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental and natural resource management P49 Environmental and natural resource management continued A renewed emphasis on minimising raw water intake from the Legislation on carbon pricing was passed in Australia in 2011 environment and securing water supplies for the future is a key and is under consideration in South Africa and Brazil. feature of our global water strategy. Specific site-based water Depending on the final outcome, the legislation could have a security strategies are to be developed as soon as possible. financial impact on our operations. In each country, AngloGold Ashanti is proactively engaging with government in order to A global strategy for building water security was drafted in find a balance between effectiveness in addressing climate 2011. Because this strategy is complex and wide reaching and change and adverse impacts on the economy and business. requires corporate support, roll-out will occur progressively Because we export almost all of our products and as our from 2012. While agreement on our global ambitions is still prices are not set by the company but on international being sought, this strategy focuses on reducing raw water commodity exchanges, the company is potentially exposed if consumption, continuous improvement in integrated water some countries impose a price on carbon (for example through management practice, progressively addressing discharge a carbon tax) while others do not. water quality legacy issues and enhanced transparency in monitoring and reporting. In our 2010 report, we committed to specifying life-of-mine climate change risks in more detail for priority operations, starting in 2011 with those at greatest risk. This work remains Climate change to be done in 2012. At the United Nations conference on climate change in Durban, South Africa, in December 2011, the parties to the Energy performance conference agreed to a number of actions at an international level to mitigate the impacts of climate change, which remains We are a major consumer of electricity and fuels, which an issue of global importance. represent the source of all but a small portion of our greenhouse gas emissions. These energy sources are scarce Potential physical risks to our operations as a result of climate and increasingly costly. Reducing our energy footprint would change include changes in rainfall rates or reduced water mean lower impact on climate change from our operations and availability, higher temperatures and extreme weather events. reduced costs. In addition, the communities around our mines could be exposed to an increased risk of food insecurity, water scarcity Our declining production resulted in a decrease of energy and adverse health impacts. At site level, we need to interpret efficiency of 4% in 2011 to 6.7GJ per ounce of gold produced. the potential impact of climate change and develop practical action plans, which may include operational changes or capital Our energy consumption has remained stable at 30.5 million improvements. This includes consideration of engineering and GJ in 2011, largely as a result of improvements in energy operational issues as well as the potential impact of climate efficiency at our South African operations. Our absolute change on employees and host communities. emissions reduced by just over 6% in 2011 to 4.5Mt CO2e, largely a consequence of the changing generation source mix In order to reduce our generation of greenhouse gases, the for electricity provided to our South African operations from the installation of low-carbon electricity generation capacity national grid. Traditional mining methods are typically more (hydropower) and energy-efficient technologies, such as energy intensive with mine depth, complexity and haulage efficient compressed air systems, are under consideration in distances increasing over time as mining operations mature. the DRC and South Africa. If projects meet the international criteria, carbon credits will be generated and traded. Projects Because of the scale of this challenge, it has been set were completed in South Africa to install heat pumps at highas a specific third stage focus of our South Africa region density residences and improve the energy efficiency of our Technology and Innovation Consortium, details of which compressed air systems. It may be possible to earn carbon are included in the South Africa country focus. SR pages 33 credits from the savings achieved. to 34 P50 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes With 38% of our global energy consumption and 68% of Also in 2010 we committed to: our global greenhouse gas emissions in 2011, our South Africa • Improving energy security by: region also piloted our approach to incorporation of energy • finalising high-level reviews of site energy security management and associated reporting requirements into our arrangements in 2011; and global operating model, the Business Process Framework. • commencing the development of site-based energy security strategies for life of mine. Energy consumption by region (Million GJ) A renewed emphasis on minimising energy consumption and securing energy supplies for the future is a key feature of our South Africa 38% global energy strategy, with site-based strategies to be Continental Africa 38% developed as soon as possible. Americas 17% Australasia 7% Cyanide use The management and disposal of potentially hazardous In 2011, AngloGold Ashanti’s total energy costs were materials used in or generated as a result of gold production 20% (2010: 19%) of our operating cash costs and with requires special attention. Our chemical and waste current trends, this is expected to increase. In future management standards address the management of risks business plans, site-based energy targets are to be included arising from the use of hazardous materials and cover topics for all sites for the first time. In 2011, a global strategy was including waste avoidance, reduction, reuse, recycling, developed for building energy security. This strategy treatment and disposal. promotes the adoption of clean energy alternatives and energy efficient technologies and introduces more robust and The use of cyanide by the gold mining industry has been a transparent reporting requirements, so that we can better significant source of stakeholder concern since its introduction understand and manage our energy-related opportunities and cyanide is carefully managed at AngloGold Ashanti and risks. We are in the process of outlining the input operations. We are a signatory to the International Cyanide required to effect this strategy and expect that progressive Management Code which supports the responsible use, rollout will occur from 2012. transportation and disposal of cyanide in gold mining, enhances measures for the protection of human health, and In our 2010 report, we committed to: reduces the potential for environmental impacts. • Improving energy performance by: As a signatory to the code, our operations are audited by • developing site-based targets and action plans from 2012 independent third parties to ensure compliance. The results of onwards; these audits are publicly available to inform stakeholders of the • continuing to refine energy metrics, performance status of cyanide management practices at certified operations. measurement and reporting in 2011; and • quantifying the energy benefits of business improvement Currently 16 of the 19 operations using cyanide are certified initiatives. Focus on the final aspect of this target is as compliant to the cyanide code. In 2011, Cerro delayed pending successful implementation of the first Vanguardia, in Argentina, was certified as fully compliant. two aspects. The Great Noligwa and Savuka Gold Plants in South Africa were recertified to the code, as certification is valid for three Our focus on improving energy performance at all of our years. Operations still to complete cyanide code certification operations is increasing. Approaches to continuous improvement are the Geita mine in Tanzania and Obuasi and Iduapriem are being piloted in South Africa. in Ghana. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental and natural resource management P51 Environmental and natural resource management continued At Geita, in Tanzania, infrastructure work was completed to to local communities and national regulatory requirements. meet the code requirements. However, during 2011 the We apply stricter internal controls to minimise the risk of failure operation was unable to keep the residual cyanide levels on and have an internal tailings management framework which is its tailings facility consistently below the code’s threshold of applied at all of our operations. 50 parts per million (ppm). Additional operational measures will be tested to meet the requirement. Following the temporary closure of the mine in 2010, construction of a new storage facility to cater for life-of-mine In Ghana, infrastructure modifications are required for our two tailings deposition was completed at Iduapriem in Ghana, operations in that country to become compliant with the code. in 2011. At Iduapriem, a new facility for making up cyanide was successfully commissioned during 2011 which reduces the Dust control risk associated with the transport and handling of the material. However residual levels of weak-acid dissociable (WAD) Our operations in Guinea, Mali, Namibia, Tanzania and South cyanide on the tailings facility have not met cyanide code Africa are situated in arid or semi-arid regions where the certification requirements and an additional capital project, management of dust generated by our activities is necessary. which includes the installation of cyanide destruction To protect communities around these mines, water is used technology, has been initiated and its commissioning is to suppress dust from roads. Dust on tailings facilities is expected in mid-2013. controlled by using surface binding agents, water and vegetation. At Obuasi, in Ghana, the capital project ($11.5m) to replace the cyanide handling facilities advanced through to detailed In late 2011, the implementation of the South Africa region design, with its construction and commissioning planned for dust mitigation programme was accelerated following completion in the fourth quarter of 2012. increased dust levels measured at a community area situated downwind of a tailings storage facility in the Vaal River area. The Córrego do Sítio II metallurgical plant in Brazil, which was Extensive netting was installed on the facility to serve as acquired by AngloGold Ashanti with the São Bento operation additional wind breaks and water spray suppression systems in 2008, will be recommissioned during 2012 and will will be installed on the tailings facility to further control dust thereafter be included in the company’s cyanide code during dry and windy periods. certification programme. All of these four sites expect to register with the International Biodiversity Cyanide Management Institute (ICMI) during 2012 as facilities intending to seek certification, and will pursue certification Mineral resources in traditional mining areas are becoming within the three-year window period. depleted and, like many mining companies, we are increasingly exploring or operating in remote or previously undisturbed areas where biodiversity requires attention. Waste management We must mine where the resource is located. However, the presence of sensitive habitats or vulnerable species requires We generate waste rock and tailings as a result of mining and careful site evaluation and selection, thorough baseline studies mineral processing operations. Mine tailings are the process and engagement with local communities to understand their effluents generated once grinding and extraction of gold from relationships with the environment and to take measures to the ore is completed. They are deposited as slurry in large mitigate the impact of our operations. storage facilities specifically designed for this purpose. In 2011, we continued to refine our draft biodiversity During open-pit mining large volumes of soil and/or rock management standard which will be applied to set an (overburden) are generated to expose the orebody. Similarly, internal standard and common performance expectations. waste rock is generated during drilling and developing access The standard will be finalised in 2012. to underground orebodies. Overburden and waste rock typically contain sub-economic levels of gold and are deposited as large waste rock dumps. The impact of failure of a tailings storage facility can be significant and we therefore monitor such facilities closely to ensure that their management is in accordance with commitments made P52 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Country focus – Colombia AIMING TO DEVELOP developed in the gold sector. Debate is ongoing on the extent Colombia and nature of the country’s participation in the sector. Opposition to mining activity, particularly in the Tolima province which hosts the La Colosa deposit, has centred on the perception that large-scale mining activity will have a detrimental impact on the region’s river systems. It is based on the claim that the project will use a significant amount of water and will contaminate river systems, impacting on the main Antioquia input for large-scale agriculture, which in the Tolima area is Gramalote Medellín mostly rice production. Quebradona Quibdó Rio Dulce In addressing these concerns, there are other related issues La Colosa Bogotá Anaima Tocha Belt Ibagué that influence the quality and availability of water in the Tolima Cali Tolima region, including: • The low level of development of infrastructure, including Salvajina sewage systems and water conveyance systems such as La Vega La Llanada aqueducts; • Environmental damage caused to areas adjacent to rivers; and • The expansion of agriculture, which has resulted in environmental impacts including the deforestation of watersheds and the pollution of rivers. Some 87% of current water consumption in the region is for agricultural purposes. These issues occur independently of large-scale mining activity, but nonetheless influence water quality and availability and are therefore relevant to the debate. Any systemic AngloGold Ashanti actively started exploration in Colombia in approach has to consider these issues, as well as the 2002. To date in excess of $255m has been invested in various management of impacts relating to mining activity itself. greenfield exploration projects in the country, resulting in two major discoveries, at La Colosa in the Tolima province and Given these sensitivities, AngloGold Ashanti has taken a Gramalote in the Antioquia province. Both projects are now at transparent approach to the discussion of water issues, the stage of advanced economic evaluation. holding seminars, distributing written information on the issue, and seeking out open dialogue with opposition groups. We recognise that there are opportunities for further The following principles have been adopted in the company’s discoveries in adjoining regions. These are being advanced environmental management approach in Colombia: using modern, non-invasive exploration techniques such as • Avoiding impacts on areas that are sensitive, valuable the company applied in exploration at La Colosa and or important; Gramalote, in combination with proactive community • Reducing impacts where they cannot be avoided; engagement strategies. • Rehabilitation of any affected areas; • Offsetting residual impacts with compensation; and In Colombia, AngloGold Ashanti is operating in an environment • Supporting volunteer projects to improve regional where large-scale open cast mining has not yet been environmental protection. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Country focus – Colombia P53 Country focus – Colombia These principles were established with reference to our values Its selection criteria target projects that: and our environment and community policy and following • seek to solve problems at a regional level, based on best consultation with various NGOs, including Conservation practice and reference cases that have been developed in International (CI) and the Fund for Environmental Action and Colombia or elsewhere; Childhood (FAAN) both of which are based in Colombia. They • are administered by technically competent communityalso reflect statements made by the authorities as well as our based organisations (CBOs) or NGOs; recognition that in the area of environment, we needed to • meet developmental as well as environmental goals; and make a visible commitment to a series of principles from the exploration and implementation phases of the project beyond • provide examples of best practice which can be replicated pure legal requirements. in other regions as well as in the Coello basin. In the first half of 2011, a call for applications among NGOs The Coello River Basin Fund and CBOs was developed in conjunction with local CBOs and NGOs, local leadership structures, independent contractors, Given this starting point and acknowledging the context in unions, universities, irrigation schemes, as well as media and which the debate takes place, the company developed an public institutions in the region and 10 initiatives were selected initiative which has the potential to provide tangible for funding. Significant achievements to date from this initiative environmental benefits to the region, demonstrating in are regarded as: practice the company’s commitment to the goal of • Participatory design and the implementation of a new way of environmental protection. allocating resources; • Integration of environmental and development goals; AngloGold Ashanti Colombia approached FAAN and reached an agreement with them on a co-operative venture to create • Restoring confidence and trust in the company’s an independently-managed fund to sponsor grants supporting relationships with NGOs and CBOs; and projects to enhance regional environmental protection in the • A strategic investment focus on the quality and efficiency of Coello River Basin in the Department of Tolima. water use in the context of adaptation to climate change. A memorandum of understanding was signed in December 2009 Support of $482,000 has been given to these projects to date to create the Coello River Basin Fund, a vehicle for financing – due to the success of the initiative, funding was increased projects that will help create a shared vision of sustainable from the $250,000 originally budgeted. Our overall development in the Coello basin. The Fund was given full commitment to funding this initiative has been carried forward autonomy to select projects submitted by the local community in a new agreement with FAAN, which will continue in the role and aimed at protecting the watershed and the water source. of the Coello River Basin fund administrator, with funding of up to $880,000 for new projects. A further call for project applications will be made every two years. In addition to addressing pressing community priorities through the implementation of these projects, we will work with the project organisers to ensure that the organisations concerned use these examples of good practice to support other communities with common needs. “ Agricultural wastewater used to go straight to the Anaime River, which flows into the Coello River. As a result of the project, waste is processed and used on the farm, the organic materials don’t flow into the Coello River basin and so we are reducing contamination. ” Certain species have been transplanted at the Camilo Ernesto Arevalo Parra, a beneficiary of a project to reduce the La Colosa nursery in Colombia to protect biological load in waste water, from the ‘El Placer’ Farm in a rural area indigenous plant life of the Cajamarca Municipality P54 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Securing our skills pipeline AND RETAINING PEOPLE From a resourcing perspective, AngloGold Ashanti and the broader mining industry are potentially faced with serious skills shortages, with few students studying mining engineering and related fields, and even fewer entering the industry. Preliminary internal findings of an overview of the global and regional training capacity for mining-related engineering skills suggest that globally, demand exceeds supply by a significant margin, particularly in respect of mining engineering, geology and metallurgical graduates as well as post-graduate mining related specialisations. Implicit in achieving our mission is the attraction, retention and development of people, with the primary strategic objective recognising that ‘People are the Business’ and organisation development as a strategic value driver. ‘People’ refers to all of our stakeholders including our employees, peers and the local communities which host our operations. Local communities and non-resident nationals of countries in which we operate are potential sources of skills, AngloGold Ashanti strives to increase the although there are several hurdles to overcome. These range number of women in mining. Featured here is from lack of access to quality education resources in some the preparation of grade control samples for cases, our obligations in terms of the South African Mining assay at the Navachab mine in Namibia Charter of 2004 and similar localisation legislation in several countries in which we operate and our operating presence in often high risk, remote locations as we compete for scarce people management processes in order to build capabilities, skills with a variety of commodity producers across the entire retain key skills, develop a reliable talent pipeline and ultimately mining, finance and engineering spectrum who may be based to engage our employees, local communities and the industry. in more attractive locations. With regards to a talent pool development process, our efforts in 2012 and beyond will be centred on applying an effective Our people management system provides the model and talent review and management process, using social media context for our people and organisation development and e-learning technology opportunities as well as industry strategies within a framework of our values, managerial collaboration, to ensure that we have a clear picture of the leadership and engagement practices. Much ground was organisation’s talent, their aspirations and development needs. gained in 2011 in rolling out this system, however there remain ongoing socialisation and change management challenges The ongoing risk assessment of real and perceived threats to associated with such a large change initiative. skills shortages therefore remains high on our agenda and we will continue to track the situation and key development Our focus to date has been on embedding an understanding opportunities as we drive change through the implementation of levels of work, role accountabilities and authorities and of our organisational model and manage the strategic working relationships across the organisation. Going into challenges associated with developing and managing our 2012, our focus will delve deeper into the effectiveness of our long-term skills pipeline. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Securing our skills pipeline P55 Responsible gold ADDING OUR VOICE TO EMERGING In recent years, there has been increased global discussion • Engage the US government, together with host African around issues such as: governments, in the debate around the consequences – • supply chain transparency; intended and unintended – of Section 1502, with the • the role of business in areas affected by or at high risk for specific objective of ensuring that the SEC’s forthcoming conflict; and regulations on Dodd-Frank are implemented in a way that is • business’s social and economic contribution to its host not damaging for African economies; and economies. • Develop a proactive industry programme to demonstrate that gold mining is an agent for positive social and economic This debate has brought into sharp focus the need for greater development. engagement across all sectors of society to achieve demonstrably ‘responsible’ business practices: practices that do not fund or fuel conflict in any way, and contribute positively In 2011, AngloGold Ashanti took an active role in the to broader society. development of three complementary standards: • the ‘Supplement on Gold’ to the Organisation for Economic The mining industry faces its own challenges. For gold Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) ‘Due Diligence particularly, the annual reports of the United Nations Group of Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Experts on the DRC have consistently highlighted the small but Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas’; significant role that artisanally-mined gold has played in • the World Gold Council’s ‘Conflict-Free Gold Standard’ and funding the conflict in that country. • the Responsible Jewellery Council’s ‘Chain-of-Custody Certification for the gold and platinum jewellery supply chain’. Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) was passed in 2010 These standards are expected to be finalised and published in by the US government. It will require companies that file 2012 after significant development work in 2011. periodic reports with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to perform due diligence at operations in As part of the development process, the company trialled the the DRC and adjoining countries. The due diligence is to draft World Gold Council standard and held workshops to determine if a company’s supply chain makes use of any of the make relevant employees aware of the ramifications of the so-called ‘conflict minerals’ (tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold). various standards. In addition, an assessment is required of whether these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured or sourced from the DRC and adjoining countries. Should this be the case, the company will be “ The informal nature of much ASM makes it amenable to illegal dealings, especially in required to submit a report to the SEC. The company will also high-value minerals such as diamonds, gold have to demonstrate that the sourcing of these minerals in no way funds or benefits armed groups in the DRC or its and coltan. The value chain for such neighbours, and this due diligence must be subject to an minerals, from mining, through processing, independent audit. The SEC’s final Rules and Regulations are trade and transportation to external expected to be published in 2012. markets, is often characterised by leakage, particularly in countries recovering from These developments heighten the need for AngloGold conflict where prolonged security issues Ashanti and the broader gold industry to achieve the are part of the background to informal following outcomes: operations. ” • Establish standards and certification procedures which are From ‘Minerals and Africa’s Development’, the International Study robust and credible and which enable companies to Group on Africa’s mineral regimes, November 2011. demonstrate that their operations do not contribute to conflict; P56 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Review processes ACCURATELY AND TRANSPARENTLY It is critical to both AngloGold Ashanti and its stakeholders that Data which has been externally assured is indicated in our we report accurately and transparently on sustainability supplementary information with the icons and the performance. We have therefore developed an approach to definition of these icons is specified in the external the assurance of published information that relies on three assurance statement. complementary review processes – internal audit, external audit and an independent viewpoint from our sustainability In 2011, the scope of our external assurance also covered review panel. compliance with the key standards against which we report – the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainable Development Framework of the International Internal assurance Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). In 2011, AngloGold Ashanti strengthened internal audit procedures through the development and testing of a Commentary from the sustainability combined assurance review system, providing assurance to review panel senior management and to the board on the management of all significant business risks, including key areas of sustainability A further level of review is provided by our sustainability review risk. Combined assurance reviews were conducted by multipanel which had input into the content of our group-level disciplinary teams at four pilot sites in 2011 and the process will report in 2011. be expanded to all operations in 2012. The panel is an international group of independent experts Internal audit teams play a key role in monitoring the integrity whose composition broadly reflects the geographic regions in of our system for the collation of sustainability data from global which we operate. Many of the panel participants have operations, supplementing internal checking processes which extensive experience in mining. However panel members are are built into this system. Work was undertaken in 2011 to not drawn exclusively from that sector. Their knowledge and understanding of broader societal concerns in the sustainability strengthen data collation systems further through better arena bring considerable value to the reporting process. This is definition of data indicators to ensure that data is consistently supplemented by their knowledge of our business, which we recorded across the group. are building with them through ongoing access to key information on our sustainability performance and strategy. External assurance The panel has reviewed the group-level Sustainability Report External assurance of our group-level Sustainability Report and has provided its commentary in the review letter that and supplementary data is provided by Ernst & Young. Data follows. Although this commentary is based on a robust review indicators are selected for assurance by external audit and a clear understanding of the direction of the company’s teams on the basis of their assessment of the issues and strategy, it should be noted the panel has not undertaken an indicators that are most significant to the sustainability audit of the report or the company's activities, and so does not performance of the business, as well as the key risks provide any indication of the accuracy of the report or the identified by the group. materiality or completeness of specific elements. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Review processes P57 Commentary from the sustainability review panel AngloGold Ashanti’s ‘Sustainability Report 2011’ AngloGold Ashanti aspires to be the world’s leading mining demonstrates a significant step forward in how the company company, and clearly sees excellence in sustainability as a frames and reports on its sustainability challenges and precondition for securing success. As it has expanded opportunities. Its focus on a small number of strategic, globally, it has established management systems to build the material issues is to be commended, alongside the highest possible quality, consistently, across all parts of development of a more integrating lens that views these the business. issues in country-specific contexts and actions. Acknowledging the underlying roots of resource nationalism Yet whilst the report rightly focuses on specific countries and shows an appreciation of the company’s broader operating sites, there is still much to do to facilitate horizontal learning context of under-development and inequality in a number of between operational units, notably on sustainability issues. resource rich countries during an unprecedented Furthermore, although there is much in the report on the commodities boom. Furthermore, the company shows procedures and process of engagement with external courage in highlighting the need to address the growing problem of artisanal mining as more than a matter of illegality. stakeholders, more evidence is required of what has been learnt from these stakeholders, particularly communities. There Seeking to report on this more strategic, integrated is a need for more diversity of non-corporate ‘voices’ offered in approach does raise the bar on what data and analysis are the report, from employees, communities, or experts and needed. So whilst the report does provide robust, basic opinion leaders. environmental, social and economic performance targets and data, there remains more for AngloGold Ashanti to do in This is the first year that AngloGold Ashanti has engaged an specifying the crucial dynamic linkages between stated external group of independent experts to comment on, and material risks at both global and country levels. have their views included in, the report. We commend the company for this step as it provides external stakeholders with In this early stage of the company’s new approach, the evolving another level of assurance as to the quality of reporting. In strategies for addressing risks when stated, at times appear addition, we hope that the process provides useful inputs to reactive and at others, not yet fully formed. For example, whilst the company as it develops its report and underlying thinking the company’s advance of a human rights framework is to be and practice. welcomed, there is a need to clarify its relationship to other risks faced by the company, as well as to the mitigating actions We would in summarising our perspective on this year’s report and initiatives currently being undertaken in response. Similarly, commend AngloGold Ashanti for demonstrating both while the challenges of artisanal mining and resource ambition and progress. To maintain this momentum, we nationalism are clearly highlighted in the report, future reporting would like to recommend some further developments in could certainly make clearer the real impact of these issues on substance and its communication in future reporting cycles: the business, as well as the company’s response – both at a country and global level. • Greater clarity as to the global responsibilities associated with being a global company, especially with regard to In this regard, we welcome the positioning of community as employees and communities. a strategic issue, and would welcome more information on • Specification of framework and associated metrics for how the company is contributing towards skills development measuring community impacts and development. and youth employment in its host communities. Continuing • Clearly articulated strategy, goals and practice for improvements in the reporting process would address some of these gaps, particularly as AngloGold Ashanti improves advancing leadership in addressing artisanal mining. the coherence between its thinking, strategy and practice in • Inclusion of independently authenticated voices of these areas. employees and communities. P58 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Sheila Khama Muzong Kodi Ruth Mompati Anita Roper Nisia Werneck Simon Zadek Panel membership in 2011 she was responsible for co-ordinating and integrating sustainability concepts throughout the company. Our panel currently consists of five members. Stephan Malherbe stepped down from the panel in September 2011. Nisia Werneck Nisia is an associate professor at the Petrobras Sheila Khama Sustainability Centre of the Dom Cabral Foundation in Sheila has extensive experience at an executive level in the Brazil’s Minas Gerais state. The Dom Cabral Foundation is one of the leading business schools globally. Nisia has mining industry and related fields, including as head of the contributed to the social and community development representative office of the De Beers Group in Botswana. She programmes of a range of companies and organisations, is currently based in Accra, Ghana at the African Centre for and has published extensively on the themes of Economic Transformation (ACET), where she leads a sustainability and corporate social responsibility. programme of support to African policy makers on oil, gas and minerals regulation. She serves on the advisory boards and sustainability panels of corporations and academic institutions Panel facilitation in 2011 such as the Lafarge Group and the Natural Resources Charter at Oxford University. Simon Zadek The panel is facilitated by Simon Zadek, an independent advisor Muzong Kodi to companies and public agencies on strategic sustainability issues. As well as his extensive writing and commentary on the Muzong has more than 30 years’ experience in training, topic, Simon has facilitated numerous sustainability panels on research and consultancy in governance, anti-corruption and behalf of corporate clients, and was the founder of human rights. He is based in London as an independent AccountAbility and its chief executive until 2009. Simon also consultant and is also an Associate Fellow of the Africa advises AngloGold Ashanti on its sustainability strategy. programme of the Royal Institute of International Affairs, where he coordinates the Congo Forum. Interaction between the panel and Ruth Mompati AngloGold Ashanti in 2011 Ruth is a South African citizen with a long involvement in issues of social justice and gender equality. Until recently, she served In 2011, the panel spent time with the business, engaging in a as Mayor of Naledi in the North West Province of South Africa. range of discussions with executive and senior management She was a member of the South African Parliament as well as and visiting regional operating hubs in South Africa and in a member of the National Executive Committee of the African Ghana. In Ghana, panel members who participated in the visit held discussions with community members and other National Congress (ANC) and has previously served as South stakeholders during a five-day visit to Accra and Obuasi. Africa’s ambassador to Switzerland. Obuasi is our largest operation in Ghana and one where we are actively addressing a wide range of operating and Anita Roper sustainability challenges. Anita has more than 30 years’ experience working with business, governments, communities and multilateral agencies In South Africa, four of the panel members spent a full day at our on sustainable development. She recently stepped down as regional operating hub with presentations from all key members the Chief Executive Officer of Sustainability Victoria in Australia of the management team. Two additional days were spent at our in order to pursue a career as a non executive director. corporate office in Johannesburg engaging on the social and Previously Anita worked outside Australia for 10 years, sustainable development framework and attending meetings including as global director of sustainability for Alcoa, where with key management and executive committee members. AngloGold Ashanti Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability review panel P59 External assurance statement Report of the Independent Auditor The criteria upon which the specified key performance indicators were evaluated and measured for assurance to the directors of AngloGold Ashanti purposes are disclosed in the Supplementary Information, Limited which is available at www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability. We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on the Management's Responsibility extraction of specified key performance indicators from the Management is responsible for extracting the specified key AngloGold Ashanti Limited’s (AngloGold Ashanti’s) Supplementary performance indicators from the Supplementary Information Information (“the Supplementary Information”) which is presented and the consistent presentation of these specified key in the Report as described below for the year ended performance indicators in the Report. 31 December 2011. Auditor's Responsibility Scope of Our Engagement Our responsibility is to express our limited assurance The specified key performance indicators, included in AngloGold conclusions on whether specified key performance indicators Ashanti Limited’s (AngloGold Ashanti’s) Sustainability Report in the Report are consistent with the specified key 2011 (“the Report”), which comprise the following (“the performance indicators in the Supplementary Information. We subject matter”): conducted our engagement in accordance with the • total workforce by employment type and contract reported International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) on page 5 3000, “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews • number of malaria cases reported on page 6 of historical financial information”, issued by the International • number of cases of silicosis reported on page 6 Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain • total number of new compensable noise-induced hearing limited assurance about whether the extracted specified key loss (NIHL) cases on page 6 performance indicators from the Supplementary Information • payments to governments in terms of the Extractive which is presented in the Report is free from material Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) on pages 6, 28, 29 misstatement. Our procedures and the extent of our • community investment on pages 6, 28, 29 procedures depend on our judgement including the risks of • fatalities by region on pages 5, 42 material misstatement of the specified key performance • all injury frequency rate (AIFR) reported on pages 5, 42 indicators. In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence • number of operations certified under the Cyanide Code on gathering procedures are less than where reasonable assurance pages 7, 51 is expressed. We believe the evidence we have obtained is • energy consumption on pages 7, 50 sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. • number of reportable environmental incidents on pages 7, 48 • greenhouse gas emissions on page 7 Summary of work performed • water use on page 7 We have compared the specified key performance indicators • number of security personnel who received training under presented in the Report to the specified key performance the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights indicators in the Supplementary Information. (VPSHR) on page 40 • tuberculosis incidence rate reported on pages 6, 46 Limited assurance conclusion • total number of employees provided with antiretroviral Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come therapy (ART) reported on page 47 to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected key performance indicators in the Report are not consistent, in all are extracted from the Supplementary Information for the material respects, with those specified key performance year ended 31 December 2011 and presented in the Report indicators in the Supplementary Information, in accordance for the year ended 31 December 2011. with the basis of preparation described on page 3. We expressed an unmodified assurance conclusion on the specified key performance indicators noted in our assurance Ernst & Young Inc. statement dated 16 March 2012 in the Supplementary Director: JP Grist Information. The specified key performance indicators included Registered Auditor Chartered Accountant (SA) therein do not reflect the effects of events that occurred Ernst & Young subsequent to the date of our assurance statement on the 52 Corlett Drive specified key performance indicators (marked as assured by the Johannesburg symbols or ) in the Supplementary Information. 16 March 2012 P60 Introduction Context and strategy Global priorities and progress Review processes Registered and corporate office 76 Jeppe Street, Newtown Johannesburg, Gauteng 2011 South Africa PO Box 62117, Marshalltown Gauteng 2107 South Africa Telephone: +27 11 637 6000 Fax: +27 11 637 6624 www.anglogoldashanti.com This report was printed on paper produced at mills that are certified by the Contact person for this report Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in processes that have Chain of Custody Nilesh Moodley (CoC) certification. The FSC promotes environmentally appropriate, socially Telephone: +27 11 637 6788 beneficial and economical viable management of the world’s forests, while Fax: +27 86 686 8177 CoC guarantees production of FSC-certified products from processing Email: nmoodley@anglogoldashanti.com to distribution. Download the full Sustainability Report 2011 www.anglogoldashanti.com SUSTAINABLE GOLD
