Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report for 2011 1 Contents 3 Basic data; Brief description of nature of business 4 Statement of continued support to UNGC 5 Principles 1 and 2 7 Principles 3, 4 and 5 9 Principle 6 11 Principle 7 12 Principles 8 and 9 14 Principle 10 16 Availability of Communication on Progress 17 About Deloitte 18 Notes 2 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Basic data Company: Deloitte Country: Croatia Contact: Ana Cofek, MCBD Coordinator e-mail: acofek@deloittece.com Phone: ++385 1 2351 900 Membership date: 13th July, 2007 Number of employees: 132 Sector: Professional services Date of submission of COP: 30st March, 2012 Brief description of nature of business Deloitte is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services to selected clients. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 3 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Partners in Deloitte Croatia, we hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. We find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. Signatures: For Deloitte , Partner For Deloitte Advisory Services 4 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human righst Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society at large. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form on non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and worklife balance. Recruiting and retaining activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share business. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 5 Actions implemented Health and well-being initiative Child support The health and well-being of employees is of Each employee, regardless of gender, receives great concern to Deloitte, and have put program one-time child financial support as a special in place to help our employees stay healthy. All bonus for a new born baby. This programme Deloitte Croatia employees have secured was introduced in September 2007 and is a additional health-care package, which included continuing activity. systematic check-ups and consultations with Transportation expenses specialists. Each employee receives a monthly payment that covers transportation costs. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Health programme On-going 100% Child support On-going 5% (100% new parents) Transportation expenses On-going 100% 6 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Deloitte Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 7 Actions implemented CSR Champions The onSocial CSR Champions are a group of volunteers from every department in Deloitte Croatia office, devoted to developing and implementing CSRincluded the organization of several charity actions, such as collecting toys for orphaned children and collecting funds for operation for a sick child. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants CSR champions On-going 22% 8 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy being the Standard of Excellence is desire to become the employer of choice for the most talented experts around the world. Women make up to 55 percent of total global Deloitte population. Our global goal is to increase the percentage of women among directors and partners. Deloitte is committed to establishing programs in order to develop, mentor and prepare women to be the next generation of global leaders. Elements of future programs will include:  Learning and leadership development opportunities designed specifically for women  Building global networks both internally and externally  More consistent and comprehensive work/life balance structure Deloitte Croatia currently employs approximately 46 percent of women on Manager and Senior Manager positions. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 9 The Gender Dividend: Making the Business Case for Investing in Women Deloitte Croatia increased awareness of the principle that Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, through the press release The Gender Dividend: Making the Business Case for Investing in Women. The full report was published on the local web page while the press release was put on the office news board. The Gender Dividend: Making the Business Case for Investing in Women, the first in a series, is a road map for constructing the business case for smarter investments in women. The report lays out the core rationale for why governments and organizations must look to women as key to their economic growth. 10 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Green frog award In order to promote environmental responsibility Deloitte Croatia is trying to increase awareness of environmental reporting by giving an annual award called Green frog. The award is given to a company which has the best annual environmental or sustainability report prepared. We hope that the Green Frog Award will become a symbol of promoting environmental culture among companies in the region. According to Deloitte, annual financial statements of the companies in the region would not be solely limited to the financial implications of the companies' business, although companies prepare environmental and sustainability reports on voluntary basis. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 11 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We think that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Therefore, Deloitte Croatia carries programme, aimed at improving our relationship to the environment 12 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011  Bins for collecting waste paper in all Copy rooms and open office spaces  Sorting recyclable materials: paper, glass, PET, toners; 2 special bins  Recycling printer toners  Two-sided printing set as default option for printers  environment before printing this ean obligatory part of all e-mail signatures Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Waste paper bins On-going 12 collection units Sorting recyclable materials On-going 100% Toner recycling On-going 100% Two-sided printing On-going 85% of printers -mail message On-going 90% Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 13 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy At the heart of our business culture are the member firms and linking directly to our Global Shared Values. These nine principles define the standards of ethical behaviour that unite all the people principles offer guidance about appropriate ethical and professional conduct covering areas clients, their people and society. The principles are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. 14 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Actions implemented Educational programme on the Ethical Principles of the Member Firms of Deloitte Educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all our employees. It is an online education that uses examples and scenarios from the real life, as well as the resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts around the clock. Deloitte also provides the independence and compliance surveys, insuring that our business practice is according to the accepted rules and procedures. Independence compliance confirmation Filling the Independence Compliance Confirmation (ICC) on-line system is required for all employees. Maintaining compliance with the something we take very seriously. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Ethics education December 2011 100% Independence training December 2011 100% Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 15 Availability of COP How does Deloitte Croatia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? Internal and external stakeholders Communication on progress will be available on Deloitte Croatia website. Internal stakeholders The submission of Communication on progress will be communicated in internal newsletter. 16 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 About Deloitte De professional services organizations, offering a wide range of world-class audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services. Our firm is singularly positioned with the scale, scope, and multidisciplinary capabilities necessary to address the most complex business challenges. About Deloitte Central Europe Deloitte Central Europe is a regional organization of entities organized under the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, the member firm in Central Europe of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. Services are provided by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, which are separate and independent legal entities. The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited are among leading professional services firms, providing services through more than 3400 people in more than 30 offices in 17 countries. About Deloitte Croatia In Croatia, the services are provided by Deloitte Deloitte Ltd. and Deloitte Advisory Services Ltd. (jointly ZagrebTower affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings 10 000 Zagreb Limited. Deloitte Croatia is one of the leading Croatia professional services organizations in the country providing audit, tax, consulting, risk Phone: ++385 1 2351 900 services and financial advisory services through Fax: ++385 1 2351 999 over 140 national and specialized expatriate Web: www.deloitte.com/croatia professionals. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 17 Notes 18 Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see http://www.deloitte.com/hr/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. © 2012 Deloitte Croatia. All rights reserved. Striving for excellence Deloitte Croatia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2011 19
