Palsgaard Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 1. What is CSR? The European Commission’s definition of CSR: ”A concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis”. Table of contents 1 What is CSR? 2 2 About this report 3 3 Palsgaard in brief 4 4 Message from the CEO 6 5 Our foundation and sustainability agenda 8 6 Customer driven innovation 12 7 Raw materials and suppliers 14 8 Our employees 16 9 Production and the environment 20 10 Sales and logistics 24 11 Product applications 26 12 Our contribution to society 30 13 Data overview 34 14 Assurance statement 35 15 Reporting practice 36 16 GRI-table 38 2 2. About this report This is Palsgaard’s second CSR Report. The objective ics we report on have been selected based on an asof the report is to provide a balanced picture of imporsessment of the stakeholders and significance of the tant CSR related targets, topics, activities and results in individual topic in relation to development of the the companies covered by the report. We are very Palsgaard CSR strategy (cf. section 5). We have asproud that our CSR report for 2010 won the award for sessed that significant stakeholders in relation to this Best First Time CSR report awarded by the FSR (Danreport are the company’s key account customers, emish Auditors). In 2011 as well as in coming years, we will ployees, trendsetting retailers, the local community, uphold the same principles of reporting. the media, important competitors and NGOs. Scope The report and its data have been verified by an indeThe report covers the following legal entities: The pendent third party, whose statement is in section 14. Schou Foundation, Palsgaard Gods A/S (Palsgaard EsWe account for the reporting practise in section 15. tate) with associated forestry and agricultural areas, Palsgaard A/S, its subsidiaries and Nexus A/S (see Reporting structure graphics in section 3). In the report the above menThe report follows our value chain (sections 5-12) and tioned entities together are named ‘Palsgaard’. Associtakes our corporate culture as its point of departure. The ated companies in which Palsgaard has no decision value chain covers the lifetime of a product from idea making powers are not covered by the report. The creation until the product as an ingredient in a food scope of registered data is described in detail in section product reaches the consumer’s dinner table. We 15. The report covers the year 2011. subsequently describe our contribution to the world around us. This is a logical structure for our processes Reporting principles and products. Readers interested in specific subjects The report has been prepared on the basis of reporting may benefit from the references in the GRI table p.38principles laid down in the Sustainability Reporting 39. Guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and its associated sector supplement for the food proIf you have any questions about this report, please concessing industry. There is an overview of the relevant tact Jakob Thøisen, CEO of Palsgaard A/S. GRI indicators with references in section 16. The topFigur 1: Structure of the report Customer-driven Raw materials Production and Sales and Product Our foundation Our employees innovation and suppliers the environment logistics applications · Our reputation · Nexus · Supplier · Employee welfare · Processes · Marketing ·F  ood safety · Our heart is – Palsgaard’s management and retention · Energy and climate · Dialogue with · Improving food in our work development · Partnership · Local and global · Raw materials customers and products’ health · Governance company for sustainable anchorage utilisation other partners profile structure and · Global application production of · Employee · Packaging · Stock · E-numbers distribution of centres palm oil satisfaction · Product waste management ·R  educing food responsibilities · Certified product · Workplace · Waste manage· Transportation waste · Policies development assessment ment · Technical · Our sustainability safety (APV), working · Wastewater applications agenda · Partnership with environment and discharge · Membership of universities and safety at work · Exterior environorganisations research centres · Pensions saving mental factors · Future energy and profit-sharing · Ground spillage reductions in oil scheme · Environmental refining conditions at our facilities abroad · Forestry · Commitment to Contribution to local local society community · Humanitarian support · Responsible taxes 3 3. Palsgaard in brief Palsgaard develops and manufactures emulsifiers and stabilizers for the food industry. We have production facilities in Denmark, Mexico and the Netherlands, application centres in Denmark, Singapore, China and Mexico, and a sales organisation covering 108 countries worldwide. We also manage a total of 6090 hectares of forest and agricultural land in Denmark, Latvia and Estonia. Organisational chart The organisational chart shows, marked in blue, the entities covered by this report. The governance structure and distribution of responsibilities are described in more detail in section 5. Figure 2 The Schou Foundation The SCHOU Foundation CEO: Birger Brix | Presidum members: R. Christiansen, Jette Baagøe, Ole G. Mouritsen LOTTRUP Farm LOTTRUP Forrestry PALSGAARD Estate A/S HELLEBJERG Mill Farm JUELSMINDE GOLF Course Building maintenance Farming and Park Capidea Mezinvest LTD Nexus A/S IndustriPG Estate Palsgaard A/S Hellebjerg A/S Nordtyskland Capital fund Forestry, Latvia Research and udvikling Estonia Sales Industrial Real-estate development IInvestments in Farming, Estonia Administration investments company Quality control Danish industries Production Documentation Finance Purchasing Subsidiaries and joint ventures Total Wind A/S 4 CSR Key figures and targets 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 2015 Rate of injury* 19 10 18 20 7 3 CO2-emissions (kg CO2 per kg finished product) 0.45 0.44 0.40 0.32 0.18 0.15 Wastewater emissions (l per kg finished product) 1.65 1.50 1.47 1.22 1.42 ***** 1.00 Raw materials consumption** 107.00 106.90 107.60 107.90 107.18 104.00 RSPO-certified palm oil*** 100% Recycling of raw materials packaging**** 90% * Lost time injuries per million hours worked ** Kg per 100 kg finished product *** See section 7 on partnership for sustainable production of palm oil **** No data available ***** See section 9 on wastewater Figure 3 palsgaard A/S subsidiaries and joint ventures subsidiaries JOINT VENTURES Brazil GERMANY Palsgaard Brazil Kampffmeyer Food Innovation GmbH China GREECE Palsgaard Ltd. Credin Hellas SA France Palsgaard France SAS GERMANY Palsgaard Verkaufsgesellshaft mbH HOLLAND Palsgaard Netherlands B.V. MEXICO Palsgaard Industri de Mexico S. de R:L:. de C.V. POLAND Palsgaard Polska Sp . z.o.o. RUSSSIA Palsgaard R SINGAPORE Palsgaard Asia-Pacific PTE Ltd SOUTH AFRICA Palsgaard South Africa Pty Ltd USA Palsgaard USA Inc. 5 4. Message from the CEO Dear reader Having your heart in your work has always come natural to Palsgaard. Already when the company was founded more than a century ago a mission, vision and values encompassing the concepts known today as Corporate Social Responsibility became part of the foundation. The continuation of these values means that having a high employee satisfaction is an important part of our business strategy. With a staff turnover of just 4.8% in 2011 and several 25 and 40 year anniversaries over the years, we should be content, but we continuously carry out enhancement measures for our employees. With our company slogan “Heart working people” we work in correspondence to Palsgaard’s traditional work with CSR. We manage our business in a socially, environmentally and financially sustainable manner and in compliance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which are implemented in Palsgaard’s business processes in an international perspective. Located in scenic surroundings among the agricultural and forest land, owned by the Schou Foundation, we run our globally working enterprise. Our financial foundation and geographic location combines employees, nature and environment, product development and production with sound economic management, and allows us to make sustainable investments in the company and ensure future activities. We want to increase the profiling of our CSR related activities so that our customers and stakeholders will to an even larger extent get to know Palsgaard as a Birger Brix, CEO of the Schou Foundation responsible, reliable and quality conscious partner. In tune with the constantly increasing interest and sustainability requirements from customers and stakeholders, it feels absolutely right that we can now launch a report based on our strategic work with CSR. In 2010 we set down a framework for a CSR strategy and in 2011 we have clarified the focus areas and established action plans for implementing our strategic CSR goals. We have selected four focus areas where we particularly want a sustainable development within CSR: • Energy and Environment • Employees • Corporate governance • Products The CSR strategy describes the specific actions planned, ensuring continuous operation and development of the areas. In a global context, we consider it important to contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and we have set an ambitious goal within Energy and Environment of becoming CO2-neutral by 2020. This ambitious objective is necessary because our production processes are very energy intensive. In the strategy we have also set targets for environmental and safety improvements in our production and for extending of the skills of our employees. Palsgaard’s products are mostly comprised of natural ingredients and we have extended the accountability requirements to our suppliers in relation to the UN Global Compact. Palm oil is an important ingredient in the food chain and we have set targets of exclusively using certified palm oil-based raw materials in our products. Openness and continuing local efforts will be our tool for sustainable commodity purchases. The formation of a CSR organisation must ensure implementation of the strategic CSR work, both internally and Jakob Thøisen CEO of Palsgaard A/S in our internationally located subsidiaries, and we will continuously assess and implement further CSR initiatives in the global organization. We have in our first award-winning CSR Report for 2010 and in this subsequent report, reported on existing values and launched initiatives that show how Palsgaard works with accountability and sustainability and thus is able to present itself as a worthy representative of responsible corporate governance. The concept of responsibility is not only a real ingredient in our history and everyday work, but will now also be treated strategically with continuous improvements. 6 Birger Brix Jakob Thøisen CEO of the Schou Foundation CEO of Palsgaard A/S Palsgaard 21 June 2012 Palsgaard 21 June 2012 7 5. Our foundations and sustainability agenda The Schou Foundation owns a group of companies, through innovation work, which, to a great extent, will be whose corporate culture is unique and strongly affected conducted in close cooperation with our customers by our long history. The physical location of our culture at our application centres (cf. section 6). is the majestic Palsgaard Estate in its beautiful natural surroundings, which is home to our main offices. While As an employer, we aim to be an attractive and innowe have strong ties in the local community, the core of vative workplace. Due to our foundation ownership our business is our close partnerships with customers structure, we are in a position to give our employees all over the world. We believe that this unique combispecial status because one of the Schou Foundation’s nation of local anchorage and a global perspetive is one objectives is to be a good workplace (cf. section 8). of our greatest strengths. In all modesty, another of our strengths is our tradition for behaving responsibly toIn our relations with the world around us, we have a wards each other, our community and the enviroment declared aim to act responsibly – not only at the local generally. This tradition originates from Palsgaard’s level via active participation in the local community, founder, Einar Viggo Schou, long before the term but also globally via effective measures to reduce our ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ (CSR) was coined. impact on the climate and the environment (cf. sections 9 and 12). Our reputation At Palsgaard we wish our name to become widely Furthermore, we consider financially responsible patknown for and associated with high standards of quality terns of behaviour as an overarching and basic preconand service. By this we mean that our products must dition, such that, by innovation, optimising processes live up to our customers’ expectations in terms of and minimising risks, we ensure that our business is functionality. At the same time, our products must meet stable and that we are a reliable supplier for our custhe strictest food safety requirements. We will achieve tomers and provide a sound place to work for our emthis by using our quality assurance procedures and ployees. Palsgaard’s Mission On the foundation of a good workplace environment and advanced technology, we produce and market highly processed emulsifiers and stabilizers adapted to meet individual customer requirements in the global food market. Palsgaard’s Vision We aim to be the preferred partner and supplier of high-quality products, services and know-how to regional and multinational food producing companies. Palsgaard’ s Values Loyalty – responsibility – commitment The objectives of the a) To command companies of the kind that the Foundation’s governing body may find Schou Foundation expedient in order to meet the Foundation’s remaining objectives. b) To preserve and develop the splendour of the Palsgaard Estate as an aesthetically beautiful and good workplace for all its employees. c) To set up, command and support independent companies within the fields of research and development in areas which the Foundation’s governing body may find expedient in order to promote the Foundation’s companies. d) To support the Palsgaard Foundation to the extent that the Schou Foundation’s governing body may consider responsible, bearing in mind the Schou Foundation’s remaining objectives. 8 natio e act as a we are e x p e r t s in emulsifiers and stabilizers for bakery, confectionery, dairy, ice cream, margarine and fine foods and we are happy to share our expertise. our company values can be defined in just three words : loyalty, responsibility and commitment. we aim to be the preferred partner and supplier of quality products, application service and knowwe treat inf how to regional and m u l t i n a t i o n a l food companies. to Palsgaard l o y a l t y means that we act as a reliable and honourable business partner for our customers. we treat information confidentially and know how to keep a business secret. to Palsgaard r e s p o n s i b i l i t y means caring about the environment and being aware of our corporate social responsibility; we have a goal to be CO 2 neutral by 2020 and are members of SEDEX and RSPO. to Palsgaard c o m m i t m e n t ecret. to P means we are dedicated to getting the best results for our customers’ products to the benefit of their customers. we care about our employees and have a declared aim that Palsgaard must be a pleasant place to work. Palsgaard we know that our most important resource is the k now-how and dedi c ati on found in our employees. Heart we are committed to getting the best results with our products in our pilot plants and in your facilities. Working at Palsgaard we vironme don’t sell standard solutions we start with your needs. Palsgaard Heart Working People ® heart work is the best way to achieve success let us help you get it. our products are produced according to the strictest quality criteria. we are experts in emulsifiers and stabilizers and we are happy to share our expertise with you. let our pilot plants help you shorten ve a goal t the step between idea and your new product. heart work is the best way to succeed let us help Our heart is in our work you do At the end of 2010 we coined a phrase to express our unique culture. The phrase ‘heart so. working people®’ was devised to express our attitude to our colleagues and stakeholders SPO. to P generally, and in particular: • Our close and confidential cooperation and knowledge-sharing with our customers • Our dedication to our day-to-day work and to creating solutions to further improve food products • Our caring approach to each other as colleagues • Our commitment to our surroundings 9 Governance structure and The Schou Foundation operates a number of compaguidelines in any given field. This means that there are distribution of responsibilities nies, as indicated by the organisational chart in section some fields for which there are currently no written poliPalsgaard is owned by the Schou Foundation whose 3. The directors of the individual subsidiary companies cies. Where these fields are concerned, it is presumed principal objective is to run the business, provide releare responsible for running their respective compathat individuals have responsibility to work in agreement vant support for research and development work, and nies, observing the Schou Foundation’s objectives and with the objectives of the Schou Foundation and that to run the splendid Palsgaard Estate as an aesthetifollowing any guidelines provided by the Board. they are governed by legislative requirements, and gencally beautiful and good workplace for all its employees. erally accepted standards of decency and common In 2011, as Palsgaard’s CSR strategy and action plans sense. The fields in which we have considered it necesThe foundation structure allows us the freedom to think have been defined, we have also established a CSR sary to express a specific attitude and to define areas further ahead than, for example, many listed compaorganisation. This organisation is responsible for implefor improvement are covered by the following policies: nies, and to prioritise holistically so that, through rementing CSR strategy and embed CSR throughout the sponsible growth, our work is motivated by our objecorganization. • Code of Conduct tives and not by exclusive focus on financial profits. • Environment Policy Similarly, our ownership structure is a bulwark which Policies • Product and Quality Policy protects us from attempts on the part of, for example, To ensure that we achieve the objectives of both the • Purchasing Policy competitors to obtain a share of ownership in our comSchou Foundation and the individual company, • People Policy pany. The Schou Foundation Board comprises three Palsgaard has adopted a number of policies and members. A new member of the Board is elected by guidelines, which express our approach and establish To ensure that our processes meet the policies, standthe remaining Board members, the retiring member guidelines for our activities. These policies have been ards and regulatory requirements, we have our ISOand the Foundation’s CEO. updated in 2011 to reflect our ambitions in the CSR certified quality assurance system and written guidearea. They apply the same legal entities as covered by lines in the company’s staff handbook. The CEO of the Foundation is responsible for safethis report (see section 2). We continuously update our guarding the Schou Foundation’s objectives and manpolicies in order to ensure that the guidelines are conOur sustainability agenda aging the Foundation’s assets, in order to meet these sistent with current conditions. As our business has grown and in line with increasing objectives. The CEO of Schou Foundation is simultanefocus on corporate social responsibility, we have beously CEO of the holding company Palsgaard Gods A/S New policies and guidelines will be introduced as and come aware of the need to work systematically with (Palsgaard Estate). when we consider it necessary to introduce formal our corporate culture, and to formalise our responsible 10 approach by producing an overarching CSR strategy. At In 2012 we will continue to work on these goals, so that • Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), an orgathe end of 2010 we began work on the strategic prothey become fully operational and are carried out in acnisation which supports ongoing efforts to develop cess, which has continued in 2011. Having consulted cordance with our CSR strategy and associated action and improve ethical practices in the supply chain. with stakeholders, assessed the risks and opportuniplans. ties, and identified areas for development and potential • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) areas for optimization, we have defined the strategic Membership of organisations supports sustainable production of palm oil. framework and established a CSR strategy for our work Palsgaard’s commitment to a variety of organisations with CSR issues. is motivated by a desire to act not only in our own best • United Nation Global Compact (UN Global interests but also in the interests of our industry, our Pact) an initiative for companies that as members These focus areas are listed below and described in customers and our consumers. We have chosen active commit to adjusting their activities and strategies detail elsewhere in this report: membership in several organisations which strive to with the ten internationally accepted principles of huencourage ethical practices and sustain­ability in the man rights, labour rights, environment and anti-cor• CO2 neutrality. supply chain. Among others, we belong to the following ruption. • Minimised quantities of wastewater. organisations: • Reduced quantities of waste in our production and increased production yield. • Dansk Industri (Confederation of Danish Industry) • Minimised volume of packaging. (including membership of a number of subordinate • Improved working environment. organisations). The work of the DI includes lobbying • Improved employee skills. to affect political decisions influencing companies’ • Improved management and integration of opportunities for sustaining growth and employment. CSR in our subsidiaries. • Improved supplier management. • The European Food Emulsifiers Manufacturers • Make efforts to minimise corruption and cartel Association (EFEMA). The objective of the organiformation. sation is to create and maintain contacts with rele• Continued active participation in local community. vant public authorities and to propose standards for • Increase share of certified palm oil. best practices in production, food safety and • Known for our commitment to sustainability consumer protection in emulsifier production. 11 6. Customer-driven innovation When the Palsgaard development team decides on the native and less resource-intensive processes, in terms Partnership with universities characteristics of a new product, how it will be produced of raw materials, energy, production capacity, etc. One and research centres and which raw materials will be included in it, they not example of a development project of this kind is the oil Palsgaard is dependent on attracting and maintaining only establish the value the product will add to the refinement project described at the end of this section. a highly qualified workforce, and we see it as our duty structure and shelf-life of the foods in which it will be to contribute to future generations’ education at uniused, but they also have an opportunity to improve the Global application centres versities, technical academies and schools. We coopnutritional and environmental characteristics of these At the core of Palsgaard’s partnership with our cuserate at several levels with educational institutions and foods throughout the value chain. For this reason, the tomers are our application centres, where we can simuresearch centres in Denmark and abroad. innovation process is often driven by close partnership late production conditions at a customer’s facility and with our customers. Other development projects are inwhere we can work with customers to develop new food Since 2009 in cooperation with the Faculty of Life Sciternal and may be driven, for example, by a desire to products, improve the quality and nutritional profile of ences at the University of Copenhagen (KU-Life), research new opportunities in foodstuffs or to create existing food products or optimise the customer’s proPalsgaard has funded an industrial research scholarprocesses to improve how we exploit raw materials and cesses. Having created a research environment which ship for a Ph.D. project at Palsgaard. Danish students energy. accurately reflects ‘reality’, we narrow the distance and students from abroad also write final specialist pafrom idea to production. To make this service available pers at or about Palsgaard’s laboratories and factoNexus – Palsgaard’s across the globe, we have application centres in Denries. Students also come to the company for periods development company mark, Singapore, Mexico and China. This means that of practical work experience as part of their At Palsgaard, development takes place in Nexus A/S. we take local market trends, environmental and food education. These students are assimilated into daily This Palsgaard company organises all major projects safety requirements into account in product developroutines but are assigned tasks that are specifically deinto project groups consisting of highly-competent staff ment work and also minimise intercontinental travel. signed to help them learn and develop. representing a broad cross-section of the company. Development projects are managed and documented usCertified product ing our quality management system, which maintains development safety “My research project studies the effects of emulsiefficient and focused development which takes into The ISO 22000 certification of Palsgaard’s food safety fiers on individual components of low-fat and UHTaccount all relevant conditions – ranging from the cusmanagement system (see section 11) includes more treated cream products and we expect that this tomer’s needs and requirements to process-related exdetailed procedure taking a number of food safety isknowledge will be useful in other connotations. It is ploitation of resources and any environmental impact. sues into account when sourcing new raw materials. important for me to work at a company which can Development may take place with a view to marketing This fixed procedure ensures that we pro-actively asuse my research ‘in real life’ to create nutritionally new or improved products but may also be intended to sess the risks and document the food safety aspects of better products and where my colleagues are genudevelop or improve existing processes. In these cases, future products. inely interested in the knowledge I acquire.” the objective of development work is to create alterMerete Bøgelund Munk, Industrial research scholarship Ph.D. student, Palsgaard/KU-Life “At Palsgaard, we know from experience that any creative and efficient innovative environment must have wide margins and plenty of opportunities for thinking out of the box, which is why Palsgaard’s research and development is conducted in an independent company, Nexus A/S. However, this does not and must never justify disregarding customers’ needs, ignoring market trends or, worse still, failing to track scientific progress, the effect of which is often to accelerate innovation. Our product development must of course take place within the context of food safety, responsibility and sound ethical practices.” Viggo Norn, Director, Nexus A/S (Palsgaard’s research and development company) 12 Another way in which we collaborate with educational and research institutions is by mutual exchange of know-how in areas where interests coincide. Collaboration of this kind can either be formal or informal. Palsgaard also hosts study trips, corporate visits, etc. We see it as our duty to help foster a general interest in the natural sciences and in the chemistry, physics and technologies associated with foodstuffs. Future energy reductions in oil refining By tradition, refining cooking oils is a complicated process with several energy-intensive sub-processes, including heating the oil to remove flavour-distorting compounds. At Palsgaard we have reaped the benefits of our comprehensive knowledge of the characteristics of oils and refining processes and have developed a new oil-refining process. The method comprises a simpler and gentler process which reduces energy consumption by up to 80%. The process has also shown to provide better utilisation of the raw material and a lower content of trans fatty acids. We expect that the new process will help improve oil-refining processes so that they become more cost-effective, more nutritious and help preserve the environment. 13 7. Raw materials and suppliers The raw materials used in Palsgaard’s products comsues are concerned. We have established a supplier oil palm cultivation may have on the climate and on the prise for the most part of different kinds of vegetable policy as a framework for our efforts in this area. The biodiversity of South East Asia. Plantation workers’ oils, gums (hydrophilic polysaccharides), starches and policy is the expression of our ambition to enter into working conditions are also the subject of some disglycerine. Most of our suppliers are European compapartnership and dialogue with our suppliers on CSR, to cussion. The situation has given rise to the Roundtanies, although many of the initial stages in these raw make ethical responsibility in the supply chain a requireble on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), an organisation material value chains originate in other countries (e.g. ment, and to include CSR conditions when evaluating which has attracted broad-based support from all parts palm oil and palm oil derivatives). There will therefore the merits of and choosing suppliers. Further, in our of the palm oil industry and from NGOs, and whose always be a certain risk that the standards for environCode of Conduct, we have defined what we require of agenda includes social conditions and environmental mental and working conditions that we wish to uphold our suppliers and partners in terms of business ethics, impact. In 2007 the organisation established a certififor our products are not fully implemented at earlier stahuman rights and labour standards. The project is in cation standard based on a series of criteria for suges in the value chain – for example, there may be no the data processing phase, and we have obtained inforstainable palm oil production under these seven principrelevant provision in local legislation or local requiremation from suppliers of accountability, including CSR les: ments may be lower than the standards we wish to policies, environmental policy and compliance with the maintain. 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 1. Commitment to transparency Regardless of the initiatives we introduce, we must face 2. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations Bearing this in mind, we have defined supplier conditithe fact that bringing influence to bear on suppliers who 3. Commitment to long-term ons as an area for improvement in our CSR strategy. are more than a single trade/production phase away economic and financial viability from us in the value chain is a difficult and resource4. Use of appropriate best practices by Supplier management intensive task. Palsgaard is a relatively minor player in growers and millers Supplier management is currently an integral part of a global market for the raw materials we buy and our 5. Environmental responsibility and conservation of Palsgaard’s quality management system. It aims to enchances of successfully demanding specific requirenatural resources and biodiversity sure that the raw materials supplied meet our standards ments for responsibility in the value chain and checking 6. Responsible consideration of employees and of for quality and reliability of delivery and that, in cooperathat such requirements are met, can only be described individuals and communities affected by tion with our suppliers, we can create ongoing improveas minimal. growers and mills ments and optimisations, including checking during vi7. Responsible development of new plantings sits to our suppliers that food safety requirement Meanwhile, the chances that we can succeed in prostandards (HACCP) are met and that we have a conmoting sustainability in the value chain by means of Palsgaard has been a member of RSPO since early structive dialogue with our suppliers on potential aredialogue with suppliers and via certification standards 2008. In 2011, we initiated a project aimed at having as for improvement. In future, we expect to use the are good. Palsgaard approved as a supplier of products produced goodwill we have built up over the years as a launch on RSPO Supply Chain certified palm produce. We expad for more intensive and constructive dialogue with Partnership for sustainable pect to be audited in the spring of 2012. This is the first suppliers on CSR in the early stages of the value chain. production of palm oil step toward our goal of having our consumption of palm Palm oil is the most widely used cooking oil in the world. oil certified by the end of 2015. Palsgaard has not set In 2011, we have set up a project which is intended to It is extracted from oil palms grown principally on any targets for the proportion of RSPO-certified palm build a more professional and more systematic applantations in South East Asia (primarily Indonesia oil. The demand for certified palm oil and its derivatives proach to supplier management where CSR related isand Malaysia). There is some concern about the impact is growing towards an increased share of RSPO-certiGuar gum Alginate Locust bean gum 14 fied palm produce. The demand is, among other things, influenced by the multinational companies that have set specific targets for their conversion of their consumption of traditionally-produced palm raw materials to RSPO-certified palm produce. The major consumers of palm produce affects, via demands to their suppliers, the growth in consumption. When you choose certified palm based raw materials, it is associated with an additional cost throughout the supply chain, but as the supply increases additional costs are expected to be reduced. The reduced additional cost is expected to increase food manufacturers’ demand for products produced with certified palm oil-based raw materials. Through the increased supply of RSPO-certified palm raw materials and an increased demand for RSPO-certified palm commodities Palsgaard expects, by the end of 2015 at the latest, to be using 100% RSPO certified palm produce. Vegetable oil Palm oil kernels 15 8. Our employees The Palsgaard slogan ‘heart working people’ expresses absence or adapt the position to suit new conditions. In Poland all employees and their immediate family the essence of our work culture: that our employees are We can often offer an employee who has been absent benefit from an arrangement made between Palsgaard committed and hard-working, and put their heart into their due to illness the opportunity to start back part-time. Polska and a private provider of medical and healthwork. In our day-to-day cooperation with our customers We believe that a gradual return to the workplace is care, which for the employee means a more effective we want our customers to view us as ‘heart working often beneficial for the individual employee. At Palsgamedical and health care. The scheme covers a range of people’ who are deeply committed to resolving issues ard we do our utmost to maintain or redeploy employeservices such as doctor’s advices, medical analyses and who work persistently to service our customers. es who are no longer able to fill their original position. and procedures etc. This company agreement is important for employees in Poland. In addition, our Polish As a foundation-owned company, Palsgaard is first and Palsgaard’s employees are assured confidentiality employees are covered by a corporate life and accident foremost driven by the desire to produce long-term and are welcome to seek career advice from our HR insurance, which is not commonly used in the country. development as opposed to focus on short-term optimanager, and we also have mentors, who are trained Our Polish colleagues are also offered participation in misation of profits. The foundation structure provides us to lend support to vulnerable employees. A mentor also relevant external courses in language and other busiwith a unique opportunity to be relatively open about our lends support to people who come to Palsgaard from ness related topics. business objectives and, as described in section 5, one Danish municipal employment schemes to test their of the objectives of the Schou foundation is to ensure all ability to work or to gain practical work experience. We In the Netherlands we continue working on actively inour employees a good workplace, which is also the basis also help people who have been absent from the labour volving staff in key decisions, support training and makof the Palsgaard mission. To make these objectives opemarket for a long time to find out what kind of work they ing the workplace an increasingly healthy, safe and atrational, we have formulated a set of basic Palsgaard are capable of. tractive place to retain employees. This has contributed values – Loyalty, responsibility and commitment. These to an increasingly low absence due to illness (1.95% in in turn have been made operational in our Code of Local and global anchorage 2011 versus 2.3% in 2010) and only one employee has Conduct. In our daily lives we comply as a company, as The headquarters of the Schou Foundation is located left the Netherlands-based company in the past 4 years. leaders and as employees with the values and with the in a small local community in Juelsminde, Denmark, As an example of supplementary training, all production Code of Conduct in order to create a safe, secure and where there are just under 4,000 inhabitants. We conworkers participated in a course on food technology in stimulating workplace. sider it our special responsibility as a responsible 2011. In order to increase cooperation in our organizacompany to contribute to the town and to maintain clotion, following Palsgaard’s full acquisition of Palsgaard Employee welfare and retention se, long-term relations with our employees. This apNetherlands B.V in 2011, we organized a company visit The Schou Foundation’s approach to the employees proach is an important constituent part of the Palsgato Denmark for all employees from the Netherlands. can be traced directly back to the time the estate was ard culture and we seek to disseminate and adapt it in This was an initiative to strengthen cooperation across run as a farm with a large number of employees who all the local communities in which our subsidiaries borders. typically worked on the estate all their lives. We strive operate, depending on local conditions and needs in the to preserve the human spirit which down the years countries in which we have employees. has provided our employees with sufficient freedom, security and opportunities for development to ensure In Mexico, our employees are offered participation in We have set up regional application centres in Sinthan they remained at the company for many years. a ‘Life Quality’ Programme, which focuses on the ingapore and China to support sales and marketing The philosophy originated with the founder of the Schou dividual employee’s personal development and his/her of Palsgaard’s products on the Asian market. SanFoundation and is passed on as a basic premise in the family’s welfare. The programme includes health and dra Leong has worked in the Singapore office for Foundation’s articles of association. accident insurance covering the employee and his/her twelve years. Sandra believes that Palsgaard’s culimmediate family and medical assistance at the ture is fully compatible with Singaporean culture: If we discover that one of our colleagues is not thriving, company and in the home, and help and advice on mewe do our utmost to tackle the issue and give our coldical treatment and health. We also offer our Mexican “We work together and help one another as if we league plenty of space so that his or her problems can colleagues good opportunities for further training in were a family and we do not have razor-sharp divibe solved in the best possible way. Our approach to our their subject area or in foreign languages. These initiasions between areas of responsibility. The general employees is built on the premise that allowances must tives are unusual in Mexico and a contributory factor in atmosphere is cooperative and I recognise the be made in a working life for strong and weaker phases, ensuring that our employee turnover is low. same atmosphere when I visit headquarters in Denand that the workplace can contribute to easing the burmark. As for management, I feel that there is geneden in difficult periods. For example, when an employee In Russia, we have set up insurance for the employees, rous understanding and flexibility for the individuis absent due to long-term illness, we systematically which covers medical attention, ambulance service and al, for example, if we are hit by personal tragedy or conduct absentee interviews in order to clarify what inhospitalisation. if we need to take care of a family member who is dividual initiatives can be taken to minimise leave of ill”. 16 17 Employee satisfaction the group that is selected as most suitable in relation to 3-year review of the workplace assessments and have We consider the very low rate of employee turnover at benchmark results. The overall job satisfaction is signifihad a lot of support from our employees. We will conPalsgaard and average seniority of more than 11 years cantly higher than the benchmark and ranks high in the tinue working with the outcome of the risk assessments in both 2010 and 2011 to be evidence of the fact that grouping ”High satisfaction and motivation.” By analysin 2012 the individual employee feels a strong bond with the ing the responses, we could, however, see that there are workplace (see fig. 4). As we see it, Palsgaard’s greatstill areas that we need to work on. We will take action on We have launched specific initiatives for reducing the est strength lies in having satisfied and highly motivatthese in the next period (see fig. 6). noise from the various plants and have increased the ed employees. We are firmly convinced that this not use of hearing protectors. Following up on this in 2011, only saves us the costs involved in employing new staff There are often great differences between individual we offered hearing tests for all employees working in but also provides invaluable continuity in our processemployees’ wishes and expectations for the way their the production areas. 128 employees accepted the ofes, helps maintain quality and, in the final analysis, also workplace is organised, the content of their work and fer. During the examination each audiogram test was inspires our customers’ confidence in us. challenges they face. Annual staff development intercompared to a similar survey held in 2007, when virtuviews (known as ‘MUS’) ensure that individual expectaally the same group of employees participated and the Figure 4. Employee turnover (%) tions are harmonised between employee and manager, conclusion was that the majority of the employees had 25 and that areas for improvement (if any) are identified. the same amount of hearing as in 2007. This confirms 20 The MUS interviews are also intended to ensure that that the increased awareness of noise, more consistent 15 10 employees understand the Palsgaard strategy and valuse of hearing protection, distribution of moulded ear 5 ues, and that the individual employee is aware of his/ plugs, and various noise reduction measures have had 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 her responsibility and goals in relation to them. As a rea positive effect. In 2011, we recorded 27 accidents, 3 of sult of the employee survey in 2011 we have launched which resulted in the absence of one day’s duration or Every two years Palsgaard has measured workforce a global action plan for improving the development inmore. This is a decrease compared to previous years, satisfaction in Denmark on a number of parameters terviews, which include aims to establish unified aphowever, it is still not satisfactory for our efforts. with a view to identifying areas for improvement. This proaches and processes in relation to the talks. Addiis an important element in maintaining Palsgaard as tionally, we will work on attaining optimal use of each In 2012 we will among others focus on these areas: an attractive workplace. In line with the increasing other’s resources through good dialogue, both in Den• Work routines globalisation of Palsgaard we want to have our staff mark and in the subsidiaries. • Work permits in all Palsgaard companies participate in the employ• Use of protective equipment ee survey, which is why in 2011 we have chosen to Workplace assessment (APV), cooperate with the company Ennova. This means working environment Following ongoing efforts to reduce heavy lifting in the that the analysis and the results are measurable withand safety at work Netherlands, where several employees have been in the international European Employee Index® (EEI). Palsgaard’s work environment organisation (WEO) is trained in the use of forklift trucks, the amount of heavy When we implemented the survey in 2006, the figures comprised of a working environment committee for lifting has been reduced by 90%. showed that employees’ satisfaction with their physical each of the companies Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S. and mental working environment in some departments In Palsgaard A/S we have also created seven work enPensions saving and was under the desired level, which resulted 14 new inivironment groups. The WOE manages health issues in profit-sharing scheme tiatives designed to improve the situation. The activities the daily operations and ensures the development of Since 1941, to give our employees financial security were in particular focused on improving cooperation risk assessments (APV) and the registration and evaluafter the end of their working life at Palsgaard, we have and understanding between different parts of the oration of occupational accidents and near-misses. These offered all employees in Denmark participation in a ganisation and a better flow of information. The overall assessments form the basis for selecting areas for imunique pensions saving and profit-sharing scheme. The results for Palsgaard for 2011 are very satisfactory and provement and for setting targets for new initiatives in profit-sharing element is established via the Palsgaard are well above those of the EEI Other Industry, which is the work environment. At the end of 2011 we initiated a Foundation’s Pension Savings Association. The employer and the member (the employee) agree that the member pays in 2½ 5% of salary. Then, based on the annual accounts, Palsgaard pays in a corresponding sum multiplied by a so-called ‘assignment factor’. In re”With a score of 77 on Satisfaction & Motivation in the 2011 employee survey (on a scale of 0-100) Palsgaard cent years this factor has fluctuated between 0.9 and achieve impressive results. The results indicate that Palsgaard is a company with high focus on employee 1.6. The scheme was set up before the national rewell-being, and where employees generally have a very positive assessment of the company, its management tirement pension scheme was introduced in Denmark. and their daily work. Satisfaction & Motivation is also high compared to the general level of the Danish labour Back in 1941, this was the first time ever that an emmarket and relative to other leading companies where Palsgaard is mixing with the absolute top.” ployer and an employee had created a pensions savings scheme as a private agreement. The association Søren Hammer Pedersen Regional Manager, Ennova remains, to our knowledge, the only association of its kind in Denmark. 18 Figure 5. Working environment Figure 6. Employee survey 2011. Schou Foundation EEI Other Industry 20 16 12 100 8 4 0 80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 80 81 81 77 75 Rate of injury (accidents per million working hours) 71 74 Assesment No. of accidents leading to absence 60 68 40 20 0 Daily work My job assignments The physical working I feel good about the and work content environment at my workload in my job place of work Schou Foundation EEI Other Industry 100 Interpreting the results 80 Very high satisfaction 77 77 80 100 points and motivation 60 68 68 Assesment High satisfaction and 70 79 points motivation Vurdering Medium satisfaction and 40 60 69 points motivation Low satisfaction and 50 59 points motivation 20 Very low satisfaction and Below 50 points motivation 0 Satisfaction & Motivation 19 9. Production and the environment As Palsgaard’s headquarters is located in an area of Energy and climate This meant that we replaced heating fuel with straw natural beauty, we have a special incentive to preserve Palsgaard Estate has a goal to achieve CO2 neutrality from our own farming activities as a sustainable source the local environment and are reminded every day that for the entire group by 2020. Neutrality will be achieved of heat for the entire company and saved 1,900 tons production must walk hand in hand with sustainability. by introducing a number of appropriate projects and CO2 a year. In 2009 we decided to invest in projects Our commitment to the environment is written in a initiatives, which both we and our stakeholders consider with a view to further reducing our energy consumption policy – our Environmental Policy, which obliges us to valid and suitable. In our opinion, the most sensible and carbon footprint from our activities. These projects run our business responsibly, including ensuring that solution is first and foremost to focus on reducing our together are expected to reduce our energy consumpour environmental impact is continually reduced and energy consumption to a minimum, and subsequently tion by about 1.2 million kWh a year. that our natural surroundings are preserved and, if to neutralise remaining CO2 emissions by other means. possible, extended. Our goal is to preserve the natural We aim therefore to reduce energy consumption per kg By purchasing new modern energy efficient cooling condition and beauty of the estate. of finished product to 1.05 kWh per kg finished product towers and by installing new steering on our cooling produced. compressors we have achieved energy savings on our Palsgaard has conducted green accounting since 1996. electricity consumption. These reports have mainly accounted for environmental Palsgaard A/S has in the period up to 2012 chosen to conditions that are included in our environmental perpurchase green power through a variety of unspecified At the end of 2009, we converted all our boilers, includmits and the requirements required to be reported on in Danish wind turbines that are certified to deliver this. In ing steam boilers and heating oil boilers, from eating oil the green accounts. In connection with the development buying green electricity, the total consumption of electo natural gas. In 2010 we felt the full effects of the of the Palsgaard CSR strategy (see section 5), our work tricity in Palsgaard’s facilities in Denmark becomes CO2 conversion. Together with the remainder of our ongohas included an assessment of the environmental neutral. Palsgaard is planning in to enter into a new ing energy-efficiency initiatives, the conversion has led conditions which we and our stakeholders consider agreement to have its power delivered from specified, to a reduction in our energy consumption from 1.19 important to the company. These conditions and their certified wind turbines from 2012. kWh to 1.16 kWh per kg of finished product produced. connection with our production processes are deCO2 emissions from natural gas are 20% less than heatscribed below. For many years, Palsgaard has by tradition optimised ing oil and, at the same time, the local environmental and improved efficiency in production processes with a impact in terms of SO2 and NOX emissions is signifiProcesses view to creating a balance between costs, quality and cantly reduced. Furthermore, we avoid more than 100 Palsgaard A/S’ most significant production processes the environment. In 2005 we built one of the largest annual tank truck deliveries. can be illustrated as in figure 7. The flow of materials privately-owned straw-fired heating plants in Denmark. and resources is calculated per kg of finished product. Palsgaard’s production processes comprise emulsifier production of Energy which some products are sold as finished products and some are 1.16 kWh per kg processed further before they are sold. Figure 7 Heating Vacuum Pressure Raw materials 1.07 kg Cooling Quality management Finished products Cooking oils Glycerine 1.00 kg Starches Stabilizers Quality management Emulsifier production Monoglycerides Esters of monoglycerides Quality management Ammonium phosphatide Processing aids Polyglycerol esters, etc. Derivative Packaging Quality management products Water Cleaning agents Semi-manufactured goods 0.07 kg Lubricants Quality management Heating Vacuum Pressure Cooling Yield/waste 0.18 kg CO2 per kg Production of 1.42 kg wastewater per kg Whipping emulsifiers Quality management 0.011 kg combustible Integrated emul./stab. Pelleted emulsifiers Powdered emulsifiers Etc. 20 21 Raw materials utilisation cardboard, plastic and paper packaging refuse is sortson to 2009 is being recycled instead of being incinerAt Palsgaard the yield on our raw materials is well over ed. We sell pallets for reuse and external specialist ated. In 2011, Hedensted municipality carried out a 90%. For many years we have been working to improve companies process most of our packaging waste for waste management inspection of our facilities in Denthe utilisation coefficient on our raw materials and we recycling. mark. All waste fractions at the company were examhave succeeded in creating improvements in a number ined to ensure that handling is carried out in accordance of different areas. Through production scheduling we Product waste with applicable rules. The course of the supervision was ensure that we make as few production changeovers as Palsgaard produces only very small amounts of waste very satisfactory as the only remark was a request furpossible and that production batches are as large as in production, and our production processes generate ther sorting of paper and cardboard in the administrapossible. We aim to improve raw material utilisation an appreciable quantity of derivative products. The tion, which is why we will focus on this in 2012. even further so that by 2015 we will only need 1.04 kg majority of these derivative products are suitable for use raw materials to produce 1 kg of the finished product. as animal feed and are sold to specialist companies Wastewater In 2011 we had an intermediate aim of 1.06. Results for which process derivative products in feed mixes. A Most of the wastewater from Palsgaard’s production 2011 showed that we needed 1.07 kg raw materials for minor part of the derivative products is sold and used originates from cleaning tanks and duct systems. The producing 1 kg of the finished product. This was an imin biogas production. This portion is therefore not catewastewater contains residues of vegetable oils, fats, provement compared to 2010 (1.08), but still below the gorised as waste but rather as a derivative product. phosphor and nitrogen. The wastewater is treated in our intermediate aim. Quantities/volumes of waste and derivative products own pretreatment plant before it is discharged to the are shown in the data material in section 13. municipal wastewater treatment plant. Palsgaard’s prePackaging treatment plant removes most of the fats, oil, proteins, Palsgaard’s packaging quantities are generally small WASTE MANAGEMENT phosphor and nitrogen. and account for less than 1.5% of product weight. By In 2010/2011 we have established new routines for 2015 we aim to reuse 90% of our raw materials packseparating waste so that cardboard, paper, plastics and In 2011 we have initiated a project on establishing a aging and we strive continually to reduce packaging the like are classified and recycled. This has meant that vegetation filter with willow trees, which will be able to quantities – on incoming and outgoing goods. Our an additional 34% of the total waste volume in compariperform the end purification of the wastewater, thereby reducing the discharge to the municipal wastewater treatment plant to a minimum. In 2011 the amount of wastewater has increased to about the same level as in 2009, which means that we will not be able to reach our Figure 8. CO2 emissions per kg product sold (kg) Figure 9. Energy consumption per kg product sold (kWh) intermediate aim of 1.15 litre per kilo product sold. The 0.50 110.0 increase is due to the fact that large fluctuations may 0.45 109.0 occur, depending on the product mix. We have chosen 0.40 108.0 0.35 107.0 to increase the focus on the amount of wastewater 0.30 106.0 through activities planned for 2013 – 2014 so that we 0.25 105.0 0.20 104.0 will be able to reach our strategic aim of reducing the 0.15 103.0 amount to 1 litre per kilo product by 2015. 0.10 102.0 0.05 101.0 0.00 100.0 Our goal is to reduce our wastewater discharge to 1 litre 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 per kg product by 2015. This reduction will be achieved by producing larger batches, reducing water consumption in the vacuum pumps and by using automatic Figure 10. Wastewater discharge per kg product sold (liter) Figure 11. Raw material consumption per 100 kg product valves on all hoses. sold (kg) 2.00 110.0 Exterior environmental factors 1.80 109.0 1.60 108.0 In 2011 we have conducted an examination of outdoor 1.40 107.0 noise on the factory grounds. This concluded that 1.20 106.0 Palsgaard complies with the noise limits defined in our 1.00 105.0 0.80 104.0 environmental approval. We have also initiated meas0.60 103.0 urements of emissions of air returns which are expected 0.40 102.0 0.20 101.0 to be completed in 2012. 0.00 100.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 22 Ground spillage the risks. The principal areas for improvement here are year Palsgaard Mexico hosts a training seminar for its In 2004 Palsgaard discovered that an area of our land is to reduce energy consumption and water withdrawal, to employees informing about measures that contribute to polluted with tetrachloroethylene, a solvent which was increase waste recycling and reduce noise levels. In CO2 savings not only in the workplace, and but also used in production processes in the 1970s and 1980s. recent years, Palsgaard Netherlands B.V. has, for exabout measures which the employees can use to reConsequentially, we have implemented voluntary deample, run 11 projects with a common aim to reduce duce CO2 emissions in their own homes. contamination which is ongoing, and which will take energy consumption. In Singapore, we have implemented initiatives to reseveral years to complete. duce paper consumption and increase waste paper reThe current production plant is constructed to ensure In Mexico, Palsgaard has introduced a number of accycling and the local sales agents have cooperated with that any spillage of raw materials or products cannot tivities which have resulted in the company being certius in a campaign to encourage further recycling. come into contact with the ground. Following our confied as a ‘Clean Company’ for the second consecutive version to natural gas, all underground oil tanks have year. The certification has been achieved by improving Forestry been emptied, cleaned and excavated, with the excepwaste sorting, making energy savings, reusing packPalsgaard owns a total of 2,840 hectares of forest in tion of a tank that is located under a building. aging and actively involving the workforce. Among other Denmark, Estonia and Latvia. In 2010 the Danish forest This tank has been emptied and decommissioned in acactivities, the company has contributed to replanting areas were PEFC-certified (Programme for the Encordance with the regulations and presents no spillage 330 hectares of forest, and donates used plastic drums dorsement of Forest Certification). The certificate risk. to residential areas with no water laid on, where the means that our forests are managed on sustainable drums function as water storage tanks. The Clean Comprinciples. The certification will be audited on a regular Environmental conditions pany certification requires continuous efforts and the basis. The certification report states the following; “in at our facilities abroad company has been recertified in 2011. The new measterms of cultivation and administration, these forests Palsgaard’s production at the emulsifier factory in ures meant replacing light bulbs with energy saving light are managed at a very high level, which includes susthe Netherlands is covered by an environmental bulbs, and replacement of roof panels with transparent tainable principles related to costs, natural conservamanagement system which ensures that important panels to allow greater use of daylight, which will retion and recreational conditions.” environmental conditions are systematically assessed duce electricity consumption. Equally, we initiated and prioritised in order to establish targets and reduce waste sorting in several parts of the business. Once a 23 10. Sales and logistics It is characteristic of Palsgaard that we have a relaes, we find it necessary to distribute printed brochures, Stock management tively large number of customers and partners at geofor example, when we visit customers and at trade Palsgaard’s stock management system was implegraphical locations that are far removed from our headfairs and exhibitions. To minimise the carbon footprint mented in 2008 and includes electronic localisation quarters, which often presents us with challenges associated with printing, we have determined that all and management of raw materials, finished products related to maintaining our network of contacts without brochures produced in Denmark will be labelled in acand packaging. The stock management system has optravelling excessively. What this means is that our sales cordance with the Nordic Eco-label. These brochures timised our processes so there are fewer defective orand logistics solutions have a certain effect on our prodaccount for about 95% of Palsgaard’s total printed maders and production runs. In 2010, we ran a project ucts’ CSR profile. We are in continuous dialogue with terial. which aimed at improving the stock management syour customers and partners on how best we can enstem. In tandem with our IT department, our warehouse sure longterm and sustainable partnerships and how Palsgaard’s marketing materials contain e.g. product staff played a pivotal role in implementing these dewe via stock management and transportation can entest results and we have always strived to provide comvelopments. This cooperation has provided a greater sure that our product reaches the customer on time and pletely objective data. Guidelines for this were formalcommitment and greater satisfaction among the under the most appropriate conditions seen from the ised in early 2012. warehouse staff. The system is long-term supportive CSR perspective. and possesses the features that customers require for In 2011 we relaunched our website www.palsgaard. omitting errors in the delivery of goods. Marketing com. This new site contains much more information It is crucially important to our sales that customers are and is more user friendly than before. The site has a Transportation aware of the full range of characteristics and options CSR section where customers and other stakeholders As there are limited opportunities at Palsgaard’s disinherent in Palsgaard’s food ingredients. As described can learn more about our CSR activities as well as posal to influence and act in the transportation area, we in section 6, Innovation, our product development is ofdownload our CSR report. have for the time being decided not to set strategic CSR ten conducted in close partnership with our customers goals for transportation. The vast majority of our prodat our application centres in order to make certain that Dialogue with customers ucts are delivered to customers door-to-door by exterour products are as valuable as possible. The applicaand other partners nal carriers. A few of our customers choose to collect tion facilities also function as demo labs where estabUntil recently, the distance between Palsgaard headtheir products from the factory. Products from Denmark lished and potential customers can test our food ingrequarters and markets in farflung corners of the world to the rest of Europe are transported by road, whereas dients in their own products. The geographical spread meant that meeting with subsidiaries and customers overseas deliveries are sent by sea from Northern Euof our laboratories reduces travelling distances and entailed a significant amount of travel. To reduce travel ropean ports. For both financial, logistic and environthus our carbon footprint. and make cooperation more efficient, we have since mental reasons, we strive to optimise our packaging 2009 installed video conference equipment at our formats and total weight transported so that we utilise Palsgaard’s primary contact to the market is via headquarters and at seven of our subsidiaries. We have cargo capacity to the full. our own sales representatives and by a number of indeprimarily used the video conference equipment for interOur new plant in Malaysia will lead to a reduction in pendent sales agents, who cover a total of 108 counnal meetings. However, we aim in future to extend our transport. This applies to a number of palm oil-based tries on all five continents. Personal contact is suppleuse of the technology to form closer and more efficient raw materials which are important ingredients in mented by brochures and technical articles which ties with both our subsidiaries and our key account cusPalsgaard’s product portfolio, but more importantly, the can be downloaded from our website or ordered in hard tomers. We have experienced positive interest in this new production facilities will help to reduce the environcopy. To save resources, we advise people to download and experience that the system is used more often. mental impact of deliveries of finished products from from the website. However, under some circumstancDenmark to the growing market in Asia. 24 25 11. Product applications Palsgaard’s emulsifiers and stabilizers are primarily deFood Safety effective communication routes via the Food Safety veloped as ingredients in foods, e.g. bakery and dairy For many years Palsgaard has controlled food safety team and work groups, so that changes and new deproducts, chocolate, ice cream, margarine products, through our HACCP system (Hazard Analysis and Critimands from authorities and customers are continuously mayonnaise, dressing, etc. The function of our products cal Control Points) in accordance with the requirements captured and controlled. At the same time this ensures is to give food products the desired consistency and to of EU Regulation 852/2004. systematic analysis of hazards and the systematic manensure that they are stable and remain fresh, and, at agement of food safety at all stages, from raw material the same time, to meet customer requirements for To further improve the control we have chosen to have procurement to delivery of finished products for our cusspecial food characteristics, e.g. reduced calorie conour quality assurance system for food safety certified in tomers. tent. Our products can also be used to support our cusaccordance with the ISO 22000 standard. The quality tomer’s specific production processes so that food promanagement system has been certified under ISO The purpose is to provide safe products to our customcessing can be completed either more gently or at 9001 since 1996. In addition to the ISO 22000 certificaers worldwide. This means that when the product is a lower temperature. tion, which poses demands to both management sysused as intended and often in collaboration with our tem, method and administration, we have chosen to technical service team, our customers don’t need to Many consumers have a generally sceptical attitude pose more specific demands on ourselves by also havcontrol or take into account any specific food safety to food additives, which are commonly referred to as ing Palsgaard become certified in accordance with the risks of Palsgaard’s products. In connection with ISO E-numbers. At Palsgaard, we see our food ingredient FSSC 22000, which includes the technical specification 22000 certification, Palsgaard has a declared aim: we products as playing a positive role in matters of topical ISO / TS 22002-1 . This poses specific demands on the will never be forced to withdraw a product from the marinterest to consumers, e.g. low-fat products and food basic programs included in the management of food ket due to a food safety violation. Incidentally, we have waste reduction, and we believe that food additives safety. The standards are used throughout the food never been forced to do so. should be the subject of more nuanced debate. It is chain and these certifications enable us to supply food crucially important to us that our products provide foods ingredients to national and international clients, which Improving food with the desired characteristics and never constitute require compliance with these standards. products’ health profile any kind of risk for the enduser’s health. We strive At Palsgaard we strive continually to adapt our product therefore continually to improve food product safety In connection with the ISO 22000 certification in 2011, range to match the latest know-how on the effects that and the nutritional characteristics of our products. we expanded the number of specific objectives relating food products have on consumer health and well-being. to food safety. The results are monitored regularly at It is important to us that we make it possible to improve management review meetings. We have established a the nutritional profile of food and, at the same time, avoid permanent interdisciplinary organization which ensures undesirable contents in our products. For these reasons, we maintain special focus on product development to support the production of low-fat food products and food products with an improved composition of fatty acids to minimise the trans fatty acid content in our products. 26 27 Ingredients for low-fat foods onnaise with up to 60% fat. This flexibility means that of less than 1% trans fatty acids. These can contribute In response to increasing consumer consciousness of the manufacturer can save several resources, as it will to the development and production of foods with rethe fat content in food, for some years now, Palsgaard only be necessary to use one single stabilizer blend for duced levels of trans fatty acids. This is done without has striven to develop products which can help mainmaking a wide range of finished goods. compromising the sensory quality and shelf life of the tain the consistency, taste and shelf-life of low-fat foods. finished food. This applies, among others, to margarine, mayonnaise, Trans-free emulsifiers cream, ice cream and chocolate. Since the 1990s it has become widely known that trans fatty acids (see box) can have a negative effect on What are trans fatty acids? As an example, the product Palsgaard® IceTriple has health. We recognise that there may indeed be a conWhen oils are partially hardened, the molecular made it possible for our customers to produce ice nection between trans fatty acids and health, and that, structure in natural vegetable oils and fats is transcream with only 2% fat, which still has an eating quality among others, the industry has a responsibility to find a formed from the cis form to the trans form, and trans that is comparable to traditional full-fat ice cream with solution to the problem. Therefore, we work continufatty acids are created in the process. Scientific re10-12% fat. Palsgaard® 1-2-3 has made it possible to ously to develop emulsifiers with a reduced content search has shown that trans fatty acids can cause manufacture mayonnaise with as little as 0% fat, all of trans fatty acids without compromising emulsifier increased level of cholesterol in the blood and are while the product also can be used in a traditional mayfunctionality. Most Palsgaard emulsifiers has a content therefore a contributory factor in claudication of the arteries and veins, increasing the risk of coronary thrombosis. For these reasons, the health authoriFigure 12. Flow curves for mayonnaises manufactured with Palsgaard® 1-2-3 ties in many countries recommend generally that people reduce their intake of trans fatty acids. Standard 60% fat mayonnaise with Palsgaard® 1-2-3 Mayonnaise with 0% fat made with Palsgaard® 1-2-3 Mayonnaise with 35% fat made with Palsgaard® 1-2-3 200 E-numbers Most of Palsgaard’s products are food additives, which are therefore registered with one or more E-numbers. The E-number system is the European Union’s internationally-recognised classification system for food ad150 ditives in food and beverage products. The E-number classification system ensures that a specific ingredient complies with identification and purity requirements on which the scientific toxicological assessment of the ingredient as content in an ordinary food product is 100 based. Some consumers, however, are generally sceptical Shear stress about food additives and, therefore also sceptical about E-numbers. This scepticism is probably the result of the 50 fact that some types of E-numbers are widely considered or can be construed to be added to foods for cosmetic reasons, i.e. to camouflage poor quality in a given food product. The vast majority of Palsgaard’s products are based exclusively on raw materials of vegetable origin and/or other natural components and Palsgaard’s 0 products are intended for the improvement or maintenance of the structures and stabilities of food products in modern food processing. We have no intention at all of misleading the consumer as to the quality of any food product. By participating actively in stakeholder and -50 0 20 40 60 80 100 industry organisations (cf. section 5), we encourage Shear rate nuanced dialogue with the decision-makers and consumer organisations on issues of this nature. The flow curves above shows the viscosity for 3 different mayonnaises with contents ranging from 0 60% fat content. Looking at the nearly identical behaviour of the 3 curves, one can conclude that the viscosity and creaminess is the same for all 3 products. 28 Technical applications “E-numbers provide assurance for the consumers Palsgaard’s products are also used in applications outthat the used substances have been assessed and side the food industry, where vegetable emulsifiers can approved for food use by Danish and European be used in place of the traditionally-used petrochemical experts, while allowing consumers with allergies to products in technical-chemical applications. Our emulspecific substances to easily get detailed informasifiers are also used in a number of non-food connotation about what a food contains.” tions to help create emulsions or suspensions, for exHenrik Hoegh, Member of the Danish Parliament for the ample, in skincare and cosmetics products, where the Liberal Party (V), Former Minister for Food, Agriculture and manufacturer sees our products as suitable because Fisheriers. Source: Press release from the Ministry for Food, Agriculture and Fisheriers 8 June 2011 they originate from natural vegetable raw materials, or where he wishes to avoid certain chemicals which the Palsgaard products can effectively replace. To meet consumer demands for fewer E-numbers, Palsgaard has developed a range of ice cream stabiOther technical applications include the polymer and lizers, which combines the characteristics of several plastics industry, where Palsgaard’s emulsions are seingredients so that the ice cream requires only one or lected for use as emulsifiers to prevent fogging or static two E-numbers to maintain a good consistency, long electricity forming on plastic surfaces. We have thereshelf-life and resistance to temperature fluctuations. fore mapped the health and environmental characteristics of this kind of emulsifier in order to achieve regReducing food waste istration in accordance with the European REACH The volume of food products that end up as waste regulations (for the registration, evaluation, authorisarather than being consumed is the subject of increasing tion and restriction of chemical substances). In 2011 we public concern – and not without reason. Research have had 6 emulsifiers tested, verified and approved for shows that the proportion of food products that ends up use in plastics. Our sustainable, vegetable emulsifiers as waste at some stage of the food production chain mean that we are making a contribution to the transition and by the consumer is 30-50%, which is unacceptable to production methods using fewer fossil fuelbased raw for environmental, social and financial reasons. Food materials. waste was a topic discussed at the “Transforming Food Waste into a Resource” conference in the EU Parliament at the end of 2010. One of the results of which were proposals for an obligation to reduce global food waste by at least 50% before 2025 and to make this one of the UN Millennium Development Goals. At Palsgaard, we believe that we can make a positive contribution to this agenda on the strength of the fact that our emulsifiers and stabilizers contribute to increasing the shelf-life of food products, meaning that they keep fresh for longer. At the same time, we have achieved a high degree of utilisation of our raw materials and found ways of recycling our production waste, as described in section 9. Palsgaard’s food grade emulsifiers can also be used for plastic packaging for food stuffs. 29 12. Our contribution to society Apart from contributing to society, for example, by virtue In Mexico we have entered into partnership with the of the characteristics of our products and their adding CTDUCA organisation, which is working to help juvenile value to food products, and of creating employment, we Down’s syndrome sufferers to become better prepared contribute to society directly by making donations, and to learn. Research has shown that these children are by maintaining and preserving areas of natural beauty, allergic to milk products and have special nutritional and by paying taxes. Our commitment to social causes needs in the form of specific amino acids which help is rooted in our mission to create a workplace with mature their brain and central nervous system. Our highly motivated and cooperative employees. Our Mexican development team has developed a whey commitment to society is intended to make sure that our protein-based milk substitute which contains these employees are proud to work at Palsgaard, that they important amino acids. The project has produced thrive under these conditions and that they want to positive results for the children but the CTDUCA lacks make a visible difference. We also hope that our comthe resources necessary to produce scientific evidence mitment to the local societies in which we operate for the effects of the special diet. On behalf of the ormeans that we maintain a positive relationship with our ganisation, Palsgaard has applied to the National Scineighbours and the local authorities, and that we help ence and Technology Centre for support to finance promote health and skills development at the local level. clinical investigation of the effects. In 2011 our company in Mexico managed to reach an agreement with the NaCommitment to local society tional Science and Technology Centre (CONACYT). By a tradition dating back more than a century, The This means that resulting from a combined donation Palsgaard Estate has been committed to the local from Palsgaard and CONACYT documented research community to which it belongs. Down the years, can take place in collaboration with relevant universiPalsgaard and the Schou Foundation have made doties, institutes and laboratories. After this phase of the nations to the local community, providing facilities project, data collection and evaluation, the study will for the benefit of the local population. Some of the most proceed to phase 2, which provides for an extension of important contributions include access to the Manor the target group and thus the implementation of more library, donation of Juelsminde Church, a donation of scientifically based studies. It is believed that children 16.5 hectares of land for the Hellebjerg Sports and with ADHD and children with autism also could benefit Youth School, and the establishment of Juelsminde golf from Palsgaard’s research in amino acids. course. To reduce the volume of heavy traffic which caused inconvenience in a nearby residential area, we In 2010 we invested in a heart defibrillator. This is lohave lobbied for an alternative route that diverts heavy cated outside the reception at Palsgaard A/S so that traffic away from the area. We succeeded in cooperateveryone in the area can use it at any time – even when ing with Hedensted Municipality. Palsgaard has donatthe offices are closed. In this connection, the local ined an area of land to the municipality in exchange for habitants, associations and the school were invited to which Hedensted Municipality has had the new road attend an information meeting. built. We have worked in partnership with the Danish Heart Palsgaard has consistently maintained a tradition for Foundation to set up the Juelsminde Heart Path on our contributing to and providing financial support to the loland. ‘Heart paths’ have been set up to encourage cal community and especially to voluntary work in conpeople to take exercise to promote health and prevent nection with local sports and leisure activities. We have lifestyle diseases. Mr Troels Lund Poulsen, who was made contributions to a number of different facilities Danish Minister for the Environment at the time, officially and activities, some of which are described below: opened the Juelsminde Heart Path in summer 2010. In Mexico Palsgaard is working with the organisation CTDUCA to develop a substitute for milk containing the essential amino acids, needed especially by children with Down’s syndrome. 30 We’re part of the local fire brigade Since 2002 a part of the Juelsminde fire brigade has consisted of a group of Palsgaard employees, who are permitted to take part in fire drill and firefighting exercises during working hours. The fire brigade’s tender truck is garaged on our land too. Hedensted Municipality found it difficult to maintain a fire brigade that could be called out during the daytime. This unusual fire service is the result of an agreement between Falck, the municipality and Palsgaard, and has effectively resolved the municipality’s problem. 31 We lend our support to school trips to the company for sents to our customers. We have chosen to give this the local schools. We take schoolchildren on for work support to ChildFund Denmark (BørneFonden). Childexperience and we visit local schools to inform them of Fund Denmark has reported on the projects we have apprenticeships at the company. supported in 2010: ”Health Cabin in Agondokpoé in Benin” and ”Well Project in Biankouri”. The construction of In cooperation with the local authorities, we welcome the Health Centre has meant that women in and around people in a variety of work-related situations: job caAgondokpoé are now able to get advice and guidance pacity assessment, flexijobs and practical work expeon hygiene and on how to maintain a good and nutririence. In 2010, we accepted three people in capacity tious diet, as well as learn how to handle the most comassessment positions, four in flexijobs and five in practimon diseases. The well project has meant that about cal work experience placements. In addition we have 250 farmers in Biankouri in Togo are no longer to the welcomed four students who have spent parts of their same degree, dependent on rainfall. Thereby their famstudy in relevant departments at Palsgaard. ilies’ earnings have increased and stabilized. We place the park free of charge at the disposal of Palsgaard has chosen to enter into a 5 year contract the independent amateur theatrical society, Palsgaard with ChildFund Denmark, where we will donate an Sommerspil. The society has more than 350 members. amount of money each year for specified projects. The It produces plays in Palsgaard Park every summer agreement was made in 2011 and the first donation has and makes a valuable contribution to local culture. In been reserved for 2 projects: 1. The purchase of a boat recent years, the musicals have attracted up to 15,000 which helps schoolchildren across the river Oueme in visitors in a season. Benin, and 2. Water tanks and toilets at two preschools in Benin. We are planning a new project in cooperation with schools in the Horsens district with the aim of increasResponsible tax ing knowledge of the natural sciences among senior A significant part of Palsgaard’s contribution to society school students (16-19 years). is through payment of corporate taxation. We have openly declared our belief that taxes should be paid in Humanitarian support the country in which income is earned. Palsgaard is In 2011 East Africa was struck by natural disaster, and an international company and we are subject to differtherefore had an urgent need for assistance to more ent taxation conditions in the various countries in which than 12 million people. Palsgaard contributed a subwe operate. It goes without saying that we comply with stantial amount of money to the collection Africa Now, the legislative requirements of these areas. We engage which was organized by Danish TV. in reasonable negotiations with our subsidiaries on the prices of our products with a view to setting our prices in We have now established a tradition of donating an accordance with the normal market conditions and we amount of money for assistance and development in thus ensure that the income is taxed where it is third world countries in stead of giving Christmas pregenerated. Figure 13. Effective tax rate 100.0% 80.0% 60.0% 40.0% 20.0% 0.0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 32 Palsgaard’s effective tax rate (see calculation method p. 36). The high tax rate for 2008 is due to the Group’s very low profit this year, which, together with the correction for the difference between Danish and foreign rates, result in a high effective tax rate. 33 13. Data overview Indicator Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Energy consumption, total kWh per kg finished product 1.40 1.36 1.26 1.19 1.16 Energy consumption, electricity MWh 10,554 11,140 10,946 11,215 10,910 Energy consumption, fossil fuels MWh 31,618 33,059 31,905 32,845 31,476 Emissions CO2-emissions kg per kg finished product 0.45 0.44 0.40 0.32 0.18 CO2-emissions tons 13,658 14,406 13,438 12,029 6,554 NOX-emissions kg 26,011 25,652 23,749 6,142 5,828 SO2-emissions kg 23,671 25,217 19,556 1,406 1,238 Water Water consumption m3 110,600 113,936 110,646 136,289 131,520 Wastewater discharge l per kg finished product 1.65 1.50 1.47 1.22 1.42 Wastewater discharge m3 49,667 48,568 49,820 45,393 52,267 Derivative products and waste Derivative products kg per kg finished product 0.07 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.07 Waste (combustible) kg per kg finished product 0.016 0.015 0.012 0.012 0.011 Waste (combustible) tons 400 429 339 360 339 Chemical waste kg 2,810 9,260 13,460 8,385 9,819 Compliance with official requirements No. of transgressions No. 0 0 0 0 0 Working environment Accidents, total No. 8 4 7 9 3 Accidents, CN No. 0 0 3 Accidents, DK No. 8 4 7 8 0 Accidents, NL No. 0 0 0 1 0 Accidents, MX No. 0 0 0 0 0 Rate of injury, DK No. per million working hours 19 10 18 20 7 Employee matters Employee turnover Attrition rate 19.92% 7.5% 11.8% 4.4% 4.8% Tax Calculated tax rate % 26.9% 98.3% 21.2% 16.6% 32.8% 34 14. Assurance Statement To management of Palsgaard* This assurance statement is a translatiWe have reviewed the Palsgaard CSR Report 2011 (“the Report”). The purpose of our review was to submit an on of the Danish assurance statement. assurance report on information and data in the Report and on the adoption of GRI Sustainability Reporting princiIn case of doubt, please refer to the Danish version of the statement. ples as a basis for the Report. Palsgaard’s Management is responsible for the Report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our review of the Report. The objective and scope of the engagement were agreed with Palsgaard’s Management. The work performed We conducted our review in accordance with the Danish standard on assurance engagements, RS 3000, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. The standard requires us to plan and perform our review with the object of achieving limited assurance for our conclusion. Based on an assessment of materiality and risks, our work included analytical procedures and inter-views as well as a review on a sample basis of evidence supporting the subject matters. Our work in-cluded an assessment of consistency between the information in the Report and the reporting practice described in sections 2 and 15, as well as reports from production sites and other business units. Our review also included an assessment of alignment of the reporting practice for Palsgaard’s CSR report-ing with the GRI reporting principles. Finally, our review included an assessment of compliance with the GRI level C+. We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for us to express a conclusion with a limited level of assurance on the subject matters. Conclusion During our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the information and data in the Report are in accordance with the reporting practice described in sections 2 and 15, and information reported by manufacturing and other business units. Also, during our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that that Palsgaard applies a reporting practice for its CSR reporting aligned with the GRI reporting principles. Finally, during our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to conclude that the report meets the requirements of GRI level C+. Copenhagen, June 21st, 2012 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Lars Kronow State-Authorised Public Accountant * The entities included in “Palsgaard”are defined on page 3. 35 15. reporting practise The basis data for this report covers the entities stated in the table. All data for resource and raw materials consumption and finished products comprises only production units. Data has been gathered to the extent it has been accessible within the boundaries of our existing systems. We will continuously seek to include more entities into the reporting of data, so that in future we may be able to present a more complete picture of the company. Indicator Basis data Calculation method Entities included in the data M=measured P: Palsgaard A/S & Nexus A/S C=calculated PANL: Palsgaard Netherlands E=estimated PAMX: Palsgaard Mexico DK: All entities in Denmark PACN: Palsgaard China Raw materials C Volumes concerning this year’s production are primarily based on its purchasing P consumption statistics, production reports and status/counts Energy consumption, M Electricity consumption established on the basis of statement from the electricity supplier P, PANL, PAMX, PACN electricity Energy consumption, M Consumption of natural gas and oil measured by meter readings P, PANL, PAMX fossil fuels Energy savings C Results of energy-saving initiatives are calculated on energy consumption relative to the P volume of finished products Water consumption M Water consumption is calculated on our own measurements P Emissions C The emission factor used is the latest available data from Dong Energy’s electricity P, PANL, PAMX, PACN declaration for West Denmark, which is based on Energinet figures. CO2, NOx and SO2 emissions from fossil fuels are calculated as consumption multiplied by the current standard factors developed by: Dansk Gasteknisk Center A/S on the assumption that combustion is complete. Wastewater M Wastewater volumes are determined on the basis of meter readings at the wastewater P, PANL, PAMX, PACN plant. Wastewater volumes are less than water consumption due to the fact that much of the water evaporates in the cooling towers. Finished products C The volume of this year’s finished products forms the basis for environmental indicators P, PANL, PAMX and measurements, which are stated per kg finished products. The figures are primarily based on the sales statistics, production reports and status/counts. Derivative products C The derivative product figures are primarily based on sales statistics, production reports P and status/counts. Waste (combustible) M Waste volume figures are calculated on the basis of invoices from the companies which P received the waste. Chemical waste M Chemical waste figures are calculated on the basis of weight sheets from the companies P which received the waste. No. of transgressions M The number of transgressions is calculated as the number of transgressions related to P, PANL, PAMX conditions for which measurements are required. Work-related accidents M Work-related accidents are calculated on the basis of accidents registered for all P, PANL, PAMX, PACN employees, for whom an accident resulted in more than one day of absence. Frequency of injury C Frequency of injury has been calculated per million hours worked. P Employee turnover C Employee turnover and average seniority are calculated on the basis of data extracted DK from the Palsgaard salary system. Personnel data C Number of employees and working hours are calculated on the basis of data extracted P, PANL, PAMX from the Palsgaard salary system. Employee satisfaction M Employee satisfaction is based on Palsgaard’s employee satisfaction analysis, which is DK, PANL, PAMX, PACN carried out every two years and include all employees. Tax C The effective tax rate is based on the financial report and the tax return scheme. It has DK, PANL, PAMX, PACN been calculated by our external audit. 36 Palsgaard Manor The thick walls of Palsgaard have witnessed a lot in the manor’s more than 600 years. In the 1600s the manor was the home of Peder Reedtz, who was chancellor to both King Frederik 3 and King Christian 5. As chancellor, he was the practical leader in Denmark, and although he didn’t stay at Palsgaard all the time, it’s a fascinating thought that Denmark was ruled from Palsgaard in the years from 1665 to 1674. 37 16. The GRI table The GRI table is based on GRI guidelines version 3.0. Two indicators have been omitted pursuant to the possibility of omission (‘reasons for omission’) for competitive reasons. GRI reference Description Indicator – reference to report or Section statement of indicator Profile indicators 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Message from the CEO 4 organization and its strategy. 2.1 Name of the organization Name of the organisation 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Products 3 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Organisation 3 ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Main offices Back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Geographical spread 3 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Ownership structure 3 2.7 Markets served Salgsorganisation 3 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Palsgaard has received an award for 3 best first time CSR report, awarded by the FSR Danish Auditors 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Reporting year 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report This is Palsgaard’s second CSR 3 report 3.3 Reporting cycle Frequency of reporting 4 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: The sustainability agenda 2 and 5 • Determining materiality; • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report Scope of the report and scope of data 2 and 15 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Scope of the report and scope of data 2 and 15 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Legal entities covered by the report 2 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying Basis data 15 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.12 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI table 16 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Endorsement 14 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for Governance structure and distribution 5 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight of responsibilities 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer The CEO of the Schou Foundation is 5 also the CEO of Palsgaard Estate A/S. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest Three Board members, one of which governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. is a woman 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance Palsgaard has no such mechanisms body. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Palsgaard’s Mission, vision, values 5 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation and Code of Conduct are based on the principals of UN’s Global Compact 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in Membership of organisations 5 which the organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholders 2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Process for selection of stakeholders 2 and 5 38 GRI reference Description Indicator – reference to report or Section statement of indicator Performance indicators (C= core-indicator) EN1 (C) Materials used by weight or volume. Raw materials consumption 9 EN3 (C) Direct energy consumption by primary source. Energy consumption, total 9 EN3 (C) Direct energy consumption by primary source. Energy consumption, split into electricity and 13 fossil fuels EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy savings due to optimisation 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Energy-saving products 6 EN8 (C) Total water withdrawal by source Water consumption 13 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Conservation of natural areas 9 EN16 (C Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CO2 emissions 13 EN20 (C) NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. NOx and SO2 emissions 13 EN21 (C) Total water discharge by quality and destination. Wastewater 13 EN22 (C) Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Waste 13 EN23 (C) Total number and volume of significant spills. Ground spillage 9 EN28 (C Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with No. of transgressions 13 environmental laws and regulations. LA7 (C) Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities by Accidents, rates of injury, and geographical 8 and 13 region. distribution. Palsgaard has not had any fatal accidents. LA8 (C) Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, Support for medical assistance and treatment 8 and 12 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases SO1 (C) Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of Contribution to local community 12 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO5 (C) Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Contribution to local community 5 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety Food safety 11 impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes PR3 (C) Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and E-number labelling 11 services subject to such information requirements. EC8 (C) Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit Contribution to public roads, school, etc. 12 through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. FP4 (C) Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the Ingredients for low-fat food products and 11 prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for emulsifiers that are free of trans fatty acids communities in need (sector-specific). For further details of the GRI standard and terms used in the table, please refer to www.globalreporting.org. 39 we are e x p e r t s in emu ls if ie rs and stabilizers for bakery, confectionery, dairy, ice cream, margarine and fine foods and we are happy to share our expertise. our company values can be defined in just three words : loyalty, responsibility and commitment. we aim to be the preferred partner and supplier of quality products, application service and knowhow to regional and m u l t i n a t i o n a l food companies. to Palsgaard l o y a l t y means that we act as a reliable and honourable business partner for our customers. we treat information confidentially and know how to keep a business secret. to Palsgaard r e s p o n s i b i l i t y means caring about the environment and being aware of our corporate social responsibility; we have a goal to be CO 2 neutral by 2020 and are members of SEDEX and RSPO. to Palsgaard c o m m i t m e n t means we are dedicated to getting the best results for our customers’ products to the benefit of their customers. we care about our employees and have a declared aim that Palsgaard must be a pleasant place to work. Palsgaard we know that our most important resource is the k now-how and d e d i c a t i o n found in our employees. Heart we are committed to getting the best results with our products in our pilot plants and in your facilities. Working at Palsgaard we don’t sell standard solutions we start with your needs. Palsgaard Heart Working People heart work is the best way to achieve success let us help you get it. our products are produced according to the strictest quality criteria. we are experts in emulsifiers and stabilizers and we are happy to share our expertise with you. let our pilot plants help you shorten the step between idea and your new product. heart work is the best way to succeed let us help you do so. Palsgaard A/S DK-7130 Juelsminde, Denmark Phone +45 76 82 76 82 Fax +45 76 82 76 83 Palsgaard treats our environment and our health with respect. This report meets the stringent requirements of the Nordic Swan (Ecolabel). direct@palsgaard.dk The Nordic Swan is a contribution towards a cleaner environment. Licence number 541 309. www.palsgaard.com
