Sustainability in motion Corporate Sustainability Report 2010-11 Tata Motors Ltd. About this report 1 MD’s statement 2 About Tata Motors 4 Vision and Mission 6 Defining priorities 7 The pivot point 13 Economic performance 17 Environmental stewardship 21 Product safety and Innovation 29 People in motion 33 Occupational health and safety 37 Community development 41 Disclosure on Management Approach 46 Assurance statement 48 GRI content index 50 Glossary 53 A b o u t t h i s r e p or t 1 This is Tata Motors Limited’s seventh1 4.54% 48,620 Sustainability Report covering data from 01 April 2010 to 31 March 2011. The report includes performance data and information related to Indian of total energy tCO2e emissions operations at Jamshedpur, Lucknow, requirement was avoided through Pune, Pantnagar and Sanand. The report does not include performance met through usage of data and information related to Joint Ventures and subsidiaries. renewable renewable energy energy This report is based on Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines and is externally assured. Further, this Report serves as our Communication on Progress on the United Nations 2.47% 61.80% Global Compact principles. of net turnover domestic market 1 The report covering our performance for the year 2004-05 and 2005-06 were limited to internal circulation. 2006-07 onwards, we have reported our performance on the public domain and can be accessed at: was spent on share in http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php R&D activities commercial vehicles Motion is described as a change in 58.57% 13,788 position of an object in comparison to a frame of reference. It is a function of velocity, acceleration, displacement and time. Motion is always relative and materials and used engines never absolute. services reconditioned Sustainability in Motion reflects our continuous and relentless quest for procured from through ‘Recon’ business excellence and value creation local vendors business in a responsible manner. Today, we are all set to grow at pace never seen before and are gearing up to face unknown challenges. Our people provide us with the right impetus through their unwavering commitment and innovative minds. This has and will 25kmpl 75,000 continue to help us surpass numerous milestones while keeping a track on the past, focussing on the present and planning for the future. by Indica Ev2, people benefited Robust management systems, sound the highest from work ethics, better fuel efficiency mileage for any Amrutdhara – standards, improved passenger safety, increased material recycling, car in the drinking water conservation of energy and water, managing wastes, etc. are some of the country project examples of sustainability in motion at Tata Motors Limited. 2 MD’s sta t e m e n t competition and complex regulations tend to dampen this growth. At Tata Motors, our product portfolio in commercial vehicles and passenger cars combined with wide distribution channels enables us to take advantage of various opportunities in national and international markets, thereby ensuring long term sustainability of business. During the year, we achieved all-time high sales of 458,828 commercial vehicles – a growth of 22 percent over the previous year and a robust market share of 61 percent. With the introduction of several new models, the intermediate and heavy truck sales increased by 30 percent. Ace, the sub-one ton pick-up achieved the highest ever annual sales with a growth of 25 percent over the previous year. Passenger bus sales grew substantially Dear Stakeholders, across diesel and CNG powered variants, while our new low-floor city I take great pride in introducing buses received an overwhelming market “Sustainability in Motion” Tata Motors response. Since we entered the Limited’s seventh Corporate passenger car segment in 1999, our Sustainability Report for the financial total sales figure crossed two million in year 2010-11. This report provides this year. We achieved the highest ever comprehensive information on our annual sales this year – a growth of 23 sustainability performance, highlighting percent over last year, while the sales our strengths and discussing of Nano the people’s car launched in opportunities for improvement. The 2010 crossed 100,000. Overall, the report also showcases our effort to total export sales also witnessed a create a portfolio of sustainable record increase of 70 percent to about vehicles that meet varying consumer 58,000 vehicles. needs without compromising usability. This year, we showcased ‘Pixel’ a The global automotive sector concept city car for the future at the demonstrated a fast-track recovery in Geneva Motor Show and launched Aria this year with a growth of over 22 a premium crossover vehicle with percent for passenger vehicles and 38 high-end features. We also launched percent for commercial vehicles, while Elan a high end variant of the Manza the Indian automobile industry sedan. Ace Zip and Magic Iris were demonstrated a healthy growth of over test marketed in various parts of the 29 percent and 27 percent country and were formally launched. respectively. The Indian automobile We also launched Venture a multi sector has a leading edge over global purpose vehicle (MPV) on the Ace players in terms of value-for-money platform. These launches complete the Motion is described as a change in products and continues to benefit from Ace family which now ranges from Ace position of an object in comparison to a the large scale of economies coupled Zip and Magic Iris at the lower end to frame of reference. It is a function of with technology improvements. Some Super Ace and Venture on the higher velocity, acceleration, displacement and of the major factors that have led to end. The Prima range of world trucks time. Motion is always relative and never such growth are rise in working launched in 2010 was expanded with absolute. population, increase in disposable the introduction of Prima Construck income, changing consumer culture and range of tippers. We continue to Sustainability in Motion reflects our availability of good road connectivity. In develop and build on our in-house continuous and relentless quest for contrast to this, increasing inflation capabilities and work with the right business excellence and value creation and interest rates, rising fuel prices, partners to ensure that we have in a responsible manner. varying commodity costs, intense price competitive product offerings. M D ’ s st a t e ment 3 With the increasing focus on climate Through our Engineering and Research 7\  eS Q]\RcQbSR O\ OaaSaa[S\b change and the subsequent need to Centre, we have continuously focused T]``SdWaWbW\U[ObS`WOZWaacSaWRS\bWTWSRW\ control and reduce carbon emissions, on improving the active and passive bVS ^`SdW]ca gSO` BVS OaaSaa[S\b we undertook several energy safety features of our vehicles. We are Q]\TW`[SRQZW[ObSQVO\US[O\OUS[S\b conservation initiatives. These the only automobile manufacturer in ac^^Zg QVOW\ [O\OUS[S\b [ObS`WOZa initiatives have helped our plants save the country having an in-house crash [O\OUS[S\b ]QQc^ObW]\OZ VSOZbV O\R 230,959 GJ of energy, translating into test facility. aOTSbg O\R Q][[c\Wbg abSeO`RaVW^ Oa reduction of 47,818 tCO2e of YSg [ObS`WOZ WaacSa ]\ eVWQV ]c` greenhouse gas emissions. Our In order to improve road safety and abOYSV]ZRS`aSf^SQb]c``Sa^]\aSBVWa endeavour to harness wind energy enhance employability of the youth, we gSO` eS VOdS W\WbWObSR O ^`]XSQb b] through our 20.85 MW wind power have developed a pedagogic approach `SRSTW\S O\R aVO^S ]c` acabOW\OPWZWbg project has resulted in a reduction of towards training of drivers. The State Q][[Wb[S\ba BVWa eWZZ VSZ^ ca RSdSZ]^ 48,620 tCO2e of greenhouse gas Institute of Automotive and Driving ab`ObSUWQ aV]`b [SRWc[ O\R Z]\UbS`[ emissions. Till date, United Nations skills in Muktsar, Punjab, is a joint U]OZa T]` SOQV ]T bVS [ObS`WOZ WaacSa Framework Convention for Climate effort of Government of Punjab and WRS\bWTWSR =c` \Sfb `S^]`b eWZZ Change (UNFCCC) has issued 27,554 Tata Motors. This institute offers Q][^`SVS\aWdSZg TSObc`S BObO ;]b]`a´ CERs for this project. Along with driving courses that have been acabOW\OPWZWbgab`ObSUg process improvisation, reduction of approved by the Directorate General of vehicular emissions during use is also a Employment and Training (DGE&T), major focus area. As a responsible Ministry of Labour. We have plans to automotive manufacturer, we continue set up another five such centres to develop vehicles and technologies to across the country. We are also reduce our process and product working on a cost effective driver carbon footprint. Some of our training module that will help to develop significant achievements include skilled drivers in large numbers to meet showcasing of CNG parallel hybrid the acute shortage of skilled drivers. low-floor city buses during the Our target is to train 3.4 million people Commonwealth Games in Delhi, in driving skills within the next 10 years launching BS IV compliant variants of followed by one million every year, the Indica and Indigo CS, and developing starting in 2022. The pilot project will Indica eV2 and Indigo eCS that have be launched in the second quarter of segment leading fuel efficiencies. the next financial year. We address health and safety related During this year, we launched several issues at two levels – operations and social responsibility initiatives based on products. We follow a zero accident the outcome of stakeholder policy and our endeavour is to ensure a engagement. We have linked our focus safe operating environment. At the areas of health, education, employability plant level, we have created a team of and environment to the Human Rights cross-location employees that helps Charter, Bharat Nirman Programme enhance safety standards and and Millennium Development Goals. Till processes. We have also developed a date, we have reached out to over bay ownership concept to ensure 500,000 people through our social workplace safety across operations. responsibility programmes. We deeply regret the sad demise of I reinforce Tata Motors’ commitment two personnel, one in Lucknow and to conduct business in a sustainable other in Jamshedpur. We have taken manner, creating value for our necessary counter measures to stakeholders over the long term. I ensure that such incidents do not sincerely invite your views and repeat. Towards this end, we recently suggestions on this report. completed a diagnostic of the existing safety systems through DuPont and are taking steps to further strengthen our safety standards though our Zero Accident Plan (ZAP). A host of initiatives on health and wellness were organised across all operations. At Pune, a health index was developed and P M Telang an ergonomics study was carried out Managing Director – India Operations to improve the workplace environment. Tata Motors Limited 4 About Ta t a M o t o r s Our drive to become India’s largest and computer applications, and environmental impact and automobile company started in the automotive retailing and service demonstrate superior performance. year 1945. We are the leading operations3. This year saw multiple product mnufacturers in the commercial vehicle launches in the passenger car segment and among the top three in Our manufacturing operations are segment including Indica Vista passenger vehicles with winning classified into two business units Drivetech4, Indigo e-CS, Aria, Indica products in the compact, midsize car Commercial Vehicle Business Unit eV2 and Manza. Indigo e-CS and Indica and utility vehicle segments in India. We (CVBU) and Passenger Car Business eV2 have raised the bar for fuel are the world’s fourth largest truck Unit (PCBU). Our market presence is efficiency by demonstrating a segment and bus manufacturer 2. We were the spread across Europe, Africa, the leading mileage of 23.03 kmpl and 25 first Indian company under the Middle East, South East Asia, South kmpl respectively. Aria and Manza engineering sector to be listed in the Asia and South America. Our product address the dual need luxury and New York Stock Exchange in the year range includes passenger cars, utility robustness with high performing 2004 which further expanded our vehicles, light commercial vehicles, features along with stunning interiors horizon in international markets. Our medium and heavy commercial vehicles. and exteriors. Similarly, in the global operations are located at South Our manufacturing units in India are commercial vehicle segment, we Korea, Thailand and Spain through our located at Jamshedpur, Pune, launched Ace Zip, Magic Iris, Venture subsidiaries and associate companies. Lucknow, Pantnagar and Sanand and and Prima Construck. Through our subsidiaries, we are our corporate office is located in engaged in engineering and automotive Mumbai. A detailed list of our product This year, the domestic sales volumes solutions, construction equipment offerings and services can be found on increased by 22.8 percent to 778,540 manufacturing, automotive vehicle our website 4. vehicles from 633,862 vehicles in components manufacturing, machine 2009-10, while export volumes showed tools and factory automation solutions, Keeping in mind the progressive needs improvement and increased by 70.3 high-precision tooling, plastic and of customers, we make vehicles that percent to 58,089 vehicles from electronic components for automotive consume lesser fuel, have low 34,109 vehicles in 2009-10. Category Commercial Passenger Total vehicles* vehicles# Industry sales 2009-10 582,933 1,900,704 2,483,637 (numbers) 2010-11 742,091 2,466,814 3,208,905 Growth (%) 27.3 29.8 29.2 Company Sales 2009-10 373,842 260,020 633,862 (numbers) 2010-11 458,828 319,712 778,540 Growth (%) 22.7 23.0 22.8 Company market 2009-10 64.1 13.7 25.5 2 Source: Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d’Automobiles share (%) (OICA) statistics : http://oica.net/wp-content/uploads/ranking-2010.pdf 2010-11 61.8 13.0 24.3 3 For more information, please refer: http://tatamotors.com/know-us/company-profile.php Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) report and company analysis *Including Magic and Winger sales 4 For more information, please refer: #Including Fiat and Jaguar Land Rover branded cars. http://tatamotors.com/products-services/passenger.php?ref=worldwide A b o u t Ta t a M o t ors 5 Awards and Accolades XBSE  GPS FOWJSPONFOU BU UIF UI OOVBM $IBQUFS QSPUFDUJPOBOEDPOTFSWBUJPOJOJUJBUJWFT $POWFOUJPO PG 2VBMJUZ $JSDMFT JO UIF Environment, Safety and Social Responsibility: t +BNTIFEQVS QMBOU XBT BXBSEFE ZFBS &/$0/  DPOEVDUFE CZ $** t *OEJDB 7JTUB &79  CBHHFE UIF .PTU Business Performance: FBTUFSO SFHJPO  GPS PVUTUBOEJOH &DPOPNJD 4NBMM 1BTTFOHFS &7 BOE QFSGPSNBODFJOFOFSHZDPOTFSWBUJPO t 5BUB .PUPST FOUFSFE UIF 'PSUVOF UIF.PTU&DPOPNJDBM&OWJSPONFOU t 1BOUOBHBS QMBOU XBT BXBSEFE (MPCBMGPSUIFZFBS XJUIB 'SJFOEMZ 4NBMM 1BTTFOHFS &7 VOEFS TFDPOE QPTJUJPO JO UIF VUPNPCJMF SBOLPG UIF4NBMM1BTTFOHFS&7DBUFHPSZBU UIFJOBVHVSBM3PZBM VUPNPCJMF$MVC .BOVGBDUVSJOH 4FDUPS CZ /BUJPOBM t 5BUB .PUPST SFDFJWFE 5IF .PTU 3 $  #SJHIUPO UP -POEPO 'VUVSF &OFSHZ $POTFSWBUJPO XBSET   3FTQFDUFE $PNQBOZ PG  JO UIF $BS$IBMMFOHF JOTUJUVUFE CZ UIF #VSFBV PG &OFSHZ VUPNPCJMF 4FDUPS XBSE GSPN UIF &GGJDJFODZ  .JOJTUSZ PG 1PXFS  6OJPO 'JOBODF .JOJTUFS  .S1SBOBC t $7#61VOFQMBOUBOE$7#6-VDLOPX (PWFSONFOUPG*OEJB .VLIFSKFF QMBOU SFDFJWFE UIF &YDFMMFOU &OFSHZ &GGJDJFOU 6OJU BXBSE JO UIF t 1BOUOBHBS QMBOU SFDFJWFE UIF t 5BUB .PUPST XBT TFDPOE BNPOH $POGFEFSBUJPOPG*OEJBO*OEVTUSZ $**  IJHIFTU BXBSE BU UIF TUBUF MFWFM GPVSXIFFMFST JO 5IF &DPOPNJD UI/BUJPOBM XBSETGPS&YDFMMFODF i6UUBSBLIBOE &OFSHZ $POTFSWBUJPO 5JNFT  #SBOE &RVJUZ .PTU 5SVTUFE JO&OFSHZ.BOBHFNFOUo XBSEw JO MBSHF BOE NFEJVN TDBMF #SBOETTVSWFZ JOEVTUSZDBUFHPSZ TQPOTPSFECZUIF t $/#$ 57 DPOGFSSFE .S $ t 5IF +BNTIFEQVS QMBOU XPO TFWFO 6UUBSBLIBOE 3FOFXBCMF &OFSHZ 3BNBLSJTIOBO  $IJFG 'JOBODJBM BXBSET BU UIF OOVBM 3FHJPOBM %FQBSUNFOU 0GGJDFS  5BUB .PUPST -JNJUFE  XJUI $POWFOUJPO  PG *OEJBO /BUJPOBM 4VHHFTUJPO 4DIFNFTh TTPDJBUJPO t 5BUB.PUPST$7#6XBTBXBSEFEUIF UIF BXBSE PG *OEJBO JOEVTUSZT #FTU */44 /  GPS FYDFMMFODF JO (PMEFO 1FBDPDL XBSE GPS $'0GPSUIFZFBS TVHHFTUJPO TDIFNFT VOEFS UIF 0DDVQBUJPOBM )FBMUI  4BGFUZ GPS t 5BUB.PUPST$7#6DVTUPNFSTVQQPSU UIFNF PG A*OOPWBUJWF *EFBT GPS UIFZFBS XPO UIF (PMEFO 1FBDPDL /BUJPOBM .BOBHJOH$MJNBUF$IBOHF t 5BUB .PUPST XPO UIF (PMEFO 5SBJOJOH XBSEGPSUIFZFBS t 5IF +BNTIFEQVS QMBOU SFDFJWFE UIF 1FBDPDL XBSEGPS$PSQPSBUF4PDJBM t 5BUB.PUPSTXPOUIF#FTU4VQQMJFS 4SJTIUJ (PPE (SFFO (PWFSOBODF 3FTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSUIFZFBS XBSEGSPN5FMDPOGPSOFXQSPEVDU XBSE  GPS FOWJSPONFOUBM EFWFMPQNFOU  JO UIF QBSUOFSTh NFFU Manufacturing Excellence: IFMEBU+BNTIFEQVS QSPUFDUJPO JO UIF .BOVGBDUVSJOH  &OHJOFFSJOHDBUFHPSZ t 5BUB/BOPSFDFJWFEUIFXPSMEhTPMEFTU t .S 3BWJ ,BOU  7JDF $IBJSNBO  5BUB BOE NPTU DPWFUFE (00% %&4*(/ .PUPST-JNJUFE SFDFJWFEUIF(PMEFO t 5IF +BNTIFEQVS QMBOU XPO UIF XBSE GPS   XIJDI XBT 1FBDPDL $PSQPSBUF XBSE GPS 4BGFUZ )FBMUI&OWJSPONFOU 4)&  DPOGFSSFE CZ 5IF $IJDBHP #VTJOFTT-FBEFSTIJQo XBSEGSPNUIF$POGFEFSBUJPO UIFOBFVN.VTFVNPG SDIJUFDUVSF PG*OEJBO*OEVTUSJFT &BTUFSO3FHJPO t $7#6oDVTUPNFSTVQQPSUSFDFJWFE BOE %FTJHO UPHFUIFS XJUI 5IF JO-BSHF*OEVTUSZDBUFHPSZ UIF *OEJBO DIJFWFST &YDFMMFODF JO &VSPQFBO $FOUSF GPS SDIJUFDUVSF t 5IF GPVOESZ EJWJTJPO BU +BNTIFEQVS $VTUPNFS4BUJTGBDUJPO XBSE SU%FTJHOBOE6SCBO4UVEJFT QMBOU SFDFJWFE UIF A'PVOESZ PG UIF t $7#6-VDLOPX1MBOUXPOBXBSET t 5BUB/BOPSFDFJWFEUIF(PME1SJ[FJO BOE SFDPHOJUJPOT BU UIF UI :FBSBOEA(SFFO'PVOESZPGUIF:FBS UIF&EJTPO XBSETJOUIF#FTU /BUJPOBM 4VHHFTUJPO 4VNNJU   BUUIFUI*OEJBO'PVOESZ$POHSFTT /FX 1SPEVDU 4FHNFOU VOEFS UIF PO UIF UIFNF A#VTJOFTT &YDFMMFODF t -VDLOPX QMBOU XBT BXBSEFE UIF 5SBOTQPSUBUJPODBUFHPSZ UISPVHI&NQMPZFF&OHBHFNFOU (SFFOUFDI &OWJSPONFOU &YDFMMFODF t 1$#61VOFQMBOUXPOUISFFBXBSET 6 7JT JPOBO E. J T T J P O Commercial Vehicle Business Unit (CVBU) Our Vision To be a world class corporate constantly furthering the interest of all its stakeholders. Our Mission Shareholders: To consistently create shareholder value by generating returns in excess of Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) during the upturn and at least equal to Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) during the downturn of the business cycle. Customers: To strengthen the Tata brand and create lasting relationships with the customers by working closely with business partners to provide superior value for money over the life cycle. Employees: To create a seamless organization that incubates and promotes innovation, excellence and the Tata core values. Vendor and Channel Partners: To foster a long-term relationship so as to introduce a broad range of innovative products and services, that would benefit our customers and other stakeholders. Community: To proactively participate in reshaping the country’s economic growth. To take a holistic approach towards environmental protection Passenger Car Business Unit (PCBU) Vision To develop TATA into a world class Indian car brand for innovative and superior value vehicles. World class in:t 1SPEVDUBQQFBMBOETUZMJOHDMFBO DPOUFNQPSBSZMJOFTBOETIBQFT t *OUFSJPSTQBDFBOEQBTTFOHFSDPNGPSU t 2VBMJUZBOESFMJBCJMJUZ Superior value in offering:t -PXFTUPXOFSTIJQDPTU t 3FMFWBOUDPTUFGGFDUJWFUFDIOPMPHZ t .PSFDPOUFOUBUTBNFQSJDFQPJOUBTDPNQFUJUJPO Mission To, t CFUIFNPTUBENJSFENVMUJOBUJPOBM*OEJBODBSDPNQBOZQSPEVDJOHWFIJDMFTUIBUQFPQMFMPWFUPCVZ t DSFBUFBOPSHBOJ[BUJPOUIBUQFPQMFFOKPZXPSLJOHGPS EPJOHCVTJOFTTXJUIBOEJOWFTUJOHJO Defining priorities 7 8 Defining pr i o r i t i e s Over the years, the automobile which will have a minimum impact on and recyclability to ensure industry has contributed greatly in greenhouse gas emissions across appropriate disposal at end of improving the quality of life of millions of their life cycle. In our processes vehicle life. people by providing access to efficient too, we strive to increase energy and cost effective modes of transport. efficiency, in order to minimize our t )FBMUIBOE4BGFUZ On the other hand, the industry has carbon footprint. We address health and safety also come under the radar for issues t 4VQQMZDIBJONBOBHFNFOU related issues at two levels – related to environment and safety. operations and products. We follow Over time, we have taken steps to Procurement of appropriate raw a zero accident policy and our address these issues as effectively as materials and spare parts at the endeavour is to ensure a safe possible. This year, we conducted an right time is essential for our operating environment. Within our assessment for revisiting material efficient functioning. Equally plants, we have taken a number of issues identified in the previous year. important is the delivering of steps to improve occupational All the issues of material significance finished goods to our dealers and health and safety of our workforce. were identified and assessed against distributors. We acknowledge that Customer safety is of paramount six materiality filters financial our supply chain has a significant importance to us, and we continue impacts and risks, legal drivers, contribution on our sustainability to implement features in our internal policy drivers, peer based performance and thereby our long vehicles to enhance vehicular performance, stakeholder concerns term growth. We have initiated safety. Through research efforts, and opportunity for innovation. The several programmes to enhance we also focus on passerby safety, assessment confirmed climate change environmental and social to minimize negative impacts that management, supply chain consciousness within our supply may occur in case of accidents. management, materials management, chain. Our ultimate aim is to ensure occupational health and safety and that our supply chain has an equal t $PNNVOJUZTUFXBSETIJQ community stewardship as key understanding of our sustainability material issues on which our vision and strategy. We consciously work hard to improve stakeholders expect our response. the quality of life of the community t .BUFSJBMNBOBHFNFOU t $MJNBUFDIBOHFNBOBHFNFOU across our operations through well Optimising material use is one of designed programmes in association Managing our impacts on climate our focus areas, with an aim of with local authorities and non-profit change is a material issue for us by reducing consumption of virgin organizations. Our focus areas are virtue of our processes and material and increasing recycle and health, education, employability and products that are heavily reuse of waste. Through ERC, there environment, and we have linked them dependent on fossil fuels as a is a dedicated focus on reduction to the Human Rights Charter, Bharat source of energy. Rising fuel costs and elimination of usage of toxic Nirman Programme and Millennium and impending legislations impede materials like hexavalent chromium, Development Goals. As a Tata Group the growth of the auto sector. lead, asbestos, arsenic, ozone company we follow the Tata Today, the sectoral focus is on depleting substances etc. Material Corporate Sustainability (CS) developing fuel efficient vehicles, substitution also helps to protocol to assess the progress of vehicles that are powered by contribute towards reducing the our community initiatives. This has alternative fuels and that have a weight of the vehicles, thereby helped us mature from having a low environmental impact over their directly impacting fuel consumption community based focus to a business life cycle. We have and will continue and related greenhouse gas linked strategic initiative with a to research development of fuel emissions. There is a serious focus nationwide footprint in managing our efficient and alternate fuel vehicles, on enhancing vehicle recoverability social responsibility programmes. D e f i n i n g p r i o r i t i es 9 Engaging with stakeholders is critical Stakeholder engagement model at Tata Motors to our business and we view stakeholder interaction as a means to identify business opportunities and minimize risks. Given the wide variety of stakeholders we have, and their varying needs, we have established a Engage with stakeholders number of formal and informal mechanisms to engage with them. Our Learnings and stakeholders play a key role towards feedback Identify issues ensuring the longevity and and concerns sustainability of our business. We consider them as partners in our success and strive towards inclusive Report back growth. to stakeholders Prioritise the issues and concerns We provide our shareholders with regular updates through financial publications and print media. We have Implement undertaken a number of investor strategic Address the friendly initiatives such as sending initiatives issues and reminders to investors who have not and review concerns Set goals claimed their dues, odd lot scheme, and targets sending nomination forms, shareholders discount scheme, arranging factory visits and many more. At the corporate level, we engage with our shareholders through the Investors’ Grievance Committee which is assigned with the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) responsibility of redressal of investor’s study measures satisfaction among grievances. vehicle owners who visited their authorised dealership service centre Our customers are our prime for maintenance or repair work during stakeholders and we have established the first 12 to 24 months of ownership a robust Customer Relationship of the vehicle. The study measures Management (CRM) framework to overall satisfaction by examining five engage with them on a regular as well factors: service quality, vehicle pick-up, as need basis. Our CRM is an online service advisor, service facility and common platform for our sales and service initiation. PCBU was ranked spare parts service activities and all 5th during 2009 and 2010 JD Power channel partners. It gives us an online, Customer Satisfaction Index study, up real-time market and customer from 11th in the 2008 study. PCBU interaction and information capability. has scored 779 points (in the 1000 We conduct regular customer point scale) which is an improvement of satisfaction surveys to assess the 29 points over the 2009 score. current levels of customer satisfaction and seek suggestions for product and Every year Taylor Nelson Sofres (TNS) service innovations. conducts a syndicated survey for assessing customer satisfaction for The PCBU uses the internationally CVBU covering the leading commercial recognised JD Power survey results to vehicle manufacturers in India. The assess customer satisfaction. The survey takes into consideration survey is conducted on random international benchmarks on customer sampling basis covering all key engagement levels of global players domestic players in the industry and from findings of J D Power & Co. In the the results are reported as customer TNS approach, customer engagement and sales satisfaction scores. The is derived as a weighted average of 10 Defining pr i o r i t i e s scores on overall satisfaction, All product related issues are advocacy, loyalty and competitive reviewed regularly in customer advantage. The index score varies on a satisfaction, quality assurance and 200 point scale from -66 to +134. The ERC meetings and specific actions are results of the survey are segment wise implemented as appropriate. and the segment classification is aligned with SIAM. This year, CVBU We have a variety of formal and was the leader in satisfaction scores in informal mechanisms to engage with medium and heavy commercial vehicle employees. We conduct periodic (M&HCV) truck (90 points), light employee satisfaction surveys to commercial vehicle (LCV) truck (87 determine areas of improvement in our points) and LCV bus (93 points) systems and take concrete steps to segments. In both these segments our meet employee expectations. Town hall satisfaction score was the highest meetings, internal newsletters and ever for any year in 2011. magazines provide employees with important information regarding our We provide our existing as well as growth plans and strategy. We have prospective customers with established employee suggestion appropriate product and service schemes at operational level to information. Such access mechanisms improve process efficiencies. are a part of ISO/TS16949:2009, a Performance appraisals and feedback formal Quality Management System conducted on an annual basis, help to implemented across our operations. In address the learning and development order to increase customer needs of employees and facilitate their interaction we have extended career growth. We have a robust customer touch points to the web, call system for employees to report any centres, SMS, toll free lines and a instances of non adherence to the Tata 24x7 helpline. We have a ‘Customer Code of Conduct (TCoC). Reported Centricity’ initiative that connects the instances are reviewed and addressed sales and service function with by our Ethics and Compliance back-end operations to deliver Committee on a periodic basis. customer expectations. We also have assigned executives that address the We have a vast network of suppliers requirements of key accounts. In and dealers across the country and we September 2010, ‘Dealer Customer have established relationship Meet’ was organized in 20 cities management programmes with them. across India. A total of 123 officers We conduct supplier and dealer meets from PCBU and ERC visited different to discuss any issues of concern, dealers and interacted with dealer areas of innovation and any other sales teams, service teams, information pertinent to our business. technicians and customers. Root Our management has maintained an causes for customer grievances were open door policy for suppliers and identified and specific plans of action dealers. Our Board periodically reviews were prepared to address the and assesses any issues that arise concerns. with our suppliers and dealers. Mechanisms to measure effectiveness of senior leadership: We have established vendor parks near our operations in Sanand and Pantnagar Type of review Frequency Changes driven to facilitate close interactions with our Balanced Scorecard Month, Quarter, Annually Personal team/Resources suppliers, minimize lead time, reduce Employee survey Annually Personal and policies travel costs and reduce packaging requirements. We share a special Performance review Annual with semi-annual relationship with many of our suppliers updates Personal and team and have helped them expand their Focus group and businesses. We have also helped a Skip level meetings Monthly Personal and Policies number of suppliers improve their TBEM (internal and external) Half yearly and Annually Processes and linkages environmental and social performance improvement initiatives by increasing awareness and supporting Self evaluation Weekly and Monthly Personal actions them to achieve ISO 14001 and OHSAS Personal Development Plan Half Yearly Personal and team 18001 certifications. D e f i n i n g p r i o r i t i es 11 Suppliers play a key role in our We have dedicated Corporate Social innovation and value creation Responsibility cells across our plants processes by being partners in and also at the corporate level. co-development of parts, providing Periodic community needs assessment technological inputs at the design surveys are conducted to understand stage and then building capacity to expectations of the communities in supply. PCBU uses a systematic which we operate. We develop our engagement strategies in line with supplier quality initiative (SQI) process these expectations. Our programmes for development of suppliers. are designed to have active Technology days and vendor meets are participation from communities, local organized on a regular basis to governance bodies and NGOs, making facilitate learning and sharing of them co-owners of the initiatives. We technologies and future plans. undertake impact assessment studies Increased engagement with dealers to understand the effectiveness of our has been initiated through quarterly initiatives and have regular reviews as dealer and dealer council meets. per the Tata CS Protocol. Capturing ideas across the value chain Systematic processes to capture ideas Processes to capitalize on diverse ideas, cultures and thinking Examples of ideas captured and implemented From employees Team structures, Suggestion scheme, share café, Idea NPI, Material cost movement for model LPT2515/48TC generations, Job rotations, Systematic employee movement through employee CFTs, EDP programme within domestic and international business, etc From customers VOC, Customer clinic, Dealer/Distributor meets, key accounts Improvements in rear axle, Strong chassis frame, Load body by leaders, Naka visits, Auto Expo, CRM, etc & clutch plate From suppliers Supplier meets, Technology day, SRM availability, etc. Advanced Break System, Hydro forming From community Development of volunteers, Community centres, Periodic group Soak pits, Bunds, Alternate energy, Anti pollution drives, meetings, Government liaison, Student community, etc Nirmal Gram plans From international business related customers / employees Product / Country managers and regional managers along with Engine heating system in extreme cold conditions, Reducing focus team from distributors capturing customers’ Engine wear in extreme hot conditions requirements, etc 12 Defining pr i o r i t i e s Stakeholders engagement mechanisms at Tata Motors Who do we engage How do we How frequently What is the How do we with? engage? do we engage? objective? assess it? Shareholders Annual General Meetings; Annual; quarterly; twice a Financial performance; Transcripts of quarterly communication; year broad future strategies; teleconferences; minutes analyst meet; feedback and address of of AGM concerns; approval from shareholders Customers Customer meets; key As per requirement Understand product Customer Satisfaction account process; feedback; redress Index; JD Power Survey surveys; feedback calls; complaints; suggestions on product development Investors Investor meets; investor Annual; quarterly; as per Financial performance; Minutes of meeting; calls; road shows requirement broad future strategies; action plans feedback and addressal of concerns Government; Regulatory One-to-one meetings; Requirement based Relationship building; Minutes of meeting; agencies meetings in industry appraising the action plans forums government on industry constraints; discussions on way forward Community; Society Meetings with local Daily; quarterly; Community development Minutes of meeting; community; public initiatives action plans; feedback hearing communication; letters capturing societal concerns Employees Sunrise and Sunset Annual; quarterly; Understanding Employee satisfaction meetings; horizontal monthly; weekly concerns; communicating survey; appraisals communications; policy decisions and horizontal deployment; seeking feedback; weekly / monthly reviews; communicating improvements displays; performance HR forum; Q12 tool; skip level meets; town halls; focussed group discussions Dealers Dealer meets, joint Annual; quarterly; daily Building capacity and Dealer satisfaction programmes; kaizen technical know-how; survey; events; participation in improving and delivering QFD and NPI; competitor better response to data and analysis; special customers training programmes; dealers council; dealer visits Suppliers / Vendors Technology days; supplier Annual; Delivering quality Vendor rating; Board meets; joint Quarterly products; time reviews; Vendor programmes; Kaizen management; compliance Satisfaction Surveys events; participation in to TML’s code of conduct NPI; competitor data and and other policies analysis; vendor council; vendor mentoring The pivot point 13 14 The pivot po i nt Our philosophy on corporate The Board of Directors along with its governance is founded on a rich legacy Committees provides leadership and of fair, ethical and transparent guidance to our management and governance practices, many of which directs, supervises and controls our were in place even before they were performance. Mr. Carl-Peter Forster mandated. We have adopted highest was appointed as Tata Motors Group standards of professionalism, honesty, CEO & Managing Director with effect integrity and ethical behaviour, and from 01 April 2010. The Board incorporated them in our way of currently comprises of 13 Directors, conducting business. Through this out of which 10 are non-executive. robust governance mechanism, the Board along with its committees To address the various governance undertakes its fiduciary requirements we have the following responsibilities to all its stakeholders. committees: Audit Committee, We continue to strengthen our Remuneration Committee, Investors’ corporate governance practices Grievance Committee, Executive through implementation of specific Committee, Ethics and Compliance models and methods. The Tata Committee and Nominations Business Excellence Model (TBEM) is a Committee. We have health, safety and means to drive business excellence and environment committees at each of also track progress on long term the plants. A steering committee strategic objectives. The TCoC headed by the Managing Director articulates values, ethics and business tracks safety, health and environment principles guiding our Board and performance, addresses issues and employees on ethical behaviour. It also identifies areas of improvement on a acts as an appropriate mechanism to monthly basis. Our enterprise risk report and address concerns management (ERM) framework maps pertaining to non-adherence to the the strategic, operational, financial and code. We are in full compliance with the governance risks related to the requirements under Clause 49 of the business strategy and assesses Listing Agreement with the Indian potential weaknesses in the internal Stock Exchanges. Our risk management and internal control processes. Detailed information on functions are geared up to meet the committees of the Board and their requirements of progressive functioning can be sourced from our governance standards. 2010-11 Annual Report5. Name of the Director Position of Responsibility Mr. Ratan N Tata Non Executive Chairman Mr. Ravi Kant Non Executive , Vice Chairman Mr. J J Irani Non Executive Mr. R Gopalakrishnan* Non Executive, Independent Mr. N N Wadia Non Executive, Independent Mr. S M Palia Non Executive, Independent Mr. R A Mashelkar Non Executive, Independent Mr. S Bhargava Non Executive, Independent Mr. N Munjee Non Executive, Independent Mr. V K Jairath Non Executive, Independent Mr. R Sen Non Executive, Independent Mr. Ralf Speth Non Executive 5Annual Report Page 42 http://tatamotors.com/investors/ annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf Mr. Carl Peter Forster Group CEO and Managing Director *Ceased to be a Director w.e.f September 1, 2010 Mr. P M Telang Managing Director India Operations T h e p i v o t p o i nt 15 Corporate ethics at Tata Motors Classification Total concerns received The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) plays Employee relations 32 an important role in infusing the Environment, Health & Safety 8 principles of ethics, transparency and Diversity, Equal opportunity & responsibility across our operations. respect in the workplace (including The conformance of employees to TCoC sexual harassment complaints) 4 is monitored by the Ethics and Compliance Committee. It ensures Financial impropriety 13 that each employee on becoming a part Legal compliance 0 of Tata Motors abides by the content Unfair business practices 3 and motive of our ethical practices. All Total 60 our employees undergo a one hour refresher course on TCoC on an annual a centralized online system. This is basis which covers aspects of ethics, deployed to all the channel partners. human rights and corruption. Any cases of non-compliance are taken All our manufacturing locations have seriously, and persons involved are adopted and are certified for penalized as per the terms of TCoC. We management systems related to have appointed a lady ethics counsellor quality, environment, occupational across locations as a part of our health and safety. Our plants at Sexual Harassment Redressal Jamshedpur, Lucknow and Pune are Mechanism. The status on ethical also certified to SA8000 social concerns is presented in the Audit accountability standard, under the Committee meetings on a periodic purview of which they are subject to basis. The TCoC framework classifies regular human rights reviews and the types of concerns as per the impact assessments. We have following six categories employee mandated that all suppliers involved in relations; environment, health and automotive production and relevant safety; diversity, equal opportunity and service parts adopt the ISO 9001/TS respect in the workplace (including 16949 quality management system sexual harassment complaints); framework, as applicable, for financial impropriety; legal compliance; implementation, management and and unfair business practices. During improvement of their work processes. FY 2010-11 a total of 60 concerns were received under the TCoC, of which Lobbying with a purpose 21 were valid and subsequently We have a legacy of being involved in resolved. making sound policy decisions, to drive Management systems change and foster public policies that are beneficial to industry and the An enterprise process model (EPM) nation as a whole. We are active manual comprising of enterprise level members of a number of associations, processes and their sub-processes through which we endeavour to put helps us conduct business in an forth our views, work with our peers effective and efficient manner. The and influence strategic decision making model is continuously upgraded to at all levels. Some of the bodies of ensure that it evolves in line with which we are members are: process changes, changing business needs and global paradigm shifts. This t Indo German Chamber of Commerce has helped us evolve a uniform t 4PDJFUZPG*OEJBO VUPNPCJMF approach to all business processes Manufacturers (SIAM) across all manufacturing locations. We t TTPDJBUJPOPG*OEJBO VUPNPCJMF have successfully implemented ERP Manufacturers (AIAM) SAP, which has given us the advantage t .BIBSBTIUSB&DPOPNJD of reliable, consistent and accurate Development Council, Mumbai data. Additionally, our CRM-DMS (Customer Relationship Management – t *OEP NFSJDBO$IBNCFSPG Dealer Management System) is a Commerce unique initiative, implemented through t 5IF*OEP+BQBOFTF TTPDJBUJPO 16 The pivot po i nt t #PNCBZ$IBNCFSPG$PNNFSDFBOE t 1SPTUFQ (FSNBOZ *OEVTUSZ .VNCBJ t 'FEFSBUJPOPG*OEJBO&YQPSU t VUPNPUJWF3FTFBSDI TTPDJBUJPO 0SHBOJ[BUJPO 8FTUFSO(SPVQ PG*OEJB 3 * t 8BSET VUPNPUJWF3FQPSUT 64 t $POGFEFSBUJPOPG*OEJBO*OEVTUSZ $** t VUPNPUJWF/FXT 64 $SBJO t 5IF TTPDJBUFE$IBNCFSTPG $PNNVOJDBUJPOT*OD64 $PNNFSDFBOE*OEVTUSZPG*OEJB t $BSEFTJHO/FXT-UE6, 440$) . t #PNCBZ$IBNCFSPG$PNNFSDFBOE *OEVTUSZ .VNCBJ Economic performance 17 18 Economi c pe r fo r m a n c e Our sales (including exports) of price increase, resulted in a reduction commercial and passenger vehicles for in the operating margins to 9.9 FY 2010-11 stood at 836,629 units, percent and an operating profit representing a growth of 25.2 percent (EBITDA) of ` 47.71 billion in the year, as compared to the previous year. This posting a growth of 14.2 percent over growth was supported by significant ` 41.78 billion the previous year. revival of export-import trade, infrastructure development, increased In FY 2011-12, we plan to focus on mining and construction activities, vehicles specific to rural markets that favourable financing environment and are expected to drive growth. We will healthy freight availability. However, in continue transforming and recent months there have been strengthening our existing product developments which have the potential portfolio through improved value to adversely impact growth in the propositions and benefitting from commercial vehicles market. These emerging trends. Competitive intensity include slow-down in industrial sector and increasing costs in the passenger and high inflation which has necessitated vehicle segment could pose a risk to rise in interest rates. The Reserve Bank operating margins, but we aim to of India (RBI) has projected wholesale address this issue by sustaining a low price index (WPI) inflation during FY cost base with continuous cost 2011-12 to remain around 9 percent up reduction efforts and enhance to September 2011, and decline customer care through an expanded thereafter to 6 percent by March 2012. sales and service network in India. This is based on expectations of strong Integrated Cost Reduction – inflationary pressures emanating from collaborating to create value high global commodity prices, as well as domestic price pressures and The ‘Integrated Cost Reduction’ drive demand-supply mismatches. was a multi functional initiative across the PCBU to reduce redundant costs We recorded a sale of 778,540 and resource wastage across the vehicles in this year, a growth of 22.8 supply chain. The aim was to generate percent over the previous year in the innovative ways of meeting the domestic market representing a 24.3 customer needs without compromising percent market share. We exported on value. The effort was led by ERC and 58,089 vehicles from India, a growth of procurement teams with equal 70.3 percent over the previous year. participation from manufacturing and Our commercial vehicles sales in India quality departments forming cross increased by 22.7 percent functional teams (CFTs) that helped to year-on-year to 458,828 units, drive improvements in business areas resulting in a market share of 61.8 across the value chain. Each CFT was percent. Growth in M&HCV segment given a specific target for reduction of has been accompanied by a structural cost of aggregates. The teams worked alignment and shift in favour of higher under platforms like direct material tonnage trucks. Passenger vehicles, cost, variable conversion, fixed including Fiat and Jaguar and Land conversion cost and working capital. Rover vehicles distributed in India grew 22 CFTs started working this year by 23.0 percent year-on-year to along with 200 dedicated officers. The 319,712 units, resulting in a market initiative has gathered momentum and Economic Value Generated share of 13.0 percent. Sales of Nano has started to provide results through and Distributed (in ` billion) crossed 100,000 mark during FY collaboration across locations. Economic Value Generated 521.36 2010-11 and our total passenger Gross Revenue 521.36 vehicles sales crossed the two million Building a robust supply chain Economic Value Distributed 494.82 mark, since inception. This year we won an Architecture Operating Costs 441.93 Our gross revenue for the year ended Excellence Award in the IT Service Employee Benefits and Wages 22.94 March 31, 2011 was ` 521.36 billion, Management category at the ICMG Payments to providers of capital 26.11 posting a growth of 35.9 percent over World Conclave. Our competitive Payments to government 3.84 ` 383.64 billion in the previous year. advantage includes a world class CRM Cost pressure, including commodity solution with integrated dealer Economic Value Retained 26.54 management system (DMS) used by over E c o n o mi c p e r f o r ma nce 19 2,500 channel partners. Further the uncertainties in the long-distance supplier self service initiative with supply-chain. In the reporting period, design collaboration solution has been our manufacturing plants sourced extended to an additional 550 vendors approximately 58.57 percent of this year. materials and services from vendors within their state of operations. At an organizational level, we have been successful in implementing the model Additionally we have specific initiatives of third party logistics. These logistics to enhance the environmental and social providers immensely cut down on the performance of our vendors. Every overall transportation costs and time vendor in the vendor park has installed as they follow a hub and spoke model in vortex flow meters for monitoring delivering the consignments efficiently. water usage which gives readings This has ensured that we have an remotely at set frequencies. This helps enhanced control on our inventory. This in analyzing consumption pattern and also helps in reducing fuel costs and thus optimizing the water use based on thereby the related emissions. An production and manpower engagement. important aspect of our initiative to green the supply chain has been to Environment procurement policy seek transparent disclosure from all Our aim is to adopt a holistic approach our vendors on the hazardous material to the procurement process by content in each part that they supply. expanding awareness of our The amount of heavy metals present in environment policy and TCoC amongst the parts have to be declared and are vendors, contractors and service procured only if they meet our providers. To this effect we formulated stringent material criteria. The an environment procurement policy chemical composition of the parts is that provides guidance on evaluating thoroughly checked by our the environmental performance of our cross-functional team of experts. business associates along with quality At Sanand and Pantnagar, adjacent to and cost. In line with this policy we have our plant boundary, we have taken an initiative to encourage our established a vendor park with all basic vendors and service providers to amenities in place which would house establish their own environment vendors supplying exclusively to Tata management systems. Awareness Motors. We aim to source more than campaigns to improve their 60 percent of our components from manufacturing process, reducing their the vendor park, thus increasing our carbon footprint and use of hazardous resource efficiency and decreasing our chemicals have also been formulated emissions due to reduction in logistics under the aegis of this policy. At our related transportation. Through these Jamshedpur plant, close to 1,120 vendor parks we have created service providers have participated in employment for about 3,750 persons the awareness sessions. We have seen in and around Sanand, out of which 750 vendors implement ideas to reduce are on fixed roll and 3,000 on contract packaging material and increase use of roll. Apart from this, there are about recycled material as a result of the 1,000 persons employed with tier-2 various programmes conducted, since vendors and support functions like the inception of this policy. One such logistics, canteens etc. The outcome has been the use of retainer employment numbers will increase bins, which are used to pack the considerably with the scale of consignments and once delivered, operation. Almost 95 percent of the these bins are reclaimed by the supplier materials supplied from the vendor for reuse. This has significantly cut park are transported in trolleys and down our packaging material footprint. returnable packaging. This initiative is We aim to create awareness and aimed at ensuring flow of component promote good environmental practices supplies on a real-time basis, and and management systems in our supply there-by reducing logistics and chain with the aid of ISO14001 inventory costs as well as lowering certification for our channel partners. 20 Economic pe r fo r m a nc e Supplier performance enhancement Under the policy initiative of supplier monthly delivery index and a monthly performance enhancement, we vendor rating system based on quality, conduct in house vendor council cost, delivery, design development and meetings to formulate a sound system management systems. The grading of for evaluation and enhancement of suppliers would be done based on these supplier performance. At PCBU, the parameters on a scale of ‘A’ to ‘E’, with meetings are held under the guidance ‘A’ being the best. This would help our of the Head-Car Plant, Head-Supply suppliers improve their performance chain management, Head-Quality and and work towards continuous Assistant General Manager-Vendor improvement. Further, we conduct development. In order to make the surprise audits under the TCoC evaluation system more framework and third party audits under comprehensive, new metrics were the purview of SA8000 to ensure that identified for continuous evaluation of there are no incidents of human rights supplier performance in this year. violations including child labour and These include a monthly quality index, forced labour in our supply chain. Environmental stewardship 21 22 Environm e n t a l s t e w a r ds hi p Typical material breakdown of vehicle We use a systematic approach to and rubber and plastic parts, (in percentage) manage environmental issues. We consumables (paints, oils, thinner, focus on environmental management welding consumables, chemicals, 1 to help preserve the long-term health adhesives and sealants) and fuels. We 0.18 of people and ecosystems and build also require aggregates like axles, strong positive relationships with local engines, gear boxes and cabs for our 5 communities. We have been at the vehicles, which are manufactured by us 3 forefront in developing vehicles that or by our subsidiaries, affiliates or meet the various environmental strategic suppliers. Close to 80 5 protection regulations, while striving percent of the parts in our vehicles are to go beyond compliance. We have made at our vendor’s end and developed an organization wide assembled in our plants. Use of 74 environment policy that highlights the alternative material has been a key 12 use of environmentally sustainable focus area for our ERC department technologies and practices for over the years. This year we have Metals Fluids prevention of pollution and continual reused 37,373 tonnes of metal scrap Polymers M.O.N.M improvement in environmental and forgings in our process thereby performance. This policy avoiding use of virgin material. Elastomers Others comprehensively addresses the need Glass to conserve natural resources and Jute and polypropylene based energy, minimize waste generation, composite was used for the first time enhance recovery and recycling of for headlining application on Tata Nano material and develop eco-friendly as a replacement to glass fibres. Jute Recycled metal scrap and forgings (in tonnes) waste disposal practices. Our fibres are safe for handling and have a 37,373.00 lower life cycle energy consumption as endeavour has been to establish environmental management as an compared to glass fibres. integral part of the standard operating Increasing life of aggregates – ‘Recon’ systems to achieve best-in-class business performance. Further, an intranet web site ‘Yugandhara’ is used for creating Our reconditioning business was climate change consciousness started to service customers who amongst the employees. This year, we require an overhauling of aggregates. 17,386.73 17,784.50 have invested ` 346.90 million towards Instead of going to a local mechanic environment management activities workshop, the customer can approach across operations. any of our designated channel partners and exchange the failed vehicular Resource efficiency aggregate assemblies for a The primary materials and components reconditioned one, thereby avoiding a we use in our vehicle production are complete overhaul. This also ensures FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 that the customer is assured of better steel sheets and plates, castings, forgings, tyres, fuel injection quality and a renewed warranty for the Recycled material used equipment, batteries, electrical items reconditioned part. This has enabled us (in tonnes per vehicle produced) 0.0520 Material Unit of Quantity Measurement 0.0360 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Steel Tonnes 153,240 185,205 220,133 0.0286 Steel Tubes Tonnes 8 30 82 Non-Ferrous alloys Tonnes 2,635 3,339 5,040 Ferrous Alloys Tonnes 1,251 1,372 1,716 Steel Melting Scrap Tonnes 43,281 53,418 62,195 Paints, Oils & Lubricants Tonnes 7,896 7,684 12,151 Kilo Litres 9,692 10,024 13,349 Tyres, tubes & flaps Numbers 4,086,280 4,555,111 7,243,420 Engines Numbers 69,002 104,309 135,181 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 E n v i r o n m e n t a l st e wa r d sh ip 23 to rapidly adapt to rising material Category of Non-Hazardous FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 costs by improving resource efficiency waste (in tonnes) and reclaiming material value. Plastic waste 142.26 89.70 204.33 Our reconditioning business is based Metallic scrap 15,669.67 10,869.79 8,002.15 out of Lucknow where we have a Other waste (cartons, jute bags, wood dedicated facility for reconditioning the waste, rubber waste, canteen waste, aggregates to the desired quality and sand etc) 100,692.05 90,049.21 66,565.12 enhance the life of the product. Total 116,503.98 101,008.70 74,771.60 Through a network of close to 700 dealers, we source old aggregates Reusing paint sludge and thinner from our customers and dispatch reconditioned ones. In 2010-11 a total At PCBU Pune, approximately 390 of 13,788 engines and 8,690 other tonnes of hazardous paint sludge was parts were reconditioned. We have sent for processing to an authorized also taken multiple steps for further party for conversion to paint. Although resource conservation like reusing the paint obtained from this process engine oil for multiple testing cycles. A does not meet the quality standards 200 litre engine oil barrel can now be for automobile painting, we procure the used to test 170 engines instead of same for floor painting. Before the 85. The total turnover of this business introduction of this process, the paint is close to ` 780 million. sludge was incinerated and this process has eliminated the emissions The hazardous wastes generated are caused due to this incineration. A disposed as per the rules and similar initiative is practiced at our regulations prescribed by the Jamshedpur plant where we utilize respective State Pollution Control close to 35 MT of paint sludge every Board (SPCB) as per the Hazardous month. Apart from utilization of paint Wastes Management & Handling Rules. sludge, at our Jamshedpur plant, we We follow a system of waste have also developed a process to segregation at source through convert the incinerator ash to standardized colour coded bins. We pavement bricks that can be used in have also installed secondary walkways within the plant. This model containment measures to manage has been very successful and ash from spills on the shop floor. In Jamshedpur, the incineration of phosphate sludge, there are close to 80 secondary oil / paint soaked jute gloves, rags, containment points across the plant. cardboard etc has been utilised At Jamshedpur and Lucknow the wet effectively. Through this, we have garbage from our canteens is significantly reduced the amount of converted to usable organic manure hazardous incineration ash that is sent through converters. to landfills. 24 Environme nt a l s t e w a r ds hi p Category of hazardous At Pune PCBU, an innovative waste disposed FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 methodology of recycling the paint thinner has been adopted in Sludge6 (tonnes) 4,536.28 4,299.25 4,812.81 partnership with an authorized service Used batteries (tonnes) 32.14 37.76 198.19 provider. The waste thinner from the Used oil7 (tonnes) 150.93 168.00 497.68 top coat is collected from the paint Oil contaminated materials8 (tonnes) 44.83 23.56 55.31 shop and stored in a temporary yard Other hazardous waste9 (tonnes) 209.97 402.15 936.65 from where it is transported to the recycling unit of the service provider. Other hazardous waste10 (KL) 131.24 121.66 231.90 The recovered thinner forms almost 80 Other hazardous waste11 (Nos) 7,284.00 4,314.00 7,906.00 percent of the waste thinner 6Sludge includes paint sludge, phosphating sludge, grinding sludge, salt bath sludge, ETP sludge, chromium hydroxide sludge processed, while the remaining part is 7Note: density of used oil assumed to be 0.9 discarded safely as sludge. 8Includes cotton rags, scrap oil filters, oil soaked saw dust 9Includes solid hazardous waste like containers of acid, scrap asbestos, etc. Reducing packaging material 10Includes liquid hazardous waste like spent coolants, waste thinner, etc. Across the organization, we have taken 11Includes steel containers of paint and oil measures to reduce our packaging footprint by either using sustainable packaging (replacing wood with metal) or reusing existing packaging (recycling wood). We recycle close to 69 percent of the wood packaging thus eliminating use of fresh wood. We have developed collapsible custom-built polypropylene (PP) boxes for components that are unwieldy to handle (e.g. dashboards) and bought from external vendors. With a cycle time of more than 150 trips, these polypropylene boxes have resulted in significant savings on component packaging. At our Pantnagar plant we have eliminated the use of bubble wrap for packing of spares, body shells and load bodies. Tackling climate change We have adopted a climate change policy which draws from the Tata Group’s Policy on Climate Change. This policy addresses key issues relating to products, processes and services. We are continually working to develop low carbon, fuel saving technologies which will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Development of CNG vehicles, electric vehicles and hybrids are at the forefront of our efforts towards this end. We have manufactured CNG versions of buses and light commercial vehicles, LPG versions of Indica and CNG versions of ACE goods carrier. Our PCBU business has developed its own climate change strategy which details both short term and long term goals for managing climate change. All the major initiatives will fall under the ambit E n v i r o n m e n t a l st e wa r d sh ip 25 of this strategy with concrete undertaken across the organization Total energy consumed (in GJ) execution plans and monitoring include: systems. Clean development t *OTUBMMJOH UVSCP WFOUJMBUPST BOE 2,284,654 mechanism is an important aspect of variable frequency drives our climate change strategy. For our 2,015,820 t 4IJGUJOH JOQMBOU MJHIUJOH UP FOFSHZ 20.85MW wind power project, United efficient and lower wattage lamps Nations Framework Convention for 1,814,251 t 6UJMJ[JOH TPMBS XBUFS IFBUFST GPS Climate Change (UNFCCC) has issued canteens and hostels 27,554 CERs on January 20, 2011 for the period 2008-09. t 4IJGUJOHUPIJHIQSFTTVSFDPMEXBTI from hot wash 1,897,114 In our operations, the major fuels used t 4XJUDIJOH PWFS GSPN NBOVBM 1,683,713 for energy are high speed diesel (HSD), painting to robotic painting light diesel oil (LDO), furnace oil (FO), 1,384,129 liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), propane t &MJNJOBUJOH IPU XBUFS HFOFSBUPST and petrol. Our indirect energy and using direct fired burners consumption is the energy purchased t 0QUJNJ[JOH TIPQ GMPPS IFBU MPBE externally in the form of electricity. We through reflective coating of the utilise wind energy at our Pune complex roof and solar energy for lighting and t .JOJNJ[JOHDPNQSFTTFEBJSMFBLBHFT FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 heating purposes at our Lucknow t *OTUBMMJOH FGGJDJFOU 8FJTIBVQU Indirect energy Direct energy plant, which together amount to 4.54 burners in plant and waste heat consumed consumed percent of our total energy12 recovery from furnace flue gases to consumption. heat water for process Total energy consumed We achieved annualized energy savings Green infrastructure (in GJ per vehicle produced) of 230,959 GJ through the 3.714 conservation initiatives across our While conservation initiatives are operations, an increase of 30 percent prominent across our operations, a lot 3.325 from the previous year. This was of effort is also directed towards use 3.174 possible due to increased awareness of alternative clean technologies. In and active participation from the Jamshedpur, translucent poly workforce in conservation initiatives. A carbonate sheets have been provided number of energy saving ideas covering close to 50 percent of the implemented at the shop floor were shop floor roofing to increase natural contributed by our employees. In Pune light thereby minimizing daytime 2.833 2.777 PCBU, for the first time, climate lighting load. A new technology of using 2.635 change CFTs were formed and were light pipes as a source of light has been assigned targets for reduction. With tried in Jamshedpur and will be the help of numerous energy saving implemented in Lucknow by the first initiatives across all our plants, we quarter of FY 2011-12. The light pipes have been able to reduce our specific unlike conventional roof lighting ensure GHG emissions over the last year13. that there is uniform dispersion of light Some of the major initiatives and additionally prevent build up of FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 Indirect energy Direct energy Total annualized energy savings Total energy savings (in GJ) (in GJ per vehicle produced) 230,959 0.321 0.290 175,975 0.224 109,460 12For Jamshedpur, the data collection exercise for last year revealed that data management systems with regard to energy usage could be strengthened. Having progressively improved these systems the total energy consumption for previous years has been revised and restated. 13Since amendments were made to the energy parameters for our Jamshedpur plant, a minor variation of GHG emissions has resulted for the years 2008-09 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 and 2009-10 from values reported in our 2009-10 Sustainability Report 26 Environm e n t a l s t e w a r ds hi p GHG emissions reduction achieved heat. While lighting is just one aspect a new production facility. Hike in (in tonnes of CO2e) of creating a green building, we have electricity tariff has further increased 47,817.92 also developed a comprehensive green the energy cost. In order to harness building policy which encourages the the abundant availability of sunlight, a 40,572.00 use of materials from recycled content, pilot solar power project of 25KW, the minimization of waste and use of first among all the locations was set up hazardous materials, minimization of by the Energy Management Cell. 25,236.63 energy and water consumption right Learnings from its operations will be from the conceptualization phase. Our used as inputs for achieving the future plant at Lucknow has considered goal of setting up a 1 MW solar plant factors such as double bricked walls, at Lucknow. Apart from resulting in double skinned sheeting and cost savings over the long run, the sandwiched roof for temperature project will significantly reduce our FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 control and comfortable working carbon footprint. environment while designing new shops. CVBU Pune received the Cutting emissions due to travel GHG emission reductions achieved “GOLD” rating (for its green factory (in tonnes of CO2e per vehicle produced) We have invested heavily to provide bus building) from Indian Green Building transportation facilities for all our 0.067 Council (IGBC) and is the 0.066 employees. We have increased the first-of-its-kind in India and for the Tata number of trips and the coverage of pick Group. All existing buildings at Pimpri up and drop stations encouraging more 0.052 operations are rated as GOLD rating employees to utilise the said factory buildings. Tata Motors is the transportation. This serves a dual first company to receive this award for purpose of cutting down on the existing factory buildings. emissions due to the commute of our New avenues of energy employees, as well as ensures their safety. Over 50 percent of buses used At our Lucknow plant, there has been a for employee commuting are CNG based drastic increase in electrical energy and hence have lower emission levels. FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 consumption due to commencement of Total GHG emissions (in tonnes of CO2e per vehicle produced) 482,997 420,810 369,827 129,725 117,175 96,380 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 Indirect Direct emissions emissions E n v i r o n m e n t a l st e wa r d sh ip 27 Partnering for a cause same period the average water use per Total water withdrawal (in kilo litres) unit of automobile production reduced In Jharkand, Gram Vikas Kendra (GVK), by 3.8 percent, from 11.25 KL to 7,785,748 a NGO actively supported by our 10.82 KL. Jamshedpur plant has been recognised 6,526,653 6,819,413 as a regional resource agency (RRA) Our major source of water is municipal under the National Environment supplies; however there has been a Awareness Campaign (NEAC). The constant increase in the usage of NEAC was launched by the Ministry of harvested rainwater across our Environment & Forests, Government of operations in the last decade. At Lucknow, India in 1986. Several NGOs, a rainwater harvesting scheme with a educational and training institutions, total harvesting potential of 1,456,920 professional associations, scientific KL per annum is under implementation. bodies, community organizations and a We continue to increase water use whole range of other agencies efficiency through implementation of participate in the campaign. These advanced technology and generation of FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 bodies singularly or in partnership with awareness amongst employees. other organizations, organise programmes for creating environmental Our Lucknow and Sanand plants are Total water withdrawal awareness followed by field action at zero discharge plants, while plans are (in kilo litres per vehicle produced) the local, regional and national level. underway to make our Jamshedpur unit 13.360 zero discharge too. The total water Through coordination between NEAC, discharged from our manufacturing GVK and Tata Motors, Jamshedpur has locations was 900,812 KL. At 11.248 10.815 been able to network with around 500 Pantnagar, the treated effluent is NGOs in the state of Jharkand recycled through a reverse osmosis highlighting the importance of plant and then reused in the paint shop bio-diversity conservation and the to fulfil raw water requirements. This immediate steps to be taken. resulted in reduction of close to 70 percent in our groundwater Water management consumption. We have been continuously working Air emissions monitoring towards reducing our water footprint, FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 evidenced by a decrease in our specific Major emissions due to our water consumption. We promote manufacturing activities include recycling and reuse of water at all our particulate matter (PM), oxides of plants, and also invest in developing nitrogen (NOx)14 and sulphur (SOx). We systems for rain water harvesting. The have made significant investments to Water withdrawal by type total water utilised by our plants effectively monitor air emissions from (in kilo litres) increased by nearly 14 percent from our production facilities including an 6,819,413 KL in the previous year to on-line monitoring and alarm system 498,562 7,785,748 KL in this year; while in the for incinerator emissions. At our PCBU 1,331,311 Total water recycled Total water recycled (in kilo litres) (in kilo litres per vehicle produced) 1,408,280 5,955,875 2.042 997,435 1.956 867,429 1.431 Rain water Ground water Municipal water 14We have augmented our capacity to monitor NOx emissions over the last year at our Jamshedpur, Pune, Pantnagar and Sanand plants. Hence, FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 the reported NOx values have increased 28 Environm e n t a l s t e w a r ds hi p facility in Pune, we have set up a to enable the neutralization of Tri Ethyl volatile organic compound (VOC) Amine ensuring that the air quality emission reduction roadmap at the parameters do not exceed the paint shop to significantly mitigate prescribed limits. harmful effects. We have installed an automatic thinner collection system We use R134a which has zero ozone and optimized the paint flow rate and depleting potential as a refrigerant in air pressure, in order to reduce VOC our products. We also ensure that no emissions. Other initiatives like refrigerant is released to the reduction of thinner pressure during atmosphere during any service, repair the flushing cycle and sequencing of and maintenance of air-conditioning paint cycles have been incorporated. equipment of products. Ozone depleting Switching over from LDO to propane in substances (ODS) are no longer used in some of our operations has further the manufacturing supporting helped in reducing the overall air processes or in our production at emissions. At Jamshedpur this year we Pantnagar and Sanand. Our Lucknow, have installed a fume extraction Pune and Jamshedpur plants used system in the melting shop of the 101.8 kg of CFC-11 equivalent ODS in foundry. Scrubbers have been installed the reporting period. Total air emissions (in tonnes) 641.16 341.86 413.37 42.35 43.92 140.73 372.55 482.74 123.29 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 NOx SOx PM Total air emissions (in tonnes per vehicle produced) 0.846 0.564 0.891 0.090 0.070 0.195 0.763 0.796 0.171 FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 NOx SOx PM Product safety and Innovation 29 Product s a fe t y 30 and I nnov a t i o n We are committed to develop During the year, we filed 141 patent best-in-class products, with the latest applications and 41 design technologies for passenger safety and applications. Till date, we have been comfort. World-class automotive granted 11 patents and 36 design research and development are key registrations. We invested in facilities factors that contribute to our for optimization and emission leadership. We have set up two measurements and for enhancing in-house ERCs that house India's only safety performance. Some of these certified crash test facility. We pursue technologies are: state-of-the-art technologies to address safety issues and have a t )FBWZ EVUZ DIBTTJT EZOBNPNFUFST safety roadmap in place which is for vehicle level performance reviewed at the steering committee development and various level. During the year we spent ` 11.87 calibrations for utility vehicles and billion, 2.47 percent of the net passenger cars turnover, on research and development t 3PCPUJDESJWFSNJMFBHFBDDVNVMBUJPO activities including expenditure on for light, medium and heavy capital assets purchased for research commercial vehicles and development. t &OIBODFNFOU PG DIBTTJT Major technology absorption projects undertaken during FY 2010-11 include: dynamometer emission lab for passenger cars and small Technology for Status commercial vehicles for Euro V emission norms onward Development of navigation system on Aria Implemented in production t 'BDJMJUJFT BOE FRVJQNFOU UP NFFU safety regulations such as mobile Vehicle vibration reduction during shut down of engine for crash test barrier for side impact Aria and magic Iris by using high damping SBR engine mounts testing (as per US regulations), 'PSJODBCOPJTFSFEVDUJPOPG9FOPO 4VQFS DFBOE rear impact testing (as per Korean Venture tuning of a Torsional Vibration Damper (TVD) regulation) Inflatable curtains for side impact protection Implemented t *OUSPEVDUJPOPGYFOPOOFHBUJWFBSD  flicker free lighting system for high 1BSBMMFM)ZCSJE5FDIOPMPHZGPS#VTFT 6OEFSJNQMFNFOUBUJPO speed digital photography during Technology for indigenized high temperature cables Development in crash events developed for use on vehicles progress t 3BQJE QSPUPUZQJOH FRVJQNFOU XJUI EE Architecture Development methodology for vehicles selective laser sintering (SLS) technology for ‘ready to test’ Symptom Driven Diagnostics development for vehicles plastic prototype parts Pr o d u c t sa f ety a n d In n o v a t i on 31 t &JHIUQPTUFSSPBEMPBETJNVMBUPSGPS DMBTT  A VUP%SJWF BTTJTU o B TBGFUZ WFIJDMF TUSVDUVSBM EVSBCJMJUZ PG GFBUVSF IBT CFFO EFTJHOFE GPS UIF M&HCV *OEJHP F$4 UP QSPWJEF BTTJTUBODF EVSJOH DMJNCJOH HSBEJFOUT 8F BMTP Driving change MBVODIFEUIF*OEJDBF7 UIFNPTUGVFM FGGJDJFOU DBS JO *OEJB XJUI B NJMFBHF PG 5IJT ZFBS TBX UIF JOUSPEVDUJPO PG UXP LNQM DFSUJGJFECZUIF 3 *GPSUIF EFGJOJOH MBVODIFT JO UIF *OEJBO $3EJFTFMFOHJOF5IFWFIJDMFIBTCFFO BVUPNPUJWF JOEVTUSZ CZ 5BUB .PUPST  EFTJHOFE UP BDIJFWF  QFSDFOU XIJDI XPVME QBWF UIF XBZ GPS TVTUBJOBCMF NPCJMJUZ JO *OEJB 8F JODSFBTF JO QPXFS BOE  QFSDFOU MBVODIFE UIF OFX *OEJHP F$4  UIF JODSFBTFJOGVFMFGGJDJFODZPWFSQSFWJPVT NPTU GVFMFGGJDJFOU TFEBO JO UIF WFSTJPOT5IFPWFSBMMXFJHIUPGUIFDBS DPVOUSZ 5IF F$4 PGGFST BO IBT CFFO SFEVDFE DPOUSJCVUJOH UP BO VUPNPUJWF 3FTFBSDI TTPDJBUJPO PG JODSFBTF JO JUT FGGJDJFODZ %VSJOH UIF *OEJB 3 * BQQSPWFENJMFBHFPG $PNNPOXFBMUI (BNFT JO %FMIJ UIJT LNQMGPSUIF$3EJFTFMFOHJOF XIJDIJT ZFBS  XF TIPXDBTFE PVS $/( QBSBMMFM UIF IJHIFTU GPS BOZ TFEBO DVSSFOUMZ )ZCSJE MPXGMPPS DJUZ CVTFT XIJDI BWBJMBCMFJOUIFDPVOUSZ*OBGJSTUGPSJUT SFDFJWFEBHSFBUSFTQPOTF Product s a fe t y 32 and I nnov a t i o n Acing the race a sale of over 100,000 units. The first mover advantage combined with the The Ace has helped many small time Ace’s combination of reliability, safety, business owners grow from an comfort and affordability induced a unorganized set up to an organized set paradigm shift in the goods up. About 55 percent of the Ace’s transportation business. Our Lucknow customer base is formed by first time plant is currently working on custom users who purchase the vehicle to made body solutions on the Ace start a goods transportation business. platform for different business needs The Ace became the single largest for both local and export markets. commercial vehicle brand in 2010 with People in motion 33 34 People in m o t i o n Our employees are the driving force closely with them to ensure the that enables us to create value in the contract labour entering our premises work that we do. We understand that are well-equipped and trained to carry the most essential factor determining out the operations in a safe and our success is motivated employees efficient manner. This year, contract and communication plays an important workforce was engaged for a total of role in understanding their needs. We 35.53 million man-hours across our undertake employee engagement plants16. We prohibit the deployment of initiatives which help us understand child labour and forced labour in our their needs and address their sites and our security personnel have concerns. Various formal and informal been trained to maintain a strict vigil methods are employed to determine on under-age workers entering the employee satisfaction which help us in premises. As part of their induction, all identification of critical issues and our security personnel are imparted devising action plans to assist our training on basic human rights workforce. aspects. These aspects are covered under the ambit of the Industrial As a responsible organization, we Relations (IR) department and prefer to hire our non management activities under SA 8000. We value cadre employees from local Human Rights as defined by the communities, thereby uplifting the International Labour Organization and economic status of the areas where have a dedicated Human Rights Policy. we operate. We are also guided by the 100 percent of our business units are respective state laws regarding local analyzed for risks related to corruption hiring of non management workforce. as per the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and all We hire our management cadre our employees are trained in our anti employees purely based on merit. FY corruption policies and procedures, as 2010-11 saw us attracting substantial per the TCoC. We do not engage any talent to fill some key senior leadership individual below the age of 18 for any of positions. The permanent manpower our operations or services with the headcount also increased by 7 percent exception of a Government approved to 26,214. job training or an apprenticeship programme. Category FY 2010-11 designation Permanent employees Our primary objective is enhancing employee competencies and instilling in M F Total them the ability to face the complexity Senior management 802 21 823 of the competitive market. We have Middle management 7,198 293 7,491 various training and development Junior management (Executive) 3,187 182 3,369 programmes designed to identify their skills and further aid their Workmen 14,324 207 14,531 development. Training is provided as TOTAL15 25,511 703 26,214 per desired requirements catering to the specific areas of operations. Our permanent workmen received training Employee turnover FY 2010-11 for a total of 545,860 manhours <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female (amounting to 37.57 manhours of training per workman per year) and our Senior management 0 10 2 11 1 contract workers received training for Middle management 139 80 3 211 11 a total of 54,083 manhours during this year. Our management level employees Junior management 20 8 1 27 2 received training for 497,300 Workmen 19 9 3 30 1 manhours (amounting to 42.57 man TOTAL 178 107 9 279 15 hours of training per management employee per year). 15We also had 18,095 temporary workmen as on 31st March 2011 Skill development, employee growth 16The number of contract labour varies over time, depending on our and employee retention were our areas requirements, and hence, we have reported the number of contract man A significant portion of our workforce hours worked. It is for the same reason that we cannot give information is contractor based and we work of focus during the year. As part of about the region wise breakup of contract labour Wo r k f oPe rceo pdl e vienl ompome t i on nt 35 organization wide efforts towards reviews annually. We promote equal climate change mitigation and opportunity by employing candidates sustainability our plants have designed purely on the basis of merit. awareness training programmes for Remuneration is solely provided on the employees which have been well basis of rank and merit. We also abide received. At Jamshedpur, close to by all the legal requirements of wage 5,800 employees have been covered payments. We are transparent in our under the awareness sessions on communications with union members climate change and sustainability. We and have discussions with respect to promote initiatives to learn from our occurrence of all operational changes. peers, subsidiaries and joint ventures. Joint forums have been organized for Providing equal opportunity learning and sharing with Jaguar Land Tata Motors is proud of the fact that Rover (JLR) and Fiat. Employees who more than 700 women colleagues work show aptitude for engineering and at the shop floor across functions and management excellence are sponsored locations. At Pantnagar, women for advanced technical / management operate heavy as well as high precision programmes in reputed institutes. machines and components at the Structured training programmes Pantnagar powertrain shop. The Prima based on Tata leadership practices and (world truck) assembly line also has a transition point training programmes dedicated all-women section to work at each vital level of leadership are on the fitting and testing of electrical the formal methods used for components. developing and enhancing personal Total man-hours of training leadership skills. Specialized courses Rewarding union employees (Permanent workforce) in management from premier institutes help in keeping the leaders Our excellent union-management 545,860 abreast of contemporary management relationship is built on a foundation of tools and thinking. mutual respect and trust and the union shares the management’s objective of 420,528 We promote employee well being during business growth and provides their tenure as well as after their unwavering support. We have retirement. Benefits such as gratuity, encouraged constructive and superannuation, Bhavishya Kalyan co-operative union relations through a 239,188 Yojana (BKY), post retirement participative culture. Senior leaders medicare scheme, provident fund and communicate and engage with compensated absences are provided to non-management employees through employees. Every year we have a approaches such as sunrise meetings number of employees who have and union meetings. To recognize their FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 completed their service with the contribution to the firm, we offer a organization and we provide them medical benefit scheme for our PCBU training to prepare them for the union employees in Pune which entitles challenges and opportunities that arise the employees to get their medical after retirement. Both management expenses reimbursed till a period of 15 and non-management cadre are years from retirement (inclusive of Total man-hours of training covered under this two day program. voluntary retirement on medical (Contract labour) The spouses of the retiring employees grounds) are also made a part of the training to 54,083 get them accustomed to this new Vehicle and profit linked payment phase. At CVBU Pune, this year 3,360 scheme man-hours were invested in retirement This year we started the vehicle and training for employees and their profit linked payment scheme (VPLP) spouses. scheme at PCBU Pune. This scheme is Our performance evaluation systems designed to pay the unionised are aligned to our business results and employees a bonus based on 20,053 identify high performing individuals. parameters like quality and 100 percent of our management cadre productivity, company’s performance 7,252 employees undergo performance (measured in terms of operating profit) evaluation and career development and the individual’s performance. FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 36 People in m o t i o n Under this scheme, the performance is being. The findings are analyzed and scored for a total of 100 marks and a action plans are put in place at three detailed category wise weightage is levels organization, division and HR – provided to each of the employees as to assist workforce engagement. The part of the agreement Gallup study was also conducted across PCBU. This was a web-based Employee engagement survey for the management cadre Our CVBU has adopted Q12 tool and employees. Gallup methodology to measure The reward and recognition process is employee engagement (across all adopted to create desired high employee workgroups and segments) performance behaviour. For non including enterprise level factors managerial workforce, awards like affecting employee engagement, safety award for zero accidents over a satisfaction and morale. This survey is period of time coupled with regular done periodically for all non-unionised attendance, good attendance award employees and on sample basis for and long service award are in place. unionised employees. The survey helps Employees are also encouraged to to design specific action plans which participate in various other award strike the desired balance between schemes run by various governmental business needs and employee well / nongovernmental organizations. Occupational health and safety 37 O ccupati o na l he a l t h 38 and safet y Workplace safety undergo a primary health check-up on joining and similar checkups at regular Ensuring safe working conditions is of intervals. A host of initiatives on health paramount importance to us. We and wellness were taken across the believe that a safe workplace instils a plants. At Pune a ‘Health Index’ was sense of security and confidence created and an ergonomics study was among our workforce which enhances conducted to improve the workplace our productivity. We have put in place a environment. companywide occupational health and safety policy. This policy coupled with Safety observations and incidents our strong implementation and receive a high priority, with the top assessment measures helps us management being directly involved in achieve our objective of minimizing all such matters. A steering workplace injuries as well as committee headed by the Managing occupational diseases. Director addresses safety, health and environment issues on a monthly basis, We strive to ensure that every in order to track performance and individual working within our plant identify areas of improvement. premises is protected from any Workplace safety is supported by a inherent risks related to workplace divisional safety council structure safety. Towards this end, we recently comprising of the divisional head, completed a diagnostic of the existing safety steward, maintenance and safety systems through DuPont and production representative, medical are taking steps to raise the safety officer and safety officer from the standards continuously. This activity plant safety department. Workmen would enable us to identify the gaps participate in various proactive safety and assess the as-is scenario. As part and IR committees to suggest and aid of this assessment, a safety implementation of improvements at perception survey was also conducted the workplace. Currently 210 of our to understand employee insights on employees are part of statutory plant safety. level safety committees with equal Across our plants, we have dedicated representation from management and teams of safety and health professionals working to devise safer Total safety performance of plants contract labour work procedures. Safety measures have been ingrained into the standard 2010-11 operating procedures at each of the Near misses 54 processes at our facilities. Work Reportable injuries 25 related hazards have been identified in Lost days 6,579 specific areas of operations including Fatalities 1 the foundry, paint shop, welding line, Minor injuries+First aid case 630 etc. and their individual task related safety procedures have been devised. Manhours worked 35,531,130 We have procedures in place to ensure Note: Safety performance does not include near that all the workers entering the plant misses, minor injuries and first aid cases from premises are medically fit to carry out Jamshedpur. We are currently upgrading our systems to capture this data in Jamshedpur and the job they are assigned. We have will report the same in future. made it mandatory for all workers to Total safety performance of plants permanent employees 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 Near misses 240 1,350 1,632 Reportable injuries17 161 145 113 17Injuries that are reportable as per Factories Act, 1948 (injuries where Lost days18 8,065 1,931 2,179 the person injured is prevented from working for a period of forty eight hours or more immediately following the accident) Fatalities 1 0 0 18Lost day per fatality = 6000 man days, as per the Factories Act, 1948. Minor injuries 1,056 814 783 We have restated the lost days for FY 2008-09 and FY 2009-10 by including lost days due to fatalities in line with the Factories Act. Man-hours worked 87,476,234 97,479,879 115,075,960 O c c u p a t i o n a l h e a lth a n d sa f ety 39 non-management staff. In addition to records etc) Injury rate the statutory plant level safety t $PNQVMTPSZ TBGFUZ JOEVDUJPO 0.37 committees, we also have management training for all contractors before level safety committees at each of our commencing work inside the factory plants. 0.30 premises While the number of reportable injuries t *NQMFNFOUBUJPO PG QFSTPOBM has been steadily decreasing, the protective equipment (PPE) clause number of near misses has increased in the contractors work order 0.20 due to increased awareness of safety t 4VCNJTTJPO PG TBGFUZ SFQPSU JO 0.18 among our employees. All reportable prescribed format) by all 0.15 injuries are duly communicated and contractors by second of every 0.12 investigated. Of all the reportable month. injuries to our employees, three have t 3FHVMBS XPSL SFMBUFE TBGFUZ FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 been sustained by female associates trainings to contractor workmen resulting in a loss of 149 work days. Employees $POUSBDUMBCPVS Inspite of having heightened safety t 3FHVMBS JOTQFDUJPO BOE BVEJU PG awareness and safe work practices in contractor work area place, we are sad to report the demise t 3FWJFXPGTBGFUZQFSGPSNBODFPOB of two19 personnel at our operations. DPNNPO QMBUGPSN $POUSBDUPS We are committed to our goal of 4BGFUZ.FFU achieving zero fatalities in our t &WBMVBUJPOPGDPOUSBDUPSTCBTFEPO Lost day rate operations. ZAP meetings are held their safety initiatives and 130.06 across all plants and defined bay rewarding near miss reporting and owners champion these meetings. The incident free workdays injury rate and lost day rate are given in the graphs below20: We select service providers based on techno-commercial evaluation including Contractor safety management evaluation of their safety practices. To address the issue of inculcating a Additionally, we have a monthly safety safety culture within our contract committee meeting with the service 45.52 workforce, we have developed a provider, which is also a common 37.03 centralized system for contractor platform for raising any grievances. 18.44 safety management. The salient The head of the contract cell and its 3.96 senior members are part of this 3.79 features of this system are: meeting and devise a plan to execute FY 2008-09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 t %JTUSJCVUJPO PG DPOUSBDUPS TBGFUZ the action points, with the measures guidelines along with work order being reviewed in following safety Employees $POUSBDUMBCPVS t 0CUBJOJOH B EFDMBSBUJPO GSPN UIF meeting. Going forward we intend to contractor as per requirements of have bi-annual safety performance the safety department (list of evaluation of the service providers to equipments, certifications, list of inculcate awareness on improved employees and their medical safety practices. 19One temporary employee and one contract personnel 20Note: Injury Rate and Lost Day Rate have been calculated considering 200,000 man hours worked, as defined by GRI. We have also included 6000 man days lost per fatality as per Factories Act, 1948 in these figures. O ccupat i o na l he a l t h 40 and safet y To improve our incident and near miss t XBSFOFTT PO NBOBHFNFOU PG reporting, at our Lucknow plant we chronic diseases such as diabetes have started a system of “Safety Alert and hypertension and treatment Card” where employees fill in a card support for the same with the details of any incident and t *TTVBODF PG EJBCFUJD DBSET UP LFFQ drop it at a collection point at the shop track of the required tests and floor. This ensures capturing of their results incidents on a timely and regular basis and enables us to implement Medical centres with qualified doctors, appropriate trainings required to paramedical staff and emergency prevent such incidents in the future. medical equipment are available at all We have also started a special our locations and provide suggestion campaign for seeking ideas SPVOEUIFDMPDLTFSWJDFT on improving safety measures from all our employees as well as educating Health inclusivity them on basic safety. Every month, we The SA 8000 team from PCBU Pune select safety related topics for set an example of altruistic service and spreading awareness amongst our commitment towards society by workforce. This year we have covered distributing some essential items to topics like safe material handling, over the workers in the scrap yard. They head safety, fire safety, handling and provided summer coats, head scarves, storage of hazardous materials, caps etc. to the scrap yard workers electrical safety and road safety. and intend to repeat this exercise Apart from workplace safety every six months. As a part of the procedures we also take care of the TBNF JOJUJBUJWF  B NFEJDBM DIFDLVQ PG continued well being of our employees all the women workers was carried out through employee health programmes. in our dispensary. Those who were These include the following: found to have adverse health t *OIPVTFCMPPEUFTUJOH conditions were given free consultation t )FBMUI BXBSFOFTT MFDUVSFT BOE and medicines by the company doctors seminars Community development 41 42 Commun i t y de v e l o pm e n t We have gained the reputation of being Health, education, employability and a socially conscious company and environment are four major focus areas of continue to develop programmes for our social responsibility agenda. In all our the benefit of the communities social responsibility initiatives, we surrounding our operations. We have undertake specific need-based activities, well designed programmes which we after a thorough understanding of the implement through associations with local culture and requirements. The CSR local authorities and non-profit teams at all locations implement these organizations. Our CSR execution programmes with adequate support from process comprises: professionals and experienced local personnel. This year we have spent 1. Needs identification of communities ` 14.79 million on community infrastructure 2. Prioritization of identified needs initiatives across our plants. 3. Selection of identified needs which are congruent with CSR mission We appreciate our employees’ statements voluntary involvement in numerous projects through monetary 4. Designing projects for addressing contributions and investment of their selected needs time. Targets for community service 5. Arrangement of resources and are logged in the plant, divisional and implementation of projects departmental balance score cards, 6. Evaluation of the impacts at the end which are then tracked on a monthly of project basis. To track the impacts of our 7. Phase out after ensuring that the activities, a group level assessment community has the potential to framework called the Tata CS Protocol sustain has been developed. This protocol is based on the TBEM framework and Health assessment as per the protocol is conducted each year by our internal t )FBMUIDBSFQSPWJEFEUPOFBSMZ QFPQMFBOOVBMMZ assessors. In addition to the CS t 0WFSMPXDPTUUPJMFUTCVJMUQFSBOOVN protocol, in December this year, we t 4BOJUBUJPOESJWFTDPOEVDUFEXJUIQBSUJDJQBUJPOPGPWFS WJMMBHFSTJOPWFS conducted a dip stick survey at 50 villages Sanand, covering eight villages where t A NSVUEIBSB 1SPKFDU JNQMFNFOUFE UP QSPWJEF TBGF ESJOLJOH XBUFS UP  we had initiated development villages in the next three years programmes. The survey was conducted across 160 households with t 4NPLF FGGJDJFOU DIVMMBIT JOTUBMMFE JO PWFS  WJMMBHF IPVTFIPMET UP DVSC the help of assessment questionnaires respiratory problems by our employee volunteers. t XPNFOUSFBUFEJOBOBFNJBUSFBUNFOUDBNQT Communities comprising villages and Education urbanized areas in and around our plants are identified for the t *OGSBTUSVDUVSFBOEGBDJMJUZVQHSBEBUJPOCFOFGJUJOH TUVEFOUTBOOVBMMZ engagement process. The CSR team t 5FBDIFSTUSBJOJOHGPSNPSFUIBO QSJNBSZTDIPPMUFBDIFST alongwith service and Government t &YUSBDVSSJDVMBSBDUJWJUJFTGPSOFBSMZ TUVEFOUT collaboration departments at Mumbai t /FBSMZTUVEFOUTTVQQPSUFEUISPVHITDIPMBSTIJQTBOOVBMMZ oversee national level initiatives like: t QVCMJDQSJWBUF QBSUOFSTIJQT GPS Employability improving the quality of technical t *OIPVTF BQQSFOUJDFTIJQ QSPHSBNNFT o UFDIOJDBM BOE WPDBUJPOBM USBJOJOH education imparted at the provided to nearly 7,000 people annually Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) t EPQUFE*5*TVOEFSQVCMJDQSJWBUFQBSUOFSTIJQTDIFNFT t QBSUOFSTIJQT XJUI TUBUF governments for starting driver t 0WFS   XPNFO CFOFGJUFE UISPVHI 4)(T BOE PWFS  XPNFO4)(T training institutes formed and sustained t QBSUOFSTIJQT XJUI MPDBM /(0T GPS Environment improving the implementation of programmes t $MPTFUP USFFTQMBOUFEBOOVBMMZ t QBSUOFSTIJQTXJUIDIBOOFMQBSUOFST t 0WFS GBNJMJFTCFOFGJUFEGSPNJNQSPWFEJSSJHBUJPOBMGBDJMJUJFT for training programmes for the t 0WFS DPNNVOJUZNFNCFSTTFOTJUJ[FEPOFOWJSPONFOUBMJTTVFT underprivileged C o m mu n i t y d e v e l o p me nt 43 Enhancing employability in-house training center inducted 495 candidates this year, out of which 354 Providing vocational training to the belonged to scheduled categories, in local community is one of our major line with our affirmative action policy. focus areas. From helping farmers In an initiative to enhance employability practice new and improved methods of of women, the batch also includes 25 farming to training women in handicraft female trainees. Nearly half of the skills, and facilitating cooperative current permanent workforce and societies, we are actively involved in more than two-thirds of the initiatives to make the community self non-permanent workforce at the sustainable. Apart from this we train Lucknow plant comprises of SC/ST and the village youth in basic computer OBC categories and persons from skills, motor mechanics, welding, economically weaker sections of the electrical work, carpentry and other society. trades relevant to industry, which has ensured their employability. Further, the Samaj Vikas Kendra (SVK) organizes skill based trainings like At our Pune facility this year, we stitching/weaving and jute craft. It organized a 45 day training program promotes “chikankari”, traditionally a for 108 people including 38 women. The highly acclaimed handicraft of Lucknow, training program was called “Train the through training. It also provides a Driver”. The prelude to this initiative sustainable platform for sale of these was marked by Tata Motors advocating products and other traditional items the mechanization of waste collection such as handmade candles, rakhis, and transportation at Pimpri, to ease paintings etc. through self help groups the work of waste collection and (SHGs). segregation. Recycling agents were trained to manoeuvre the waste At Sanand, 1,467 individuals were collecting mobile units. They were also trained by ITIs out of which 672 are equipped with basic skills, training and currently working in our plant through exposure in case of minor breakdowns service providers and vendors. 174 and complications related to their youth have been specially trained by vehicles. To this effect, the training Tata Motors in electrical works, modules were designed to cover topics carpentry, bar-bending, scaffolding, such as basics of driving, improvisation plumbing and computer based skills. in case of various terrain, traffic conditions and road safety and ones role in maintaining the same. Over 90 percent of the persons trained belonged to socially marginalized sections of the society. We have partnered with Ramakrishna Mission, an NGO working for rural upliftment, to impart Mechanic Motor Vehicle training to tribal youth. More than 170 students have been trained since the inception of the programme in 2004. While most of the passed out students have found employment at dealerships and workshops, 13 of them have opened their own garages and become entrepreneurs. Our Lucknow plant has adopted two government ITIs under PPP initiative and assisted them in improving their infrastructure and updating their curriculum to suit industry requirements. Lucknow Plant’s 44 Commun i t y de v e l o pm e n t Health leprosy in the operational area was 21 per 1000 persons which has gone Navjagrat Manav Samaj (NJMS) a down to below 1 per 1000 persons. registered society supported by Tata Weekly medical clinics are conducted in Motors Jamshedpur is part of the the ashrams for providing treatment community services department, for all ailments. During this year, 2,289 which is dedicated to the cause of patients were treated for various identifying, treating and rehabilitating ailments and presently there is no new leprosy afflicted persons and their DBTF PG MFQSPTZ JO UIF BTISBNT 0WFS families. The basic aim is to bring the 187 patients were hospitalised and leprosy afflicted families into the treated for ulcers and various mainstream through medical, housing, ailments. Elderly patients were psychological and economic support. identified from the ashrams and taken The main services of NJMS are: to the old age home run by NJMS. t 4VSWFZ FEVDBUJPOBOEUSFBUNFOU During the year, a cataract operation DBNQXBTPSHBOJ[FEJO(BOEIJ TISBN t 5FNQPSBSZ IPTQJUBMJ[BUJPO PG exclusively for leprosy patients in patients collaboration with Jamshedpur Eye Training Coverage of t 0QFSBUJPO PG BO PME BHF IPNF GPS Hospital. In this camp patients from programme population destitute men and women various ashrams were examined for Modern agriculture training 310 t 3FIBCJMJUBUJPOPGBGGMJDUFEQPQVMBUJPO cataract and 27 patients underwent a Mushroom production 50 in seven ashrams DBUBSBDU PQFSBUJPO  'VSUIFS  JO PSEFS Vermin composting 160 t 1SPWJTJPO PG FEVDBUJPO UP DVSFE to encourage leprosy affected children children to go to school, regular meetings held Horticulture and timber plantation 210 with their parents to motivate them to Sewing, Stitching and Embroidery 150 t 'BDJMJUBUJPOPGIJHIFSFEVDBUJPOBOE educate their children, which have 1FSTPOBMJUZEFWFMPQNFOU  skills enhancement of youth resulted in 215 children from the Computer training 125 During the year 115,596 persons were ashrams studying in various schools in 'JTIGBSNJOH  examined and 51 new cases were Jamshedpur. 4)(BOE&OUSFQSFOFVSTIJQUSBJOJOH  brought under treatment. In the year 6OEFS PVS NSVUEIBSB QSPKFDU  1989-90, the prevalence rate of supported by Sumant Moolgaokar %FWFMPQNFOU 'PVOEBUJPO  XF IBWF made a commitment to provide safe drinking water to 100 water stressed villages in the country. Till date we have been able to cover 30 villages and have benefitted over 75,000 people. This year, we contributed ` 2.78 million to the Sumant Mulgaokar Development 'PVOEBUJPO UPQSPWJEFBDDFTTUPDMFBO drinking water to villagers across our locations of operations. In order to improve sanitary conditions in villages JO 1VOF  XF DPOTUSVDUFE  UPJMFU blocks benefitting five villages. We also gave over 3,000 medical consultations UP WJMMBHFST OFBS 1VOF UISPVHI PVS mobile medical van. Those found with ailments were prescribed and administered medicine. This year 34 dedicated schools and anganwadi health check-ups were also conducted BU1VOF CFOFGJUUJOHPWFSDIJMESFO U4BOBOE XFIBWFCFFOTVDDFTTGVMJO providing curative services for primary illness in remote villages and creating awareness among masses regarding cleanliness, personal hygiene and C o m mu n i t y d e v e l o p me nt 45 health issues. This year 198 clinics from the impact assessment study SEVA: Volunteers Story were conducted across 20 villages conducted in July 2010. The findings Kailash Jagtap, Heavy Dyes, Production where close to 3,800 patients were are given the table below. Engineering treated and 6,800 children were immunized. Sanand also played host to At our Pantnagar plant, infrastructure the most successful blood donation development was carried out at Kailash Jagtap is a volunteer who has been camp in Tata Motors, where a total of Udiangar Primary School. The school associated with the Vidyadhanam Initiative 510 units of blood were donated. building was renovated and classes since its inception. He mentors students were painted with meaningful and from the Zilla Parishad School at Education relevant messages reflected through Dhamangaon in the Bhimashankar tribal the BaLABuilding as Learning Aid – belt. Being an avid trekker, Kailash has been Our initiatives in education are focused paintings. The sequential painting of proactively organizing lots of skill building around building infrastructure for subjects like mathematics, science and workshops for the students. He has schools, instituting scholarships for english helped each student to read organized programmes like adventure the marginalized sections of the and learn just by glancing at the walls. sports (which include rock climbing, river student community and organizing Another development was to support crossing, photography and many others). various skill building workshops both for poor students through Books to Read He has been instrumental in organizing the teachers and the students. In project. A library was also set up in the various skill building workshops. “We will do order to address some of the whatever it takes to uplift these children school to build habit of reading educational issues faced by the rural and provide them with a holistic schooling amongst the students. poor, we started an educational experience” he adds. initiative called Vidyadhanam. Environment Vidyadhanam has touched lives of over We focus on tree plantation, wasteland 289 scholars (spread across 50 development, encouraging usage of villages) from 20 rural schools in Pune. biogas plants, and rainwater harvesting The scholarship is a rolling scholarship initiatives. We organized a one day from 7th Standard to 10th Standard. training session for the teachers of our partner schools at YASHDA. The training As part of the scholarship, the programme was called Paryavaran Mitra company organizes various skill which has been designed by Centre for development workshops covering Environment and Education. Through varied topics theatre, adventure this training programme, we intend to sports, spoken English, science and strengthen the eco clubs at our mathematics. These workshops are respective schools. We were also organised with help of volunteers and involved in the creation of over 200 expert agencies. More than 5000 rainwater harvesting structures in volunteering hours were invested by villages near Jamshedpur, in order to over 50 volunteers for the programme. provide perennial irrigation water to Teachers also undergo training farmers. We undertake tree plantation programmes on various pedagogical activities and monitoring of survival of methods, on adolescent psychology by species on a large scale across our skillful trainers. For example a half day plants and set annual targets for the workshop on science and astronomy same. At Lucknow, the survival of plants for the teachers of the Zilla Parishad is monitored by the Samaj Vikas Kendra Schools from Bhima and Bhama river team along with Vriksh Suraksha Samity basin was organised at Muktangan, members at villages. As an added IUCCA on 25th November, 2010. dimension, we counsel villagers about social forestry and importance of The positive impact of Vidyadhanam on plantation for environment during our academic performance of students as plantation visits. At Sanand, this year well as on the improved attendance and close to 40,000 saplings were planted enrollment ratio in schools is evident across 112 villages. Indicator June 2008 June 2010 Pass percentage 60% Above 95% Attendance 67% Above 95% Enrollment ratio 70% 110% Sex ratio (boy –girl) 60:40 (approx) 45:55 (approx) Disclos ur e o n 46 Managem e n t A ppr o a c h Economic Indicators Environmental Indicators Labour Practices Indicators Our economic performance has been Keeping an eye on our growth plans, we With the growth in the automotive steadily improving and we have have enhanced our spend on technology industry and & technological consolidated our position as the to address environmental concerns. upgradations, there is an increased market leader in commercial vehicles in The Tata Business Excellence Model for requirement of highly skilled and India, and are among the top three in our commercial and passenger vehicles qualified persons. We believe people passenger vehicles in the country. We businesses outlines our commitment are our biggest assets and have set are also the fourth largest truck and to preserve the environment as do our forth a plan for attracting and bus manufacturer in the world. The environment policy and climate change retaining talent. We encourage a company features in the fortune top policy. We have also developed a green holistic approach to learning and 500 companies worldwide, and intend building policy and an environmental development through our well to grow further. Our economic policies procurement policy to focus our established in house training facilities are formulated based on a number of synergies to develop an efficient supply and approaches. Workplace safety is factors, including market conditions, chain. A steering committee headed by an area of high focus for us and we consumer preferences, our past the Managing Director addresses have issued an organisation-wide performance, government regulations safety, health and environment issues health and safety policy. All our and our governance practices, on a monthly basis, in order to track manufacturing divisions are certified amongst others. We have imbibed a performance and identify areas of for OHSAS 18001:2007 safety and cost reduction culture, where each improvement. Our manufacturing occupational health management employee contributes to cost divisions are certified for ISO systems. We strive to ensure that reduction through suggestions. We 14001:2004 environmental every individual working within our plant have adopted a culture of mutual value management system. We have laid premises is protected from any creation with our customers and emphasis on conservation initiatives, inherent risks related to workplace suppliers through unique approaches especially energy, waste management safety. Towards this end, we recently such as our reconditioning business and water conservation. Through our completed a diagnostic of the existing and establishment of vendor parks. We ERC, we have also taken efforts to use safety systems through DuPont and continue to strengthen our corporate materials that are environmentally are taking steps to raise the safety citizenship agenda by sharing the benign, in our process and products. standards continuously. To address wealth we generate with the We are compliant with all the laws of the issue of inculcating a safety community and returning a significant countries to which we export our culture within our contract workforce, proportion back to the society. vehicles. we have developed a centralized system for contractor safety management. Our non-management workforce has the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. Safety observations and incidents receive a high priority, with the top management being directly involved in all such matters. A steering committee headed by the Managing Director addresses safety, health and environment issues on a monthly basis, in order to track performance and identify areas of improvement. D i sc l o su r e on Ma n a g e m e n t A p p r o ach 47 Human Rights Indicators Society Indicators Product Responsibility Indicators The Tata Code of Conduct emphasises Our social responsibility programmes Backed by our strong research and the importance of workplace ethics are in sync with the goals and vision of development capabilities, we have and every employee is expected to the organization. Our well defined CSR always strived to develop products adhere to the Code. We have a whistle execution process demonstrates our which are safe and best in class blower policy in place to detect and approach towards the needs of products. We have invested heavily in remedy any non compliance to the communities. The areas that we focus developing facilities like a crash test TCoC or any laws or regulations. Our on are enhancing employability, facility and a hemi anechoic chamber, formal grievance redressal conserving the environment, promoting amongst others. We have continuously mechanisms ensure transparent healthcare and imparting education. focused on adopting new technologies disclosure and resolution of employee We undertake impact assessment and making innovative use of concerns. We believe that ensuring studies to understand the constrained resources to differentiate adequate workplace conditions, effectiveness of our initiatives and our products. Over four million of our practices, and policies to protect our have regular reviews as per the Tata vehicles are on the road, and they are a employees makes good business sense CS Protocol. As a responsible testimony of the quality of our and have developed a strict policy automobile manufacturer we have products and of the experience we against bribery and corruption. All our entered into a partnership with the offer. Tata Motors has built a pan India employees undergo a one hour Government of Punjab to facilitate the network through its channel partners refresher course on TCoC on an annual promotion of safe driving and road to deliver a superior buying experience basis which covers aspects of ethics, safety. The TCoC has outlined to the consumer. We follow the terms human rights and corruption. We mechanisms to ensure that corruption of the TCoC to ensure that we meet all respect human rights at the workplace of all forms is prohibited and dealt with regulatory compliance requirements. as defined by the International Labour strictly, including termination of a We are guided by the Bureau of Indian Organisation and our plants at defaulting employee. The TCoC 21 has Standards regarding product labelling Jamshedpur, Lucknow and Pune are also detailed policies on anti and by the Advertising Standards also certified to SA8000 social competitive behaviour and regulatory Council of India for our marketing accountability standard, under the compliance. The Executive Committee communications. purview of which they are subject to of the Board formed a Corporate Social regular human rights reviews and Responsibility (CSR) Committee in impact assessments. We do not January 2006, comprising the employ any children or forced labour Managing Director and the Senior and all our partners, subsidiaries, Management which meets from time dealers, etc. are expected to follow our to time to oversee the social activities Human Rights Policy. of the organisation. 21 http://www.tata.com/aboutus/articles/inside.aspx ?artid=NyGNnLHkaAc I ndepende nt 48 as s urance s t a t e m e nt Introduction March 2011. The assurance DNV has taken a risk-based approach, Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has engagement included: meaning that we concentrated our been commissioned by the verification efforts more on the issues t 3FWJFX PG UIF QPMJDJFT  JOJUJBUJWFT  management of Tata Motors Limited of high material relevance to TML’s practices and performance (‘TML’ or ‘the Company’) to carry out business and stakeholders. As part of described in the Report as well as an assurance engagement on the the engagement we have challenged references made in the Report to Company’s Sustainable Development the sustainability-related statements the annual report; Report 2011 (‘the Report’) in its and assertions made in the Report and t 3FWJFX PG UIF 3FQPSU BHBJOTU UIF assessed the robustness of the printed format. This engagement requirements of VeriSustain with a focused on qualitative and quantitative underlying data management system, moderate level of assurance; information flow and controls. For information provided in the Report, and t &WBMVBUJPOPGUIFBEIFSFODFUPUIF example, we have: underlying management and reporting principles set out in the Global processes. The engagement was t &YBNJOFEBOESFWJFXFEEPDVNFOUT  Reporting Initiative Sustainability carried out against DNV Protocol for data and other information made Reporting Guidelines 2011 (GRI Verification of Sustainability Reporting available to DNV by TML; G3.1) and confirmation of the TML’s (VeriSustain)1 including verification of t $POEVDUFE JOQFSTPO BOE POMJOF declared Application Level; application level and adherence to interviews with more than 75 principles of the Global Reporting t 3FWJFX BOE BTTFTTNFOU PG UIF senior TML representatives, processes and tools for collecting, Initiative Sustainability Reporting including data owners and aggregating and reporting Guidelines 2011 (GRI G3.1). decision-makers from different qualitative data inside the Report. This assurance statement is aimed at functions and locations of the t 7FSJGJDBUJPO PG UIF SFMJBCJMJUZ PG the readers of the Report. TML is Company; information and performance data responsible for the collection, analysis, t 1FSGPSNFETBNQMFCBTFEDIFDLTPG as set forth in GRI G3.1 and aggregation and presentation of the processes for generating, presented in the Report; information within the Report. DNV’s gathering and managing the responsibility in performing this work is Verification Methodology quantitative and qualitative data to the management of TML only and in included in the Report; This engagement was carried out accordance with terms of reference during July and August 2011 by a t 3FWJFXFE UIF EBUB NBOBHFNFOU agreed with the Company. The multidisciplinary team of qualified and processes for completeness and assurance engagement is based on the experienced DNV sustainability report reliability. This including assumption that the data and assurance professionals. The Report assessments of methods, information provided to us is complete, has been evaluated against the practices, tools and competence sufficient and authentic. DNV principles of Materiality, Stakeholder used in collection, aggregation and disclaims any liability or responsibility Inclusiveness, Completeness, reporting of data as it is to a third party for decisions, whether Responsiveness, Reliability and transferred and managed at investment or otherwise, based on this Neutrality, as set out in VeriSustain, different levels of the organisation. assurance statement. and the GRI G3.1. Conclusions Scope of Assurance As part of our verification we visited In DNV’s opinion, based on the work the following operations in addition to carried out, the Report is a fair The scope of DNV’s assurance the TML office at Mumbai, India: representation of the Company’s engagement, as agreed upon with TML included the verification of the t 1JNQSJ 1VOF .BIBSBTUSB *OEJB sustainability-related strategies, content, focus and quality of the management systems and t 4BOBOE (VKBSBU *OEJB information on environment and social performance. The Report, along with t +BNTIFEQVS +IBSLIBOE *OEJB the referenced information in the performance presented in the Report, covering the period April 2010 to During the assurance engagement, annual report, meets the general 1 w w w. d n v. c o m / s e r v i c e s / a s s e s s m e n t / c o r p o r a t e _ r e s p o n s i b i l i t y / s e r v i c e s _ s o l u t i o n s / s u s t a i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t i n g / o r d e r / In d e p e n d e n t a ssu r a n c e st a t e me nt 49 content and quality requirements of operations and the reason for this DNV’s Independence the GRI G3.1, and DNV confirms that limitation is specified in the Report. DNV states its independence and the GRI requirements for Application The Report provides partial impartiality with regards to this Level ‘A+’ have been met. We have disclosures in response to certain GRI engagement. DNV confirms that evaluated the Report’s adherence to G3.1 disclosure requirements; these throughout the reporting period there the following principles on a scale of are denoted in the GRI index. It is were no services provided which could ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs evident that TML acknowledges the impair our independence and Improvement’: need for continuous improvement and objectivity. DNV also maintained is committed to expanding the Materiality: Acceptable. The complete impartiality towards people reporting scope and boundary. methodology of materiality interviewed during the assignment. determination used for the Report Reliability: Acceptable. Although no uses the perspectives of senior systematic or material errors have representatives from various been detected, DNV has identified 19 August 2011, Bangalore, India functions of the company. The outcome some manual discrepancies in data has not missed out any significant, which have subsequently been known material issues, but the corrected. More focus to develop process should be strengthened by clearer data protocols would help more specific framework to bring out For Det Norske Veritas AS, improve data consistency and material issues that reflect short, accuracy. medium and long term impacts. In addition, input from external Neutrality: Good. The information stakeholders should be included in the contained in the Report is presented in materiality assessment process. a neutral tone. Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Opportunities for Improvement Acceptable. The Company The following is an excerpt from the demonstrates engagement with all observations and opportunities Santhosh Jayaram important stakeholders through reported back to the management of various channels. The engagement Lead Verifier TML. However, these do not affect our process can be further strengthened Head, Sustainability and Business conclusions on the Report, and they by formally documenting and reviewing Excellence (South Asia) are indeed generally consistent with Det Norske Veritas AS, India the needs and expectations expressed the management objectives already in by stakeholders through different place. engagement channels. t *NQMFNFOUBUJPO PG TZTUFNBUJD Responsiveness: Acceptable. The internal review and auditing of Company has responded to stakeholder internal data management system concerns through its policies and management systems, and this is will help further improve the reflected in the Report. However, In reporting process by increasing the light of the expectations of external reliability of reported data. Antonio Astone stakeholders and Report readers, TML t 5IFSF SFNBJO B OVNCFS PG BSFBT Reviewer should consider to disclose the goals that involve the manual collation Global Manager, Corporate and targets on material aspects in and adjustment of data. Responsibility Services subsequent reports. Automation would help reduce the Det Norske Veritas AS, Italy risk of errors. Completeness: Acceptable. The Report limits its boundary to Indian t *ODSFBTFE SFQPSUJOH SFMBUFE UP sustainability in the value chain. 50 GRI conte nt i ndex Contents Page GRI/UNGC Reference Remarks/Additional Information About this report 1 2.1, 3.1, 3.6, 1.2 – Key impacts, risks and opportunities have been detailed in relevant sections 3.7, 3.8 3.2 – Our previous report was published for the year 2009-10. It can be accessed at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php 3.3 – Reporting cycle is annual 3.7 Specific limitations (if any) pertaining the performance indicators reported have been detailed in the individual sections 3.8 – We have reported on the sustainability performance of the manufacturing operations where we have 100 percent control over their systems and processes 3.9 Relevant explanations have been provided in the individual section where necessary 3.10 – Specific values for the year 2009-10 have been changed from the previous report. This is because we have excluded production figures for the Tata Manza from this year onwards because it is manufactured at our JV facility in Ranjangaon, which is out of the report scope. Other re-statements of information, if any, have been reported in the relevant sections 3.11 – The Sanand plant has been included in the scope of reporting this year, because it started operations in 2010-11 MD’s message 2-3 1.1 About Tata Motors 4-5 2.2, 2.3, 2.5 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be 2.7, 2.10 accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com /investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf 2.6 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com /investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 53) 2.7 Our significant markets of exports include Africa (21 countries), Europe (4 countries), Latin America (1 country), Middle East (9 countries), SAARC region (6 countries) and ASEAN region (4 countries). Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf /annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 23). Additional information can also be obtained at: http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/company-profile.php 2.8 Aspects of scale are addressed in relevant sections of the report. Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/ annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf. (page 30, 53, 62) Details of employees are mentioned in the Workforce Development section. 2.9 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/ investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 17-18, page 53) SO7 – There have been no legal actions against us for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO8 There were no fines imposed on us for any non compliance with laws and regulations in the reporting period Vision and Mission 6 4.8 We also have a Climate Change policy and Environment Policy. Details of the same are mentioned in our previous report: http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php Defining priorities 7-12 3.5, 3.5, 4.14, 4.15, 4.15 We have a wide variety of stakeholders with varying needs. We engage with 4.16, 4.17 each of the stakeholders to address different issues and concerns as delineated in this section The pivot point 13-16 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.6, 4.1 – Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, 4.13, accessed through our corporate website at: HR3, HR4, HR11, SO3, http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf SO5 (page 42) 4.4 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: UNGC: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf Principle 1 (page 41-48) Principle 2 4.5 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be Principle 3 accessed through our corporate website at: Principle 4 Principle 5 http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf Principle 6 (page 45) Principle 10 4.6 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 43-44) 4.7 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 45-46). Further information is available at: http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/bod.php 4.11 – Precautionary principles are implicit G R I c o n t e n t i n dex 51 Contents Page GRI/UNGC Reference Remarks/Additional Information LA13 Details are available at: http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/bod.php . Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 43-48) SO4 – Actions are taken in response to corruption as per the Tata Code of Conduct. There have been no incidents of corruption this year. SO6 We have not made any financial contribution to any political party or politician Economic performance 17-20 EC1, EC6, EC3 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be HR5, accessed through our corporate website at: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors HR6, /annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf (page 85, 96, 131) HR7, EC4 – We have not received any significant financial assistance from the government HR10 EC5 – We abide by all national regulations of wage payments and pay equal to or above minimum wage requirements at all our plants. The entry level wage for males and females is equal HR1 – All our investment agreements and contracts mandate adherence to the TCoC, which includes human rights clauses HR2 – All our business partners sign and abide by the TCoC which mandates that they adhere to all laws related to human rights Environmental 21-28 EC2, EN1, EN2, EN3, EN9 – No water sources are significantly affected by our withdrawals stewardship EN4, EN5, EN7, EN8, EN11 – None of our operations are located close protected or reserved areas EN10, EN16, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN12, EN13, EN15 – Not Applicable EN22, EN30 EN14 – While we do not have a specific policy for biodiversity, we do undertake initiatives to promote the same at all our locations of operations. Details of these UNGC: initiatives have been detailed in our previous report accessible at: Principle 7 http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/pdf/GRI-09-10.pdf (page numbers 36 and 37) Principle 8 EN17 We are enhancing our capacities to monitor other relevant GHG emissions. Principle 9 Other scope 3 GHG emissions are not reported for 2010-11 EN23 – There were no significant spills (spills greater than 159 litres-one barrel in a single occurrence of an incident) as a result of our operations in the reporting period EN24 – We do not import or export any waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII EN25 – No water body or habitat is significantly affected by our water discharge or runoff EN27 (partial) – We do not use any packaging materials for any of our vehicles EN28 – We have not had any fines or sanctions imposed on us for non compliance with environmental laws EN29 – The most significant environmental impact of transporting products and materials, and members of the workforce is the associated air emissions. We are enhancing our capacities to capture this data and will report on the same in the next reporting period. Product safety and 29-32 EN6, EN26, PR1 (partial) – A study has been done based on ELV rules for all vehicles to be exported Innovation to European markets. For more information, please refer to: http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/ELV/resourcesustainability.php PR2 – There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products during their life cycle PR3 – Information about our products has to be disclosed as per Bureau of Indian Standards. The vehicle stickers and manuals are in compliance with all the standards that govern us, based on the laws of the land where we sell our vehicles. We are in compliance with all standards that govern us. PR4 There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling. PR6 – We adhere to all laws related to marketing, communications and advertising. In India, we abide by the standards defined by Advertising Standards Council of India. The TCoC governs our advertising and marketing communications, and ensures our compliance to all related laws. PR7 There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR8 – Not Applicable PR9 – There have been no fines imposed on us for non compliance with laws regarding use of our products People in motion 33-36 EC7, LA1, LA2, LA10, LA2 135 of our new employee hires in 2010-11 left the organisation in the LA11, LA12, SO2, HR8 reporting period LA3 Please refer our Annual Report 2010-11 for additional information. It can be accessed through our corporate website at: UNGC: http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annualreports-pdf/annual-report-2010-11.pdf Principle 1 (page 85, 96, 131) Principle 2 LA4 – 55.39 percent of our permanent employees are covered by collective Principle 3 bargaining agreements Principle 4 Principle 5 LA5 – We abide by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 regarding notice period to be Principle 6 given before any operational change LA10 – Currently, we do not capture training man-hours according to employee cadre. We aim to do so in the next reporting period 52 GRI conte nt i ndex Contents Page GRI/UNGC Reference Remarks/Additional Information People in motion 33-36 EC7, LA1, LA2, LA10, LA14 – Everything else being equal, the ratio of basic salary of men to women is 1:1 LA11, LA12, SO2, LA15 (partial) – 65 of our women employees availed of maternity leave this year, out HR8 of which 34 are permanent employees HR9 – All our manufacturing locations except Jamshedpur are in designated industrial areas. At Jamshedpur, there have been no cases of violation of rights of indigenous people. Occupational health 37-40 LA6, LA7, LA8 LA9 – Our formal agreements with trade unions cover health and safety aspects and safety Community development 41-45 EC8 4.12 – We subscribe to the United Nations Global Compact and Millennium Development Goals SO1 All our operations have implemented local community engagements and development programmes SO9 – During our community engagement programmes and assessments, we have not come across any significant negative impacts on the community due to our presence in the area SO10 – Not Applicable Disclosure on Management 46-47 DMA – EC Approach DMA – EN DMA – SO DMA HR DMA – PR Assurance Statement 48-49 3.12 GRI Content index 50-52 3.13 Back Cover 2.4, 3.4 G l o ssary 53 AIAM Association of Indian Automobile MHCV Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicle Manufacturers MoU Memorandum of Understanding ARAI Automotive Research Association of India MPV Multi Purpose Vehicle ASSOCHAM The Associated Chambers of Commerce MT Metric Tonne and Industry of India MW Mega Watt BS Bharat Stage NEAC National Environment Awareness Campaign BSC Balanced Scorecard NGO Non Governmental Organization CEO Chief Executive Officer NJMS Navjagrat Manav Samaj CER Certified Emission Reduction NPI New Product Introduction CFC Chlorofluorocarbon ODS Ozone Depleting Substance CFT Cross Functional Team OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety CII Confederation of Indian Industry Assessment Series CNG Compressed Natural Gas PCBU Passenger Car Business Unit CRM Customer Relationship Management PCMC Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation CSI Customer Satisfaction Index PP Polypropylene CVBU Commercial Vehicles Business Unit PPP Public Private Partnership DMS Dealer Management System PVC Poly Vinyl Chloride EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, QFD Quality Function Deployment Depreciation and Amortization RAC Royal Automobile Club EPM Enterprise Process Model RBI Reserve Bank of India ERC Engineering Research Centre RRA Regional Resource Agencies ERM Enterprise Risk Management SAP Systems, Applications and Products ERP Enterprise Resource Planning SIAM Society of Indian Automobile ESP Electro Static Precipitator Manufacturers ETP Effluent Treatment Plant SLS Selective Laser Sintering EV Electrical Vehicle SPCB State Pollution Control Board FIBRES Fact & Information Base Reverse SQI Supplier Quality Initiative Engineering Of Strategies SRM Supplier Relationship Management FO Furnace Oil TBEM Tata Business Excellence Model FY Financial Year TCOC Tata Code of Conduct GDP Gross Domestic Product TML Tata Motors Limited GHG Green House Gases TPT Transition Point Training GJ Giga Joules TVD Torsional Vibration Damper Gm Gram UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention for HSD High Speed Diesel Climate Change ICR Integrated Cost Reduction US United States IGBC Indian Green Building Council VFD Variable Frequency Drive INSSAN Indian National Suggestion Schemes'' VOC Volatile Organic Compounds Association VPLP Vehicle and Profit Linked Payment ITI Industrial Training Institute VRMG Voluntary Retirement on Medical Grounds JLR Jaguar Land Rover WPI Wholesale Price Index KL Kilo Litre ZAP Zero Accident Plan LDO Light Diesel Oil LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas At Tata Motors, we value our stakeholders, and their views are of prime importance to us. Please send in your valuable feedback to: Mr. G S Uppal Head – Corporate Sustainability, IR and Admin Email: gs.uppal@tatamotors.com Tel: 91 22 6665 7224 Our Registered Office: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001, India.
