Communicating on Progress 2011 1 Message from the CEO “As CEO of Ticket to Heaven A/S I am pleased to present this report on CSR. Ticket to Heaven have been supporting Global Compact since 2008. We believe that the ten principles are relevant to use as a framework for our CSR effort, because the principles are internationally recognised and well known in the countries where we sell our clothes. It establishes recognisability and respect. Ticket to Heaven encourages all our business partners to support Global Compact and the ten principles. Since 2008 it has been my strong ambition to anchor a CSRstrategy in the Ticket-organisation and thereby make every employee and other stakeholders aware of our work with CSR. By integrating CSR into our business strategy, our decision making and our staff handbook we have made CSR a part of Ticket to Heaven’s DNA. In 2011 we have formulated a CSR strategy with clear social and environmental objectives for 2011 to 2015. I am, together with all employees in Ticket to Heaven, very proud to present this Communication on Progress report on our objectives and achieved goals in 2011 within the areas People, Planet and Profit. Enjoy!” Hans Peter Høeg Larsen, CEO Ticket to Heaven A/S 2 Our company What is Ticket to Heaven? Ticket to Heaven is a joint-stock company owned 80% by HP Larsen Holding Aps and 20 % by SR Private Brands Ticket to Heaven A/S is a family-owned textilecompany (Ltd.) A/S. HP Larsen Holding Aps is owned by Hans Peter established in 1995 in Denmark by the CEO Hans Peter Hoeg Larsen, the CEO of Ticket to Heaven. There have been no Larsen. The head office is placed in Hoersholm approximately changes regarding ownership or company structure in 35 km north of Copenhagen. 2011. Ticket to Heaven mainly designs children’s clothes that are The business strategy of Ticket to Heaven is decided by stylish, practical and durable in great colors and patterns. In the company management group in corporation with a addition to that, we produce a minor collection of bags, board constituted by four members. In 2011, Ticket to accessories and women clothes. We produce two collections a Heaven had 28 full time employees and part times year, Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter employees equal to 10 full times employees. 3 Ticket to Heaven’s mission and vision Ticket to Heaven's Mission Ticket to Heaven is a company with happy employees who deliver functional design, world-class service and extraordinary quality. Ticket to Heaven's Vision We aim to be among the most important European brands within functional outerwear and casual wear for children. Ticket to Heaven firmly believes in 4 Strong Values: Quality, Respect, Honesty and Strength. They are the foundation of our philosophy and a big part of every aspect of our business. 4 Ticket to Heaven’s four core values Quality We never compromise on quality. Ticket to Heaven’s products, work, customer service, social environment and actions must at all times be marked by thoughtfulness and willingness to do it right the first time. We want efficiency. All employees are responsible for making business procedures and processes meet our quality standards. Respect Every day and in all situations we show respect for the people we are in contact with: customers, consumers, suppliers and colleagues. We focus on respect for the individual and want to take advantage of individual abilities, qualities and capacities. We solve any situation or conflict by understanding and putting ourselves in the other person's situation. We go for the compromise which creates two winners. Honesty We are always open about the goals and intentions of Ticket to Heaven. Everything we say and do regarding both our products and performance can be taken at face value. We express ourselves clearly and unambiguously. We are attentive to the people we work with. Strength We take responsibility, and we take care of each other. We have the strength to make a difference to others both as people and as a company. We have the strength to make an effort in order to save children in need around the world. 5 Our market Where are Ticket-products sold? The products are sold through retailers and are represented in more than 600 shops in Scandinavia, Europe and Russia, for instance Stockmann, Ellos AB and Limango. Furthermore, Ticket to Heaven products are sold in two company-owned concept stores, one in Copenhagen and another in Sweden, in an outlet store in Copenhagen and on Ticket to Heaven website. In 2011, Ticket-products were introduced on a Chinese web shop as well. Ticket to Heaven acknowledge the fact that consumers have a great influence on companies’ decision-making regarding CSR. Further, when cooperating with our business customers we have met demands concerning our CSR strategy. Several of our existing and potential customers expect us to have a CSR strategy anchored into our company. 6 Our production Where are our designs produced? The Ticket-products are produced in Asia. The major part of our product suppliers are Chinese, while only one factory is in Sri Lanka. Our two main fabric suppliers are placed in Taiwan and South Korea. We have approximately 20 suppliers, several of whom we have worked with for many years. 7 Our CSR-strategy How do we work with CSR? Ticket to Heaven have been working on CSR since 2008, but in 2011 we have brought the area further into focus by preparing a CSR-strategy for 2011 – 2015. We have decided to work on four main areas: • Responsible purchasing • Charity for children • Environmental considerations • Animal Welfare The overall frame for our strategy is the ten principles under United Nations Global Compact. The strategy is composed, to contain both activities to comply with international minimum requirements (responsible purchasing and environmental considerations) as well as other activities which contribute to charity. Clear objectives have been decided on in each main area – see more information below. 8 The purpose of the CSR-strategy • Add value to the business strategy particularly regarding expected growth on the German market • Comply with UN Global Compact and the ten principles • Risk management • Meet expected demands from customers and business partners • Increase branding towards customers, current and future employees • Meet the vision on being among the CSR First mover in the industry • Live up to our business values 9 Our CSR-organisation How is CSR organised in Ticket to Heaven? CSR-initiatives are integrated in various functions across the organisations, e.g. the sourcing department. The overall responsible body of CSR is Ticket to Heaven CSR Steering Committee. In 2011 a CSR-coordinator has been employed by Ticket to Heaven to assist in creating a CSR Strategy. Further a CSR assistant has been employed to assist in finishing the Communicating on Progress report to United Nations Global Compact. Our CSR strategy has been clearly communicated to all our employees and its elements is a mandatory topic to discuss on our monthly morning-meetings where all of our employees are expected to participate. 10 Our report What is included in the report? This report covers the calendar year 2011 which is our baseline. It is our second report to UN Global Compact. The first Communication on Progress Report was delivered in April 2011 and covered the calendar year 2010. In Ticket to Heaven we have committed ourselves to communicate a CSR report annually. The main content of the report is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact principles. The structure of the main report is built up upon the Triple Bottom Line-concept: People, Planet and Profit. The report includes both CSR-initiatives related to the head office and stores in Denmark and to our suppliers in Asia. 11 People – our Social Responsibility UN Global Compact’s principles on People Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 12 Our employees Ticket to Heaven care for our employees. We ensure safe and satisfactory conditions for our employees and are aware of the general satisfaction among our employees. We conduct a job satisfaction survey on a regularly basis. Job satisfaction survey 300 250 200 2011 general satisfaction 150 2010 general satisfaction 100 50 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 In 2011 the general level of satisfaction was increasing concerning: • An increased feeling of mutual respect among employees • An increased feeling of teamwork spirit • An increased feeling of responsibility 13 Responsible sourcing Business Social Compliance Initiative Improvements and challenges Ticket to Heaven is a member of the Business Social We have seen many improvements in the working conditions at Compliance Initiative (BSCI), a business driven initiative for our suppliers through the last years, but there are still companies committed to improving working condition and challenges and dilemmas. These include labour rights and environment in the supply chain. The BSCI Code of Conduct working hours. A concrete dilemma regards the working hours includes elements such as child labour, environment and antiof workers employed by our suppliers in Asia. In some cases corruption. Through our membership of BSCI we strive to workers wish to work longer hours than the BSCI principles improve the working conditions in our supply chain, to ensure allow. In peak seasons longer working hours are called for by our socially responsible conditions on the factories producing our suppliers. We are very aware of this and make sure that no clothes and yard goods and to consider the environment. utilization of workers takes place by avoiding placement of orders with short time notice and by planning our orders in a timely manner and in close corporation with our suppliers. In 2011 we have strengthened our effort in the area of labour rights by preparing guidelines and goals. Ticket to Heaven will continue to ensure socially responsible conditions on the factories producing our clothes and yard goods. 14 Overall strategic objectives for 2015 • Min. 90% of the products (based on placed orders) has to be sourced from BSCI-approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. • The remaining 10% of the products need to be sourced from factories with a standard equal to the BSCI Code of Conduct and Ticket to Heaven must ensure that. However, Ticket to Heaven will not require a full BSCIprocess from these minor suppliers. How Ticket to Heaven will ensure adequate standard is described in a set of guidelines for responsible sourcing included in a Production Contract. • Min. 70% of all fabric has to be sourced from BSCIapproved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. 15 Facts about 2011 Objectives 2011 • Min. 30% of all Ticket-products have to be sourced from BSCI-approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. • Elaboration of Production Contract focusing on CSR. Results 2011 • Ticket-products were sourced from 20 ‘core suppliers’. • 45% of our products were sourced from BSCI-approved factories. • Four suppliers initiated the BSCI-process • Four suppliers have attended BSCI-workshop • Two suppliers have been through a BSCI audit or re-audit • An introduction to the BSCI code of conduct has been elaborated and sent to suppliers to facilitate the process • A Production Contract has been elaborated and signed by 16 suppliers • Guidelines for responsible sourcing has been established 16 Facts about 2012 Objectives 2012 • Min. 70% of Ticket-products have to be sourced from BSCI-approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. • Min. 30% of all fabric has to be sourced from BSCIapproved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. 17 Our charity focusing on children’s rights One of our four main areas is charity for children. Ticket to Heaven produces clothing, which creates joy among children. They keep warm and dry, they can move freely, and play and learn. But we also feel a responsibility to support and please other children in the world, who are not as fortunate as Kids for Kids Foundation ‘our’ Ticket-children. This is the quintessence of our core value In 2005 the Kids for Kids Foundation was ’Strength’, and at the same time it is an activity, which is closely founded by the owner of Ticket to Heaven, tied to our core business. It simply makes sense to us to Hans Peter H. Larsen. The express purpose support children towards achieving a life of playing and was to give aid to children and so far learning. 350.000 Euro has been collected. The money is passed on to projects for children through cooperation with humanitarian organisations. 18 What has happened in 2011? Kids for Kids In 2011 Kids for Kids have worked with UNICEF and the money has gone to building schools on Madagascar. Ticket to Heaven contributes to the Kids for Kids Foundation in different ways: • We have produced a series of bikes and helmets, and for each sold unit we have donated 14 euro to Kids for Kids. In 2011 40.000 Euro was passed on to the foundation. • We supported Kids for Kids fundraising arrangements economically. In 2011 Ticket to Heaven have donated approximately 10.000 Euro for an Open Air concert. • Ticketemployees have used working hours on Kids for Kids events. In 2011 the total amount of working hours spent corresponded to one full time employee for a whole year. 19 Other initiatives towards children in 2011 NANU-children and sponsorships For many years, Ticket to Heaven have sent clothes to children in need of warm outerwear. In 2011, Ticket to Heaven have supported children in Greenland through the organisation NANU-children. 10 pallets with clothes and toys have been forwarded to the NANU-children. Furthermore, in 2011 Ticket to Heaven have supported two school children through sponsorships at “Plan Danmark” and “Dansk Børnefond”. Our objectives for 2012 • Kids for Kids Open air concert on June 3th 2012. • Continue to support children in in need • Continue our sponsorships 20 Planet – our environmental responsibility UN Global Compact’s principles on Planet Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 21 Commitment Ticket to Heaven will actively contribute to a minimisation of the environmental impact caused by the production of our clothes and in relation to the administration of our business. Areas of focus: • Environmental improvements relating to the operation of our offices and in our concept stores • Systematic work with the restriction of chemicals Planned future area of focus: • Animal welfare 22 Overall objectives 2015 • Min. 50% reduction of CO2-emissions (per turn over) • Environmentally friendly material to be used for caused by the business in Denmark. Baseline is 2011 catalogues and other kinds of published PR green accounting. • Rethink the transportation from Asia to Europa to shorten the transport route. • Min. 30% reduction of use of paper per year. Baseline is 2011. • Introduce ‘slow steaming’ when possible • Min. 90% of all transportation of goods from Asia to • Investigate environmentally friendly overland transport Denmark has to be by ship, not by air. Baseline is 2011 in Denmark and Europa. • Introduction of environmentally friendly cleaning detergents and office supplies including printing paper when possible 23 Objectives 2011 • Investigate CO2 reducing actions • Introduction of cleaning detergents certified by the Nordic Swan, by EU-Flower or by another environmental certificate • Introduction of as many environmental friendly office suppliers including printing paper as possible • Printing policy • Investigate environmental friendly overland transport in Denmark and Europa and introduce if possible • Introduction of environmental friendly material to be used for catalogue 24 Results 2011 The overall conclusion on 2011 is that Ticket to Heaven have reached the decided objectives. Furthermore, initiatives have been taken to ensure improvement in 2012. To ensure a reduction in the CO2 emission we have taken a row of initiatives in 2011: • We have decided to replace one of our company cars with • We are minimising the transport via airplane from Asia to an electrical car. The car will be leased in the beginning of Denmark to max 10% of our total transport 2012 • We have introduced ’slow steaming’ where possible. Slow • We have switched to using CO2 neutral paper for our steaming is containerships, sailing with reduced speed, catalogues / climate compensated by buying 1 C02 quote whereby the CO2 emission is approximately 20% less than (certification from Dong Energy) conventional shipping • We introduced environmentally friendly cleaning; in addition • We have initiated a printing policy to this we have introduced guide lines for the purchase of environmentally friendly office supplies 25 2011 Green accounting Carbon calculations 26 2011 Green accounting continued • Scope 1 includes fuel and heat from natural gas • Scope 2 includes electricity and district heating f • Scope 3 is not included • Total 123,3 tons of CO2 27 Environmental objectives 2012 • Relative reduction of CO2-emission on min. 10% compared to 2011 CO2-emissions • Min 10% reduction of use of paper compared to 2011 • Recycling of paper (separation of waste) • Min. 90% of the transportation between Asia and Denmark to be by ship 28 Chemical restriction Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Ticket to Heaven have worked with chemical restriction earlier through the Oeko-Tex Standard 100, but in 2011 we have focused even more on this effort, among other things through a systematic programme for testing of chemicals in the clothing and through precise demands and guidelines for our suppliers. We demand from our suppliers that all yard goods should be produced in line with the Oeko-Tex 100 Standard. We do not demand Oeko-Tex certified yard goods, since it is very expensive to obtain and maintain this certification. How is compliance with the Oeko-Tex standard ensured? Our core suppliers of yard goods know the demands from Oeko-Tex, since they also produce for other European clothing companies, with the same requests for standard. However Ticket to Heaven does not settle for this information alone. Based on risk assessment we have pointed out certain product lines which have been tested in 2011. All test results have been satisfactory. In 2012 we will also conduct a testing programme. 29 Animal Welfare Ticket to Heaven have been working on CSR since 2008, but in 2011 we have brought the area further into focus by preparing a CSR-strategy for 2011 – 2015. One of our four main areas is animal welfare. At Ticket to Heaven we are attentive to animal welfare. We are opposed to the rearing of animals solely for the production of clothes. We have the following policy regarding animal welfare: • We never use fur of any kind in any of our products, since we cannot guarantee that the animals have been raised under responsible conditions. • We only use down and feathers from ducks raised for the food industry. • We do not use down or feathers plucked from live ducks • We do not use wool from sheep exposed to ‘mulesing’, which is the removal of strips of wool-bearing skin from around the breech (buttocks) of a sheep to prevent maggot infestation. We ask our suppliers to sign a warranty on these issues. 30 Animal Welfare continued International Down and Feather Lab Our suppliers of down jackets have signed a statement that the down is solely a by-product from the food industry, and that it is not plucked from live ducks. We are aware that a signature alone is not proof enough in itself, which is why we have further investigated these conditions. We have been in close dialogue with a leading laboratory on the subject of down, International Down and Feather Lab (IDFL). IDFL has ensured us that feathers from ducks are never plucked from live animals. Down from ducks in China is always a by-product of food production. It is solely feathers from geese which are plucked from live animals, but primarily when they are moulting. Ticket to Heaven do not use down from geese. Project on Animal Welfare We plan to engage in an “Animal welfare” project and to give a donation on approximately DKK. 30.000 to a suitable non-profit organisation. The project was originally an objective for 2011, but due to costs reduction within the company this objective has been postponed. 31 Profit – our economic responsibility UN Global Compact’s principle on Profit Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 32 Profit – our economic responsibility Anti-corruption and bribery It is our ambition to work against corruption and bribery in our countries of production. We are aware that corruption and bribery are areas of major concern and are a common phenomenon in several of our production countries, especially China. We plan to open our own factory in China in order to be able to control and exclude bribery among our suppliers. Sustainable economy It is our ambition to continue to have a sustainable economy. As a result of descending orders and an estimated 2012 EBT margin on 1,3 % we plan to make some costs reductions. Regrettably these reductions will include redundancies among our staff. Further an “Animal welfare” project has been postponed due to costs reductions in the company. 33 Profit – our economic responsibility Overall objectives 2015 Our objectives 2012 • A 20 % growth of total turnover • We plan to open our own factory in China in order to be able to control and exclude bribery among our suppliers. Our objectives for 2011 • Uphold a sustainable economy • Expand our work against anti-corruption and bribery • Uphold a sustainable economy Results 2011 • Dialogue with suppliers and affiliates in China in the pursue of controlling and reducing anti-corruption and bribery • Due to a 37% decrease in our 2012 order intake Ticket to Heaven have been forced to make cost reductions including redundancies among our employees and exposure of an animal welfare project. 34 Thank you for reading • Our next Communicating on Progress report will be available Spring 2013. 35
