Communication on Progress of Stein / Germany July 11th, 2012 Member of the United Nations Global Compact This CoP report 2012 is only valid together with our Sustainability Report 2011 (www.faber-castell.com) CONTENTS 1. OUR CONCERN IS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY .......................................................................... 2 2. THE 10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF FABER-CASTELL – THE SUPREME VALUES FOR ALL ASPECTS OF THE COMPANY ............................................................................................................ 3 3. THE BRAND ESSENTIALS – CORE VALUES OF AN UNMISTAKABLE BRAND .................. 5 4. THE FABER-CASTELL SOCIAL CHARTER – PRACTICAL CORPORATE CULTURE ........... 6 5. INCREASING THE FSC CERTIFICATION FOR WOOD-CASED PENCILS ............................... 7 6. NEW SUSTAINABLE FORESTATION PROJECT IN COLOMBIA .............................................. 8 7. SUMMARY OF THE COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS .......................................................... 9 1 1. OUR CONCERN IS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY The values of any well-managed family business must include sustainability, social and environmental responsibility, and human virtues such as tolerance, humbleness and honesty. My great-great-grandfather, Lothar von Faber, was a businessman of great social dedication, and his descendants have followed his example as a matter of duty. The Social Charter signed in 2000 prohibits discrimination and child labour and protects our employees against exploitation. The agreements of the International Labour Organization (ILO), to which the Charter commits us, are for me no more than natural standards for anyone engaged in business. In order to achieve long-term success, you have to think in terms of the future. For me as a businessman it is extremely important not to make profit at the cost of future generations. Amongst other things, I am creating sustainable sources of wood, our most valuable raw material, which do not have a negative impact on either people or the environment. It was for the same reason that, some 30 years ago, Faber-Castell set up a forestry project in Brazil which was certified by the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) as being „environmentally sound, socially responsible and economically sustainable“. I am not interested in short-term profit-seeking. For a business that wants to be successful in the long term, the ability to generate sustained profit is absolutely vital. For me, business and integrity go hand in hand. The kind of integrity that embodies values such as social and ecological responsibility, trust, honesty and fairness is fully compatible with profitability. After all, only profitable businesses can devote themselves to social and ecological issues. Our healthy financial situation and the respect of our business partners gives me all the assurance I need that our chosen path is the right one. Count Anton-Wofgang von Faber-Castell Chairman and CEO of Faber-Castell AG 2 2. THE 10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF FABER-CASTELL – THE SUPREME VALUES FOR ALL ASPECTS OF THE COMPANY Faber-Castell’s core strategies are defined by its board of directors and implemented by all worldwide subsidiaries. The values by which all decisions and targets are ultimately governed are the “10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES”. These guidelines are designed to make the company an innovative, competitive and profitable brand in the global writing, drawing and creative design market. The “10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES” are the following: 1. Tradition & Heritage Faber-Castell was founded in 1761 and is in the hands of the 8th generation successors to the founder of the firm. Therefore Faber-Castell is the oldest manufacturer of writing instruments in the world. The company is also set to be managed as an independent family firm in the future. 2. Staff Our employees and our brand are our most important assets. We encourage and demand innovative and enterprising thought and action as well as international expertise. We deal openly with one another and resolve conflicts in a manner which is practical and appropriate in an organisation of trust. We feel duty bound to our traditions and our social responsibility. Faber-Castell had already established Germany’s second oldest company health insurance fund and Bavaria’s oldest kindergarten by 1844. 3. Our Brand Our main focus is on a stringent brand management from product design to adequate communication. An unmistakable, timeless design is a constituent part of our brand philosophy. We are fully focused on strengthening our brand, as this substantially contributes to securing Faber-Castell’s profitability in the long term. 4. Products In 1839 Faber-Castell created the first brand lead pencil in the world and did so with outstanding quality. Pencil writing also remains a core area of expertise of the company today. In clearly defined fields of competence Faber-Castell develops, produces and markets products of excellent quality for writing, drawing, painting and the creative arts as well as decorative cosmetic products. We set ourselves the benchmark of providing a product which is the “best of its class” for all products offered. Our products should be a lifelong companion for people, and in this regard we feel we have a special duty to children as a target group. 5. Innovation Faber-Castell innovation is not pursued for innovation’s sake, but as the means to securing our own future and providing added value for our customers. We stimulate creativity through an open working atmosphere and we attain synergies by means of interdisciplinary, international creative teams. It is Faber-Castell’s objective to also apply its innovative power and existing know-how to new areas of business. This applies particularly to the Faber-Castell Cosmetics and Eberhard Faber brands. 3 6. Globalisation Faber-Castell opened its first branch office in New York in 1849 and thus laid the foundation for a worldwide business. Today we manufacture in 15 plants and market our products through 24 sales organisations in over 120 countries. We regard the world as our global market, while taking into consideration the different needs in the regions. Our objective is to utilise the opportunities of globalisation to develop Faber-Castell into a global brand. 7. Customer Benefits Faber-Castell products perfectly meet the needs of our customers. The opinion of the users of our products is the focal point of our approach. It is our primary objective to increase the benefits for our customers by constantly improving existing products and developing new ones, and at the same time to set ourselves apart from the competition through a “point of difference” in order to offer our customers noticeable added value in terms of product performance. 8. Environment & Social Responsibility Faber-Castell feels a particular obligation and commitment towards our environment. Our products are produced from ecologically sound raw materials, some even cultivated by ourselves, and by using environmentally friendly processes. Faber-Castell is also committed to traditional social and ethical values. The Faber-Castell Social Charter applies to all our employees and regular independent audits are carried out to ensure that it is put into practice. 9. Organisation To assure strict customer focus, Faber-Castell is a company which has been decentralised according to regional responsibility with a non-hierarchic, non-bureaucratic structure and short decision-making processes based on confidence in the expertise of its responsible regional and local management. Faber-Castell is a company for entrepreneurs, in which a cooperative management style and teamwork are both promoted and demanded in the interest of overall performance. 10. Future As a medium-sized company active worldwide, we wish to strengthen our profitability and retain our independence by the following success factors, to which we are committed: • global action, but decentralised entrepreneurial management; • employees who act efficiently and responsibly; • stringent brand management; • innovative quality products responsive to market needs; • aim towards cost leadership within defined quality parameters; • purposefully conducted, consistent market orientations and customer focus; • international growth through a presence in all significant markets. 4 3. THE BRAND ESSENTIALS – CORE VALUES OF AN UNMISTAKABLE BRAND On the basis of the “10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES”, four core values were identified for the consistent management of the Faber-Castell brand, values that give the brand and thus the company its identity. These core values are known as the “BRAND ESSENTIALS”, and they set out clear guidelines as to how things are done both within the company and in our dealings with customers, business partners, the wider community and environment. However, simply defining and publicising a set of values is not enough to ensure that these values are implemented. Instead, they must be rooted in our everyday activities and actively encouraged. Employees at all levels throughout the Group therefore receive training in the core brand values. For each aspect there are DO’s and DON’Ts that govern how employees should act both within and between different areas of the company (e.g. the behavior towards business partners and how you can avoid corruption). The “brand essentials” of Faber-Castell are based on the following four pillars: 5 4. THE FABER-CASTELL SOCIAL CHARTER – PRACTICAL CORPORATE CULTURE In March 2000, Faber-Castell and the German trade union IG Metall signed the Faber-Castell Social Charter. This internationally binding agreement is one of the first of its kind in terms of scope. By signing it, Faber-Castell undertakes to guarantee conditions of employment and labour in all companies of the Faber-Castell group, as recommended by the International Labour Organization (ILO). The Social Charter contains the following agreements:  No forced labour  No child labour  Payment of minimum wages  No excessive working hours  Equal opportunities and equal treatment of the employees  The right of association and the right of collective bargaining are respected  Safe working conditions and decent payment  Definition of employment conditions 6 An independent committee monitors the implementation of the Social Charter at regular intervals in all plants. For this purpose, the corporate processes are examined by both internal and external boards. The monitoring mechanism is divided into three levels:  1st Level: Self-information of all plants in Social Checklists  2nd Level: Regular audits of the plants by internal auditors  3rd Level: Verification audits by an external monitoring committee every 2 years On October 2008, the point “Contractors, subcontractors and suppliers” was integrated into the Social Charter: It is the objective of Faber-Castell to only co-operate with contractors, sub-contractors and suppliers who themselves recognise and implement the standards and recommendations. When drawing up a contract with a supplier, Faber-Castell shall include a self-assessment made up by the supplier in the supplier rating. In addition, the responsible staff of the purchasing department shall undergo further advanced training in this respect. On a long-term basis, it is our intention to also apply our internal, multistage monitoring procedure to the suppliers. 5. INCREASING THE FSC CERTIFICATION FOR WOOD-CASED PENCILS In 2008, the company joined the Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTM), an organisation within the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). GFTN offers a platform for innovative companies which feel a responsibility to encourage environmentally and socially compatible forestry. GFTN members are committed to traceability in the procurement of timber and paper, and an increasing proportion of FSC1-certified products in their range.´ By joining GFTN, Faber-Castell committed itself to raising its proportion of FSC-certified timber resources from about 80% at that time to 90% by the year 2012. That target was in fact exceeded by mid-2010. 95% of all the wood used by the entire Faber-Castell group of companies is now certified to the stringent criteria of the FSC. The remainder also comes from monitored sustainable forests. That guarantees environmentally compatible, economically viable, and socially responsible conditions of forestry. The significance of timber resources – not just for the company but also for the environment – has remained the concern of Count Anton Wolfgang von Faber-Castell, chairman and CEO ever since. Over two decades ago he started a unique afforestation programme in the south-east of Brazil. The forests have now grown to 10,000 hectares (100 sq.km) but are not used purely for timber production. Some 2,700 hectares of woodland are left in their natural state as a habitat for flora and fauna, including some species threatened with extinction. These forests in Brazil were awarded the FSC-FM (Forest Management) seal of environmental quality in 1999. In addition, all production sites of the Faber-Castell group around the world and all Faber-Castell sales companies have received the FSC1 The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international organisation whose certification system guarantees that the materials for wood and paper products have come from responsibly managed forests: clearly defined environmental and social standards must be maintained in the forestry operations. 7 CoC (Chain of Custody) certificate, so that the origin of all the wood, from felling the tree to packaging the pencils, can be traced with certainty. Besides the use of FSC-certified timber and the active commitment to maintaining biodiversity, the entire life cycle of the products is based on ecological principles. Not just the application of environment-friendly water-based paint for the pencils, but also the choice of suppliers in accordance with their ecological commitment: those are examples of Faber-Castell’s environmental management. 6. NEW SUSTAINABLE FORESTATION PROJECT IN COLOMBIA In the north of Colombia, in the El Magdalena region where the land has been spoiled by excessive animal husbandry, 67 farmers are currently planting and looking after 1561 hectares of woodland as a source of timber for Faber-Castell. They provided part of their land that had previously been used mainly for grazing cattle; they now get an assured monthly income in return for taking care of the trees. The species planted is Gmelina arborea, commonly known as “Melina”, a quick-growing deciduous tree that originally came from Asia and is particularly suitable for making pencils. The trunks attain a girth of 20 to 25 cm after seven years; after felling the farmers receive 30% of the proceeds from the timber. It is planned to extend the area of woodland to 3000 hectares (30 sq.km) by 2014. The Faber-Castell forestry project is part of a large-scale restructuring programme in the municipalities along the Rio Magdalena that have been seriously affected by overgrazing and soil erosion. A unique reforestation project, as confirmed by Jean-Guénolé Cornet, a forest and climate expert at the Office Nationale des Forêts (ONF), a French state-owned concern whose international subsidiary ONFI has been attempting since 2001 to halt the progressive deforestation in Colombia. “The municipalities along the Rio Magdalena were looking for a way out of the traditionally predominant cattle raising and its associated soil erosion, that regularly leads to flooding and crop failures”, he said. “In all probability, Faber-Castell will be the first private company in the world that will shortly receive a certificate from the UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) for its CDM project.” The certification will entitle it to deal in emission certificates, as foreseen by the Kyoto protocol to reduce world-wide emissions of carbon dioxide. Meanwhile the certification process is successfully closed. 8 7. SUMMARY OF THE COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS Principle Practical example 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Human of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human  Social Charta incl. regular rights abuses. monitoring 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association  10 Guiding Principles and the effective recognition of the right to collective  Brand Essentials bargaining,  Social Supplier Survey Labour 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and  Regular training for compulsory labour, employees 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. As a matter of precaution, companies should support  Certification acc. to ISO a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 14001, FSC and PEFC  10 Guiding Principles  Brand Essentials  Environmental audits  Environmental analysis (e.g. Carbon Footprint, ecological balance sheets)  Environmental projects (e.g. Forestry project in Brazil and Environment Colombia, “Animalis” project to protect the environment) 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater  Training for employees environmental responsibility; and  Memberships in different work groups (e.g. Business & Biodiversity in Good Company) 9. encourage the development and diffusion of  Environmental Products (e.g. environmentally friendly technologies. water-based coating, natural raw materials)  Environmental processes (heating with wood chips and wood pellets, hydro energy)  Internal Compliance Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principles, Risk Management System and Audits Corruption 9
