turning attitude into 2012 action One of the most sustainable buildings in Europe Inspiria Science Center selected projects Campus Park Skara Headquarters for Borregaard Viborg Acute Care Centre Aalborg University Hospital nature Centre Hindsgavl Svaneparken Scandic Aarhus City Corporate Social Responsibility 1 The Global Compact Communication on Progress 3rd edition AART architects A/S Architects MAA / Member of Danske Ark CVR-no. 20 33 53 00 Aaboulevarden 22, 5th floor DK-8000 Aarhus C Phone: +45 8730 3286 Fax: +45 8730 3296 Mail: aart@aart.dk www.aart.dk Credits / photos Adam Mørk Jens Markus Lindhe Helene Høyer Mikkelsen Thomas Mølvig André TABLE OF CONTENTS 03 Preface 06 Creating long-term value presentation of our business focus 08 Turning attitude into action presentation of our R&D department 18 Documenting the social value of architecture presentation of our latest R&D project 24 Supporting 10 universal principles Presentation of our support for the Global Compact 34 One of the most sustainable buildings in Europe presentation of Inspiria Science Center 44 selected projects 2012 Campus Park Skara Headquarters for Borregaard Viborg Acute Care Centre Aalborg University Hospital Nature Centre Hindsgavl Svaneparken Scandic Aarhus City 3 PREFACE Social, economic and environmental challenges affect the global society more than ever before. Just look at the economic downturn which continues to resonate throughout the global society or the global warming which involves extreme storms and downpours will occur more frequently in the future. Or look at the increasing urbanization which is occurring rapidly in many less developed countries and strains their capacity to provide basic services such as energy, education, healthcare, and sanitation. The challenges are many and must be addressed if we as a global society want to live up to our responsibility. In other words, we must turn attitude into action if we want to respond to the global challenges and meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. At AART architects, we recognise this responsibility to act. Because it is action, not attitude, that promotes actual progress in sustainable development and environmental protection. This tangible approach to sustainable development is expressed in our business strategy and day-to-day operations. For instance, we have established the R&D department AART+ which turns attitude into action by combining evidence-based research with a deep understanding of people and the environment. 4 In this way, we push the potential for sustainable design and over the years we have received a large number of awards for our development work – most recently we received the jury’s special prize at the Prime Property Awards 2012 which recognizes the most sustainable buildings in Europe. In the desire to promote sustainable development, we joined United Nations Global Compact in 2008. The Global Compact is the largest voluntary corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative in the world, and as a member we are committed to aligning our strategies and operations with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this way, we contribute to enhancing the quality of life and the health of the global environment by promoting the principles within our sphere of influence. In this booklet we express our continuing commitment to supporting the building industry advances in ways that benefit the everyday life, the economy and the environment. The purpose of this booklet is thus to give our clients, business partners, and the general public an insight into how we promote CSR and have implemented CSR into our core business. Anders Tyrrestrup Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Anders Strange Co-founding partner Co-founding partner Co-founding partner 5 Creating long-term value presentation of our business focus AART architects Fredrikstad, NO AART architects Aarhus, DK 6 All our projects stem from a sustainable awareness as our predominant goal is to create long-term value for our clients, business partners, and the society. Inspiria Science Center, Sarpsborg, NOrway Inspiria Science Center was awarded the jury’s special prize at the Prime Property Award 2012 AART architects are a high-performance team of 60 architects, constructing architects, and which recognises the most sustainable real estate projects in Europe. Furthermore Inspiria Science designers who love to challenge their creativity and bring new ideas into play. By challenging Center has received the Arnstein Arneberg Prize usual ways of thinking and combining evidence-based research with a deep understanding of 2012 and the Østfold Prize for universial design. people and the environment, we push the potential for architectural consultancy and develop sustainable solutions within the field of architecture, interior design and product design. With offices in Denmark and Norway and several first prize projects in national and international competitions, we are one of the trend-setting architectural firms in Scandinavia. Over the years, our work has received a large number of awards and has been exhibited internationally in places like the Venice Biennale, Galerie d’architecture moderne in Paris, the European Parliament in Brussels, and the Danish Architecture Centre in Copenhagen. At the moment, we are developing more than 300,000 sq. m. in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. All our projects stem from a sustainable awareness as our primary goal is to create longterm value for our clients, business partners, and the society. By cooperating with anthropologist and sociologist, we strive to increase the social value of our projects, and at the same time we carry out targeted R&D work in building technology in the desire to meld rigorous usability and green solutions with cutting-edge aesthetics. For more than ten years, sustainable research has imbued our practice. Over the years, we have engaged in several R&D projects, ranging from the development of the world’s first Active House over socially sustainable student housing to a study design on how architecture improves the quality of life. In this way, we have gained vast experience in creating vibrant spaces for communities and achieving the highest architectural quality. An empathetic mind-set and sustainable design approach which we will further describe in the following chapters. Sketches from our latest project in the Middle East. 7 Turning attitude into action presentation of our R&D department IAL SUSTAINA SOC BILIT Y 360° ENVIRONME N TA 8 L Attitude alone does not bring progress towards a more sustainable future. In order to make a change we have to turn attitude into action. Because it is action, not attitude, that promotes actual progress in sustainable development. In the desire to promote actual progress we have established the R&D department AART+ which turns attitude into action, and ideas into innovation. TS I N DO OR E ROMEN NVIRO ENVI ME N FIL LING TS / / AC / FUL TIV Y/ ATI A LIT N GA QU RC R AL H IT TU EC EC T AA TU EP IT AR RE R CH NC // SOCIAL // US ITY ER RS IVE AAR TH I NV OLV LD CIA TC EA EM ENT // SO O LTH E // HO SP R SH IP CO-OWNE ITAL DE SI GN PROJECT ENT // U PROCESS SEREC O NM ORIEN CT M NO TEDT DES OJ E IGN RO & PR AA M VI EN Y RE GE EN A NA RT SS OU ME B UI RE RC NT // LD T G EM AN AG AR M CO EM POE N NT DE A N // ENT SIG TIO AART+ N/ MP /R OB NSU US CO AL TNE ERI SS / / LIF MAT E CYC N // ATIO LE COS TIMIS TS ENERGY OP AART+ is the heart of our practice and consists of four R&D teams: AART Health, AART Green, AART Concept and AART Build. Through in-depth research, the teams offer consultancy in a wide range of areas all related to sustainability, e.g. healing architecture, green tech, concept development, and project engineering. In this way, the teams offer a 360˚ design perspective as we strive to create long-term value for our clients, business partners, and the society by developing cutting-edge solutions that combine commercial success with ecological and sociocultural sustainability. In order to turn ideas into innovation the teams are closely involved in all of our projects. For instance, we start every project by having a preparatory meeting where we study the project from a 360˚ design perspective. Based on the four teams, we focus our innovative thinking on the issues of most importance to our clients by studying the project from an aesthetic, environmental, health related and technical approach. By doing this, we are able to map the further process and create a holistically sustainable starting point. In addition, all of our architects, constructing architects and designers are engaged in one of the four teams. Thus, all of our personnel supplement their basic technical skills by specialising in one of the four fields, where they acquire the latest knowledge through monthly meetings, seminars, study trips and further training. By including all of our employees in our development work, we also ensure a high level of transparency as our professionalism is made accessible for all of our employees, clients and business partners. 9 the culture yard, elsinore, denmark 10 Nanna Flintholm Architect MAA Team leader of AART cencept Nanna Flintholm ensures a targeted development Through meetings and workshops AART Concept work based on her analytical approach to optimisstudies the social aspect of architecture. ing and rethinking the conceptual phase. AART Concept AART Concept consists of a committed team of nine architects who love to challenge their creativity and develop concepts with a strong social statement. The team is led by architect Nanna Flintholm who despite of her young age has gained vast experience. Based on her experience and analytical understanding, she encourages the team members to share knowledge, break with the ordinary and carry out highly structured R&D work. Armed with facts and a deep understanding of the concept development process, the team studies how to improve the creative process and create socially sustainable concepts. Concept development Cutting-edge processes create cutting-edge results. Therefore, AART Concept has specialised in developing our concept development process in order to promote innovative thinking, open for hidden opportunities and push the potential for architectural consultancy. By investigating new ways of working, AART Concept rethinks and refines every aspect of our concept development process in the desire to create the basis for merging creative thinking with a systematic and analytical approach and generate a creative flow of ideas that combine architecture and social science. Aesthetic expression By focusing on the fact that architecture, in addition to meeting material needs, can also encompass the world around us by interpreting and absorbing it, AART Concept seeks to continually develop our mindfulness and aesthetic expression. Through in-depth studies of contemporary architecture, AART Concept explores the balance between the practical functionality and emotional appeal. Because good architecture doesn’t just fulfil practical needs but exceeds them by engaging the users and captivating their imagination. Meaningful environments AART Concept brings into focus future trends and challenges regarding the development of meaningful environments within the field of cultural, commercial, educational and residential architecture. By cooperating with anthropologist, futurologists or the like, AART Concept thus looks into the future and brings new ideas into play in order to develop socially sustainable concepts and push each concept to the outer limits of spatial imagination. 11 AART green AART Green consists of a committed team of eight architects and constructing architects who promote green thinking in the desire to protect and conserve the environment. Through seminars, study trips, further training, and hands-on experiences, the team gains access to the latest research and develops highly specialised knowledge in eco-friendly architecture. The team is led by constructing architect Martin Gertsen who over the years has gained a deep understanding of the many aspects of eco-friendly architecture. He has contributed to the Martin Gertsen Constructing architect development of the world’s first Active House and several low energy constructions, and based Team leader of AART Green on his experience he ensures a targeted development process. Martin Gertsen ensures a focused development Integrated energy design work based on his insight into the many aspects of According to WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development), buildings acenvironmentally friendly architecture. count for 40 percent of the world’s energy use. Therefore, energy efficient construction is the one area where we as a society can achieve the greatest reduction of energy consumption and carbon emissions. AART Green thus develops highly specialised knowledge in integrated energy design with a view to utilising all the passive features to reduce energy consumption and create the best possible indoor climate within the building itself. 12 Nature CENTRE Hindsgavl Hindsgavl nature reserve, denmark Eco-friendly materials and technologies Sustainable materials and technologies do not have to be associated with compromises. On the contrary, they can enrich the architecture by creating healthy and dynamic buildings. This is the theory behind the development work of AART Green, who challenges traditional thinking by studying, refining and implementing new materials and technologies into our many projects. On the basis of further training, case studies and cross-disciplinary cooperation, AART Green works at the intersection between research and practice. The goal is hereby to demonstrate that sustainable materials and technologies have a legitimate and necessary potential within architecture. Life-cycle perspective Focusing on the sustainable architecture of tomorrow, AART Green works to investigate the possibilities inherent in the paradigm shift from operating to process energy. This professional focus stems from the fact that the increasingly stringent framework for energy efficient construction means that energy consumption during the building phase will, in a few years, be equal to the energy consumption during the operating phase. From a lifecycle perspective AART Green thus studies the possibility to develop the next generation of eco-friendly architecture, which not only reduces the operating energy, but also the process energy in the form of raw material extraction, production, assembly, renovations, demolition and disposal. 13 acute care centre viborg, denmark dnv-gødstrup herning, denmark vendsyssel hospital hjørring, denmark 14 østfold hospital graalum, norway AART Health AART Health consists of a committed team of 12 architects and constructing architects who work at the intersection between research and practice with a view to developing state-of-theart knowledge within health-promoting architecture. Through seminars, study trips and further training, the team gains access the latest research and studies the healthcare architecture of tomorrow. The team is led by architect Karsten Sinning who ensures a targeted R&D work based on his long-standing experience as a project manager of healthcare construction projects such as DNV-Gødstrup in Denmark. Based on his vast experience, he encourages the team members and ensures a resourceful development work. karsten sinning Architect MAA Team leader of AART Health Universal design Universal design is about designing and building environments that are inherently accessible Karsten Sinning ensures a targeted innovation work to people with and without disabilities. In this way, universal design is about developing accombased on his vast experience in health promoting modating and fully accessible architecture, e.g. by implementing sidewalk ramps, which are architecture. essential for people in wheelchairs, or colour-contrasts, which are essential for people with visual problems. Trough seminars and hands-on experiences AART Health explores the latest development in universal design with a view to creating barrier-free concepts and blending aesthetics into the core considerations. High-efficient hospitals AART Health is specialised in developing high-efficient hospital buildings which offer therapeutic and operational efficiency in the absolute elite. By studying the flow of information, people, and equipment, AART Health offers cutting-edge consultancy in developing highly functional hospitals where the patient is at the centre and the proximity to the professional specialties ensures a quick and accurate diagnosis. In addition, the optimised infrastructure minimises the operational costs. Over a period of approx. three years the operational costs of a hospital correspond to its construction costs. In this way, just a few percent cost savings in the annual operation by means of efficient logistics will provide more time for each patient without costing more. Sensual spaces Efficiency is not the only guiding principle for the future healthcare architecture. The sensual aspect is also an important factor, as research studies indicate that the human experience of the hospital as a physical space with light, sounds, colours, and smells has a positive effect on the patients’ well-being and ability to recover. In this way, AART Health has a holistic approach to healthcare architecture, as the team strives to create synergy between functional and sensual solutions in order to create dynamic and significant healthcare architecture with a human The construction of Østfold Hospital in Norway, presence and a strong architectural statement. November 2012 15 the construction of the culture yard in denmark 16 Thomas Hjortlund Svendsen Constructing architect Team leader of AART Build Thomas Hjortlund Svendsen ensures a professional focus based on his vast experience as a project manager of several major building projects. Nature Centre Hindsgavl AART Build AART Build consists of 10 architects, constructing architects and Ph.D. students who carry out targeted R&D work in building materials and construction tools in the desire to meld rigorous usability with cutting-edge aesthetic. In this way, the team unleashes the technological potential offered by the latest development in design and construction. The team is led by constructing architect Thomas Hjortlund Svendsen who has facilitated a wide range of highly functional and exhilarating building projects, e.g. the Culture Yard in Elsinore in Denmark. Based on his experience he ensures a focused innovation work within the field of project management, component design and integrated design. Process and project management Cutting-edge processes create cutting-edge results. Therefore, AART Build continually strives to refine our planning process in order to promote a dynamic form of cooperation where creativity, problem solving and rate are conceived and maintained throughout the planning and construction phase. The progress of a project is strongly related to the decision-making process. In order to keep within the proposed time frame it is crucial that the planning and construction phase is based on a strict scheduling. Component and detail design No matter how original the concept is, without putting it into practice, without perfect mastering of the component and detail design, it is impossible to realise the concept and complete the architectural work. Thus AART Build has specialised in component and detail design in order to identify and refine any component and any detail that doesn’t achieve highest architectural quality. Through resourceful research, in-depth testing and cross-disciplinary cooperation, AART Build explores new materials and constructing methods, and new ways of putting them into practice. In this way, the team ultimately improves the durability, functionality, and bodily experience of our many projects. Integrated design Buildings are conceived through a complex cooperation. In order to maintain the architectural vision throughout the entire development process, it is necessary to bridge the gap between architecture and engineering. Therefore, AART Build cooperates with engineers and researchers to develop highly specialized structural engineering knowledge. The goal is hereby to create synergy between architecture and engineering with a view to developing more efficient and integrated processes that put concepts into practice and enhance the value of each project by melding engineering solutions with cutting-edge aesthetics. 17 Documenting the social value of architecture Presentation of our latest R&D project 18 From November 20 to November 22, anthropologists from the Alexandra Institute visited the Culture Yard in Elsinore in order to study the building’s social sustainability. Based on our research-based supervision method the anthropologists conducted four focus group interviews with the employees, two interviews with the managers, 41 interviews with the visitors, and continuous observations of the users’ interaction with the building. In 2012, AART Concept was granted € 14,000 in research subsidy from the Danish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Higher Education to document how our completed projects improve the quality of life. On August 6, AART Concept kick-started the research project with a view to developing a supervision method for documenting the social impact of our work. How do the users experience and interact with the buildings? And how do the buildings generate social value? The answers to such questions are very valuable, as they provide insight into the actual impact of our work and can serve as guiding principles for our future projects. As part of the research project, we have cooperated with the Danish Alexandra Institute who provide s research-based consultancy and carries out field studies in public and private companies to explore and identify incentives and barriers in physical environments. In this way, the Alexandra Institute has contributed to developing a generic model which gives us an active tool in the longterm study and documentation of our projects’ socially sustainable qualities. The supervision method consists of a mix of individual interviews, focus group interviews, and observation and will be conducted a year after a building has been inaugurated. The mix of methods will provide a thorough qualitative study of the building and how it is experienced by the users. In this way, we gain a deeper understanding of each building’s social performance, regarding functionality, comfort, context, social facilities and architectural quality. Thus, we will be able to enhance the social value of our projects by offering our clients research-based consultancy in how the physical surroundings can support social parameters such as comfort, collaboration, knowledge sharing, and a sense of community. 19 the culture yard elsinore, denmark The Culture Yard From November 20 to November 22, anthropologists from the Alexandra Institute visited the Culture Yard in Elsinore in order to study the building’s social sustainability. Based on our research-based supervision method the anthropologists conducted four focus group interviews with the employees, two interviews with the managers, 41 interviews with the visitors, and continuous observations of the users’ interaction with the building. Through these interviews and observations, the anthropologists conducted a qualitative study of the Culture Yard and to which extent the building fulfils the practical needs and engages the users and captivates their imagination. The interviews and observations gave an evidencebased insight into the building’s social impact and how we are able to optimise our future projects so they become even more socially sustainable. Through the supervision study we have gained a deeper understanding of the actual user experience as we have been able to put ourselves in the users’ place and methodically study the architecture from their point of view. Overall, the output shows the Culture Yard is a popular venue and socially sustainable when it comes to comfort, collaboration, knowledge sharing, and social diversity. One of the main criteria for success in the original brief was to develop a distinctive cultural centre which symbolizes Elsinore’s transformation from an old industrial city to a modern cultural hub. According to the supervision study, the Culture Yard fulfils this ambition. Because, as the users and citizens of Elsinore highlight: “before the yard was dilapidating now it has been transformed into a signifcant building aiming to the future”, “it has become a spectacular attraction, my aunt Ruth has to visit this place we have been given”, “it has become a gathering point for the whole city”, and “it has become an icon and has given the city a new image”. More than 10,000 people participated in the inauguration of the Culture Yard in 2010. 20 In addition, the Culture Yard has expanded its social usability. Besides being a public library, a concert hall, a yard museum, and an exhibition venue, the building also provides space for new acquaintances. This kind of expanded usability permeates the building which because of its flexibility and abundance of various spaces attracts a wide range of users. In this way, the building has become an important social factor in the city. “Lonely people meet in groups in the arcade and the library”, “contrary to before many students read and study at the library”, and “the building oozes of life all day”, the users highlight. Overall, the architectural quality excites the users who describe the Culture Yard as a compelling site which stimulates the senses, captivates the imagination, and provides a strong sense of community. The employees express a sense of co-ownership and the visitors are pleased with the building’s functions and features, e.g. the arcade which is experienced as the building’s spinal cord. The supervision study shows that the most popular place is “The Horizon” located above the main entrance. The Horizon is designed as a vantage point where visitors can relax, read or enjoy the view towards the sea and Kronborg Castle. “My favourite place is The Horizon, here I can sit and enjoy the magnificent view while I read a book or a magazine,” a user explains. Another popular place is the foyer which is experienced as an unpretentious and accommodating room where people meet. However, the foyer also has its problems. As some users point out the signposting is poor and there is a draught. Another issue is the poor acoustics in some rooms. For example, the employees explain that noise is a problem in the small student cells in the library which yet are very popular among the visitors. According to the users, The Horizon is the most popular place in the Culture Yard. 21 The student cells are in great demand all day long The foyer is experienced as an accommodating room where people meet. 22 The arcade is experienced as the spinal cord of the culture yard 23 Supporting 10 universal principles Presentation of our support for the Global Compact Inspiria Science Center, Sarpsborg, NOrway 24 United Nations Global Compact is the largest alliance for corporate social responsibility in the world. Voluntary orientation towards the 10 principles of the Global Compact is of fundamental importance in terms of achieving progress through upholding human rights, implementing international labour standards, protecting the environment and preventing corruption. We joined the Global Compact in 2008 and four years on, we are proud to express our continuing support of the 10 principles in the areas of people, environment, and economy. People Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Economy Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 25 people the culture yard, elsinore, denmark Creating a sense of place and time The first two principles of the Global Compact deal with human rights and the opportunity to improve the quality of life. As architects, we form the surroundings of everyday life, thus affecting the life of many people. Therefore, we have a great responsibility to study the social context of each project. In order to fulfil this responsibility, we have established the R&D team AART Concept with a view to developing research-based methods for social analysis and user driven innovation. Based on a deep understanding of each project’s social potential, AART Concept strives to develop vibrant spaces for communities. In this way, AART Concept has specialised in identifying the innovative potential of the concept phase by which the team represents the creative basis of our practice – a creative basis where the context precedes the form, as every project stems from a thorough study of the context in order to create a certain sense of place and time. Documenting the social impact of our work In 2012, we have intensified our social effort, as we have initiated a partnership with the Danish Alexandra Institute. The aim of this partnership has been to develop a supervision method for documenting the social impact of our completed projects. How do the users experience the buildings? And how do the buildings generate social value? The answers to such questions are very valuable, as they provide insight into the real impact of our work and can serve as guiding principles for our future projects. By documenting the social impact of our completed projects, we strive to fuse social research, user involvement, and commercial relevance. In this way, the supervision method responds to issues of social relevance, primarily the needs of the building industry to get access to cutting-edge research results with the aim of promoting research-based user driven innovation. 26 We support and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (cf. principle 1-6 of the Global Compact). We thus commit ourselves to… • abiding by the rules of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all of our activities. We ensure this by continually developing and improving our capacity to perform this task proactively. • identifying fields where our service and competencies can contribute positively to a socially sustainable development. • sustaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders and annually report our social responsibility. 27 people PARTNERS 3 CO-WORKERS 57 PERCENTAGE OF FEMALES/MEN 32/68 AVERAGE AGE 40 AVERAGE SICKNESS ABSENCE 3,4 DAY/YEAR 28 Providing a good work environment Our human resources make us unique and competitive. Only through our employees’ commitment, we are able to sustain and develop a successful practice that continuously creates cuttingedge concepts. Therefore, we believe it is essential to select, develop and manage our employees with great care. In order to create an engaging working environment, we have established the R&D department AART+ which consists of four cross-disciplinary R&D teams. All of our employees are included in one of the four R&D teams. In this way, we ensure each employee supplements his/her basic skills by specialising in a specific field, where he/she acquires the latest knowledge through monthly meetings, seminars, study trips and further training. In continuation hereof, we have a joint office meeting every month where we communicate our business strategies, create an overview of our on-going projects and give every employee an opportunity to take an active share in our internal decisions. In order to provide the best conditions for our employees, we also have a fruit, coffee, and lunch Examples of our existing scheme, and every Friday we serve breakfast. In addition, we strive to promote a good health initiatives that support among our employees. As part of this, we offer each employee a free health insurance and pay for a good work environment: joint sport activities such as runs and experience races. The joint sport activities have a positive side effect, as they promote an engaging team spirit among our employees. • R&D teams • Flexible working hours • Fruit, coffee and lunch scheme Supporting a healthy work-life balance • Breakfast every Friday As an architectural office, we often have tight deadlines when it comes to competition projects • Free health insurance and building projects. Therefore, long working hours will occur from time to time, as our effec• Free iPhone tiveness is crucial for our clients and business partners. However, we believe that work-life and • Good maternity leave conditions private-life must go hand in hand. Just as we attach importance to our employees’ flexibility, we • Joint sport activities have to be flexible as employer. Thus, we value the work-life balance and in the forthcoming years we plan to intensify our focus in order to increase the mutual flexibility. 29 Environment nature CENTRE hindsgavl hindsgavl nature reserve, denmark 30 We support and respect the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development (cf. principle 7-9 of the Global Compact). We thus commit ourselves to… • abiding by the rules of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development in all of our activities. We ensure this by continually developing and improving our capacity to perform this task proactively. • identifying fields where our practice and competencies can contribute positively to an environmentally sustainable development. • sustaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders and annually report our environmental responsibility. Leading the development of an eco-friendly architecture We are aware of how the economic and industrial development in its wake has brought numerous environmental challenges, which require an internationally coordinated effort to overcome. As architects, we play a crucial role in this effort, because according to an analysis completed by WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) buildings account for 40 percent of the global energy consumption, making energy efficient architecture one of the predominant concerns if we as a global society strive to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emission. In order to lead the development of an ecofriendly architecture, we have established the R&D team AART Green that carries out targeted development work with a view to raising the environmental standard of the building industry. By combining the latest technology with innovative architecture, AART Green strives not only to comply with the existing building regulations for energy rating, but to go a step further in the desire to set the bar high. Promoting the use of wood In order to promote a more sustainable building culture, we have initiated a collaboration with the Danish wood initiative “Wood creates Environment” to become an ambassador for wooden architecture. As an ambassador for wooden architecture, we strive to create awareness of the environmental qualities wood. By this means, our vision is to achieve long-term effects on the building industry´s stance on wood as a sustainable raw material. Over the years, we have completed a wide range of wooden building projects and have gained a deep understanding of the environmental qualities of wood. Our experience with wooden architecture manifests itself in projects such as FDF Outdoor Centre Sletten situated in the beautiful landscape of hills and lakes in Ry in Denmark, Hindsgavl Activity and Nature Centre situated at Hindsgavl Nature Reserve in Denmark, and Norwegian Wood situated on the urban seafront of Stavanger in Norway. Offering certified expertise Knowledge is the heart of our development work. In the desire to place knowledge at the heart of our practice, we are certified in passive house design and DGNB Denmark. In this way, we offer competent consultancy in energy design and environmentally friendly project planning by which we ensure the environmental effects of our building projects remain limited. By being certified in passive house design we have vast experience in the construction of low energy buildings and offer our clients to supervise each project in the making in order to ensure the completed project meets the energy demands. In addition, we are certified DGNB Consultant. DGNB is a Danish certification within sustainability and as a DGNB Consultant we know of the certification process and are capable of consulting a building project team in achieving the highest sustainable quality. 31 Economy 32 We support and respect the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (cf. principle 10 of the Global Compact). We thus commit ourselves to… • abiding by the rules of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption in all of our activities. We ensure this by continually developing and improving our capacity to perform this task proactively. • identifying fields where our practice and competencies can contribute positively to an economically sustainable development. • sustaining an open dialogue with our stakeholders and annually report our economic responsibility. Promoting an economically sustainable building culture As economic challenges affect the building industry more than ever before, we have recognised the need to undertake the responsibility of leading the development of a more efficient, transparent and economically sustainable building culture. Therefore, we have established the R&D team AART Build that works at the intersection between research and practice with a view to developing cutting-edge project engineering solutions. Project engineering is the most expensive phase in the development of a new building. Through continuous development work and close collaboration with engineers and researchers, AART Build thus promotes innovation and optimises our planning procedures, as economically sustainable development can only be achieved by encouraging knowledge sharing between various sectors. Ensuring a high quality level As part of our economically sustainable focus, we continuously develop our quality assurance procedures, which cover all of the project’s core phases, ranging from the competition and concept project to the main design and advisory services regarding the implementation and project follow-up. Through dialogue with our clients and business partners, we define the appropriate quality levels. At the same time and on the basis of project reviews and planning meetings, we incorporate these quality levels in the service’s programming and in the design, as a holistic approach to architecture and satisfied clients are the predominant goal of our quality assurance. Ensuring a high ethical standard As architects, we must respond actively to our ethical responsibility, as thrust and credibility form the basis of our public relations. Therefore, we use substantial resources to ensure a high ethical standard in our business strategy and day-to-day operations. All our employees are thus subjected to the rules and regulation of the Danish Architects’ Association, including paragraph eight that states an architect must respect the duty of confidentiality regarding any confidential facts the architect gains insight into as part of the daily work. 33 One of the most sustainable buildings in Europe Presentation of Inspiria Science Center 34 “It is a great honour to receive the jury’s special prize as the award does not define sustainability to merely be a matter of reducing energy and material consumption. On the contrary, the award recognises buildings that combine commercial success with ecological and sociocultural sustainability in exemplary fashion.” Anders Strange, partner in AART architects The 2012 Prime Property Awards was on October 9 presented to outstanding European real investment projects at the Expo Real commercial property show in Munich. 160 buildings from 19 European countries were in the running to receive the Prime Property Awards but it was Inspiria Science Center that grabbed the jury’s special prize. “It is a great honour to receive the jury’s special prize as the award does not define sustainability to merely be a matter of reducing energy consumption. On the contrary, the award recognises buildings that combine commercial success with ecological and sociocultural sustainability in exemplary fashion,” Anders Strange, partner in AART architects, highlighted in his acceptance speech at the award ceremony. The Prime Property Awards has gained a reputation as the real estate equivalent of the Oscars and Inspiria Science Center received the jury’s special prize for its visionary sustainable solutions. “What has been created here in the Østfold region in Norway is highly impressive. The centre is an inspirational investment in an ecologically sustainable future,” the jury highlights. Inspiria Science Center excited the jury by using striking architecture and interactive exhibits to provide around 200,000 schoolchildren a year with information on renewable energy, waste avoidance and a healthy lifestyle. The architecture of the science centre is adapted to the surrounding landscape, with the building’s three wings radiating out from a two-storey atrium. This distinctive design symbolises the cycle of nature and reflects the science centre’s key topics: health, energy, and the environment. Designed as a passive house including a wide range of eco-friendly solutions, the building design supports the activities within the science centre. Daylight floods through glass facades and several skylights into the exhibition halls and the two-storey atrium. In addition, a wastewater treatment plant recycles the water for use throughout the building while a wind turbine and a solar cell panel generate electricity and a solar hot water system creates domestic hot water. “These facilities are not just means to an end, but part of the exhibition and they can be seen in action by visitors. Even the journey to the science centre is a practical lesson in sustainability,” the jury points out. In line with the science centre’s sustainable ambitions, the parking area includes several charging points for electric cars, and as part of its school program the science centre offers a sustainable transport link, as most of the classes are taken to the science centre by hybrid busses. In addition, the science centre features a completely barrier-free design and the main entrance even has implemented its own snow-melting system. 35 wind generator for local production of energy mechanical ventilation with heat recovery natural ventilation glass sections with automatic and ﬂ south facing rooﬂights north-facing facade with open glazed and shading natural ventilation NORTH thermo active deck for heating and cooling energy section 36 exible sun shading otsolar waterpanels heating for hot water heating hanical ventilation mechanical with heatventilation recovery with heat recovery solar cells / solar screening solar cells / solar screening Sedum roof / greenSedum rooflocal roof for / green roof -of drainage local drainage of rainwater forrainwater south facing facade south with facing facadeand solar panels withsolar solarscreening panels and solar screening SOUTH SOUTH ﬂoor heating ﬂoor heating 37 38 39 The three wings radiate out from the centre of the building. Solar cell panels are implemented as an aesthetic feature. 40 Daylight floods through the glass facades and skylights into the exhibition hall. 41 The interior program includes 70 interactive exhibitions and the most sophisticated planetarium in northern Europe. 42 43 selected Projects 2012 Campus Park Skara Headquarters for Borreg Viborg Acute Care Centre Aalborg University Hospit Nature Centre Hindsgavl Svaneparken Scandic Aarhus City 44 aard al 45 campus park skara skara, sweden first prize in invited competition 2012 Campus Park Skara is designed as an interactive learning environment which improves the students’ community spirit and excites their desire to learn 46 HEADQUARTERS FOR BORREGAARD sarpsborg, norway first prize in invited competition 2012 The new headquarters for Borregaard frames the company’s sustainable brand by combining inspiring office facilities and eco-friendly features into a vibrant architectural whole. 47 ACUTE CARE CENTRE viborg, denmark first prize in invited competition 2012 The new acute care centre at Viborg Hospital in Denmark expresses a holistic approach to hospital architecture where functional and sensuous solutions are mutually reinforcing. 48 aalborg university hospital aalborg, denmark second prize in invited competition 2012 The proposal for the new Aalborg University Hospital achieves the highest architectural quality and offers treatment and research facilities of international format. 49 nature CENTRE hindsgavl hindsgavl nature reserve, denmark first prize in open competition 2009 completed in 2012 The nature centre frames the outdoor life of Hindsgavl Nature Reserve and contributes to merge social relations with outdoor recreation. 50 svaneparken birkerød, denmark first prize in invited competition 2010 completed in 2012 Svaneparken has been transformed into a modern day-care centre, where specially designed fixtures create a colorful and playful environment. 51 SCANDIC AARHUS CITY aarhus, denmark Completed in 2012 The hotel has preserved a historic facade and combines 150 years of city history into a compelling architectural whole. solar cell panels on the roof covers 90 percent of the rooms’ energy demand. 52 for the public good our social commitment is not only manifested in our projects, but also in our general social commitment. for instance, we support the Danish Cancer Society, are a member of the Danish Defibrillator Network and sponsor various events at the Aarhus School of Architecture. The Danish Cancer Society The Danish Defibrillator Network • Prevent the development of cancer • Ensure life-saving first aid • Improve patients’ chances of success• Gather information about the location ful recovery of defibrillators in Denmark • Limit the physical, psychological and • Corporate with the National Police’s social side-effects of cancer emergency dispatch centre 53 AART architects A/S Architects MAA / Member of Danske Ark CVR-nr. 20 33 53 00 Aaboulevarden 22, 5th floor DK-8000 Aarhus C T: +45 8730 3286 F: +45 8730 3296 aart@aart.dk www.aart.dk Credits / photos Adam Mørk Jens Markus Lindhe Helene Høyer Mikkelsen Thomas Mølvig André
